

===== Session 01 - 1946 =====
I would first like to express to the city of New York, on behalf of the Brazilian delegation, our sincere gratitude for its kind hospitality to us during the period of the General Assembly.
The United Nations first saw the light of day on the soil of the United States; its creation was inspired by the great President Roosevelt, assisted by his eminent Secretary of State, the Honourable Cordell Hull. The plan drawn up at Dumbarton Oaks was approved at San Francisco by the States which form the United Nations. They drew up a Charter which was henceforth to govern their mutual relations. Those facts have a significance which should not escape us and which, as a son of this continent, I am happy to stress.
America, land of liberty, inhabited by peoples who are without the prejudices accumulated in other continents by centuries of endless struggles, cradle of the greatest of all democracies, offers the United Nations an opportunity without precedent to flourish and fulfill its great political, economic, social and cultural mission.
Brazil, in its two-fold capacity as a member of the community of nations and as a State forming an integral part of this hemisphere, is proud to have contributed to the creation of the United Nations Charter. Its past, its peaceful tradition, its love of order, its respect for law and its democratic sentiments made it ready to welcome keenly the idea of the organization of an international society to maintain justice, the respect of treaties and the other sources of the law of nations.
That is why my country has given wholehearted support to the initiative of the great Powers. It took part not only in the San Francisco Conference, but also, in August 1945, in the preparatory work which preceded the first part of the first session of the General Assembly.
The United Nations has been functioning for only a few months. The fact that the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and other organs have had regular meetings since January of the present year does not mean that they are not still in the process of being organized, with an incomplete personnel, a tentative budget, the problem of permanent headquarters as yet undecided, and so on.
To that must be added the post-war conditions throughout the world resulting from the delay in drawing up and signing the peace treaties.
All things considered, we have only been in existence for a very short time, during which we have been busily engaged in organizing ourselves in a world which is still waiting to return to normal. It would be entirely premature, in the circumstances, to attempt to judge the part played by the United Nations up to the present.
I wish to say that my country has very great faith in the cause of the United Nations. After the painful years we have just passed through, we cannot conceive of the world on the thresh- hold of which we now stand without support of the kind which the United Nations proposes to offer for the benefit of mankind, namely, a guarantee of the maintenance of order and of international security in a political and legal system which guarantees to both victor and vanquished respect for their lives, their rights and their liberties.
As you see, I am speaking to you with my eyes fixed on the Charter. The latter represents the second attempt within twenty-five years to give to the peoples a statute enabling them to live as a society in an orderly and civilized world.
An attempt was made at Dumbarton Oaks, and afterwards at San Francisco, to improve on the Covenant of the League of Nations by the introduction, in the Charter of the United Nations, of more realistic provisions than those contained in the instrument of which the invasion of Manchuria marked the failure. The most important of the provisions marking a difference between the Covenant and the Charter is that establishing a Staff Committee to help the Security Council in case of a threat against the peace, a breach of the peace, or aggression.
The United Nations has, however, been established on the basis of a very far-reaching principle. This principle, to which the creators of our Organization attached the greatest importance, both before and during the San Francisco Conference, has been embodied in Article 27 of the Charter. In their view, in order that the United Nations should survive, and fulfill its task, unanimity among the permanent members of the Security Council, that is to say among the great Powers, was essential; without that the United Nations would cease to be.
Article 27, if it is considered in the light of the principle of the equality of all States before the law, was a very heavy price paid by small and medium-sized nations in order to obtain a charter. That provision of our statute is more generally known as the right of veto granted to the permanent members of the Security Council.
Brazil, although theoretically opposed to the veto, accepted it in a constructive spirit in order to get results. We thought that, whereas all States are equal before the law theoretically, their responsibilities as regards the maintenance of peace are in direct proportion to their means of action and, consequently, vary greatly. For that reason we decided that it was necessary to place trust in the great Powers.
It is, however, obvious that this trust which was placed in them in the same spirit by the majority of the Members of the United Nations, lays an obligation on the great Powers, which benefit from it, to honour it. They will succeed in doing so, in the first place, by working together for the reorganization of the world. We all realize that the task is not easy. But we are equally convinced that, however difficult the obstacles may be, they will not prove insurmountable when confronted with the good will and sincere desire of the great Powers to achieve all the purposes to which we have subscribed since the Atlantic Charter.
Today the peoples of the world have one supreme desire. After the terrible sufferings of the last war they long for order and peace. They are anxious for two things: they wish for a return to order and they hope that it will be lasting. They will not tolerate the idea that every generation will have to undergo the horrors, more terrible each time, resulting from the illusion of solving by war problems which war can never solve. Peace rests, no doubt, in the hands of the great Powers; but the world will never accept the idea that their conflicts of interest can justify the sacrifice of the well-being of mankind.
Let us look again at the Preamble to our Charter, which says that we are “determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind”. Nations have frequently an historic mission to fulfil in the world; if that is their destiny nothing can hinder it. Today, it would, however, be madness, it would be a crime, to attempt to fulfill it outside the framework of the United Nations to which they belong.
A heavy task awaits us. We have met here, in the first place, to finish the work started in London at the beginning of the year. In the meantime, many additional subjects have been put forward for us to study. We are faced with an extremely heavy agenda. Moreover, we are meeting after a considerable delay resulting from a double adjournment.
All the subjects before us are naturally of very great importance; whatever their nature, they deserve the same attention from us. At the stage the United Nations has now reached, however, I have no hesitation in saying that some of those subjects have a predominant interest. These are, in the first place those connected with its organization; and, secondly, those which have been submitted to us for examination by organs such as the Economic and Social Council, et cetera. We must concentrate our efforts on them if we wish the work of the United Nations to give the fullest results and if we desire the United Nations, which is at last emerging from the preparatory phase which has lasted quite long enough, to play the part for which it was created.
Such is the purpose of the Brazilian delegation in coming to participate in the second part of the first session of the General Assembly which is now meeting in New York. Brazil is thus continuing to act in accordance with the objective and constructive attitude which she adopted at San Francisco, of which the essential purpose is the formation and development of the United Nations in the world. This General Assembly can count on our whole-hearted support in carrying out the work we have undertaken in the shortest possible time.

===== Session 02 - 1947 =====
The present session of the General Assembly of the United Nations imparts a note of hope and encouragement in the anguished moments in which we live today. The reason for this is that the General Assembly represents the conscience of the world, and its decisions are the embodiment of that conscience in the effort to solve the problems which concern all peoples. Without deep reflection on these problems, we can never arrive at organic solutions capable of harmonizing national interests and of promoting the general welfare. Hence the importance of the General Assembly, which must be considered the central organ of the United Nations, and to which all other agencies are related.
While the other organs deal with fragmentary aspects of the problems, the General Assembly keeps watch and ward in order that all its agencies may function properly. It is the only organ in the system in which all the Member nations participate. It is the great forum to which are brought all questions that interest the international community. For this reason, the Charter does not set limits to its competence; on the contrary, it defines it in the broadest possible terms so that all subjects that affect international relations may be included within its jurisdiction.
In order that the United Nations may achieve its purpose, it is essential that world public opinion be formed with a perfect understanding of its objectives and the conditions requisite for their achievement; public opinion must support its action and impose respect for it. Without the support of world public opinion, the United Nations can never become a reality. The General Assembly, with its facilities for broadcasting ideas, is the organ that is pre-eminently equipped to create this world-wide public opinion.
In a world characterized by the extreme interdependence of people drawn into contact by the multiplicity of means of communication, both in the material sphere and in that of ideas, the absence of a forum like this Assembly could only lead to confusion and to conflicts arising from the lack of an instrument of conciliation and of synthetization by free discussion and decisions taken in common. In so far as the General Assembly exercises the salutary function of forming public opinion, many of the problems which now beset us will disappear and give place to areas of agreement between nations, thus intensifying international collaboration.
The second session of the General Assembly meets at a moment that is truly “existential”; a moment of forceful contradictions affecting the destinies of peoples; a time of stress and confusion of values, such as always precedes the dawn of a new period in history. All civilizations have passed through identical epochs before attaining superior forms of consciousness. It might be said that the spirit, in its upward quest, resorts to negation and to opposition as a propellant toward the higher goal.
Discouragement is not admissible, therefore, because it is precisely in periods of doubt and strain, such as the present, that man reveals the immense potentialities of his spirit in overcoming apparently impassable obstacles and attaining a broader conception of freedom.
If, on the one hand, our world is tragically overshadowed by antagonisms and contradictions, its vast horizons, on die other hand, offer wide vistas of progress and improvement. The present generation utilizes extremely advanced technical methods; application of these methods can create a high standard of living throughout all regions of the world and eliminate misery and poverty. This technical progress already permits us to envisage the advent of a new mankind, highly civilized as we are, but forming, as it were, a single body endowed with a broader conscience and more receptive to the realization of all the aims of the human race. In order that this aspiration be gradually attained, existing antagonisms have only to be conciliated. If the United Nations succeeds in carrying out this task, the most dangerous turning point of our time will have been passed and we may look to the future with the confidence of the traveller who has reached the top of an arduous mountain path and views at last an unlimited reach of smiling plain.
I need say no more to emphasize the importance of this second session of the General Assembly. Our discussions and the decisions we take must be of a nature to lead us to an ample conciliation of existing antagonisms, or, at least, to the preparation of the ground for such conciliation.
The Brazilian delegation, whose membership represents a true cross-section of the democratic forces of our country, is determined to use all its efforts to bring to the work of this second session of the General Assembly the contribution of the liberal and democratic ideas on which our national life is based. Conciliation is the essential trait of the Brazilian people; it can be explained by the geographic and historic development of the country. The record of our participation in international life is precisely one of conciliating opposing influences and ideas with the purpose of promoting progress in international, relations through persuasion. That is why Brazil, throughout its history, has always been one of the most ardent advocates of arbitration and other means for the pacific settlement of disputes.
International collaboration presupposes not only the existence of an adequate instrument to set in motion the numerous forms of collective activity, but also a minimum of agreement between the various nations on fundamental questions, such as the nature of international relations and the relations between the individual and the community. In other words, collaboration is conditional upon a certain degree of spiritual unity among the nations. When that unity is lacking and the divergencies of opinion on fundamental questions are accentuated even to the point of appearing irreconcilable, the work of co-operation becomes precarious if not impossible. Such is, essentially, the present situation. The ideological struggle remains unabated by reconciliation, and a middle term has not yet been found that can promote agreement and common action in all fields of human endeavour. Under these conditions, all the efforts toward co-operation are nullified, no matter how perfect the instrument intended for this purpose.
In our consideration at this General Assembly of the difficulties of the distressful moment in which we are living, those difficulties which relate to divergencies of principle should be differentiated from those which bear upon the imperfections of the instrument. If we lose sight of this essential distinction we shall run the risk of mistaking effect for cause and become unable to direct our efforts properly to the removal of the real causes which hinder the work of international collaboration and the re-establishment of peace throughout the world.
The United Nations is an instrument wielded by sovereign nations that voluntarily accept certain restrictions to their freedom of action, with a view to advantages accruing from co-operation. As an instrument of voluntary co-operation, the Charter incontestably reveals certain defects which may be corrected either by revision or through the adoption of certain practices which the States may agree upon.
The voting procedure, which requires unanimity of the five permanent members of the Security Council for decisions on matters of substance, constitutes, without any doubt, a serious obstacle to the pacific settlement of disputes and renders impossible any action intended to guarantee security whenever such action is opposed by a great Power or even by a State that has the support of a great Power.
The veto, let it be said in passing, was not contemplated initially as a negative element to permit any of the great Powers to oppose decisions of the Security Council. It was intended rather as a positive factor and as an element of balance to ensure solidarity among the great Powers, which bear the greatest responsibilities for the maintenance of peace. It was believed at Yalta that the rule of unanimity, judiciously applied to important decisions by the great Powers, would serve to maintain solidarity among them in order that world peace be ensured. This solidarity among the great Powers did not materialize, however, and as a result of differences among them, the veto has been transformed into a negative instrument which is frustrating all efforts of the Security Council towards peace. It has been employed indiscriminately as a means of frustrating methods of pacific settlement and preventing the admission of new Members into the Organization.
For these reasons we are in favour of the adoption of practical means which will lead to discipline in the use of the veto.
The United Nations certainly does not constitute a perfect mechanism. It contains flaws which must eventually be corrected in order to ensure greater efficiency. We must not forget, however, that no matter how perfect it may become, it will still remain a mechanism which can only be used, effectively if the nations continue to strive sincerely to take advantage of all its facilities. Despite its faults, the United Nations is an admirable instrument for collaboration between peoples. But the will to use it properly is divided and action becomes impossible.
What has just been said means therefore that the veto is an effect rather than a cause. It is but the reflection of the deep antagonism which divides the world over the conception of life and civilization and even over the actual destiny of man. Until this antagonism is resolved — and this can only be through the acceptance of a formula broad enough to reconcile the two contradictory conceptions so as to reinstate confidence and collaboration — we cannot place too much trust in mere changes in the mechanism.
Among the defects of the Charter to which I have referred, one of the most obvious was the non-acceptance at San Francisco of the principle of compulsory jurisdiction by the International Court of Justice in the various types of dispute dealt with in Article 36 of the Statute. This principle satisfied the demands of universal juridical conscience; this was proved by the acceptance by many States of the optional clause. If compulsory resort to the Court had been written into the Charter, a powerful instrument would be in our hands today for the promotion of the pacific settlement of disputes. The absence of such a provision relegated the International Court of Justice to a secondary role when it should actually have become one of the most important organs of the Organization.
The Charter contains potentialities in the field of security which have not yet been explored. Article 10 authorized the Assembly to discuss any questions or any matters within the scope of the Charter or relating to the powers and functions of any organs provided for in the Charter, as well as to make recommendations on any subject, except as provided in Article 12.
The broad terms in which the powers of the Assembly are defined leave no doubt as to its competence in matters of the peaceful settlement of disputes, even regardless of the precise definitions introduced by Articles 11 and 35 which expressly establish the competence of the General Assembly to consider general principles of co-operation in the maintenance of international peace and security, and to consider specifically any situation or dispute.
It is permissible, therefore, to affirm that in matters of the peaceful settlement of disputes the General Assembly has the same powers as the Security Council: in both cases, the power to make recommendations. The supremacy of the Security Council in this matter resides only in the provisions of Article 12 prohibiting the Assembly from making recommendations on a dispute or situation in respect of which the Council is exercising the functions attributed to it by the Charter. The power of the Assembly to bring any questions to the attention of the Security Council, and conversely the right of the Council to refer any matter to the General Assembly for recommendation, and the fact that the Member States can submit any dispute or situation to the consideration of the General Assembly, with the single exception prescribed by Article 12, demonstrates clearly that the Charter vests in the Assembly an important function in matters of security, second only to that which is attributed to the Security Council. There is every advantage, therefore, in this function of the General Assembly being exercised fully, thus completing the action of the Council.
If it is true, on the one hand, that the Assembly is precluded from entering into the plan of action reserved for the Council, it is no less true on the other hand that it represents even more than the Council the power of world public opinion, and that its recommendations carry an indubitable prestige. We must therefore mobilize this moral force which represents the will of fifty-five nations gathered together at this Assembly, with a view to making effective the aims of the Charter, of ensuring peace and security as primal conditions for the development of international collaboration.
The rules laid down for the General Assembly by the San Francisco Conference were even more judicious than those governing the Security Council. While the latter contain exaggerated concessions to the might of the great Powers, giving preponderance to power politics, those of the General Assembly represent on the whole the victory of persuasion over force. The Assembly is the essentially democratic organ of the United Nations; in its decisions the democratic rule of the majority is respected. Its action is bound to increase in importance since persuasion and not force is the only element capable of organizing the world.
We must confess, therefore, that the United Nations has not succeeded in achieving the main objective for which it was created: ensuring security and peace. The results in this field are almost nil. The international armed force, which should be the keystone of the system of security, has not yet been organized, nor has an agreement been reached between the Powers in regard to making disarmament a reality. A tragic insecurity weighs upon the world and is translated into manifold forms of fear, rendering collaboration impossible in other fields.
The treaty of mutual assistance recently concluded in Rio de Janeiro among the countries of the American continent represents the only optimistic note in the otherwise sterile effort to organize security. This treaty is based on the principles of the Charter which favour legitimate collective regional defence as a complement to general collective security.
However, the present crisis is not a crisis of the United Nations alone, but a world-wide crisis. It is a crisis of human conscience which finds itself divided and incapable of rising to a higher plane where its internal contradictions can be reconciled. It is also a crisis of freedom. History has shown that whenever man has succeeded in overcoming the contingencies of his former burdens, and achieving liberty, he has felt alone and lost, and his first reaction has always been one of dread of his conquest.
While progress in science and technique has opened new horizons for the freedom of man, the very vastness of the outlook instils a sense of isolation and fear into his heart. But fear is dispelled and superseded in time by man’s effort to reconcile freedom with the security of the individual. In this effort lies his salvation.

===== Session 03 - 1948 =====
Mr. FERNANDEZ said that the United Nations was meeting for the third time in a regular session of the General Assembly to discuss questions of peace, security and the welfare of mankind.
The representative of Brazil greeted the United Nations, and particularly France, which had welcomed the Members so graciously. Brazilians were bound to France by the ties of an unbreakable friendship, as well as by a culture which had borrowed the best features in the French spirit of universality.
The present Assembly was not and should not be a clearing house in which international disputes were settled by compensation, nor a tribunal competent to pronounce sentence, but rather a family council with power to make recommendations, or a forum in which each could plead his own cause before world opinion, and in which everyone should ceaselessly plead the cause of justice, freedom and equity.
Brazil assisted in the accomplishment of that task through its fidelity to the ideals and principles incorporated in the Charter of the United Nations. Brazil had accepted them, together with the responsibilities which derived from them, all the more easily because it had always made them the golden rule of its conduct in international relations. History bore witness that even in the most difficult and dangerous times, Brazil had risen to the obligations imposed by such a rule.
There was there an active faith in law and justice, not merely an attitude of mind. The proof thereof lay in the fact that Brazil had joined the Powers fighting for liberty in the two great wars of the century, and when, the wars over, the victorious Powers had tried to organize an international community to ensure security in peace and the welfare of mankind, Brazil had co-operated with them without reserve. In that spirit Brazil had worked with the League of Nations in earlier days and was now working as a Member of the United Nations.
On the threshold of the fourth year in the life of the Organization the Brazilian delegation paid tribute to the work done in the social field, which had been achieved in the partial or complete settlement of certain conflicts, and to the success recorded in the Secretary-General’s annual report. At the same time, however, the Brazilian delegation was bound to note that, founded as it was upon the principle of power and granting pre-eminence to certain States in return for their promise to guarantee security, the United Nations had so far failed to fulfil that obligation because of the continued disagreement of those privileged States.
In the opinion of the Brazilian delegation, the Assembly should do everything in its power to eradicate the causes of that disunity, or at least not to aggravate it by taking decisions which, while unlikely to be implemented, might cause the United Nations to go back instead of forward on the path of that universality at which it should aim.
Nevertheless, it was clear that the Assembly’s power to compose the existing divergencies was very limited, since the source of those divergencies lay primarily in the unattainable peace with Germany. If that problem could not be brought up by the United Nations, must it remain the sole concern of the four great Powers, while those same Powers admitted their inability to draft the clauses of an acceptable treaty?
The other belligerents were concerned to see that particular peace being indefinitely postponed, to the great detriment of Europe, of the world and of Germany itself, and with harm to the rights they had derived from the common victory and to their interest in the re-establishment of normal relations with Germany.
Moreover, and above all, there existed a threat to the peace of the world, a neglect of solemn promises, a flagrant denial of the principles on which the new order instituted by the Charter of San Francisco was based. It was high time for the responsible Governments to change their methods and to have recourse, if not to nonexistent arbitrators, at least to some wise mediators.
The representative of Brazil refrained from prejudging any of the questions on the agenda; his delegation would decide on them in the light of the reports made by the Committees to whom those questions had been referred. Mr. Fernandez confined himself to the statement that his delegation would judge these problems in accordance with the traditions of his country; that was, with moderation, equity and justice it would co-operate loyally to the full extent of its power so that the Assembly might remain faithful to its great duty and to the hopes of mankind.
He welcomed the appearance of human rights among the principles to be internationally protected, as a great step forward which would do honour to the present generation. In his great and generous speech at the 189th plenary meeting Mr. Marshall had spoken of the calvary of individual liberty in certain parts of the world which claimed to be civilized, and had pointed out that those Members of the United Nations who sincerely tried to live in accordance with the Charter were in fact the States who desired to protect and uphold the dignity and integrity of the individual. Mr. Fernandez concluded by hoping that the wishes Mr. Marshall had expressed might be fulfilled.


===== Session 04 - 1949 =====
Mr. DE FREITAS VALLE stated that his country’s participation in the San Francisco Conference had been marked by a spirit of confident hope, so much so that, despite its earlier opposition to the institution of the veto, Brazil had been the first of the fifty States represented there to vote for the inclusion of the veto in the Charter, a fact which showed that Brazil had relied on the five great Powers to use the veto wisely. In London, the whole-hearted co-operation of the representatives of Brazil had been directed towards the task of the establishment of the United Nations by the implementation of the Charter. It had given earnest support to the decision to have the headquarters of the Organization in New York, Its election to the initial membership of the Security Council had been secured by an almost unanimous vote; one of its nationals had twice been President of the General Assembly and it. was currently a member of the Economic and Social Council. By a generous decision of the General Assembly, he himself had been appointed one of the Vice-Presidents of the fourth session. Why, then, should Brazil have cause to complain about the United Nations?
2.	It was the purity of Brazil’s idealism that impelled it to criticize the United Nations. Its total lack of prejudice, however, was undeniable evidence of the faith which it had in the future of the Organization. The time had come to return to the spirit of San Francisco.
3.	The League of Nations had been a mere instrument of conciliation. The United Nations constituted a great political league for the preservation of tranquillity and the defence of peace — the peace which God had promised to men endowed with that good will which in current times many appeared to lack. It was just as useless to try to fix the blame for that as it was necessary to recognize the fact.
4.	It could be asked whether it was the fault of the United Nations that it had not made greater progress. He, for his part, did not believe so, for in his opinion circumstances had been cruel for the protagonists of peace. He could not deny, however, that, as units of the Organization, few Members of the United Nations had shown the detachment from interests and vanities that was necessary if people were to associate without prejudice. Each State, or, more precisely, each Government, had given more thought to its own subsistence than to the progress of the United Nations. Even if it were the sad truth that certain Members were using the United Nations instead of serving it, it could yet be argued, without entering into too many subtleties, that abuse of the services of an institution was a sign of belief in its worth.
5.	Mr. Trygve Lie, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, had on occasions fearlessly explained the dilatory progress of the United Nations, placing the entire blame on the shoulders of those who failed to co-operate. Would it not perhaps be fairer to speak of lack of mutual confidence than to seek to apportion the blame?
6.	The United Nations could not have proclaimed that peoples were uniting with the determination “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war” if such determination had not in fact existed. It was that thought that had prompted him to refer to the spirit which had reigned in San Francisco, so much broader than that which had been manifested at the subsequent meetings in London. Every Member, should have the courage to admit that fact and to return to that earlier spirit if true progress was to be made.
7.	It was evident that in so doing the Organization should not allow itself to be discouraged by those who sought to criticize the United Nations for the delay in fulfilling the aims for which it had been created. What sacrifice of principles would it have meant for some Members, in cases where the veto was invoked, to think in good faith of a system of equilibrium and guarantees?
8.	Exactly three years and eight months had passed since the General Assembly of the United Nations had first met in London, still under the impulse of the spirit of San Francisco, for its initial attempt to set up the framework of the structure the outlines of which had been traced in San Francisco. Every one was living in anxious expectation of arriving at the goal that had been set there. Could not the Organization, from the very first, have been fully capable of doing what was expected of it when confronted with the problems resulting from the war, problems which the victors had unfortunately been unable to solve?
9.	Furthermore, the formation of the United Nations had taken place at the height of one of the periodical world crises, and it was exactly during such periods that Governments and peoples accelerated their evolution and moulded themselves to circumstances, while idealism declined. One of the causes of the lack of perfect adjustment within the Organization lay in just such an evolution in attitudes and in international conduct since the time of the San Francisco Conference. While it was an accepted fact that international policy should not be made to undergo violent changes, it was no less true that it was extremely difficult to maintain steadiness in a structure the foundations of which had been laid under the auspices of a group of countries which, from the very inception of the work, had lost the power of mutual understanding and had begun to tread antagonistic paths in the field of collective security. The unhappy obligation of enforcing the Treaty of Versailles had been one of the main causes of the downfall of the League of Nations.
10.	What was wrong, therefore, was not the United Nations but the world itself. Proof of that could be found in the fact that while the Security Council conducted its ceaseless round of meetings, the International Court of Justice had done little, not through the fault of its members but because no cases were submitted to it, since people apparently no longer believed in the domination of the spirit over force. The nations were, in fact, afraid of force itself, ‘as was evident from the fact that the Security Council had been unable to exercise its high functions for the preservation of peace. The world might well bewail the conflicts within the Security; Council and the lack of appeals to the International Court of Justice.
11.	One way in which an attempt had been made to cover current deficiencies, not only in the system itself but arising from unfortunate circumstances, had been to lay undue emphasis on activities which could always be explained but not often justified. The aim, apparently, was to solve concrete problems, often of a material nature, while losing sight of fundamental ones; to heal the body, while forgetting the soul. The body of the Organization was growing at an alarming rate, with an uncontrolled development of organs and functions. Practically every international problem which arose was handed outright to the United Nations or to one of its agencies, without any attempt being made to find out beforehand whether the Organization was or was not equipped to face the question and solve it. The result had been the almost automatic creation of agencies and commissions to solve the problems which were daily submitted to the United Nations as new ones. The problem was not solved but an international apparatus was forthwith created for its detailed study, which tended only to make it more complicated and its solution more difficult.
12.	The number of meetings called in consequence of the ever-growing tendency to establish new international machinery was incredible: during 1947, 1948 and 1949, the various organs of the United Nations had held respectively 3,504, 4,092 and 3,683 meetings, and 3,850 were already planned for the following year.
13.	Brazil considered that such a procedure was not only misguided but detrimental to the prestige of the United Nations. Mr. de Freitas Valle himself was not there to make charges; still less to denounce that which should be known to all. He realized, however, that some Members might be unaware of the circumstances, since not all had been able to attend the countless meetings, while the Members which had attended had often failed to be adequately represented.
14.	The purpose of all Members — for in San Francisco and in London the thoughts of all had been centred on the United Nations of the future — had been to assemble the many international agencies together under what might be called the new Super-State, not to complicate, but to simplify international life. The results in that field could perhaps be said to show that the procedure had been erratic. It would be well to admit that fact and try to remedy the situation.
15.	On the other hand, it should be recognized that many of the efforts in question had not been expended in vain. In the, economic field, for instance, the organization of a broad programme of technical assistance for economic development — the pattern for which had been based on President Truman’s high-minded proposal — constituted an important and constructive task. Only with the organization of the plans for large-scale technical assistance would the Economic and Social Council come of age.
16.	In the field of social progress, many important achievements were on record. It was satisfying to recall resolution 217 (III) of the General Assembly, adopted on 10 December 1948, proclaiming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which would be followed by a covenant on human rights and measures of implementation, and by the codification of international law. The Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, approved by the Assembly in its resolution 260 (III) of 9 December 1948, also represented a step towards the maturity of the juridical conscience and the settlement of the question of international penal responsibility.
17.	Although it had not yet had any direct part in the activities of the Trusteeship Council, the Brazilian delegation had been observing them with great interest and attention. The emergence of colonial peoples to independent life had undoubtedly given rise to a major political revolution. It was to be hoped that the process would be expedited and facilitated by the activities of the Trusteeship Council, which bore an immense responsibility in its function of representing the international consciousness of peoples who were as yet deprived of autonomous political expression. It was not without some concern that the Brazilian Government viewed a certain tendency on the part of metropolitan Powers, governing non-autonomous territories to make use of administrative unions, whether for the purpose of reducing the area of international supervision or whether — which was far more alarming — as a preparatory stage for political absorption. It was, fortunately, the duly of the Trusteeship Council to be on the alert and to curtail such tendencies.
18.	The administrative organization of the United Nations, although handicapped by the lack of a better geographical distribution in the Secretariat, was already marked by the outstanding quality of its services and by the regularity with which its increasingly difficult task was being fulfilled. The completion, in 1950, of construction work on the new headquarters would free the Organization from the inconveniences and loss of time incurred by the holding of meetings outside New York, with the consequent impairment of efficiency and the heavy burden on the budget.
19.	In conclusion, Mr. de Freitas Valle expressed the earnest hope that the current session would make speedy progress and that the inspiration of political instinct and greatness of soul would result in the solution of some of the problems which were causing so much distress, in particular, that of the former Italian colonies, the fate of which depended on the wisdom and fairness of the decisions the United Nations would make.
20.	Reaffirming the confidence of Brazil in the United Nations, he added that no apologies were necessary for the frankness of the Brazilian delegation in pointing out some of the shortcomings of the Organization, since it was Brazil’s desire to see them corrected for the betterment of international life and the welfare of the human race.


===== Session 05 - 1950 =====
Because I am the first representative to have the honour to address the fifth session of the General Assembly, I beg to pay tribute to the memory of one of the founders of the United Nations, Field-Marshal Jan Christian Smuts, who passed away last week. In doing so, I feel sure that I speak the thoughts of all of us. Marshal Smuts was a brave soldier and it was because he fought many wars that he became one of the most enthusiastic leaders of the movement for peace in the world.
2.	The General Assembly of the United Nations is not a stage. However, as we gather here, the eyes of the world turn to us as though we were on a stage; and this is due to the fact that all believe this Organization to be able to help the world to live. It is still the hope for peace that unites us, as figures in a drama, to the vast attentive audience.
3.	Such hope has come to take the place which belonged, and should still belong, to confidence. There was confidence at San Francisco when, on stating the vote of Brazil for the rule of veto, it was possible for me to say: “Such constructive step is taken as a demonstration of our belief in the good faith with which the four sponsoring Powers seek the granting of the right of veto as an inescapable necessity to the maintenance of peace and as a token of our confidence that they will make a prudent use of said right.”
4.	None of us would today reiterate those words, for the plain truth is — and we all know it — that the right of veto has been abused.
5.	If, just for the sake of demonstration, we wished to substantiate that assertion by the enunciation of a single fact, we should hardly need to do more than to ask why the noble Italian nation has not yet been allowed to sit among us, in keeping with what was solemnly stipulated at the Paris Conference. Is it not true that the new Italy was given the assurance that it would come to work with us, on an equal footing, once the peace treaty it signed with its former enemies was ratified? Have we not seen, and are we not still seeing, as a consequence of the veto, fundamental decisions affecting Italy being taken without its full participation therein?
6.	On the other hand, as was said from t this very rostrum one year ago, whoever purposely misuses this forum shows thereby an implicit belief in it. It is evident that the Soviet Union would not be arousing the ever growing condemnation by the whole world of its hitherto negative attitude, were it not inspired by some constructive aim. May the Soviet Union some day decide to set forth the motives behind this unwarranted attitude, thus clearing the road for an understanding with those who put trust in its loyalty when it joined us as a co-worker for peace. Is it not expressed in Article 1 of our Charter that one of the purposes of the United Nations is to be a “centre for harmonizing the actions of nations”? A man has grounds to suspect he is wrong when he is sure he is right at a moment when everybody else thinks otherwise.
7.	The events in South Korea, arising from the aggression unleashed from the north, motivated immediate and effective action by the Security Council. But they demonstrated also — and there no longer seems to be any doubt on this point — that it is necessary better to equip our Organization, the establishment of an international force and the creation of a system for the prompt mobilization of all common resources being kept in mind. The Member States did not fail to show solidarity with the United Nations. But upon one of them, one whose action in the cause of democracy commands the respect of all free men, has fallen almost the entire burden of the fighting. Some are joining it in this effort. Many others have not yet been able to transform their good intentions into actual material assistance.
8.	This deficiency on the part of many — a deficiency arising through no fault of theirs — stems partly from economic under-development. The generous idea of helping those regions to help themselves, so that for the benefit of all they may produce and consume more, can never be deemed overly ambitious. This problem is one of such magnitude that, although the Organization has already given attention to it, more and more comprehensive and positive measures are still needed.
9.	Moreover, the fact can never be too often emphasized that, owing to the lack of an adequate programme for economic and financial assistance, many Member States are not yet in a position to render to the United Nations all the co-operation they would like to give. The problem which confronts those States is the simple one of developing their physical strength in order that they may offer it for the defence of the Organization.
10.	Mutual assistance among the Member States is the corner-stone of our grand alliance. In the introduction to the excellent report in which he demonstrates how much has been achieved by the United Nations during his tenure of office, Mr. Trygve Lie directs our attention to Article 103 of the Charter, which rightly determines that the obligations assumed by Member States in the Charter shall prevail over any other international obligations.
11.	Apart from the paramount task of preserving peace, many questions were successfully settled. Others still challenge our decisions, among which I beg to mention those on the disposal of the former Italian colonies and on the adequate protection of the Holy Places, including — which is equally important — the free access thereto.
12.	On the other hand, horresco referens, we have not as yet conceived a practical device for compelling States to respect or to restore, when by any means violated, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. However, so dominant was the desire in San Francisco to ensure definitely such rights and freedoms that the promise is six times enunciated in the Charter. And those who, like my very dear friend, Sir Gladwyn Jebb, happened to sit in the Co-ordination Committee at San Francisco, will recall that the same promise appeared twice as often in the drafts voted upon by the twelve committees.
13.	It is quite impossible to go on without referring to the proceedings of the Security Council. When normally carried out, its activities are an indication that everything else in the Organization is functioning normally. If, on the contrary, this main spring gets jammed, everything else — even the specialized agencies — will be headed for trouble. The least of those predicaments — but still a serious one — is a resulting atmosphere of distrust, and sometimes of acrimony, among people who should work with a mind always open to unlimited co-operation.
14.	It has been suggested that the way to deal with the situation would be to enlarge the functions and strengthen the powers of the General Assembly, to the detriment of the Security Council. But the Council is the organ primarily responsible for the maintenance of peace, and it would be impossible to curtail its powers without incurring risk. What is truly indispensable is to achieve a complete change in the state of mind which has prevailed in the Security Council. We should think of what the Council should and can do and should not concentrate merely on technicalities of its rules of procedure, which are intended to guarantee the honest search for truth but which have nonetheless been used to block the functioning of the United Nations. The men who sit in the Council and the governments they represent ought to prove themselves equal to their mission, and so restore universal confidence in the Security Council. The world needs that confidence.
15.	This severe but constructive criticism does not apply to the General Assembly or its Interim Committee, generally known as the “Little Assembly”, over which Brazil had the gratifying honour to preside this year. But even in those organs the proceedings are often inadequate and incomplete, and this can be traced back to the atmosphere to which we have referred.
16.	The Brazilian Government awaits with the utmost interest the report on the measures to be taken towards avoiding the proliferation of our agencies and meetings, the number of which, as was ascertained during the fourth session, have been increasing at an alarming rate.
17.	This fifth session of the General Assembly, proclaimed by the President of the fourth session, General Romulo, as the most historic of all, is, in the words of one of my colleagues, pregnant with destiny. Let us be worthy of this opportunity, which faces us with a dilemma: either to keep harrowing ourselves, thus destroying the hope still placed in the United Nations, or else, with our eyes set on the Creator and our hearts raised in a resolute effort to spare mankind the scourge of a new war, to reascend to a level which we should never have abandoned.
18.	Peace is a matter of honesty. What was said over twenty years ago holds true today more than ever. Let us be honest with one another. Let each of us be honest with his fellow nationals who, without exception, hate war and detest violence. Let us be honest with the men and women of the generations to come, whose only inheritance from us will be intricate problems, whereas it is our clear duty, in recognition of the fight for democracy put up by their fathers, to pave their way to a destiny of happiness.
19.	We all speak earnestly here of peace and disarmament, human rights and education, security and freedom. But we cling — why not avow it? — to rigid points of view, and that is why we do not reach the understanding which is the very reason for our association. Musical notes are likewise diverse and immutable, but from their harmonious fusing arise the most inspired melodies. Why not boldly seek to reduce our differences and reconcile our divergent opinions?
20.	The fifth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations is confronted with a most dramatic choice: light or darkness.


===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
From this platform, which I have the honour to be the first to mount today, I salute Paris in all its splendour. Fluctuat nec mergitur. Our faith and our confidence in peace, freedom and right shall likewise never founder.
2.	Like the poet of old, in admiration and gratitude I cry: “ Oh holy light, golden eye of day !” And in the glow of the hallowed radiance that greeted the birth of Lutetia two thousand years ago, let me render to France, welcoming us with all her matchless, stately charm, a tribute of solemn and heart-felt homage. In the name of all those peoples whose language echoes, even from afar, the tongue of Latium, I renew the oath of eternal fealty to Christianity, to the rule of law, and to the culture of the Mediterranean Sea.
3.	The tradition of the philosophy of law, and of the basic principles which issue from that great original fount was proclaimed and adopted by the peoples and was embodied by them in the Charter of the United Nations at San Francisco. It is there that we shall find a constant source of inspiration for our labours in the sixth session of the United Nations General Assembly, labours bearing on matters of the highest import to international peace and security.
4.	The diversity of the topics which the General Assembly must study during its sixth session brings out in clear relief the importance of the work of this session. No matter what the subject of debate, whether it be the vital, problem of the maintenance of world peace and security, or the details of economic and technical co-operation between Member States, the Assembly once again emerges as the quintessential body of the United Nations. Containing within itself the most varied trends of thought, analysing and discussing the whole gamut of the problems of international society, it assumes the character of a universal forum in which all the Members of the Organization are represented with equal rights.
5.	The existence of the Security Council, the body specifically charged with the handling of issues relating to the ultimate purposes of the United Nations, does not in any way detract from the supreme authority of the Assembly. It is the Assembly that by reason of its structure is responsible for the effective working of the Organization and the realization of its aims. And the many obstacles which the Council has encountered in the attempt to achieve its high objectives fully justify the adoption by the Assembly at its last session of resolution 377 (V) which seeks to ensure that the great Powers shall work together in a spirit of mutual understanding and thus to make good any deficiency that might result from failure on the Council’s part.
6.	In this connexion, may I recall that the Fourth Meeting of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, held in Washington at the beginning of this year, showed its complete agreement with the spirit of that resolution, entitled “ Uniting for Peace ”, by recommending to all members of the Organization of American States that they should adapt their resources and their defence systems to the present-day requirements of international security without, however, prejudicing the legitimate needs of their own defence.
7.	We have herein a concrete example of effective participation by a regional body in the endeavours of the United Nations to round off its task of international peace. There is no need for me to dwell on the importance of the activity of such bodies within the system instituted by the Charter. Regional organizations have a steadily increasing value as agents for the propagation of the United Nations and the development and application of its principles. The benefits that accrue therefrom are undeniable once it. is conceded that neither by their existence nor by their activities shall they ever detract from the universality upon which the hope of final victory for the United Nations rests.
8.	If it is successfully to cope with the present crisis in international relations, our Organization must strive with a vigour renewed each day to expand its sphere of action and to increase its territorial domain by admitting all those nations which desire loyally to collaborate in its noble task. It is regrettable that we still cannot hear within these walls the voice of certain nations, particularly of certain great Latin peoples, whose assistance could be valuable indeed, not only for the United Nations but also for the large numbers of mankind dwelling within their frontiers.
9.	Brazil recently convened the first Congress of the Latin Union. This is a movement for the progressive reinforcement of the peaceful and constructive work of the United Nations by inter-linking twenty-six European and American nations of Latin origin. The movement, the first Congress of which was held at Rio de Janeiro, reached conclusions that represent a reaffirmation of the principles on which western civilization is based.
10.	In view of its competence and of its composition, universality is the vital condition for the success of the United Nations. We shall gain but little profit from the continual proliferation of specialized agencies and ad hoc committees, unless our labours are directed by a spirit of loyal, of unreserved co-operation on the part of all peoples of the world. As Mr. Trygve Lie, Secretary-General of the United Nations, has so truly stated, neither walls nor curtains will prevent the peoples from belonging to the United Nations, nor the United Nations from belonging to the peoples.
11.	It is now almost a truism to say that the colossal difficulties with which certain communities are at grips are political and not technical in character. For the Brazilian delegation it is a sad thought that the human intellect, which has applied itself so successfully to the unravelling of the most arduous mysteries of science, is often baffled and frustrated in achieving practical results, through the lack of understanding of certain governments actuated by ideological fanaticism or a mistaken attitude of firmness. The growing interdependence, indeed the virtual coincidence, of the internal and external policies of States has had the truly paradoxical result of threatening the cause of world peace. An age which claims to be enlightened is faced with the grim reality of multitudes enslaved in a sombre moral and spiritual thralldom, a fertile soil for the propagation of doctrines both anti-democratic and contrary to the interests of peace.
12.	The problems arising out of the nationalistic claims of certain groups are delicate and difficult to solve. While Brazil, in accordance with its political traditions, feels deep sympathy with the legitimate national aspirations of the peoples, it has none the less always been in the vanguard of those who advocate peaceful and conciliatory solutions for all the conflicts of international life. President Vargas, in his message to the Brazilian Congress this year, stated that all colonialism must be regarded as an undesirable survival in international life today. At the present juncture it is of pressing importance that peoples aspiring to total freedom should endeavour to act with the prudence and calmness demanded by the need for safeguarding the security structure that has been so slowly and painfully built up and that affords the best guarantee of the realization of their desires.
13r It is therefore vital to seek compensatory agreements through, friendly negotiation. To bring a dispute before the United Nations without having first exhausted all other means of peaceful solution is to run counter to the spirit of the Charter and to do it considerable harm. At a moment when the problems which weigh upon the world are submitted to the United Nations no reaffirmation can be too strong of the vital need for mutual confidence and for faith in our Organization and in its aims and objects.
14. It is imperative that the resolutions and recommendations, both of the General Assembly and of the Security Council, should be respected by all States Members and that the decisions of the International Court of Justice should be upheld by all governments. Brazil feels herself particularly well qualified to support such projects in that the spirit of conciliation and peace so often attested by her historical development and by her conduct within the community of nations, is part and parcel of her legal tradition and of the character of her people. For the true democratic spirit is founded upon a just reconciliation of group and individual interests.
15. In advocating, under the authority of the Charter, peaceful solutions for the problems which threaten the world, the Brazilian delegation has no intention of restricting the freedom, detracting from the rights, or ignoring the aspirations of certain peoples to the advantage of others, whether large or small. It seeks only to establish an equitable balance of interests by giving a measure of satisfaction to either party and by guaranteeing to all the minimum conditions of life which will permit them to enjoy the rights they have thus acquired.
16. Looking back on the work undertaken by the United Nations since its creation I feel we can say that it has already many positive achievements to its credit. As an example of those achievements, it is with great satisfaction that the Brazilian delegation, at the opening of the General Assembly’s sixth session, can point to the felicitous intervention of the United Nations in Greece and Korea.
17.	Those who cast doubt upon the Organization’s activity up to the present time tend to an over-simplification of the issues and an unduly superficial analysis of the principles on which the United Nations is based. It is truly encouraging to review all that has been planned and achieved during these six years of work. We have established standards and techniques for the economic and social advancement of man as a pre-eminently political being. We have reaffirmed the fundamental rights of man enunciated in the draft convention which we shall discuss and which is one of the most ambitious attempts at legal and social creative action ever undertaken by an international organization. The United Nations is an institution created by man for man, and this fundamental feature expresses at once its whole weakness and its whole strength. Its vicissitudes, its setbacks and its hesitations are the vicissitudes, setbacks and hesitations of modem man, at a loss before a multitude of problems, war-weary and yet ever filled with the hope of peace notwithstanding the darker aspects of contemporary existence. The fidelity with which the United Nations has reflected and interpreted the situation in which man thus finds himself today is above all eloquent proof that it is a vital instrument of politico-social progress and development.
18.	The experience of joint action in Korea, on bases which would have been thought highly improbable and even impossible a few years ago, has demonstrated the degree to which the peoples of the world are imbued today with the ideals of the Charter. Realization of the fact that peace is indivisible and that aggression against any State is not only a violation of world peace but an act directed against the community of free nations, has led to the establishment of certain standards of international conduct and the crystallization of certain principles which will complete the collective security system of the Charter in so far as they reflect the political and social systems of the contemporary world. It is for this reason that the Brazilian delegation is particularly interested in the careful analysis which we shall make of the report by the Collective Measures Committee [A/1891]. The preliminary work carried out by fourteen delegations, meeting throughout seven months at the United Nations Headquarters, provides us with a basis for discussion on the strengthening of the principles of collective security. As Brazil has already stated in that Committee, the establishment of a system of collective security is not the final goal of the United Nations. On the contrary, we regard it as a contingency arising out of the continuing precariousness of peaceful international relations, and as an admission that new acts of aggression are still possible.
19.	The results thus far achieved are a step on the road to peace; but they do net signify that we have achieved the final objectives we have set before ourselves. We are striving to render collective security as universal as possible. But how much further on our way should we be if a glimpse were vouchsafed to us now of an age in which we could regard a genuinely universal system of collective security is something completely incompatible with a stage of political development in which the principles we are formulating today will be seen to be the inadequate and obsolete conceptions of men still obsessed by the fear of aggression and war.
20.	 We live in an age of profound political and social change; our task is not to oppose or to retard it. Our Organization, an the form in which we have planned it, has received from all nations the task of imparting substance and form and shape to these new aspirations, of creating a link between the achievements of the past and the promises of the future, between thought and action, between the ideas which inspire us and the aims which in the spirit of the Charter we have set before ourselves, and with the realization of the responsibilities incumbent upon us at a specially critical stage in the history of mankind.
21.	I endorse the hope expressed by one of the outstanding leaders of Brazilian thought, who is a member of our delegation, that the storms of the soul may take hold of this Assembly.


===== Session 07 - 1952 =====
Before expressing my country’s views in the general debate, I wish, on behalf of the Government of Brazil, to pay sincere tribute to Mr. Trygve Lie, who yesterday [392nd meeting} informed us of his intention to resign from his post as Secretary-General of the United Nations; While I appreciate the reasons and considerations which prompted Mr. Lie to take that decision, with the sole intention of facilitating the peace-making work of the United Nations, I cannot share his views and venture to express the hope that his decision is not irrevocable.
2.	Peace continues to be the basic objective of the United Nations. The Organization was certainly not: established to perpetuate the world of 1945, with its fixed groups of victors and vanquished, nor to drag out interminably the settlement of the hates, destruction and rivalries of the last war. No more than any other political organization can the United Nations remain static. As a creation of man, it must follow the course of events, endeavouring at all times to devise methods which must always vary, calculated to provide better conditions of life for the international community.
3.	This Assembly is a manifestation of the unqualified recognition of the principle of democracy, in that, free of coercion or restriction, it considers problems of common interest — not only those involving a threat to the peace but also those relating to the method of ensuring the peace. That, we believe, might be described as the technique of peace. The representatives of governments here assembled can freely express their differences of opinion, differences which are inevitable because the right to dissent and the freedom to exercise that right are the very basis of democracy. Totalitarian regimes are based on force, intimidation and silence; democracy alone is reinvigorated by the conflict of ideas. Even when the circumstances of contemporary life justify State interference in economic affairs to direct production, the distribution of wealth and consumption, the different schools of opinion must nevertheless survive, provided that civil, political and spiritual freedoms are protected. We, for our part, consider that controversy is not only natural but necessary and salutary, Unanimity almost always implies the unbridled and absolute domination of one opinion over all others, and Its effect on this collective body would be frustration through functional atrophy.
4.	It would, however, be unfair criticism to stress only the negative aspect of our disagreements, without referring to the valuable work already accomplished by the United Nations; for example, its function as a place of permanent contact between all States, where major and minor differences are gradually whittled away by discussion and where action is taken to prevent the perpetuation of those misunderstandings which historians rightly detect at the origin of all wars. It is true that the efforts of the United Nations have not always produced positive results. In all great historical movements, however, there is always a stage of dialectical evolution in the course of which synthesis prevails over thesis and antithesis, which contemporaries are temporarily unable to distinguish.
5.	Brazil is among those countries which place the greatest trust in the United Nations, its aims and its methods. It cannot be denied that through the United Nations the world has become aware of the political consequences of economic inequality among peoples, and has come to understand that the prospects of peace are bound up with the constant improvement of the conditions which make for general welfare, in which all peoples should be able to share without suffering the hazards and delays of a long evolution. In addition, the United Nations is making a decisive contribution to the creation of an international awareness of human rights, and has elevated all matters pertaining to human dignity and respect for individual freedoms to the rank of supreme international objectives. Only in such a spirit of internationalism, based on the principles of the Christian and humanist tradition which is the very foundation of contemporary civilization, will it be possible, with the free consent of States, to make the necessary legal changes, so that respect for sovereignty will find its natural, complement in the recognition of human rights and the proper safeguards of security and peace.
6.	However, the United Nations will not achieve full vigour until it includes among its Members all nations which genuinely and sincerely support its basic principles. After all, the purpose of the United Nations is not solely to maintain peace among its Member States, but rather to establish peace on a universal basis. Hence all States that fulfil its fundamental principles should be admitted to membership forthwith. That is ray Government's position. It has always defended that position, and regrets that the Security Council is not able to recommend that the General Assembly admit certain States to membership, many of which, in the course of their long histories, have helped to enrich the highest values of our civilization. In addition to being absent from our midst, some of the countries concerned are at present subjected to special regimes which are contrary to the interests of peace. I refer particularly to Austria, whose unhappy people were among the earliest victims of nazi enslavement. The restoration of that country’s full sovereignty is being delayed and impeded in flagrant disregard of the ideals proclaimed in the United Nations Charter. My Government, faithful to the Brazilian people’s tradition of justice and concord, strongly urges all nations, and particularly the Powers directly responsible, to restore to that noble nation, situated at a spiritual crossroads where East meets West, its independent place in the modern world.
7.	If we are now able to say that there exists a state of equilibrium in military forces which ensures peace, however precarious, that situation is undoubtedly due to the work of the Collective Measures Committee and to its enunciation of the principle that, in taking military action to restore peace, the United Nations is not engaging in an act of war but in a police operation against crime and in defence of law.
8.	Problems of such magnitude necessitate constant vigilance by the United Nations, and particularly by the General Assembly, if we wish to prevent diversity from destroying the united world we aspire to achieve. I have in mind the problems and the claims of certain communities which do not yet enjoy sovereignty. In accordance with its traditions, the Brazilian people genuinely sympathizes with the legitimate aspirations of those peoples, and appeals to the parties directly concerned to reconcile their divergent interests through the recognition of reciprocal rights, in a spirit of sincere co-operation, excluding any circumstances and conflicts which can only injure both sides and endanger world peace.
9.	I am convinced, however, that our greatest problems are our economic problems, and that what is needed here is a dynamic policy, capable of satisfying the reeds arising in many countries as a result of their growth. It is well known that Member States in the so-called under-developed areas are suffering the effects of a crisis which influences every aspect of their daily life. Unable to obtain the equipment necessary not only to meet the growing needs of their industries but also to replace equipment worn out through constant use, unable to renew the tools essential for their economic expansion, deprived even of their traditional customers owing to the shortage of currency for the purchase of the consumer goods produced by the under-developed countries, these countries are faced with a problem which, complex in itself, is further aggravated by the progressive depletion of the currency reserves they had succeeded in accumulating at the cost of tremendous effort. It is therefore a matter of imperative necessity for them to restore their prosperity — -indeed, to secure at least a reasonable standard of living. These countries are in the grip at once of a crisis of growth and a crisis of impoverishment. That is why those who have the power to guide the reconstruction of world economy and trade must first of all classify and evaluate economic problems in terms not only of priorities but also of urgency.
10.	Unfortunately, there being few States which have completely industrialized their economies, the world is in process of being divided into a group of wealthy States and another, much larger, group of poor States. As the minority accumulates wealth, the majority is impoverished. States in the latter category are ill the position of coloni; or, to apply internationally a classification used in national affairs, we may say that today we have a small number of prosperous communities vis-a-vis a vast international proletariat. The States in the so-called under-developed areas are seeking to emerge from the stage of primitive economy based on agriculture and stock-raising. They are seeking desperately to benefit by the resources of modern technique, and are endeavouring to profit by the experience of nations which are more advanced on the road of industrial progress. The United Nations must also devote more attention to the problem resulting from the fact that all the goods and all the resources are concentrated in the hands of certain States, while other States, lacking means and opportunities, are on the road to terrible poverty because they do not have the capital and adequate technical equipment to exploit their agricultural and mineral resources.
11.	If the United Nations aims at establishing the principle of the dignity of the human person as an integral part of the international legal order, it must take advantage of man’s powers as a creator of work and of wealth. In the interests of international solidarity, plans for raising living standards in the under-developed areas, which constitute the larger part of the world, must be put into effect without delay. The time has come to give careful consideration to this very serious problem, with the definite and unambiguous intention of understanding and solving it. Immediate steps must be taken to frame a broad programme of action for the benefit of the under-developed countries and those which have not even reached an economic level ensuring mere subsistence. Unless such action is taken, these countries will not only continue to lack the means to resist the domestic repercussions of economic crises in foreign countries, but also the opportunity of accumulating the reserves of goods, labour and foreign currency necessary to ensure continuing prosperity.
12.	Such is the broad policy, vast in scope, limitless in vision and continuity, which considerations of every kind require of the United Nations. In the final analysis, only such a policy will be able to inject new strength into democratic institutions throughout the world, counteract the resentment of the States whose progress has been retarded and set the United Nations itself on firm foundations.
13.	Clearly the task is a challenge to the constructive forces of the world. It would be vain to try to close our eyes to the dramatic problems of the present day; better bring them into the open and courageously set out to seek their solution. Recognition of the existence of these problems is an initial step toward solving them; not to recoil from them is in itself a degree of progress. During the last seven years, the world as it existed on the morrow of the war has been left far behind. Other changes will be brought about by events. Our chances, however, of guiding these changes along the lines of world order, peace and prosperity depend not only on man's will but also on the grace of God.


===== Session 08 - 1953 =====
81.	Before making my statement, I wish to say how much my Government, my delegation and I myself have been gratified at the election of Mrs. Pandit as President of the eighth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Our satisfaction springs from two sources: first because of the fact that, as the head of the Indian delegation, she represents a country dear to the hearts of all Brazilians and one which has been a relentless worker for the cause of freedom and peace; and secondly, because of the fact that the President of this Assembly is a distinguished lady whose charming personal gifts are not second to her political experience.
82.	I should like to add a word of congratulations to Mr. Hammarskjold, the Secretary-General of our Organization. His personal qualifications, as we have already come to know them in the short period since his election, are a guarantee for the good handling of matters pertaining to the United Nations, as well as for the creation of a better climate for understanding among the-major Powers.
83.	Year by year, the United Nations is widening its field of action. Political, economic, cultural and juridical imperatives, in short, all the free forces of international life, are transforming the General Assembly of the United Nations into a real world forum In this hall are voiced the opinions of all geographic groups, as well as all political ideologies and all the yearnings towards the betterment of economic and social conditions of mankind, the strengthening of world harmony and the observance of the universally proclaimed principles of law.
84.	Nonetheless, with the broadening of this field of action, we are faced with an upsurge of scepticism. Those who find fault with the practical results of the action of the United Nations contend that much more could have been accomplished; that the world is still divided into two opposing blocs, that certain major problems have been dealt with only superficially, and that hesitations and the alternation of progress and setbacks has done great harm to some endeavours of the Organization, which offered, at the start, promising possibilities. I do not deny that up to a certain point those criticisms might be well-founded. We should, however, point out that the Organization, owing to the very fact that it was born out of a profound political chaos, is handicapped by certain unavoidable imperfections and shortcomings. These imperfections and shortcomings are the aftermath of the throes of the immediate post-war period. One of the highest juridical and diplomatic authorities in my country, Mr. Raul Fernandes, former Minister for External Relations, once remarked that nowadays the world is granted but a “moratorium of peace”.
85.	The danger to be averted is that this growing scepticism with regard to the action of the United Nations should succeed in contaminating minds that up to now have been inspired by constructive realism.
86.	 In all truth — and this is my deep belief — it is now an established fact that world public opinion reposes its trust in the United Nations. If one were to draw up a brief balance of the activities and achievements of the United Nations, it would be immediately clear that its assets are already considerable. I should like to add that, if more has not been accomplished, the responsibility should not be placed entirely on the Organization; it has mainly resulted from political currents and counter-currents which have exerted great influence on the solutions to the problems under consideration.
87.	In my opinion, it is necessary that sooner or later we proceed, in the prescribed order, with the revision of the Charter, so that the Organization may be in a better position to accomplish its aims to the fullest and thereby eliminate the criticisms that have been levelled against it. This revision should be undertaken in an objective and impartial manner, taking advantage of the lessons learned from the experience acquired in the course of the past years. If in fact the Charter of the United Nations contains flaws and imperfections, and if we all are aware of their existence, why not tackle this problem and try to find a remedy for it? The Charter is not only a political and juridical document that serves as a guide and a code of discipline; the Charter is indeed the expression of a kind of political, juridical and moral plebiscite which voices the yearnings of our world.
88.	The peoples of our time, those of big, small or medium Powers, long for law and justice, both in the national and international fields. War has become more and more murderous and destructive, threatening the very existence of human society. It is probably this instinct, of self-preservation in the human species that has inspired the creation of this political body. This instinctive will to live is, in fact, an irresistible force that cannot be ignored by anyone. The proof of this is that even those who voice the most violent criticism of the efficiency of our Organization are nevertheless most anxious to keep it alive.
89.	If the government of a big Power, such as the Soviet Union, criticizes the actions of the Organization and repeatedly expresses its displeasure at the manner in which our problems have been dealt with by the United Nations, it would seem natural and, I should say, logical to expect this government to be, in theory or in practice, in favour of the revision of the Charter. May I indulge in the hope that the Soviet Union will eventually join with those who seriously consider the possibility of carrying out the revision of the United Nations Charter so as to make it a better tool in the political and juridical fields.
90.	As the representative of a peace-loving nation, earnestly devoted to the juridical rules and moral principles which should guide international society, I should like to stress that our main wish is that the work of the United Nations may grow from year to year in order to afford better protection to sacred human rights and to mutual respect among nations and in order to strengthen the ties among all peoples.
91.	The division of the world into two ideologically opposed blocs, and the cultural, economic and political antagonisms which have resulted from this split, have not been strong enough to undermine the foundations of the Organization. On the contrary, this unfortunate division has acted as a true catalyst. It has actually enhanced the power of endurance of the United Nations.
92.	We are in truth not creators but interpreters of the profound aspirations of mankind. It is our mission to seize the main currents of world public opinion, which seeks the betterment of the economic, social and moral conditions of the individual and the perfecting of the international community. The present Minister for External Relations of Brazil, the eminent professor, Dr. Vicente Rao, who represented Brazil at the General Assembly in 1950, has already emphasized the paramountcy of the juridical order over transitory issues which arise as a result of the desire of certain Powers for expansion.
93.	The present session of the General Assembly is required to consider the serious political and economic questions on whose solution rests the assurance of lasting-'world peace. Among these problems, I wish to refer to the reduction of armaments, economic aid to under-developed countries, technical assistance, human rights and the ironing out of the conflict between the nationalistic spirit of the young, nations and the so-called colonial order.
94.	It is absolutely necessary that the United Nations should give the greatest amount of time and attention to the gigantic economic problems that distress vast regions of most of the under-developed countries. It is indeed advisable to note that collective security of an economic nature should coexist with the classic idea of collective security in the political and juridical domains. Although it is already outlined in the Charter, this concept deserves to be thoroughly explored, thus permitting a practical solution designed to allow underdeveloped countries to meet the pressures resulting from an imbalance in the economic levels and the rate of economic growth of the different nations.
95.	In this particular field, the work of the United Nations is bound to bring immediate results. Under-developed countries look forward to a swifter increase in their per capita income through increasing productivity, both in range and in depth.
96.	It is a matter of importance that, thanks to their excellent experts and executive organs, the United Nations and its specialized agencies will gradually and indefatigably not only pursue the technical assistance activities^ but also establish schemes of international co-operation for the financing of economic development. This policy cannot fail to be implemented, and it will lay the foundations for a firmer world economic order.
97.	It is my country’s heartfelt hope that peace will prevail in Korea. Need I say that peace is indeed the main goal of the United Nations? The tragic lesson learned in Korea will not have been learned in vain. Let us not relent in the noble striving for peace and the strengthening of peaceful and fruitful relations among all the nations of the world.

===== Session 09 - 1954 =====
The ninth session of the General Assembly has indeed an arduous task to perform. But let us be optimistic; the Assembly will do its duty in spite of all the present difficulties.
2.	As I have already pointed out in the Security Council, we are on the road towards general peace. An armistice has been signed in Korea, a truce has been concluded in Indo-China, peace has been restored to Guatemala and, for the first time in a long, long period, no war is raging on our planet.
3.	It is true that a number of questions remain to be settled. At this very moment representatives of the great Powers, meeting in London, are seeking ways and means of establishing such close co-operation as will ensure calm and happiness for Europe. Furthermore, in his speech yesterday [484th meeting], Mr. Vyshinsky affirmed the Soviet Union’s determination to endeavour with the rest of us to come to some agreement on the question of atomic weapons and disarmament in general which would provide the basis for a convention that would include also the international control proposed by the Western Powers in the plan they submitted to the Sub-Committee of the Disarmament Commission and to the Commission itself. The agenda of this session includes also an item entitled “International cooperation in developing the peaceful uses of atomic energy” [item 67], proposed by the delegation of the United States, which will be submitted to the First Committee for consideration.
4.	We have, therefore, no grounds for pessimism. But we must, remember that freedom, like peace, demands constant vigilance. The United Nations is still far from being the splendid edifice of which its founders dreamed. Under the auspices of this Organization, which was designed to be used in the service of peace, we are seeking to attain a political ideal, although we have not yet achieved it. International negotiations whose objectives are precisely those which are to be found in the Charter, are, in fact, being conducted outside our Organization. It would have been vain, however, to hope that perfection would be achieved in less than ten years.
5.	The experience we have acquired since the San Francisco Conference and the results which United Nations efforts for the maintenance of peace and for economic and cultural development have achieved are, however, such as to enable us to have confidence in the work we have already done and in the work which we still hope to accomplish. The need to set up the United Nations, expressed for the first time in the Moscow Declaration of 1943, was consecrated at Dumbarton Oaks and, with the signing of the Charter, the Organization became a reality.
6.	The General Assembly is the supreme organ of the United Nations. The powers vested in it are proof of the importance which has been attached to it. Side by side with the General Assembly, the Security Council has been assigned an executive role, and the Charter has placed upon it the lofty responsibility of the “maintenance of international peace and security”. In discharging its duties the Security Council shall act “in accordance with the Purposes and Principles of the United Nations”. A basic principle of the Charter is set forth in Article 2, paragraph 1, which recognizes the “sovereign equality of all its Members”. That is the principle which was defended by Mr. Ruy Barbosa, the Brazilian representative at the Second Peace Conference in 1907. This legal equality of all Members of the United Nations conflicts, however, with Article 27, paragraph 3, of the Charter, under which the permanent members of the Security Council are given the right to exercise the veto on all questions of substance. That, as Mr. Basdevant has said, is a right granted to certain States to use a negative vote to prevent the Security Council from taking a decision; it is in fact the power of preventing the United Nations from taking the most important decisions.
7.	At the San Francisco Conference the Brazilian delegation accepted the principle of the veto. It was necessary to draft the Charter and secure its adoption, which would not have been possible if this principle had not been recognized. The Chairman of the Brazilian delegation at the fifth session of the United Nations General Assembly clearly explained our attitude in this connexion [279th meeting] : we placed our full confidence in the great Powers to which this privilege was granted, for we were convinced that they would not abuse it.
8.	The experience which we have acquired since the earliest meetings of the Security Council have now convinced us, however, that this Council will never be able to discharge its duties satisfactorily so long as one of its permanent Members is able to nullify the other Members’ efforts to maintain peace and security. The sixty vetoes which the Soviet Union has exercised against decisions of the Council show clearly that the matter will have to be closely studied when the Charter is revised in 1955. We must begin our work now. If it is not yet possible to abolish the right of veto, it will undoubtedly be necessary to regulate it by reserving its application to exceptional cases.
9.	Brazil is a member of a regional organization which does credit to the nations of our hemisphere. The Organization of American States fits into the structure of the United Nations, but its origins are earlier and its history goes back, in fact, to more than a century before the adoption of the Charter at San Francisco. The Treaty of Rio de Janeiro finally completed the ties of solidarity which unite the peoples of our continent.
10.	When my delegation proposed to the Security Council that the question of Guatemala should be submitted to the regional organization, it did not wish to imply that the Security Council could not deal with the matter. It was obviously necessary, however, to await the results of the inquiry and the measures decided upon by the regional organization before asking the United Nations to find a final solution for this problem. We still think that regional organizations cannot fail to make United Nations action more effective and to enhance the prestige of the Charter.
11.	Our obligations towards the peoples of our continent cannot make us forget the duties which all States owe to the peoples of the whole world. The ties are closer and more intimate between neighbouring countries, but only the solidarity of all nations can bring happiness to mankind as a whole.
12.	The Brazilian delegation is convinced that the political progress and social well-being of the peoples are fundamentally dependent upon the development of their potential resources. As contemporary experience proves, we cannot really achieve this objective, within the framework of the modern State, without a large measure of participation by all the Members of the community of nations. The destiny of man has willed that the economic factor shall be the constant by which political thinking is governed — we might almost say preponderantly governed. It necessarily follows that the well-being and security of the individual and of communities are condemned to feel to a considerable extent the repercussions of defects in the economic, system. In point of fact it will not be possible to establish and maintain peace unless care is taken, in formulating the principles upon which peace rests, to impart to the economies of the under-developed countries the dynamism which will enable them to benefit in the future from the vigour and enterprising spirit of our age.
13.	We are today called upon to study programmes of work relating to the financing of economic development, technical assistance, land reform and the establishment of a world food reserve. My delegation is prepared to make a contribution to these studies in the belief that all the efforts which are co-ordinated here may lead us, if not to concrete results, at least to the firm hope — even to the certainty — that the work of the ninth session of the General Assembly will really constitute a valid contribution to the solution of these problems.
14.	There is no doubt that the question of the economic development of under-developed countries will play a preponderant part in the work of the Second Committee. This is, in point of fact, a problem which retards that social and economic stabilization of international life which, in the spirit of the Charter, is a condition of peace. The agenda items relating to economic questions show that we are trying to free the peoples represented in the United Nations from the anxiety which weighs on their Governments in their efforts to create social well-being. It is essential that we should succeed in this task if we are to prevent mankind from losing faith in its own creative ability.
15.	We are certain, therefore, that we shall be able to devote ourselves, without ever giving way to disheartenment, to laying the foundations for such international co-operation as is likely to lead us in the fairly near future, once we have set up the machinery by means of which it will be possible to integrate the characteristics and the differing types of national and regional economic development, to that lofty level of civilization which the United Nations envisages. This instrument must be sufficiently well designed to be able to be applied smoothly, and without disturbing the equilibrium of world economy, to the general task of maintaining peace, a task whose purpose will always be the spiritual and moral betterment of mankind.
16.	With regard to social, cultural and humanitarian questions, and more particularly to the drafting of the covenants on human rights, my country has given, and will continue to give, its support and co-operation to the work of the Third Committee which, though it may appear to be vague and idealistic, is of unquestionable value in the gradual achievement of the purposes of the United Nations.
17.	I should like to mention in particular the questions concerning freedom of information, refugees, and the unwarranted existence of forced labour, which is assuming immense proportions in many parts of the world. The concern we feel for these questions is in the tradition — indeed I will go so far as to say that it is of the essence — of our democratic, Latin and Christian culture. Respect for human dignity and for man’s fundamental freedoms is in our view a necessary condition for the peaceful coexistence not only of individuals, but also of nations. Our position in this field is founded on a moral rather than on a political concept. The violation of freedoms and fundamental rights, wherever it occurs, constitutes, as it were, an attack on and a threat to the integrity and dignity of each one of us as an individual. It also threatens the foundations of the rights and freedoms in each of our countries.
18.	The United Nations will also have to consider the complex problems relating to the provisions of Chapters XI, XII and XIII of the Charter which founded our Organization. I do not think it necessary for me to stress further the importance which my Government attaches to the role which this Organization is called upon to play in the colonial field. Under the Charter, all the Members of the United Nations-have collectively stood surety for the application of the principles and the attainment of the purposes assigned to the action of the administering Powers through the provisions regarding Non-Self-Governing Territories. In carrying out this duty, therefore, we must give our frank and loyal co-operation to the Member States which have assumed responsibility before the international community for the political, economic and social development of peoples which have not yet attained a full measure of self-government.
19. This co-operation may sometimes take the form of rather severe criticisms of the policy practised in certain fields by the colonial administrations. This conscientious examination of problems must not, however, be regarded as having any intention other than the constructive one of frank co-operation in the accomplishment of the “task of civilization,” the paramount purpose of which is the preparation of dependent peoples for self-government or independence.
20.	In this field, honest criticism is a mark of our confidence in the administering Powers. If we sometimes fail to agree with them in the interpretation of principles, we sincerely believe that collaboration between administering and non-administering Powers is always possible in the United Nations. This exchange of ideas will always be useful provided that questions are considered on their merits and that our attitude towards each other is not determined by any factors alien to the objective which we are all seeking to achieve, namely the welfare of the dependent peoples.
21.	In view of the importance the Charter attributes to the Secretariat, the Brazilian delegation has always been particularly concerned with the problems of its organization and functioning. Although we believe that the Secretary-General is primarily responsible for dealing with such questions, we have never denied him our support and co-operation in his efforts to develop to the highest degree of efficiency the administrative machinery through which the political, economic and social purposes of the United Nations are to be carried out. At this session, as at the last, we are prepared to examine in a constructive spirit the Secretary-General’s administrative and budgetary proposals, particularly his plan for the reorganization of the Secretariat and its work, and to provide him with the necessary means to bring about more and more changes, so that the Secretariat may become an effective and economic instrument in the service of the United Nations.
22.. With regard to legal questions, the Brazilian position at several international conferences has already revealed our way of thinking. Brazilian jurists have for long been concerned with the question of the codification of international law as will be shown by reference to the works of Mr. Jose Hygino and to the “Draft Code of International Public Law” by Mr. Epitacio da Silva Pessoa. Nevertheless, we must face international facts. The representatives of Brazil will accordingly propose measures which take those facts into account and are therefore somewhat less than ideal rules: they will be rules which are likely to be accepted by the greatest number of States. Political, economic and social problems are not the same everywhere. We need to find a formula that will cover them all. It is better to confine ourselves to modest remedies rather than to choose others which may be closer to the ideal but could not be generally acceptable.
23.	Together with the United States and other countries, Brazil has submitted to the General Assembly the questions of the continental shelf and the economic development of fisheries, both of primary importance. If we cannot complete our examination of these questions at this session, we shall doubtless be able to make some progress, so that we may submit the most satisfactory drafts possible to the tenth session of the General Assembly.
24.	Two more very delicate problems have also been submitted to the Sixth Committee: that of defining aggression and the establishment of international criminal jurisdiction. How shall we find a suitable formula for the first? Omnis definiiio periculosa est. Will it be possible to overcome the technical and institutional difficulties in order to allow of the establishment of the second? We think not.
25.	Brazil’s attitude on the subject of racial discrimination remains unchanged. That is for us an obligation under our constitution. We shall always do everything in our power, within the limitations of the Charter, to prevent any kind of discrimination with regard to respect for the fundamental freedoms of all “without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion”.
26.	In the First Committee, we shall have to examine the report of the Disarmament Commission [DC/55] concerning the “regulation, limitation and balanced reduction of all armed forces and all armaments”. The problem has been considered in all its aspects in the Disarmament Commission. I stated my Government’s views there too. But no positive results were achieved. It is regrettable that no agreement can be reached on a subject which concerns not only France, or the United Kingdom, or Canada, or China, or the United States, or the Soviet Union, but the entire human race. All States realize that some way of agreement must be found if the whole world is to be given the right to live free from fear and if mankind is to achieve peace and happiness.
27.	The United Nations listened eagerly to President Eisenhower’s appeal in his historic speech of 8 December last [470th meeting]. The Disarmament Commission worked unremittingly to reach a general agreement on the prohibition of the manufacture and use of atomic and hydrogen weapons and the reduction of armed forces and conventional armaments, in a proportion to be determined. It might have been successful if the question of method had not arisen. The Soviet Union refused to conform to the programme of international control established in the Franco-British proposal of 11 June 1954 and so the Commission’s report to the General Assembly simply passes the question from one organ to another.
28.	In his speech in the general debate yesterday [484th meeting], Mr. Vyshinsky announced to the Assembly, on behalf of his Government, that he was prepared to participate in an agreement on disarmament, involving the creation of an international control organ responsible for supervising the observance of the rules of whatever convention might be adopted. We are delighted to hear this. My delegation will study the proposal put forward by the representative of the Soviet Union with interest, in all good faith and in the belief that it is sincere.
29.	It was Russia which, in 1899, convened the Powers to the first Peace Conference. The single idea of the reduction of armaments was the basis of its original programme. At that time, the world had not yet been exposed to the threat of nuclear weapons. We do not believe that the Soviet Union will wish to be less pacific than the Tsar’s Government. One single gesture on its part may shed lustre upon its place in history or may jeopardize its future, together with that of the entire human race.
30.	I call upon you to outlaw, with mutual safeguards which I hope it will be possible to provide, both the manufacture and the use of atomic and hydrogen weapons. Let us study the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes; let us seek to discover in this natural force all the rich possibilities for human welfare which may lie therein.
31.	Brazil has been concerned with this problem for some years. Considerable progress has been made in the faculties and laboratories of our universities, and the National Research Council has been encouraging scientific work in all possible ways. Our country will bring to the international organ to be established the contribution of its natural resources and its labours.
32.	The results obtained by science in the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes are already very impressive. Scientists of all nations must unite their efforts in a task which will safeguard the future of the universe. Atomic energy as an instrument of destruction must be abhorred, but its emergence as an instrument of peace, of that peace which is the highest aspiration of humanity, of which the Gospel speaks when it blesses the work of the peace-makers, must be acclaimed.
33.	The Brazilian delegation is taking part in the work of this session of the General Assembly in the hope that we may this year achieve considerable progress towards the purpose which we have set before us. We hope that when the session is over the people of all nations may see in our efforts a pledge of the love which we bear them and the contribution of our experience to the cause of civilization and peace.


===== Session 10 - 1955 =====
1.	May I be allowed to come to this rostrum to present my respectful compliments to my friend, the President of the General Assembly, a distinguished statesman of Chile, a country which I have just left and for which I have the greatest admiration.
2.	Brazil has always addressed the General Assembly of the United Nations with faith and frankness. Once again we are together in this hall, this time at a moment when new horizons seem to be dawning before our eyes, and the whole of mankind longs to be freed from the sombre threat that haunts its path. The anniversary celebrations of San Francisco, where disagreements lost their edge, were followed by the four-Power conference “at the summit’’ in. Geneva, where the virtues of frankness were stressed. Now, as a result of that most welcome meeting, the Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Foreign Ministers of France, the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union will shortly join their efforts to face with courage and determination the problems that still keep them apart. Peace cannot be brought about à coups de miracles, as Mr. Spaak has said with his usual insight. If, however, the answers to the problems to be examined in Geneva should not suffice to bring to light the miracle of peace, they will at least restore the confidence of the world in the days to come.
3.	It is a fact that the old-timers of the United Nations can never forget that many difficulties have been successfully solved within the framework of the Organization. It is enough to recall the outstanding record of the Security Council in London, where within one single month many issues of major importance were settled. It is enough to bear in mind the critical situations dealt with by the General Assembly with firmness and wisdom, particularly in the years 1947, 1949, 1950 and 1951. And I am mentioning but a few examples. Hence it would not be out of place to deplore the fact that it should have befallen our Organization to be somewhat by-passed in the last few years. Nevertheless, we welcome what has been successfully accomplished outside these halls, and we crave for more.
4.	The Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, convened as a consequence of the momentous initiative taken before the General Assembly by the President of the United States of America [470th meeting], provides the most recent evidence of the merits of making ample use of our Organization. That Conference made abundantly clear not only the benefits that mankind will derive from atomic power but also the apocalyptic threat that hangs over humanity if the force of the atom be diverted towards destruction. We saw scientists from 70 countries — some of them closely connected with the forging of atomic weapons — working hand in hand, exchanging relevant information freely and openly on the benefits that may come to the world from this epoch-making discovery. This is highly comforting and has a touch of chivalry seldom seen in the international relations of our time.
5.	But ten years ago, the fervent hopes of men and women — emerging from the horrors of the war — were focused on the United Nations. May Almighty God permit that this Organization of ours be enabled to pursue unhampered its endeavour towards securing a just and lasting peace.
6.	I am inclined to believe that the world will never regain its balance unless the security of Europe is assured. This inevitably leads us to the problem of the unification of Germany. It is not merely a question of giving to the German people — whose qualities we all acknowledge  — what is their due. We must also give Germany its full share of responsibility in the maintenance of peace. The continuance of the present division of Germany cannot but be detrimental to the much desired political and economic stabilization of Europe. This unhappy state of affairs is also bound to keep alive a dangerous potential source of unrest. We trust that the unification of that nation, coupled with a comprehensive world disarmament programme embracing the great Powers, would only discourage any aggressive spirit that still may linger in Germany.
7.	Now that the tension in international affairs is on the wane, we can more clearly discern controversies that beset relations between peoples and nations alike. I refer to the so-called colonial question. Almost all the American nations achieved their independence through insurrection, and to this day they derive pride and strength from their valiant struggles and feats of arms. It is only natural, therefore, that their sympathies flow to those who are demanding independence. This sentiment, however, springs from the heart and should not overcast the mind. May I recall, gentlemen, the words of Napoleon: “Le coeur d’un homme d’Etat doit être dans sa tête”.
8.	Thus it would appear that the role of the United Nations is to avoid premature actions which, once adopted, may one day be sorrowfully regretted. Red independence is the fruit of the natural growth of political institutions, founded on a sound economic and social structure. Let the people mature arid their institutions develop fully. Then independence will be a blessing; otherwise it will be just a dangerous illusion.
9.	The political maturity of the countries represented at the Bandung Conference was emphasized by the very fact that, while firmly stating their position on many controversial issues, they took into account the realities of the international situation and the problems that the necessity to coexist creates for every nation.
10.	In the Far East, we are gratified to note that the efforts of the Secretary-General towards the liberation of the United Nations airmen so arbitrarily detained by the Government of Peiping have met with success. To Mr. Hammarskjold goes our gratitude. The United Nations is fortunate indeed to have as its principal official a statesman whose great ability is matched only by his modesty.
11.	I know of no other problem so vital for the United Nations as that of the admission of new Members. The deadlock, that might have been broken long ago, deprives the Organization of that universality winch should be one of its characteristics if Article 4 of the Charter is to be properly observed. If the new spirit of understanding and mutual concessions could be made to prevail among all the members of the Security Council, I trust that many States would be recommended to the General Assembly for admission to the United Nations.
12.	The delegation of Brazil suggested in San Francisco in 1945 that the United Nations Charter might be reviewed automatically every five years and that no veto should apply. Although not adopted at the time, our proposal was to a certain extent met by Article 109, which directed the General Assembly to consider, ten years thereafter, whether it was advisable or not to hold a conference for the purpose of reviewing the Charter. It would appear, however, that the international scene today did not warrant much hope that enough support would be forthcoming for the text that might result from such revision to ensure its approval. This applies not only to its adoption in terms of votes, but also to the more protracted process of ratification. This being the case, while acknowledging the desirability of reviewing the Charter, it would be wiser, in the opinion of the Brazilian delegation, to take now a decision in favour of holding that conference, referring to the next session of the Assembly the task of setting a definite date for it. To our mind this would render it possible for Member States, then guided by a stronger spirit of harmony, profitably to review those provisions of the Charter which, in the light of experience, have proved unsatisfactory.
13.	In the field of human rights, Brazil had not the opportunity to participate more actively in the drafting of the proposed covenants, as it was not represented in the bodies which undertook this task. My Government would, however, like to point out that any transformation of such covenants into radical and whimsically idealistic, declarations ought to be avoided. It is only too clear that the very States which have traditionally upheld those same fundamental rights will be prevented from subscribing to declarations of this kind.
14.	Before closing my remarks, may I be, allowed to draw the attention of the General Assembly to the need for a greater effort to correct the tremendous disparity in economic levels amongst the various regions of the world. This is, as a matter of fact, one of the essential purposes of our Organization. We cannot ask, of course, that all countries be equally wealthy. But countries like my own, whose main source of income stems from the production of basic commodities, are affected not only by fluctuations of supply and demand, but also by the rising production of similar goods in colonial territories, the output whereof has been increasing partially by virtue of financial aid granted for the benefit of the colonial Powers themselves. As a matter of course, the standards of living in colonial territories determine a cost of production which brings the price of commodities to a level so low as to impair the competitive ability of traditional producers. It is urgent that through technical assistance and appropriate financial machinery we strive for the elimination of the economic and social grievances that affect the harmonious relations between peoples.
15.	Before I leave this rostrum, I beg to inform the General Assembly that the Government of Brazil has decided to receive those prisoners of the Korean war still in the custody of the Indian authorities, subject to the fulfilment of minimum immigration requirements and their willingness to live among our people.

===== Session 11 - 1956 =====
Mr. President, I count it a great privilege to be one of the first to express to you my congratulations on your unanimous election as President of the eleventh session of the General Assembly. Your services to the cause of peace, and especially your devotion to our United Nations, have long qualified you for the high office to which you have been elected and which, I feel certain, you will discharge with impartiality and skill.
2.	I now turn my attention to the recent events in the Middle East which brought the world closer to a general war than it has ever been since the forces of Nazism were crushed by the power of the Allied armies. It is common knowledge that the alliance which it was possible to forge against the destructive might of fascist aggression could not be maintained in the years that followed the establishment of a wavering peace. This unfortunate circumstance is at the root of all the troubles which beset the world today.
3.	The fact that the United Nations was never able to Marshal sufficient military strength to ensure peace and security wherever a threat of aggression occurred or a breach of the peace was imminent has also contributed largely to the unsatisfactory state of affairs that endangers the very life of every human being all over the world. That is why we rejoice in the establishment of the United Nations Emergency Force that has been set up to enforce the resolutions adopted by the General Assembly on recent momentous occasions.
4.	May I be allowed, at this juncture, to express the deep appreciation of my delegation of the initiative taken in this connexion by the Secretary of State for External Affairs of Canada. Mr. Pearson has rendered a great service to the cause of peace with justice. We also agree heartily with the proposals made by the Secretary-General — whose outstanding performance of his duties is a source of pride to all the Members of the United Nations — concerning the duties and functions of the Emergency Force [A/3289, A/3302]. And we hope and pray that this new experiment in world diplomacy may yet prove to be the nucleus from which will emanate the strength that will lend to this Organization the physical power which it has so sorely lacked.
5.	While I am dealing with the questions connected with the situation in the Middle East, I must emphasize once again that no solution is apt to bring fruitful and lasting results if the very delicate and complex problems that lie behind the surface of the present crisis are not dealt with courageously once and for all. Two questions are of paramount importance in relation to the unstable peace in that troubled region of the globe. The first is the situation brought about by the forcible seizure of the Suez Canal, and the other is the relations between the State of Israel and its Arab neighbours. Since the Middle Eastern problems are going to be discussed during the eleventh session of the General Assembly, it would perhaps prove of great relevance if the United Nations were to approve certain directives that might serve as a basis for discussion on these two outstanding issues.
6.	On the question of the Canal, a number of general, principles have already been accepted by all the parties concerned. On behalf of the delegation of Brazil, I want to stress that we shall favour a solution to that problem that takes into account the legitimate interests of the users of that international waterway but that would in no way impinge upon the sovereignty of Egypt. We should also like to emphasize once again that we could under no circumstances condone any action from any quarter that would bar the right of free passage through the Canal to any country for any reason whatsoever.
7.	The bases for a lasting settlement of the state of belligerency that has been prevailing since the days of the General Armistice Agreements between Israel and the Arab countries are more difficult to envisage and to formulate. A few principles, however, govern our attitude and, in our opinion, should be generally accepted.
8.	First, Israel is a sovereign State with the same rights and obligations as those of ail Members of the United Nations. Its desire to live in peace with its neighbours seems to us legitimate and conducive to a happy settlement of this thorny question. On the other hand, the grievances suffered by the Arab nations as a result of the emergence of Israel are only too easily understandable. Their reluctance to discuss peace with Israel on equal terms springs from these feelings of antagonism created as a result of the turmoil that has taken place in the Middle East since the Arab-Israel war. The period of time that has elapsed since those tragic days has not proved long enough to allow for the necessary moderation and clear-sightedness on the part of all the Powers concerned. We have, however, reached a crossroads on the general international scene that calls for an immediate and decided effort to settle all the problems that might kindle the spark that may set off catastrophes of unforeseeable consequences. Great statesmanship is required now both from the Arab States and from Israel, and I feel confident that their Governments will prove equal to the tremendous task that confronts them.
9.	It seems to my delegation that the greatest possible mistake we could make in this difficult moment would be to fail to analyse the deep underlying causes of all those disturbing facts. By its quick and decisive action, the United Nations may have prevented or postponed the dangers of a military conflict, but it cannot be said that the great pressures that created the conflicting factors have been removed. It is up to us all, in the Assembly, to put utmost frankness at the service of world peace and try, through it, to point out the causes of disturbances that must be removed before the basis for a lasting and just peace can be found.
10.	There are very obvious economic motives behind all the phenomena we are trying to understand. It seems quite clear that most of the political and military pressures that were brought to bear recently on the international scene have been fundamentally at the service of the most basic economic needs of the different participants. On the one side, we see less developed countries, whose peoples cannot accept under-development any longer, in a frantic search for the means by which to accelerate their development process, entering different systems of military alliance in the hope of thus deserving a greater degree of help from the leaders or sub-leaders in those systems. On the other hand, we see the developed countries trying to perpetuate a system of international relationships that will guarantee for them in the future, as it did in the past, a virtual lifeline of essential supplies to which their economies have become adapted through long periods and whose disappearance would entail readaptation hardships they are not psychologically or economically prepared to face. The very problems arising from the competition between the free enterprise group of nations and the centrally planned economies must be, in the long run, solved by the ability of each group to foster or speed up economic development.
11.	With the President’s permission, I shall now make a few remarks on the other event that has stirred the feelings of the whole world in recent weeks. I am referring to the action undertaken by the armed forces of the Soviet Union to quench and raze the legitimate aspirations of the gallant people of Hungary. During the debate that took place on this issue during the second emergency special session of the General Assembly, my delegation had the opportunity of expressing its opinion on this tragic event [569th meeting]. I only want to add that we are convinced that those who lost their lives fighting in the streets of Budapest did not die in vain. Their cause, which is the cause of freedom, cannot be destroyed by the sheer weight of power. Among those countries which are closely linked to the Soviet Union, a trend has been set which is irreversible. The sooner the mighty Russian nation recognizes this fact, the better it will fare in the long run, for the real and loyal friendship of free nations has always proved a better guarantee of security than any other form of influence or domination.
12.	I shall now say just a few words about two important international issues, one on the European scene and the other in the Far East. Unity in Europe is an indispensable element to world peace. Unity in Europe can never be achieved without the reunification of Germany. Conditions in the modern world have changed so radically with the advent of atomic power that the danger of a recurrent German aggressive spirit is no longer an important threat to the security of the countries neighbouring that once powerful nation. We recognize the special interests of the Soviet Union in the settlement of the German question, but we cannot admit that it would be in the interest of the Soviet Union to keep alive this issue and by so doing to block the natural peaceful development of progress in Western Europe. As regards the Far East, Japan has to play an increasingly important role in world affairs. To this end, it is urgent that Japan be admitted to the United Nations and that the manoeuvres that have so long impeded that action cease forthwith.
13.	I have already mentioned the formation of the United Nations Emergency Force as a highly commendable development of far-reaching implications for the future effectiveness of United Nations action. It might be wise for the General Assembly to envisage certain, practical measures to ensure the implementation of resolution 377A (V) paragraph 8, in order that the armed forces of every Member State might have, on a permanent basis, one or more units always available to the United Nations. These units, the size of which would be left to the discretion of the Member State concerned, could perhaps some day fly the flag of the United Nations together with their own national flag. The psychological effect to be derived if this suggestion were accepted would tend to create, on a world-wide basis, a feeling of greater respect for our Organization, and the requisitioning of troops in obedience to resolutions adopted either by the Security Council or by the General Assembly would come to be regarded as normal procedure.
14.	During its history, the United Nations has never before been beset by so many problems of a political and economic nature. May I express the hope that, at the end of our labours, the world will say that the eleventh session of the General Assembly was worthy of the great hopes that mankind placed in it.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
Mr. President, it gives me a special pleasure to be the first today to applaud your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly, a tribute to your personal qualities and to your devotion to the United Nations, and to the constant and valuable support of your country to the tasks of our Organization.
2.	It is ten years since I had the honour of being with you and, indeed, of presiding over the discussions in the Assembly. On returning, after a decade, it is with great emotion that I find here the same endeavour to serve our great ideal, inspiring my newly-met fellow-workers as well as those among the old companions who have returned, like myself, to the scene of our joint labours. Ten years ago a hard war had ended, and in the United Nations our main concern and conversations were about peace. Today, when peace is needed as never before in order that mankind may survive, the talk is almost only of war. It is common knowledge that in that space of time, instead of disarming, the nations not only have continued to arm themselves at an increasing rate, but they have even created dreadful weapons which a few great Powers practically monopolize. It would seem that the grim privilege of casting the lot for war or for peace lies in the hands of those who command the newly developed source of energy or who may command it in future. It might be feared, consequently, that conditions would be established which would permit the existence of world dictatorships under the very shadow of the United Nations, in a complete negation of the spirit which brought about the rise of this Organization.
3.	A new way of life is thus being imposed upon the peoples of the world. Instead of the promotion of security and mutual confidence between nations, and of growth in individual well-being and equality, we are still confronted by controls and obstacles to a full juridical, economic and social communion. As individuals and as peoples we run the risk of becoming today less free, less equal, and even less peaceful.
4.	I hope my fellow representatives will forgive me if I seem rather pessimistic in comparing 1947 with 1957. But I can assure you that the people and the Government of Brazil continue to believe, as I do, that it is here, in the United Nations, that the peaceful solution of regional and world problems and conflicts can and must be achieved.
5.	Brazil represents a large part of the territory, the population and the natural wealth of the Americas. We are undergoing a phase of intense development. As a people, we have no aspirations that might surpass the bounds of our possibilities, of our frontiers or of our peaceful and pacifying traditions.
6.	For more than a century, we have clung to the principles and commitments of Pan-Americanism, which have welded our continent, not only into a single territory, but also into a single way of thinking, a single sentiment and even a united international attitude. Pan-Americanism has been integrated into the United Nations in order that it may be a servant of world peace. The organization of the continental family has endeavoured always to serve the interests and the progress of the entire world. Of the many thousands of millions of dollars expended by America throughout the world in the years following the establishment of the United Nations, a very minor share was allotted to the countries on our continent. Our various Governments supported and even applauded the decision of an American nation to expend in aid to Western and Eastern Europe, and to Asia itself, larger sums in one year than it had done in an entire decade of co-operation with its sister nations on the continent. This attitude of the United States toward areas overseas did not impair the spirit of Pan-Americanism. It was construed rather as a reaffirmation of its world-wide significance. It never was the purpose of the founders of our system to create a prosperous and happy continent disregarding poverty and unhappiness elsewhere in the world. Only Governments that are not truly and intimately democratic can seek to promote a kind of welfare that is not for all.
7.	It was for this reason that, in the middle of the war, the American countries gave support to the establishment of international agencies whose main objective would be to expedite the recovery of the devastated areas. To this end, they contributed the best of the resources at their disposal. The international financial organization created at the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference held at Bretton Woods in July 1944, and in which all the American nations have a share, included the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It was given two equally important missions: one, that of reconstructing the war-torn areas, and the other, a long-range one, that of providing assistance to economically underdeveloped countries.
8.	Today, we see not only that the nations which suffered the most under the impact of war are entirely reconstructed, but also that they have indeed surpassed their own pre-war levels, while the other nations actually show a decrease, both in public and in individual revenue, when their demographic growth is taken into consideration. I do not mean to say that one economic level should apply to all nations alike, but rather that there is a limit beyond which inequality can jeopardize world communion. Returning, however, to the subject of recovery from war-wrought havoc, we see that some of the reconstructed nations have even initiated investment programmes aiming at the economic development of other areas. It is an undeniable fact that the task of reconstruction was fully accomplished.
9.	The moment has come, therefore, for the United Nations to give the necessary emphasis, through its specialized agencies, to the problems of development and of economic and social balance. In the specific case of the International Bank, for instance, it is imperative that development should benefit from the priority heretofore given to recovery.
10.	I feel sure that the point of view which I have expressed in regard to this problem is not only that of my country but also that of all the American peoples. However, we are not a “bloc”, nor do we want to be one. The American Republics are not led by aspirations of an exclusively continental nature. Ours are well defined ways of political thought, of living, of being, and of conducting international relationships.
11.	I return today to your midst with the same mandate from my Government and with the same faith in our Organization. The problems which confront us — such as the wider acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, the equality of nations, the self-determination of peoples, the emancipation of areas under trusteeship, the regulation, limitation and balanced reduction of armaments and armed forces, as well as economic and social development, technical assistance and so many others — should not be looked upon as being too great or too small, too difficult or too easy, or, still less, as insoluble. They are the same problems of mankind, ever cropping up, which man will have to solve if he wishes to survive. Most of these problems have arisen because of our lack of foresight. It is up to us to solve them. To men of good will, a mistake is temporary and may well serve as a stimulus to better thought and action.
12.	The exacerbation of nationalism in the world, for instance, is an effect, not a cause. Lack of understanding, inequitable distribution of economic and financial Resources and of production and surpluses: all these have created that and other justifiable forms of national and popular vindication. The less-developed peoples, as well as those which, like Brazil, are in the process of development, should not really be blamed for the present trend towards mistrust, towards misbelief in fair and rational world co-operation. It Is natural that each people should wish to be the master of itself and of its own destiny, to live with and for all the others instead of depending upon them. It is not our wish to impoverish the rich or to weaken the strong. We want an equilibrium of power and a fairer access by all peoples to the instruments of prosperity and to the sources of the well-being of mankind. If we depart from such an orientation, our work here will be in vain, and the problems of the world will multiply in pace with a trend towards an even more armed travesty of peace and an aggravation of misery, of hardship and of fear of those very conflicts which we have set ourselves to eliminate forever from the life of the peoples.
13.	I am here to continue the series of efforts which you, Mr. President, and my predecessors have made during other sessions of the General Assembly. Those efforts are pledged, as they have been in the past, to the achievement of the purposes and objectives of the United Nations, in order to help in the solution of all international problems, along the lines laid down by the Charter, as so ably summarized by the Secretary-General in his last report on the work of the Organization [A/3594 and Add.1].
14.	Such is our task, our mission and our duty. The best incentive for each and every one of us is the assurance that men and women in all regions of the world look upon the United Nations for guidance and aid, as the last hope for peace and security. It may not always be possible for us to achieve our aims, but the fact carries weight that our Organization can be present wherever might tries to masquerade as right. We may fall short of our task, but the United Nations must keep forging ahead.
15.	I cannot believe that, even in this troubled world of ours, anyone could possibly wish to see the doors of this house closed without feeling that the shadows of war would be descending upon the nations to darken forever the relationships between peoples and the most cherished hopes of mankind.


===== Session 13 - 1958 =====
1.	I should first like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on the honour conferred upon you by the peoples represented here in electing you to the high office of President of the thirteenth session of the United Nations General Assembly. At this grave juncture in human affairs, your experience, your broad vision of the problems of the day and the trust with which you are regarded in the United Nations permit us to look forward with assurance to the success of our deliberations.
2.	In taking the floor in this general debate with which we are beginning the thirteenth session of the General Assembly, I feel it would be appropriate for me to give the representatives of nearly all the countries of the world assembled here more information on the new international policy in which Brazil is engaged together with the other American States.
3.	Although the movement to infuse new life into our continental unity, the Pan-American Unity Movement, was of regional; origin, my Government considers that it goes far beyond those bounds and takes on universal significance and scope, for its purposes correspond to the aspirations and needs of all peoples.
4.	Surely the best way to achieve the aims for which States attend the meetings of the United Nations is to deal more intelligently and effectively with the difficulties which urgently require solution in the various parts of the world.
5.	It is also obvious that it is easier to deal with matters with which we are closely and directly familiar than to attempt, as effectively, to settle affairs arising outside the areas to which we belong.
6.	My Government felt that, in view of the desires and needs of the American peoples made manifest on so many occasions, the time had come to take decisive and energetic action to put an end to the under-development of the American continent. We felt that we could no longer close our eyes to the distressing conditions in which the populations of wide areas of our continent were living and so cruelly suffering from the evils of under-development. We would have no moral authority for carrying out the international obligations imposed upon us by the United Nations Charter if we could not, at the same time, demonstrate our determination to correct those evils.
7.	That is why the Brazilian delegation strongly and enthusiastically joined with those States which at the twelfth session of the Assembly proposed the establishment of an economic commission for Africa. We consider that we should offer the peoples of Africa the opportunity and the means of making a thorough study of their difficulties and the solutions required. A better knowledge of the needs of that continent will undoubtedly help to mitigate the political repercussions of primarily economic and social factors.
8.	There can be no doubt that there is a clear connexion between the under-development of certain areas and the local frictions which are jeopardizing peace. Poverty and unrest are a breeding-ground for a policy of despair which once and for all may doom all attempts to establish international harmony. Thirteen years of United Nations experience have shown that underdevelopment is the greatest real threat to collective security, for it always serves as a weapon of mass agitation and of national resentment against more fortunate nations. This state of dissatisfaction leads some nations into the dangerous path of accepting ideologies contrary to their own political and cultural tradition in the illusory hope of finding a satisfactory solution of their problems. H those with the material means to remedy this situation do not hasten to do so, we shall soon see the collapse of those important values of civilization which are essential to the complete fulfillment of the principle of universality of the United Nations; for this will be the consequence of the disintegrating effect of the growing feeling of despair in the hearts of the forgotten peoples.
9.	Brazil wholeheartedly supported the idea of a joint and carefully planned programme for the harmonious development of continental economies in the conviction that new prospects would thus be opened for the achievement of peace. Our eagerness to take the first steps in that crusade impels us to put the question here in universal terms. We do so because we are convinced that no one may raise the banner of hope who is not concerned with the anxieties and needs of his own people or who, on the pretext of serving the remote ideals of all mankind, neglects to bring relief to the urgent and immediate evils.
10.	It is well to remember what has been said here time and again, namely, that technological development intensifies and aggravates the economic disparities between certain nations. It was with that in mind that the President of Brazil, Mr. Kubitschek, addressed to the President of the United States, Mr. Eisenhower, a letter which was immediately well received and provoked such a favourable response on the American continent. I should like to emphasize that, by taking that initiative, the Brazilian Government was not seeking political, economic or other advantages for Brazil alone. On the contrary, its desire was to serve the interests of all the nations of the continent, while at the same time remaining loyal to the principles of the United Nations Charter, the basic purpose of which is to promote the well-being of all the peoples of the world.
11.	I think I have made it clear that in the mind of President Juscelino Kubitschek the earnest desire for Pan-American unity, although a regional movement, is also one which is a part of the general struggle against under-development. The economic problems which the Pain-American movement hopes to settle are neither new nor different from those being dealt with by the various organs of the United Nations. On the contrary, for some time now, the United Nations has been examining those matters in great detail and in hundreds of studies, solutions and recommendations, which unfortunately have not yet been put into practice. And the reason they have not been put into effect is that there has been lacking until now the creative spirit born of a determined public opinion convinced of the inescapable necessity of victory in the battle against under-development.
12.	In view of the favourable response to that idea as shown, in statements emanating from government circles and, in the Press of the countries which make up the great American community, we believe we can assure this Assembly that there is a readiness in our continent to go beyond the passive acceptance of an injustice and to launch a joint irreversible offensive for the economic betterment of the areas which have been abandoned and for the welfare of their peoples.
13.	We also believe that the improvement of the general living conditions of peoples everywhere resulting from the realization of plans such as we are now supporting will undoubtedly bring about a relaxation of prevailing political tensions, thus releasing funds now being used for the sterile purpose of an armaments race in order that they may be applied to speeding the process of the economic and social emancipation of mankind. We shall thus have progressed to an era in which the tremendous power now being diverted to increasing the potential for destruction will be directed towards peaceful competition between the highly industrialized countries for the leadership and rapid improvement of the economically under-developed areas.
14.	These days, when scientific conquests exceed the dreams of our ancestors, when the Sowers are attempting to conquer the polar wilderness and outer space, man must not forget himself; he must rediscover in himself the centre and purpose of his achievements. The economic salvation of man gives it meaning to his life and allows for the complete fulfilment, of his personality: that is the supreme benefit it has to offer mankind.
15.	Since I have the floor, I should not like to neglect this very special opportunity, in the name of my country, to proclaim our firm conviction that the human spirit will achieve a balance, harmony and understanding among peoples. For this, there must be solidarity among all men of goodwill who accept the principles of the United Nations, for the United Nations has successfully staved off so many dangers, and has behaved with calm and serenity at the gravest moments when our hopes appeared on the verge of being crushed,

===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
1.	The pride which I feel in speaking at this moment in the name of Brazil is enhanced, Mr. President, by my gratification at being the first to express to you our deep feeling of pleasure at your assumption of the highest office of the General Assembly. I do not wish this tribute to be a mere act of courtesy. I want rather to express to you in the warmest terms the admiration and the esteem which my delegation feels for so eminent a person as Victor Andres Belaúnde, an outstanding figure in American humanist and legal scholarship, a constant champion of the most noble causes, a speaker of unequalled gifts whose eloquent voice has, since the memorable days of San Francisco, never ceased to captivate and sway the United Nations. The high office to which you have just been appointed, Mr. President, is a token of the confidence all of us have placed in your experience, your wisdom, your talents as a diplomat and your vigour. We can be sure that under your enlightened guidance the General Assembly at its present session will perform its duties in a worthy manner.
2.	At a moment when technological progress and man's determination have made possible a new advance in the conquest of outer space, I feel that the best course I can follow in this speech is to draw attention once again to the dangers inherent in the ever-increasing neglect of the human being. Let me say first that I am well aware that the cause for which I speak, the improvement of mankind's condition, is not one which at the moment commands much interest. This is no doubt a time of wonderful technical achievements but, in spite of all that has been said here and elsewhere, the human problem has not been given the priority it deserves. The millennium of man, it seems, still lies in the distant future. What is needed to elevate man to his proper status is a spiritual policy which we have not yet begun to formulate, let alone put into practice.
3.	In the present age, the nations represented here are living at different stages of development. We have discovered a means of reaching mutual understanding in our exchanges here of words and ideas, but this intermingling of different stages of development has no precedent in the history of mankind. The moon has been reached; artificial satellites and planets are being created; but at the same time many communities, many millions of human beings are still starving in conditions as backward as those of the most distant past. While the prospects offered by science are growing as if by magic before our eyes and while populations are expanding, human poverty, too, continues to grow.
4.	After the relaxation of international tension which followed the visit of the Vice-President of the United States, Mr. Nixon, to the USSR, we had the impression that a new phase was about to begin, and that it might be possible at last to give fresh impetus to the struggle against the poverty which prevails over so large a portion of the world; we already had a feeling, not exactly that a period of calm had set in, but that there was less apprehension than there had been when suddenly we heard of the grave incidents in Asia. Before those incidents there had been grounds for believing that the two greatest Powers were ready to come to an understanding, and the Brazilian delegation had been about to propose to the United Nations a new attitude and even a new course to follow; but then those sudden incidents made us all fear that we should have to wait a little longer for that stability which the most highly developed nations regard as indispensable before at last, using but a modest portion of the sums allocated for military purposes, the peoples can declare war for, and not against, mankind, war against under-development, against the slavery to which two-thirds of mankind is subjected.
5.	Once more it seems that peoples urgently needing international co-operation to solve their problems are faced by the grim reality of perpetual procrastination. Some countries, like my own, merely need help to intensify their arduous efforts to develop themselves; but others need an initial impetus to wrench them out of the unnatural stagnation in which they live.
6.	These countries know perfectly well how much time and patience will be needed if, before genuine solutions rather than mere palliatives can be offered, they must wait until the two concepts of life which now divide the world are finally reconciled.
7.	These words from my delegation are intended to express our impatience and weariness in the face of perpetual threats which so seriously delay far-reaching decisions that could free the majority of our fellow men from a bondage that has lasted far too long. But this impatience and weariness are not mingled with despair. We genuinely believe that a day will come when maturity, born of political education and not of technical progress, will remove the causes of this cold war which gives rise to so much depression and discouragement and which, however "cold” it may appear to be, is still marked by some cleverly spaced episodes of blood and violence.
8.	But this hope is for the distant future, and the present situation cannot be accepted with resignation; the least one can do is to appeal to reason and self- interest, since the present time is not opportune for invoking more noble or exalted ideals.
9.	The purport of this appeal to reason is that our system — the system that my country, which is the proud defender of democracy and freedom, haj adopted — shall no longer continue to harbour within itself such serious contradictions. And it is serious indeed that we should be putting forward solutions for mankind’s problems while tolerating the continued existence of inhuman living conditions over such vast areas of the free world.
10.	If we have to wait until the two extremes are reconciled and until the echoes of conflict cease to ring out in this building, then succeeding generations will go on dying of hunger in many parts of the world, and people will go on constructing instruments of death which soon become obsolete, owing to the insane rate of development in science applied to the service of death and destruction.
11.	I wish to state here as clearly as I can my delegation's point of view. We firmly believe that, in so doing, we are best serving the cause of democracy and that of the United Nations, which should truly reflect the various aspects of contemporary anxiety and must, if it is to survive and go on playing its role, avoid rigidity, immobility and formalism. The United Nations is not a talking machine or a prayer wheel.
12.	The Brazilian delegation is not adopting an unrealistic attitude of recrimination or resentment. Our country is doing all it can to shake off the yoke of poverty. Its prospects, its natural resources and its determination will enable it one day to become a fully developed nation.
13.	My delegation's position is based mainly on the justifiable fear that the very efforts which countries with the heaviest responsibilities are making to maintain peace and security may prevent them from obtaining a sufficiently broad and clear view of the serious dangers inherent in the present sufferings of mankind. The fact that certain countries have powerful resources, are familiar with certain problems and possess valuable knowledge does not necessarily mean that they can view the world situation in all its aspects or obtain a wider vision of the future. We could give countless examples of the shortsightedness of splendid civilizations and empires which, with all their wealth and all their knowledge and in spite of their proud claims to eternity, finally tumbled into the abyss of history. Peoples do not learn lessons from history; the experience of nations, like that of men, however many object lessons it may offer, apparently cannot be handed down.
14.	The best way for the more highly developed countries to serve democracy is not ceaselessly to prepare for a war which will never take place, at least not in the way they expect or envisage it, while the evils of under-development continue to undermine and enfeeble the world. Everyone now knows that mankind is divided into two groups: the first, ever diminishing in numbers, which envoys a prosperous and comfortable life, and the second, growing ever larger, which is deprived of food and education and condemned to premature death. It is no longer a secret that the real war is the war which is ravaging ever wider areas of the underdeveloped regions. This is now a dangerous and disconcerting fact, a truth which is proclaimed from the rooftops, but never inspires any efforts to produce a remedy.
15.	The Brazilian delegation wishes to recall the underlying principle of the new international policy adopted by Mr. Juscelino Kubitschek, the President of the Brazilian Republic. More than a year ago a regional movement was launched among the twenty-one American Republics. Its main objective is to secure recognition of the overriding need and extreme urgency for joint action by the countries of our continent to foster a more rapid and harmonious development of their economies.
16.	The principal features of this policy — known as Operation Pan-America — were made known to the United Nations by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brazil at the opening of the thirteenth session of the General Assembly 1749th meeting]. Operation Pan-America aims at strengthening the economic basis of Pan-Americanism by the adoption of a body of vigorous and co-ordinated measures designed to eliminate obstacles impeding the development of those Latin-American countries whose economies require a powerful stimulus if they are to overcome their backwardness and advance to an era of industrialization, full utilization of natural resources and expansion of trade. Only in this way will it be possible to raise the level of living of the Latin-American nations and thus place two-thirds of our continent in the best position to defend our civilization's highest values. The political thesis underlying Operation Pan-America has been defined by the President of Brazil in the following terms: "We have always been prepared, as have been the other countries of the continent, to assist in the great task of maintaining international peace and security. We adopt a similar fundamental attitude towards the perils confronting mankind today. For this very reason, and because the common heritage of civilization is at stake, we wish to be more than mere bystanders. Our contribution will be valuable only to the extent that it expresses our desire to analyse frankly the great problems of common interest, to state our views freely and to seek out the solutions best adapted to the needs of the hour. We wish to work successfully as a team and not to remain indefinitely bound by an attitude of passive assent. I should like, however, to reaffirm that our efforts will have no significance, will acquire no momentum and will fail to produce the desired results unless they are construed as the end product of the unanimous opinion of the continent." The continent's opinion on the usefulness and appropriateness of Operation Pan-America is not open to question. Several concrete steps, have already been taken and references to the matter by the continent's statesmen are becoming increasingly specific. Just last month, as he was leaving for Europe, the President of the United States, Mr. Eisenhower, stated that the nations of the free world should "co-operate in helping solve one of the most pressing problems of our time, that of assisting to advance the Cultural, health and living standards of the almost 2,000 million people in the world who are citizens of the newly developing or under-developed countries".
17.	This same thought, which is not simply humanitarian but which is based on a clear insight into events and a prudent sense of political reality, has been expressed by another eminent Head of State, General de Gaulle, who at a recent Press conference expressed the view that the highly industrialized countries should, irrespective of their political beliefs, join their efforts and their material and human resources in order to provide effective aid to the people of underdeveloped areas. Emphasizing that such a policy would be more likely to resolve world problems than any purely political formula or compromise reached by the great Powers, General de Gaulle declared: "The only cause worth fighting for is the cause of mankind," These are words which merit much meditation,
18.	Thus there is no difference of opinion on the necessity and urgency of combating under-development. Why do we not act more forcefully in this field, thereby rightfully defending our civilization and our political heritage, and proving the sincerity of purpose of the democratic cause? Why do, we not raise this campaign from the limited tactical plane to the plane of broad strategy based on a correct and comprehensive understanding of the situation? Why should we not adopt a creative policy under which potentially wealthy areas of the world might be developed? What is preventing the leading nations of the world from acquiring a loftier and broader view, instead of obstinately fixing their gaze on the wall of what is immediately before them? What prevents us from putting an end to the seething confusion that has spread throughout the world? Those who think that the fight against under-development is nothing more than a work of charity have been and are tragically mistaken. This fight is a chapter in the defence of freedom throughout the world and it is to our detriment that it has not been considered as such, for it is a problem which has moral ramifications, rendering its solution more difficult both for the realist and the strategist. How can we explain why the cause of man has been the most scorned of all causes? Perhaps the reason lies in the immaturity, in the extreme youth of the human race. René Grousset wrote: "Scratch a civilized man and you will find a cave-man",
19.	The lack of solidarity, the absence of feeling before the spectacle of under-development, the lack of an instinctive desire for self-defence against and of comprehension of that phenomenon's destructive force, are so much evidence that the cave-man is not so different from those who boast they are members of a refined civilization.
20.	My country does not intend to alter its position or the prudent and firm line it has always taken in the deliberations of our Organization. A founding Member of the United Nations, Brazil has always been an ardent defender of the purposes and principles of the Charter. Prompted by feelings of prudent optimism with respect to the more relaxed atmosphere which seems currently to prevail in the direct relations between the great Powers, it will never fail to give its support to any initiative taken in good faith, whatever its origin, so long as that initiative shows promise of restoring a minimum of confidence in international negotiations and of leading to a full discussion of the problems and solutions upon which the maintenance of peace and security by this Organization depends. We founded this Organization to abolish war for ever and we hope that it will not remain at the side-lines but will direct the course of events for the welfare of the peoples of the world.
21.	To this attitude, which is the logical consequence of Brazil's history and its international activity, Brazil adds today as a matter of highest priority the policy of international co-operation in the field of development, which is the policy of the future and the policy of hope.
22.	We are profoundly convinced that, as the Brazilian Head of State has stated, apathy in the face of the problems of poverty, disease and ignorance in a world which has at its disposal every imaginable scientific and technical resource, is a crime against man's mind, an attack upon our alleged civilization, an unpardonable moral offence and an act of political imprudence which will have incalculable consequences for the peace of the world,
23.	May these words of warning be heeded while there is still time.

===== Session 15 - 1960 =====
Mr. President, I am deeply gratified and honoured to be able to congratulate you, in the name of Brazil, upon your election to the presidency of the fifteenth session of the General Assembly, Our fifteenth session will, no doubt, be one of the most important held by this Organization; and the guidance of its activities requires a dependable helmsman of acknowledged capability and impartiality, as is the case with Your Excellency, to whom I wish to renew my tribute.
4.	Only a short time ago the American, nations held in Costa Rica one of their most important conferences of foreign ministers. The most significant outcome of this conference was the affirmation of solidarity of the countries of this continent with regard to the principles and ideals that have formed the basis of our peoples aspirations.
5.	Nineteen nations of this hemisphere solemnly reaffirmed that the regime accepted by the American peoples as compatible with their traditions and collective aspirations is that regime characterized by the free expression of thought, by free elections, by the separation of powers, by the limitations upon the terms of elective office, and by respect for civil liberties and human rights. At the same time, these nineteen nations declared that they attached quite as much importance to the need for economic development of their peoples as to these political aspirations. It was with this preoccupation in mind that the President of Brazil, Juscelino Kubitschek, proposed the plan now known as Operation Pan America. Its basic aim, is to lay the foundation of a close economic solidarity among the nations of the continent, so that, in the spirit of the ideals of peace, freedom and democracy which characterize our political philosophy, it may be possible to foster the economic and social progress of Latin America as speedily as possible.
6.	After the close of the Costa Rica conference, the American nations assembled in Bogota, where the nineteen countries of the continent again accepted collectively a plan for social progress submitted by President Eisenhower, as well as measures to promote their economic development, within the objectives of Operation Pan America, Thus, the Latin American countries reaffirmed their desire to solve their dramatic problems of economic growth without sacrificing the ideals of freedom and respect for human dignity. Only two abstentions were recorded, and we hope that these will shortly disappear.
7.	What is the real meaning of this consensus of opinion among the American countries in the United Nations? It means that America has its politico-social policy defined and adopted, and staunchly defends it. But this definition does not exclude respect for the ideas of others, particularly since intransigence is impossible today.
8.	Indeed, peaceful coexistence of peoples is an imperative in our time. The development of nuclear weapons has ruled out war as an alternative instrument of policy. Faced with the inadmissibility of resorting to war as a solution, the world is confronted with the necessity of settling through negotiation those differences that separate nations. The only feasible path leading to a solution of the problems of our age is that of permanent negotiation, the persistent determination to continue to negotiate. The United Nations is not a super-state, but is, rather, an affirmation that the world must live in a continuous patient, constant state of negotiation. It is a mechanism that offers maximum opportunities for meetings and lines of compromise. Although it is true that this process of negotiation may always entail the risk of a stalemate, it is equally true that it is the only means for arriving at solutions that will assure the survival of mankind.
9.	Nonetheless, to attain this state of peaceful coexistence that we are all seeking, a basic premise, a point of departure, must be fixed. This premise is the acceptance by each one of the reality, just or unjust, of nations with regimes, ideologies, and organizations, not as we would wish them to be, but as they are today. This acceptance must be accompanied by the pledge of non-intervention, direct or indirect, by one ideology in the sphere of another. How can we aspire to disarmament, cessation of the cold war and unrest, if there is fear that some countries wish to destroy or dominate others? So long as the principle of the status quo of the present political geography among the existing politico-ideological organizations is not accepted, we shall waver between the cold war and the prospect of catastrophe. In this connexion, a relevant role can be played, vis-à-vis the major protagonists in the current political scene, by the lesser, anti-war Powers, which can become the impartial interpreters of the world’s desire for peace. Attempts to modify the order existing today will merely delay the establishment of an understanding which is indispensable if the world is to look forward to disarmament, peaceful coexistence, and an end to the cold war. The stalemate in efforts to achieve disarmament stems from the lack of mutual confidence. Why not negotiate this point of departure right now?
10.	The problem has another aspect, which the President of Brazil has constantly stressed? only economic development can consolidate peace among nations. The world spends at least $100,000 million per year on armaments, while the industrialized countries have in the last ten years spent only about $40,000 million on aid, assistance, investments, etc., for the under-developed areas of the world. It is inconceivable that armaments, garrisons, and armies should be done away with; this Virgilian scene is chimerical. But the arms race can be brought to a halt, by applying the resources thus saved to economic development. Why, then, not adopt in a special conference a system whereby the Powers would pool their savings effected by an arms reduction and turn them into a United Nations international development fund? It would be very difficult to devote, in addition to the large sums turned over to this fund, an equivalent sum to armaments as well. It would mean paying twice. Brazil supports the efforts to achieve international disarmament by realistic means in technically studied and effectively controlled stages. The accumulation of funds through decreases, in expenditures for arms, linked with a percentage of resources that more highly developed countries could lend to this fund would instill life into the field abandoned and forgotten by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Finance, The United Nations will win everyone’s heart the day it enters upon the path of ample, generous programmes of co-operation that will promote the social well-being and economic progress of nations.
11.	In the United Nations fifteen years of existence, we have not succeeded in creating genuinely effective instruments of economic co-operation, nor has international peace been consolidated. But the United Nations is, none the less, humanity’s great hope today and constitutes, with all its serious limitations, the best instrument for diplomatic negotiations and the most perfect mechanism for maintaining the peace that we have been able to devise to date. The vigour, energy and speed with which the Security Council acted in the crisis involving the Congo are proof of the Organization’s real possibilities. With the Council paralysed by the veto, an emergency special session of the General Assembly was immediately called under the provision of the “Uniting for peace” resolution [377 A (V)]. At that session, which ended two days ago, the Assembly approved without a negative vote the resolution [1474 (ES-IV)] that will make it possible for the United Nations to continue its activities in the Congo without disruption or delay. And it behooves me here to say a special word of praise and encouragement to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Hammarskjold, who, with patience, courage, devotion and impartiality, has faithfully interpreted and forcefully expressed the yearning for peace which lies behind the anxiety with which the people of the world look upon the dangerous and delicate situation in the Congo.
12.	Brazil, through officers of its air force, is participating in the effort being made by the United Nations to maintain law and order in the Republic of the Congo. Bound by cultural and historic ties to the peoples of Africa, conscious of the geographic affinities, and the heritage of blood which link us with the nations of the black continent, the Brazilians follow with extreme interest the awakening of their African brothers. And here we extend our sincere and wholehearted welcome to the States newly admitted to the United Nations.
13.	In Suez, also, with hundreds and hundreds of Brazilian soldiers, we are paying the price of peace in the hope that the Middle East may reach a peaceful solution of coexistence, in a spirit of mutual respect and self-determination.
14.	If peace hinges upon the criterion, as we have pointed out, of a previous, preliminary, basic understanding, economic development has yet to find the means to attain it.
15.	It is encouraging that one of the items to be considered by the General Assembly is that entitled "Economic development of under-developed countries", a problem that has been of concern to us since the establishment of the United Nations. Some important steps were taken with the creation of the Special Fund at the thirteenth session of the General Assembly [resolution 1240 (XIII)], and that of the Committee for Industrial Development at the twenty-ninth session of the Economic and Social Council [resolution 751 (XXIX)]. But there still remains on our agenda the question of establishing a development fund with resources for financing and expanding the economy of the under-developed countries where over a billion human beings await the social justice to which they are entitled. We are certain that the capital development fund will win full acceptance in the Assembly.
16.	The Brazilian Government, together with various other countries, this year sponsored the request for including in the agenda of this session the item referring to racial discrimination. Brazil has always supported all recommendations presented in the United Nations opposing the policies of segregation based upon differences of race, colour, or religion, which are repugnant to the conscience of the Brazilian people and are clearly condemned by the Charter. Brazil submitted a draft resolution to the Council of the Organization of American States expressing repudiation of any and all forms of racial discrimination and segregation, a proposal which was adopted unanimously by the American States. In this connexion, I wish to recall that Brazil subscribed to and ratified the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations [resolution 260 (III)]. Racial persecution is contrary to the spirit and the purposes of the United Nations, and Brazil, with the civilized world, most vehemently condemns it.
17.	This session opens in an atmosphere of anxiety. Public opinion is fearful lest the men responsible for their Governments may not find the formulas conducive to peace. Antagonisms are strong and deep-rooted. Allow me to conclude with the earnest hopes of the people of Brazil, and I trust of the entire world, that the wisdom of the statesmen present here may find the way, not to unify thought and action — an impossibility — but to allow each one in his sphere to respect his fellow man and make possible coexistence with a just peace.


===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
1.	Before beginning my statement, may I be permitted to extend to Mr. Slim my delegation's most sincere congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly for this session.
2.	I would also wish to pay tribute to the memory of Mr. Dag Hammarskjold. As Secretary-General of the United Nations he raised the status of his office to a remarkable degree by his competence, impartiality and courage. His death, which has deeply affected us, has proved that his conception of duty embraced even the final sacrifice.
3.	Brazil, which once again has the honour of opening the Assembly's general debate, deems it necessary to state its position on the most important issues in the current international situation.
4.	The main problem is the problem of- peace. An atomic war, because of its unpredictable consequences, would be a disaster for all, and is, therefore, improbable. But even the "cold war" jeopardizes the future of mankind, not merely because of the expense involved in the arms race, but also by reason of the universal insecurity which destroys confidence in the present and hope for the future.
5.	The most disturbing feature is the fact that, far from uniting under the influence of these dangers, the peoples tend increasingly to draw apart from one another. The world has never been so divided by struggles for power and by ideological conflicts. The equilibrium between the destructive forces of the dominant Powers has led the world towards an impasse. The stubborn clinging by these same Powers to their political positions threatens to convert the impasse into general catastrophe.
The peaceful unarmed nations watch the development of this threatening situation without belonging to the small group that decide on war or peace but they constitute none the less the great majority that will suffer from war's disastrous results. It is thus entirely natural that countries like Brazil should be led to adopt an independent position on the world stage, with the rightful purpose of exerting their influence to reduce tensions, resolve disputes and gradually consolidate peace. Such a position of independence does not mean the abandonment of the values inherent in our traditions, or of our international obligations. Brazil is not prepared to discard the Christian and democratic features of its national personality, or to forget in the future, any more than it has forgotten in the past, the pledging of its word in international instruments. But countries like ours, although not armed for war, can constitute powerful factors for peace. Full awareness of their political maturity obliges them to direct their own destinies. Independence cannot be dissociated from solidarity, which, without independence, would be tantamount to subordination. But subordination is incompatible with responsibility, and responsibility is a necessary element in any international action.
7.	In domestic affairs, political decisions are taken on the basis of authority. That is a prerogative of sovereign power, inherent in the institution of the State. In international affairs, on the other hand, political decisions can be taken only through a process of agreement. The modicum of authority existing at the international level transcends the sovereignty of States and rests with the international organizations.
8.	Fully conscious of these facts, Brazil practises and encourages direct and peaceful negotiation for the settlement of disputes between States, and also collaborates without reservation in the work of international organizations. We have no commitment, no interest, no aspiration that can prevent us from acting in conformity with the highest purposes of the United Nations.
9.	International action should always be undertaken in good faith -- which does not mean that it cannot be flexible. The relatively homogeneous ideological and institutional patterns that characterized the States members of the international community when the- number of sovereign peoples was still small are now a thing of the past. The contacts of our time are between States of a far larger international community, in which the most disparate forms of government are present.
10.	It is clear that Governments should be tailored to men, not men to Governments, and that the ideal which merits our constant support is the universal existence, under all types of government, of laws that reflect human freedom and dignity.
11.	This conviction and the resulting action do not, however, impose  on us a rigidly doctrinaire policy in international affairs. Such a policy would involve inevitable collision with countries where such conceptions are unknown or countries where they are applied in a different way. This would rule out persuasive negotiation, the only method of securing the gradual recognition of human rights. It must thus be concluded that, in this field as well, peace is a prerequisite for the establishment of justice.
12.	Furthermore, human rights are not confined to individual rights. True, individual rights are necessary to the assertion of man's spiritual dignity. But human rights are also social rights. Brazil thus recognizes that rights which we once regarded as being confined to the individual sphere should be extended to the social sphere. Human freedom and world peace necessarily depend on social progress.
13.	The world is not divided merely into East and West. This ideological cleavage makes us forget the existence of yet another division, not ideological, but economic and social—that between the Northern and Southern hemispheres. But although "rapprochement" between the East and the West is attainable by ideological compromise, the immense contrast between North and South can be reduced only by planned action for effective aid by the developed countries of the North to the under-developed countries of the South.
14.	The most important political event of the twentieth century is national self-assertion. Scores of nations have been transformed into new States. Pacificism is therefore no longer the supra-national doctrine that it once was. Pacifism today merges with respect for nationalism. Either peace will be built on the basis of acceptance of the self-determination of peoples, or nationalism will be converted into a pretext for wars that will lead merely to greater economic and ideological enslavement.
15.	Brazil maintains that, under present world conditions, peace can be won only through plain respect for the principles of true self-determination—the ideal framework within which to negotiate the solution of differences between States, irrespective of their social and political structure.
16.	We are well aware that this result will not be easy to achieve, but we hope that it will be possible, for it is the only formula likely to end the ``cold war" and remove the threat of total war. Self-determination means the end of colonialism — whether its colonies overseas or in colonies close to the parent State—and the end of political, economic, ideological or racial oppression; the victory of peace. But self- determination, to be genuine, presupposes the free exercise of the people's will, in the only possible form—namely, the expression of the will of the majority.
17.	The Brazilian people has given practical proof that it is unswerving in its loyalty to the representative principle, which alone can guarantee political freedom. Authoritarian democracy neither seduces nor convinces us. My country has recently resolved one of the greatest institutional crises in its history, without sacrificing its democratic and representative principles—as the whole world has witnessed.
18.	Brazil is following very closely the development of the Cuban situation. It continues to maintain that respect for sovereignty, based on the principle of non-intervention, is a compelling obligation in international life and an essential condition for the restoration of continental harmony. Considering, therefore, that Cuba alone can forge its own destiny, Brazil expresses its conviction that, thanks to this process, the democratic ideals and principles which inspire
pan-Americanism and owe so much to the political culture of the Cuban people will prevail.
19.	The liberation movement of the former colonial peoples will experience no retreat. Brazil, itself a former colony, is building a new civilization, in land that is largely tropical and is inhabited by people of all races. Its destiny thus imposes on it a line of policy that is unalterably anti-colonialist and anti- racialist.
20.	Our brotherly relations with Portugal and our traditional friendship with France cannot prevent us from taking up a very clear position on the painful differences that colonialism in Africa is raising between the United Nations and these two countries to which we owe so much and with which we still have so much in common.
21.	We think that these two States should bring about self-determination in Algeria and Angola. Nothing will prevent the liberation of Africa. It seems clear that that continent has no desire to fall under the influence of any of the existing blocs. It wishes to assert its own personality, that is, to win its freedom. My country will always lend its aid to the African countries in this legitimate effort of theirs. It hopes that the new African States will guarantee complete respect for the rights of their citizens and of the foreigners living in them, including, naturally, the nationals of the countries which colonized Africa. This has been Brazil's attitude ever since its conquest of independence.
22.	We must not forget that, while the world today is witnessing the liberation of non-European peoples, it is also witnessing the reverse and deplorable process of the oppression of other peoples in the very heart of Europe. The problem of Berlin is inseparable from that of the self-determination of Eastern Germany. The exodus of the refugees is proof of this type of neo-colonialism.
23.	The German nation has the right to constitute a single State, by a democratic process guaranteeing the free expression of its people's will. Application of the principle of self-determination can have no other consequence. The United Nations cannot agree that any Power, on the basis of a status quo deriving from a position of strength, should permanently obstruct that development.
24.	Brazil hopes that the leaders of the Soviet Union and of the United States, moved by the desire to maintain peace, can reach a compromise which will lead to a peaceful settlement of the Berlin problem.
25.	The logical sequence of anti-colonialism is anti- racialism. Brazil cannot but deplore the survival of racialism in various parts of the world, especially in South Africa where the problem is assuming tragic proportions from the historical and human standpoint. My country will support any action which the United Nations may take to put an end to racial discrimination.
26.	The struggle between the East and the West is essentially ideological in character. The present division between the United States and the Soviet Union is caused neither by economic rivalry nor by a fight for markets. It is a clash between two political philosophies, each of which maintains the primacy of its OWN concept In relation to the destiny of man.	
27.	Although its own ideological position is clearly- defined, Brazil in its international relations seeks always to be guided by Article 1, paragraph 2, of the United Nations Charter, which states it to be a purpose of the Organization "to develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples, and to take other appropriate measures to strengthen
Universal peace". Hence, ideological differences per se will not prevent Brazil from maintaining relations with any other people.
28.	Furthermore, Brazil believes that the United Nations cannot shirk the open discussion of questions which concern it or are submitted to it by one or more of its Members. My delegation accordingly favours discussion of the question of the representation of China, which, despite its undeniable importance, has long been evaded.
29.	Brazil's political philosophy is basically democratic in nature. We are not neutralist in the sense of belonging to a "third group", although we often find ourselves in agreement with the group of countries so described.
30.	For that reason we shall continue to advocate world disarmament, Utopian though it may, as at present, seem. Brazil is convinced that the United Nations must be the focal point for the discussion and control of world disarmament. Financial savings resulting from disarmament can help to solve the problem of countries' under-development, and contribute materially to the strengthening of peace.
31.	Unfortunately, the only advance achieved in this field—the voluntary suspension of nuclear tests—has just been brutally cancelled out by actions which can only be regretted. Brazil, like other peaceful nations, cannot but protest against this new menace, and urges immediate negotiations with a view to restoring and, if possible, consolidating the de facto truce through the conclusion of a treaty.
32.	The resumption of atomic testing is all the more grievous in that the resuming Power is the very one which had placed itself at the head of the world movement for the cessation of nuclear weapon tests.
33.	It is our constant endeavour to strengthen the United Nations, as the main instrument for peace in today's world. We shall, therefore strongly oppose any proposal likely to reduce the effectiveness or power of action or, in particular, to break up the unity of the Secretariat.
34.	Brazil has remained steadfastly faithful to the American community throughout its evolution.
35.	Independence and democracy were achieved by our countries at different times and in varying degrees. These basic prizes, however, do not represent the close of our development. They are the instruments for further achievements—above all, economic progress and social justice. Brazil, without claiming any special position of prominence or desiring the creation of blocs- does not forget the community of ethnic and cultural origin which links it to the other Latin American countries, and it will always be at their side in the struggle for the advancement of their peoples.
36.	Brazil is convinced that the United Nations, despite all its weaknesses, is the only body which can hold the balance between the contending camps and make peace secure. Eschewing all considerations of interest or prejudice, Brazil "will, within the United Nations, dedicate itself to the cause of the self- determination of peoples, the struggle against every form of colonialism and racialism, the social advancement and progress of the under-developed countries, democratic freedom within the framework of true coexistence, and peace among men under the protection of God.


===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
Before I begin my statement, Mr. President, allow me to present to you, on behalf of the delegation of Brazil, our most sincere compliments on your election to the Presidency of this Assembly. We are sure that thanks to your background as a jurist and humanist and your, experience as a diplomat and. statesman, you will serve brilliantly in this capacity.
8.	I shall also take this opportunity to express once more the deepest feelings of the delegation of Brazil on this first anniversary of the death of the Secretary-General, Mr. Dag Hammarskjold. This is not the time to eulogize him here, but his stay on earth was marked by an admirable life entirely devoted to the loftiest subjects of culture and to strenuous work for the furtherance of peace, in the world.
9.	Having once again been entrusted, as has become customary, with the honourable task of opening the work of the General Assembly, the delegation of, Brazil wishes to reaffirm, its trust in the high aims of "the United Nations. Article 1 of the Charter, despite its conciseness, is rich in great prospects. Its references to international peace and security, the development of "friendly relations among nations based on equal rights and the self-determination of peoples, international co-operation with a view to the economic, social and cultural progress of mankind, and the safeguarding of human freedoms through the abolition of all discrimination because of sex, race or religion, trace for the future a programme of ideas and action so vast that its ideal realization would merge on the horizons of thought into a kind of Golden Age.
10.	It is true that the realism that must characterize the activities of statesmen and diplomats, which are restricted, by the modest limits of what is possible, oblige us to recognize that the facts of life overshadow the edifices of reason or feeling. It is equally, true that this same realism requires from rulers an energetic, patient and continuing study of the paths traced by the Charter, because in these times the only alternatives are the progressive building of peace or the possibly sudden destruction of human civilization.
11.	We should therefore regard the fundamental objectives of the. United Nations as the culmination of the slow effort of human progress, a culmination Which because of the realities of life can only take place in the distant future, but which is none the less real and necessary. We should also think of the Charter as consisting of two parts: one, basic and permanent, whose purpose is to define and fix the aims and the ultimate goals of the United Nations; the other, circumstantial and transitory, which establishes the processes and mechanisms needed to achieve these goals.
12.	As far as definitions are concerned, the Charter remains valid and up to date, and will remain so in the foreseeable future. But the part which lays down the means of action is without any doubt out of date, since it was conceived and formulated to meet the exigencies of a historical situation which largely hate disappeared. With regard to the political situation in general, we need only recall that the San Francisco Charter dates from before the atomic and space age and that it was drafted at a time when the two most powerful nations in the world were not yet divided by what We have ; come to call the "cold war”. As for the United Nations itself, it is hardly necessary to recall that: in 1945 it consisted of only fifty-one founder Members, of which Brazil was one, whereas during the sixteenth session of the General Assembly there were already 104 Members, or roughly twice as many.
13.	In the various attempts to amend the Charter which have been made since 1946, specific or partial Objectives, were sought after, with the exception of proposals based on Article 109 that a general conference of the: United Nations should be held for the purpose of reviewing the whole of the basic Statutes of the United Nations.
14.  In view of. the fact that the United Nations has acquired a truly universal character, serious consideration should be given to the need to review the Charter. It should be adapted to universal reality which it represents today far better than in 1945, at least by the increase in the membership of its major councils, which has enabled dozens of new Members, particularly African-Asian Members, to be represented. The competence of its two principal bodies, the General Assembly and the Security Council, together with their procedural methods, should also be examined with the object of adopting amendments which appear necessary in the light of theory and experience and of the development of the international the situation.
15. The achievement of a lasting peace remains the supreme task of the United Nations, and here the, most important problem is still that of disarmament. Brazil has the honour of taking part in the Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament which meets at Geneva and which was established by General Assembly resolution 1722 (XVI), on the proposal of the United States and the Soviet Union.
16. As is known, this Conference is working on the drafting of a treaty of general and complete disarmament and on the preparation of a special instrument prohibiting nuclear weapon tests. As far as this latter task is concerned, in addition to the plenary Conference there is the Sub-Committee on a Treaty for the Discontinuance of Nuclear Weapon" Tests, consisting of three members: the United States, the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union. The Geneva Conference functions by authority of the General Assembly and thereby represents an expression of the thinking of the whole international community, and not simply the interests of the group of great Powers which possess the secrets, the resources and the destructive potential of the nuclear age.
17. Unfortunately, despite the goodwill of all and the enlightened efforts; of some, the Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament has achieved but poor results during its recent work. The so-called security interests of the great Powers have made real progress in practical and theoretical negotiations almost impossible.
18. The central problem is that of the establishment of trust between the two opposing blocs. This factor is inseparable from the question of the effective control of disarmament measures which itself depends in a certain sense on trust. It has not been possible to break this vicious circle, despite all the attempts of the eight countries which are members neither of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization nor of the Warsaw Pact.
19. These efforts found expression in particular in the presentation of the Eight-Nation Joint Memorandum, which represented an attempt to escape from the impasse of the negotiations on the prohibition of nuclear tests. The Eight-Nation document and the Joint Statement of Agreed Principles (A/4879) constitute, in Our view, the two most constructive documents which have emerged during the past twelve months from the discussions and negotiations on disarmament. Yet. although they were drafted in such a way as to form a basis for understanding and negotiation, the two blocs have in fact used them as battleground on which they have erected, their opposing fortifications, each maintaining that he was its sole master. The eight countries naturally cannot choose between the two opposite interpretations of their Memorandum, since that would defeat the whole purpose of the document, and they watch with concern the work of logic construction by which the two great blocs are trying to divide suggestions formulated with the declared purpose of uniting. They should bear in mind, however, that the progress of nuclear science is of such a nature as to oblige them to review their ideological positions, by virtue of the impact of the development of military technique on attitudes which are becoming daily more obsolete.
20.	In the opinion of Brazil, the problem of nuclear disarmament stands apart from, the general framework of disarmament, and the specific question of nuclear tests should be the first to be considered in the sphere of nuclear disarmament. We are convinced that our chances of progress in the field of general and complete disarmament will be very slender if we do not even succeed in coming to an agreement on the more immediate question of a nuclear test ban.
21.	At Geneva Brazil spoke in favour of concentrating efforts on the question of atmospheric, underwater and outer space tests. The joint Anglo-American proposal to ban these three types of tests has shown that our position offered some practical possibilities which we could not neglect. In addition, the submission of this proposal has brought out the fact that the divergencies between the two camps at the present time are centred exclusively on the question of underground tests. We like to believe, that, even in this sector, a perceptible widening in the area of agreement can be hoped for.
22.	Brazil, deeply concerned at the nuclear threat, which is the greatest and indeed the only one that weighs upon the whole of mankind, reserves the right to consider introducing, at this session of the Assembly, a draft. resolution which conveys its concern and is such as to merit the support of the vast majority of delegations —undoubtedly more interested in the immediate cessation of all nuclear tests than in competing for military power.
23.	Brazil also intends to ask the General Assembly to give its support to the Eight-Nation Joint Memorandum of 16 April 1962 as a basis for further urgent negotiations between the nuclear Powers.
24.	Faithful to its position at the Geneva Conference, Brazil proposes that absolute priority should be given in our deliberations to the question of prohibiting nuclear tests as the most urgent item on our agenda. We shall make, proposals to that effect either in plenary meeting or in the First Committee as appears most appropriate. In addition, my delegation considers it most important that the Foreign Ministers of the United States, the Soviet Union: the United Kingdom and France should look into the possibility of holding immediate conversations in New York with a view to eliminating those differences which still divide us-from our ultimate objective: the prohibition of all nuclear tests.
25.	Brazil also favours, in principle, the establishment of denuclearized zones in the world, provided that proposals to that effect are not merely made for the purposes of the cold war, from which we have always held; aloof. Latin America might form such a zone. In addition Brazil maintains its proposal of 12 June 1962 for the establishment of a special technical committee within the framework of the Conference to study the scientific aspects of control. We are, in fact, daily more convinced that the political negotiations on disarmament cannot go on developing in a technical vacuum. Without intervening in the political negotiations, which would proceed simultaneously, the work of the special committee would enable any decisions that might be adopted to be based on specific and solid foundations.
26. Apart from the-vital importance of disarmament to the strengthening of peace, we must not forget what it represents from the point of view of future economic and social progress for all peoples. The fearful burden of military expenditure is not only an obstacle to the achievement of a better level of living for the peoples of the great Bowers, but also a drain on the technical and financial resources of the entire world which might be channelled into aid to the under-developed countries and thus enable hundreds of millions of human beings to enjoy a better life. The research, that has been carried out in that connexion, including some by the United Nations, is basic and should encourage the leaders of the great States to begin to think of their historical responsibilities, not only towards their own peoples, but to the whole of mankind.
27.	The problem of the uses of outer space is also linked with the. question of disarmament. Soviet science and American science have achieved astounding successes in this field, which deserve our unbounded admiration. Nevertheless, the United Nations must exert its influence to see that progress in outer space does not become a new source of dangers and threats but on the contrary is used in the service of humanity. In that connexion, the General. Assembly adopted resolution 1721 (XVI), which lays down certain principles regarding the peaceful uses of outer space.  One of them, which was proposed by Brazil, states that space exploration should benefit all countries irrespective of the stage of their economic or scientific development. In this connexion, we consider that the use of telecommunications satellites should be subject to international regulation, so that these powerful means of dissemination may be used solely in the service of peace and culture.
28.	The role of the United Nations in the historical process of the liquidation of colonialism is in accordance with the letter and the spirit of the Charter.The principle of the self-determination of peoples is one of the foundations of the whole edifice. The principle whereby the administering Powers accept as a "sacred trust" the obligation to lead the dependent peoples towards, selfdetermination, as laid down in Chapter XI of the Charter, was vigorously endorsed by General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV), 1541 (XV) and 1654 (XVI). No artifice or expedient, can obscure its meaning. Brazil through its ethnic and historical formation as well as its political and cultural tradition, is a nation deeply imbued with anti-colonialist feeling. Nothing can deflect us from this line of action, and we shall do all in our power to ensure that, without prejudice to the peace and freedom of any State, and without violence of any kind against any Government, the United Nations continues; to use every available means to liquidate the last vestiges of colonialism.
29.	Our century has been and still is a spectator of the great historical process of the liquidation of colonialism and the awakening to independence of dozens of peoples once slumbering in servitude. We hope that the last decades of the twentieth century will be marked by a world-wide drive for the economic advancement and social, progress of the. Former colonial peoples and the other under-developed nations, who between them make up the greater part of mankind. Just one year, ago, in this same Assembly, I said: “The world is not divided merely into East and West. This ideological, cleavage makes us forget the existence of yet another division, not ideological, but economic and social that between the Northern and Southern hemispheres. But although rapprochement between the East and West is attainable by ideological compromise, the immense contrast between North and South can be reduced only by planned action for effective aid by the developed countries of the North to the under-developed countries of the South. [110th meeting, para. 13.]
30.	Despite, the praiseworthy efforts of the United Nations, the Governments of some developed countries and the international agencies for technical and financial assistance, we are forced to admit that the situation of the under-developed peoples is growing worse rather than better, for in most cases the rate of development lags behind the increase in population. Moreover, the logic of the economic development process itself, including the result of the action of the regional trade organizations grouping the developed countries, means that the less advanced countries, which are not parties to such agreements, have no choice but to stand by and witness a gradual decline in the value of their raw materials, and commodities on the international market, so that they are forced to work ever harder only to earn less.
31.	This phenomenon, which is taking place in Brazil, is common to the whole of Latin America and we may note with apprehension that the value of the external aid granted to our continent during the past ten years has been far less than the loss suffered through falling prices for its products on the international market. For all these reasons, Brazil is warmly in favour of the United Nations Decade for Economic Development proposed by U Thant, our distinguished Secretary-General. We note with satisfaction that the proposed means and methods of action are based upon concepts and objectives that have persistently been advocated by the under-developed countries and constitute as a whole a body of doctrine that is not only realistic but in separable from the sound observance of the general principle of the Charter.
32.	The implementation of such a programme must not, however, be impeded by the dichotomy which still subsists between the good intentions voiced by all and the real behaviour of some. We must also eliminate the dangerous duality of the “aid policy" formally recognized by all as essential to a better international equilibrium [resolution 1710 (XVI)] and the "trade policy" adopted by certain countries, which, through preferential tariffs, is already bringing about results opposed to the higher aims which we are trying to achieve during the. proposed Development Decade. If such a discrepancy were to continue, we fear that, contrary to all our hopes, the under-developed countries might become real international pensioners. This is a result which no Country could accept passively as long as there remains —and we believe that there does still remain— a climate and a possibility for agreement over and above purely commercial considerations. In this connexion, we are in favour of holding as soon as possible an international trade conference where, far removed from the pressures of the cold war, the problems of the commodity-exporting countries could be placed in their proper perspective and definitively solved.
33.	The international ideal is to secure peace and prosperity for all peoples. Peace is based on dis-armament and prosperity, depends on technical and financial assistance to the under-developed countries. Neither disarmament nor development can really be achieved on the basis of the cold war and competition between ideologically hostile-blocs. Brazil, which is a Western Christian country with a long democratic tradition, has no intention of departing from its traditional values. At the same time, precisely in order to remain faithful to those values, Brazil does its best to help to remove the differences that exist between the world blocs because it is on that that disarmament and development must depend. Apart from the implementation of regional plans such as, for example, the Alliance for Progress, we would like to encourage non-partisan international assistance to the under-developed countries for the implementation of national development plans.
34.	It is with this idea in mind that we have pressed for the establishment, within the United Nations family, of an industrial development agency. We are also in favour of bringing the patents system up to date, so as to permit a genuine transfer of technological knowledge to the under-developed countries and of establishing machinery for the. international stabilization of commodity prices in order to prevent the constant drain to which the trade relations of the  producing countries are subjected.
35.	Sovereignty is a pre-condition for the liberty of States within the international community. The sovereignty of each State is limited, therefore, only by the general interest of the community, within which all States are juridically equal. The principle of non-intervention derives from this. But the liberty of peoples is another postulate of international coexistence. It can be secured only in so far as nations are free to choose their own destinies both internationally and internally. Hence the principle of self-determination., Brazil recognizes and practises both principles, and strongly desires that they should constitute the political objectives of all Governments. Non-intervention and self-determination are not mutually exclusive but rather complementary. In the light of these concepts, properly applied, the most serious problems of our day, such as those of Germany, Cuba and South, East Asia, can all be solved. We know very well that in this field it is easier to express opinions than to act. Nevertheless, if our deeds always match our words with no, holding back and as far as conditions allow, we shall surely progress towards the desired solutions.
36.	In concluding, I wish only-to. reaffirm Brazil’s trust in and loyalty towards the United Nations. I should like to thank the Secretary-General, U. Thant, for his recent visit to my country and I venture to express the hope that he will continue to fill, the high post of which he has shown himself worthy. I should, also like to take this opportunity of welcoming the new Members of the United Nations. The, need for the universality of our Organization becomes more apparent every day. Outside the United Nations there seems to be no solution for the future of mankind.


===== Session 18 - 1963 =====
I should like first of all to express. Sir, my personal satisfaction and that of the Brazilian delegation at your election as President of the eighteenth regular session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, and to convey to you our pleasure that this important office has been conferred upon your country and yourself, whom we have long regarded as an embodiment of intelligence, culture and integrity and a model of experience in everything relating to the United Nations. Your election, honouring Venezuela and through it all the Latin American countries, is an honour to my country also.

2.	Eighteen years of intense diplomatic and parliamentary activity mark the existence of the United Nations. Today, as in the days of San Francisco, the objectives of the Charter, designed to build a healthy, brotherly and peaceful community, continue to guide all States collectively and each one individually. However, today, as at the time of the founding of the Organization, Member States, individually or in groups, continue to differ in the conception of the ways and means of implementing the objectives of the Charter.

3.	This difference in concepts has its roots in the specific historical and social development of each Member State. Yet, the Charter —reflecting the reality of this fact— has from the very outset not only recognized this difference in concept, but moreover has acknowledged the need for the United Nations to operate efficiently in the very climate of conceptual differences. The world in which we live is fertile in ideas, theories, conceptions and schools of thought and the United Nations was not created to proclaim either the everlasting validity or the final rejection of any of them. Our unity of peaceful purpose must necessarily be based on the inevitable diversity of our opinions. If the United Nations is to keep its universal character, it will have to continue to be representative of all the ideas and conceptions of mankind.

4.	It cannot be overlooked, however, that differences and divergencies in the concept and the practice of achieving the aims of the Charter, from the very first days of the Organization, were situated in terms of ideological struggle, which were not only contradictory but, in fact, antagonistic to each other. The years we have lived through, here and in the world at large, in the shadow of this conceptual struggle carried to a Manicheistic split, do not appear to have been particularly rewarding to anyone. And, what is even more disquieting, power-politics have launched our world into the costliest armaments race in history and into an even more catastrophic prospect for the whole human race —collective thermo-nuclear destruction, ironically graded to distinguish between those who shall perish in the first minutes and those who are to succumb months or years later to the worst forms of degeneration of life. This would be indeed an absurd price to pay for intolerance and obduracy. Absolute truth cannot be proclaimed over the ashes of nuclear desolation. We must show more humility, if we want to save our lives. Inflexibility and fanaticism are extremely dangerous in the atomic era.

5.	The world of 1963 is not the pre-atomic world of 1945 and it is not in vain that we have been living- through eighteen years of history in the nuclear age. The accession to the Organization of a large number of new Members, mainly from Africa and Asia, was from every point of view profoundly beneficial to the whole of international life. By reason of their problems, their aspirations, their needs and their aims, these new Member States, objectively situated outside the two poles of the cold war, by the impact of their presence, their number and their arguments compelled all Member States to live and to interpret the reality of the international scene in a completely new light. It is therefore legitimate to affirm that, on the international scene and within the Organization which is its reflection, there is a relative obsolescence of the polarization of the world into two great ideological groups. Ideas are important but no idea can survive the spirit which inspired it.

6.	Not all is East or West in the United Nations of 1963. The world has other cardinal points. These words, which have dominated international politics until quite recently, may eventually be referred back to the realm of geography. The waning of the ideological conflict and the progressive removal of political implications from the expressions "East" and "West" have also had certain consequences —both political and semantic— with regard to the concepts of neutralism and non-alignment. These concepts have weakened in their consistency as the poles which supported them became less and less rigid. We must not lose sight of how much the world has changed since last October and we must explore all possibilities of negotiation which have been opened with the recent signing of the limited nuclear test-ban treaty.

7.	Let us cast a look about us in this hall and ask ourselves whether the world represented here can really be adequately described by such hasty generalizations and rigid classifications. Three broad categories cannot cover the whole range of ideas, concepts and trends of the whole of mankind, Mankind is richer and far more complex than its classifiers. The realization of this fact may complicate political problems and make it necessary to revise certain books and pamphlets of political propaganda, but we also are allowed to hope that the world in which we live will thus become less dangerous and less explosive. Sociologists and political theoreticians will have more to do, but statesmen and diplomats may possibly work within a climate of increased trust.

8.	In the contemporary world and in the United Nations we are witnessing the emergence not of neutral or non- aligned blocs, nor of a third political ideological Power, but of affinities —affinities less stable perhaps, but more effective in terms of tactical objectives shaped on the basis of common demands. What we are witnessing is in fact the emergence of a parliamentary grouping, within the United Nations, of small and medium Powers which unite, beyond or outside the scope of ideologies or military alliances, to conduct a continuous struggle around three fundamental themes: disarmament, development and decolonization. It is easy to define the meaning of the terms of this triunity. The struggle for disarmament is the struggle for peace itself and for the juridical equality of States that strive to place themselves beyond the bounds of fear or intimidation. The struggle for development is the struggle for economic emancipation and social justice. The struggle for decolonization in its broader sense is a struggle for political emancipation, for freedom and human rights. This is the great movement which unfolds itself here, a movement launched by small and medium Powers which can no longer accept the anachronistic Manichean method of analysing world problems. On the contrary, they want the United Nations to adapt itself to the world of 1963, a world in which they must live, under the stress of great dangers but on the threshold of wonderful prospects. This parliamentary grouping, though still in the process of defining itself, transcends the terms of the old division of the world into West, East and neutral. This movement, initiated under the sign of disarmament, development and decolonization demands only the fulfilment of the promises already contained in the United Nations Charter.

9.	Each nation, large or small, will always be the best judge of its own defence and security requirements. My country, for example, has never accepted the label of neutralism for its independent foreign policy. Our position is perfectly clear, Brazil belongs to no bloc, but is an integral part of a system, the Inter-American system, which we conceive as an instrument of peace and understanding among all members of the community of nations. Brazil, like most Latin-American and African-Asian countries, cannot however remain alien to that parliamentary grouping which embraces a great majority of the HI Member nations and thus provides the Organization with a renewed impetus. And yet, in a spirit of sheer political realism, we must admit that the recommendations of this majority, with regard to each one of these three fundamental themes, are left, with noticeable frequency, unimplemented.

10.	The armament race goes on unchecked despite reiterated resolutions of the world Organization. An immense part of mankind is still vegetating under humiliating conditions incompatible with human dignity, and millions of human beings are still deprived of freedom and human rights under degrading forms of political or colonial oppression. This is due —let us have the courage to say it— to the existence and survival of a power of veto, of an invisible veto, in the General Assembly. This invisible veto, of which very little is said and heard, may prove, in important questions such as disarmament, development and decolonization, even more frustrating and dangerous than the negative aspect of the principle of unanimity which has hampered the functioning and impeded the effective action of the Security Council. It is this invisible veto which prevents the adoption of certain draft resolutions or, as is much more often the case, which prevents the implementation of resolutions already adopted. And it is against this invisible veto that the efforts of the nations which have common aspirations and claims, aspirations to peace, to development and also to freedom, must be directed. Because in the struggle for peace and development, man cannot jeopardize freedom.

11.	In the fulfilment of the mandate of mediation which was entrusted to it by the General Assembly, Brazil has acted in the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament with the strictest realism. Disarmament, as we have stated in Geneva, is a central problem, and all the other political issues are contained and reflected in this problem. Compared to the problem of disarmament, any other problem, difficult though it may appear —and we mentioned the Berlin problem as an example— seems to be relatively easy to solve, because whatever its solution may be, each party has an approximate idea of what it can gain or lose, and also because this solution may not necessarily be final and irrevocable if the means and the possibilities to alter it remain available. Disarmament is the problem of power, and traditionally problems of power have been solved by the use of power itself. The challenge of Geneva consists precisely in attempting to solve this problem of power by negotiation and by means of persuasion. This is no easy task, and an elementary sense of reality induces us to admit that we are still far removed from the conclusion of a treaty on general and complete disarmament. With regard to the text of that treaty, we have hardly gone beyond the first paragraphs of its preamble. And in the meantime enormous resources which could have been utilized in the fulfilment of a better existence, appear as factors of threat and destruction. The present arms race, which proceeds at a mad pace, is primarily responsible for the scarcity of resources available for the great tasks of economic development. How can one speak seriously of cultural progress when the human race is engaged substantially in preparing and perfecting the means of its own destruction? The only technology worthy of respect is the one that leads to life and freedom.

12.	The eight mediating countries in Geneva —Brazil, Burma, Ethiopia, India, Mexico, Nigeria, the United Arab Republic and Sweden— bear a great diplomatic responsibility in this question of disarmament. These countries were not acting as a "political bloc", but as a "diplomatic group" which, in a spirit of mediation, was trying tenaciously to broaden the sparse areas of agreement between the two Power blocs. Acting always in response to world public opinion, these nations have made a decisive contribution through their efforts which allowed the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament to secure its first major positive step, the treaty banning nuclear tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water, recently concluded in Moscow. Brazil has always upheld the view that the nuclear Powers, without waiting for the conclusion of a treaty for general and complete disarmament, should, proceed to formalize agreements whenever views are found to coincide. For this reason we have always given priority to the question of nuclear testing, the non-dissemination of nuclear arms, and the prevention of war by accident. It was in this context that, perceiving the continuing difficulties in the matter of detection and verification of underground tests, Brazil addressed the following question to the nuclear Powers:
"It has been implied that a nuclear test ban is difficult to attain because the great Powers cannot or do not wish to agree on the intricate question of control, a problem which is based on confidence. It is well known, however, that the main divergencies and discrepancies do lie in the problems of detection and identification of underground tests, as the international control required for atmospheric and outer space tests does not appear to present so many insurmountable difficulties. Why, then, not concentrate our efforts on this question of atmospheric and outer space tests which are the most dangerous, actually and potentially, and the ones which have a most disturbing effect on mind, body and nerves? Why not, along the lines of the eight-nation joint memorandum, further explore the possibility of an agreement on the question of control of atmospheric and outer space tests and, at the same time, start a discussion on the adequate methods of detection and identification of underground tests?"
This question, first formulated on 25 July 1962 and reiterated on 17 August 1962 met at first, however, with nothing but silence on the part of the three nuclear Powers which constituted the Sub-Committee of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament. It was only on 27 August 1962 that the great Powers began to move forward with the submission of the joint Anglo- American proposal on the partial banning of nuclear tests. I mention this fact here not to enhance the contribution of my country to the cause of disarmament, but to indicate that, in the fulfilment of their mediation role, the eight non-aligned Powers at Geneva must run the risk of misunderstanding and criticism that often result from tactical motives prevailing at a given moment.

13.	My country has welcomed with enthusiasm the signature of the Treaty of Moscow, and my President, Joao Goulart, in his message to President Kennedy, Chairman Khrushchev and Prime Minister Macmillan, expressed Brazil's gratification at the constructive spirit in which the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Soviet Union had conducted the negotiations. My Government was one of the first to sign the treaty which has been submitted for ratification by our Congress. For Brazil the partial treaty has not only the great merit of immediately eliminating the deadly effects of radiation, but also the symbolic value of demonstrating that a common effort of the great Powers to resolve their differences is always possible and viable. In that sense Brazil has welcomed the partial treaty as one of the most auspicious events since 1945 and as a starting point for agreements ever more far-reaching and creative. The words which I am about to add must therefore not be interpreted as indicating any lack of enthusiasm in respect of that treaty.

14.	Without wishing to attenuate the impact and the high significance of the limited test-ban treaty, which reflects an idea which we have defended since the very first days of the Geneva Conference, we cannot refrain from regretting that the Moscow meeting was held outside the province of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament, We see no logical or plausible reason for tills development, since we cannot admit the possibility that the nuclear Powers had wished to segregate the remaining members from the solution of a question which was a matter of common interest. Inasmuch as there existed in Geneva a Sub-Committee on Nuclear Tests made up solely of the three nuclear Powers, that Sub-Committee, under the rules of the Conference, could have met in any place and at any level of representation; why, then, did the three nuclear Powers not wish to give the Moscow Conference the character of a meeting of that Sub-Committee? This would have had the great merit of placing the subject matter within the context of general and complete disarmament and of serving as a starting point for the future work of the Committee. World peace and security cannot be the object of exclusive negotiations of a directorate of great Powers, no matter how great and powerful they may be. To a common danger of death and destruction, common responsibility must be the counterpart. And it is this responsibility that the non-nuclear Powers wish to assume.

15.	Just as we formulated our question on 25 July 1962, Brazil is formulating today, from this rostrum, the following questions addressed to the three nuclear Powers; What are the real difficulties which keep us from a final solution on underground tests? Why not recognize that, with reference to this question, the opposing viewpoints have been narrowed down to a point where any one of the parties could accept the opposing point of view without making, in fact, great concessions? Why not explore, by common agreement, the possibility of broadening immediately the area of agreement reached at Moscow by the additional banning of underground tests above an established range of detectability?

16.	The Sub-Committee on a Treaty for the Discontinuance of Nuclear Weapon Tests of the Eighteen- Nation Committee on Disarmament, when it meets again, could perhaps explore immediately the possibilities of a gradual and successive treatment of the question of placing nuclear testing under a ban. It is possible to envisage, for example, in a first stage, the immediate prohibition of underground tests to a limit currently detectable by the monitoring systems of the parties concerned and, in a second stage, to commence, within a maximum period of one year, to suspend those tests above a certain limit of, say, 4.75 kilotons, or the most technically feasible limit on that occasion. This scheme, of course, involves technical and scientific aspects that can be revised and modified during the discussions to be held by the nuclear Powers, which certainly are technically better qualified through their well-known familiarity with explosions.

17.	It is evident that in all these cases a meeting of minds is indispensable on the part of the nuclear Powers which, on the other hand, cannot continue to ignore the reiterated manifestations of the General Assembly. In advancing these suggestions, l am aware that we may face again some instances of the lack of understanding encountered in the past.

18.	Brazil, jointly with Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Mexico, will continue its efforts aimed at the conclusion of a unanimous agreement bringing into effect the "denuclearization" of Latin America, while we formulate the hope that similar agreements may be concluded elsewhere to cover as great an area of the world as possible. With regard to the "de-nuclearization" of Latin America, my delegation, which has submitted this question as a specific item on the agenda, would like to indicate that we are not proposing that Latin America be declared a de-nuclearized zone by the General Assembly. Brazil proposes that Latin American nations, as sovereign nations, should consider the possibility, by the most appropriate ways and means, of concluding a treaty under which they would commit themselves not to manufacture, store, receive or test nuclear weapons. This is the sense which we attach to the proposal of the five Latin American countries, recently reaffirmed by a joint declaration of 29 April 1963, signed by the Presidents of Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador and Mexico. In this matter, my delegation will maintain the closest contact with all Latin American delegations.

19.	In the same spirit, the Brazilian delegation to the Disarmament Committee recently aired in Geneva the idea of a multilateral non-aggression pact which would establish a reciprocal machinery linking the greatest possible number of States parties to that pact, under which they would pledge not to commit aggression against any other State, regardless of its geographical location. This idea seems to us much more reasonable and dynamic than the previous idea of a non-aggression pact between the members of NATO and the Warsaw Pact. The Charter is universal in spirit. Peace should prevail among all members of the international community and not only among those States that are committed to specific military alliances. The idea of a pact limited to a certain category of States is founded on the old East-West patterns, the predominance of which, as I have said, appears to be on the wane.

20.	Brazil continues to favour the idea that a technical committee be established within the framework of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament to study solutions for the problems of control, without which it will not be possible to advance decisively towards general and complete disarmament. We continue to believe that political discussions cannot permanently move within a technical void. We do not conceive of disarmament without control.

21.	The second series of considerations which the Brazilian delegation deems necessary to submit is related to economic and social development. The problem of economic development —in the present demographic and economic condition of .the world— tends to become, in our opinion, of an urgency equal to that of disarmament, with a fundamental difference: that while disarmament will become a process prolonged in time, its inherent dangers diminishing with the gradual conquest of each step towards peace, economic development will generate pressures more and more unbearable to the structure of human societies unless urgent measures are taken to intensify and to speed it up. Just as we are bound to link collective security to general and complete disarmament under international control, by the same token we are compelled to join together, as twin concepts, the ideas of collective political security and collective economic security.

22.	Under present conditions, two-thirds of mankind are living at a subsistence level and suffer all the social and economic hardships inherent in underdevelopment. Alongside those two-thirds of mankind, the minority of the world population, beneficiary of the increased productivity resulting from industrialization, has attained high levels of economic prosperity and social well-being.

23.	The key to the understanding of the problem that confronts us —the international community— is not, however, merely the existence of the income gap between developed and developing countries. The crucial factor is the widening of this gap, which will be increasingly more difficult to bridge if present trends are not reversed. It is within this context of gloomy facts and prospects that we must endeavour to understand the efforts of the developing countries to meet the requirements of social progress and economic justice. These requirements, that correspond to the most legitimate human aspirations, cannot be repressed indefinitely, and it is with a view to fulfilling them that the domestic efforts of each developing country must be supplemented by those of the international community.

24.	While the struggle for economic development has to be conducted on several fronts, the United Nations, by the universality of its scope and in conformity with the letter and spirit of its Charter, has a vital role to play in redeeming the great majority of the world population from the sub-human conditions in which they are submerged. In the view of my Government, the activities of the United Nations in the field of economic development must concentrate on three main priority areas: industrialization, mobilization of capital for development, and international trade.

25.	Without wishing to minimize the importance of integrated economic development, there is today a unanimous conviction that industry represents the most dynamic sector of the economy of the developing countries and that most capable of ensuring, in a brief historical period, both the diversification and economic emancipation of these countries. The classical doctrine of international specialization of labour, that condemned the countries in the periphery to the immutable position of suppliers of primary products, is already obsolete and has been replaced by a theory that is more compatible with the realities of the present-day world. Conceived, however, in an epoch in which tins doctrinal evolution was not yet fully crystallized, the United Nations family has for a long time occupied itself marginally with the problems of industrialization and given almost exclusive emphasis to other sectors such as agriculture and public health. It is true that resources devoted to industrialization have shown some increase in recent years. The rate of growth of these resources is nevertheless minimal when compared with the needs of developing countries and the financial capabilities of advanced nations, as was clearly indicated by the Advisory Committee of Experts that has recently examined the United Nations activities in the field of industrial development. According to the report of the experts, the current institutional framework is inadequate and must be urgently replaced by a new framework more in harmony with the general aspirations of developing countries for accelerated industrialization. The Brazilian Government considers that the establishment of a specialized agency for industrial development would contribute decisively to the fulfilment of that aspiration.

26.	The second priority area is the transfer of capital to the developing countries from the developed countries, where such capital is abundant. The mobilization of international financial resources is one of the essential prerequisites for the gradual attainment, by developing countries, of levels of welfare comparable to those of developed nations. Nevertheless, the flow of financial assistance should be genuinely geared to the needs of developing countries both from the quantitative point of view, in the sense that the total volume available be proportional to their capital requirements, and from the qualitative point of view, in that the condition of loans must take into consideration the structural difficulties in the balance of payments of these countries. The significance of soft loans has been convincingly emphasized by the former President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Mr. Eugene Black, who stated that unless the aid mixture had a larger component of funds on concessionary terms, "the machinery of economic development would be loaded with foreign debts until it sputtered to a halt amid half-built projects and mountains of discarded plans". The inadequacy of international finance in terms consistent with the economic peculiarities of developing countries may compel these countries to adopt emergency solutions of an unorthodox nature if economic stagnation or retrogression and wide-spread social unrest are to be avoided.

27.	It is now universally acknowledged that economic assistance should not involve any non-economic element. Assistance granted in this manner has the advantage of clearing the political atmosphere, both nationally and internationally, of a needless ingredient of controversy. Furthermore, it is entirely in harmony with the long-term interests of all sovereign countries, both capital-exporting and capital-importing, and should be encouraged in every possible way by the increasing utilization of multilateral channels. In this connexion, regional programmes of assistance play a prominent role, and all efforts should be made to intensify and enlarge the scope of these programmes. As a decisive step in this trend towards multilateralization, and while giving due importance to all existing sources of assistance, it is essential that the United Nations be endowed with its own financing body, thus enabling the Organization to enter the field of capital assistance to developing countries.

28.	It has been with this in mind that the Brazilian delegation has advocated in the past and continues to advocate the establishment of a United Nations capital development fund, open to all Members of the United Nations and the specialized agencies. The new organ, already established in principle, would be capable of extending loans and grants and would be administered in such a way as to give each Member country equal voting power irrespective of the size of its contribution. A substantial portion of the resources released by general and complete disarmament could be diverted to the capital development fund. So long as comprehensive disarmament, so anxiously desired by mankind, is not forthcoming, a small percentage of current military outlays should be placed at the disposal of the fund. The diversion of only 1 per cent of the resources at present devoured by the armaments race would represent not less than $1,200 million annually, a sum that would enable the fund to start operations on a scale surpassing current expectations. We fervently hope that the $120,000 million spent on armaments every year will never be actually utilized in war. We fervently hope that future generations may be in a position to say that those were wasteful expenditures for senseless purposes. Why, then, would it be too bold to request the sacrifice, or the saving, of 1 per cent of human folly for the social redemption and development of all mankind?

29.	Furthermore, in order to mark the presence of the United Nations in the field of capital development and in order to permit the Governments of Member States to keep under continuous and systematic review the total flow of capital to developing countries, the General Assembly might envisage the establishment of a standing committee of the Economic and Social Council similar to the Committee for Industrial Development and other subsidiary bodies.

30.	The third priority area —which, at the present stage, is also the most important one— must receive special attention in the context of the economic and social activities of the United Nations. It is an unfortunate fact of life that international trade has contributed so far only marginally to the economic development of low-income countries, especially in recent years. In some cases, it has actually worsened the relative position of developing countries and, through the mechanism of the deterioration of the terms of trade, widened the gap of income levels between developed and developing countries. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development has been called precisely because the present structure of international trade is adverse to developing countries and is based on a set of principles and operational rules that in most cases are geared principally to the interests and peculiarities of industrialized countries. This Conference means the living presence of the United Nations, with the universality of its outlook and its concern with the problems of development in the field of international trade that so far have been outside the scope of the world Organization. It means the political will to revise what must be revised, to reformulate obsolete principles, to set up new rules of international behaviour , to create conditions for a new international division of labour based on the correlation of trade and development, and finally to bring into existence the institutional framework required to implement the decisions of the Conference. The disappointment of those expectations would represent one of the most painful failures in the history of the United Nations. The Conference must justify the legitimate hopes of all under-developed countries which are counting on the understanding of the advanced countries that have by far the heaviest responsibilities for bringing order and purpose into the inchoate universe of international economic life.

31.	At the close of the Conference, and as a crystallization of a long process of political decision and extensive interaction of ideas, the Brazilian Government believes that a declaration on the achievement and preservation of collective economic security should be proclaimed. The declaration, which has already been foreshadowed by the joint statement of developing countries in Geneva, would be a political act of great significance, perhaps one of the most important events ever to take place under the aegis of the United Nations. The declaration would no doubt find its place beside the two other documents of which we are so justifiably proud: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Declaration on the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples. This declaration would not propose ideal solutions for establishing collective economic security. On the contrary, it would involve proposing, on the basis of clear-cut and objective premises, a set of principles which would serve as long-range goals to be reached by the United Nations in this sphere. Consequently, it would involve defining a common ground for certain economic notions about international economic life, from which easier chances of agreement maybe derived when discussing practical problems or objectives related to the economic organization of the international community. The analogy which lends itself best to the definition of these objectives is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In a synthetic body of basic precepts related to the most complex theme of all —the human being— we find a concentration of a whole programme for the future aimed at shaping the human being of tomorrow out of the human being of today. Would it, then, not be possible to add to this Declaration yet another one which would deal with the second most controversial topic in the social world of our day: economic relations among nations?

32.	In proposing this declaration, the Brazilian delegation does not overlook the difficulties to be overcome. Our task is all the more difficult as we do not have in mind a mere rhetorical document. General agreement around vague propositions is no substitute for a sincere willingness to co-operate in the promotion of the social and economic advancement of developing countries. A grandiloquent text unrelated to the practice of international economic relations would serve no useful purpose and indeed might have detrimental effects. For the preparation of this document the Conference should draw upon the valuable legacy of ideas that the United Nations family has been building up over the years, including the draft declaration on international economic co-operation, now under study by an ad hoc Working Group of the Economic and Social Council. The very concept of collective economic security was born out of this network of studies, explorations and cogitations. This complex system must now be codified in a declaration that would represent a collective expression of faith in a comprehensive ordination of the international economic process which would provide guide-lines for international action against under-development. The Brazilian delegation wishes to express Its sincerest hope that we may, when we celebrate the jubilee year of the United Nations in 1965, have already proclaimed the declaration on the establishment and preservation of collective economic security.

33.	After this survey of the tasks facing the United Nations in the promotion of economic development, one point should be stressed. This high degree of development achieved by a small number of countries does not necessarily imply the perpetuation of under-development elsewhere. It is obvious, on the contrary, that the economic and social security achieved by some is in danger if all do not attain this economic and social security. We are on the verge of the reconstruction of a new international community, where the continued existence of economic and social under-development will be a risk for all. We live within a system made up of reciprocal causes and effects. Just as peace is indivisible —because peace involves an element of interdependence and its consolidation requires the cooperation of sovereign unities— so the economic and •social development of mankind, which is the condition and expression of peace, should be indivisible. We are not dealing with abstractions. We are confronted with hard realities that require prompt and decisive action.

34.	It may be stated without exaggeration that mankind has reached the final stage of the colonial process with the same features which have characterized it during the last five centuries. And, consequently, it may be acknowledged that the colonial process is a historical and sociological archaism the remnants of which are sources of tensions and political friction in the contemporary world, which can and must be finally eradicated and liquidated.

35.	What is most striking, however, in this comprehensive process is the fact that, until completely liquidated, the remnants of colonialism constitute the main obstacle of the economic development of the former colonies which have now become sovereign States. With very few exceptions these sovereign States have been encountering enormous obstacles in their development as a result of a trade pattern which has vitiated the economic means available to the former colonies; their semi-colonial economic status has perpetuated itself.

36.	The liquidation and eradication of the historical and sociological anachronism of colonialism is, accordingly, a process of the highest interest for the defence of the economies of all former colonies, irrespective of the various phases of their political emancipation and of the continents where they may be located.

37.	It is generally accepted today that total decolonization is the essential objective pursued throughout the world, wherever territories or peoples are involved which are dependent to any degree. This objective, within the context of the United Nations, does not stem only from a quantitative element, namely, the voting predominance of the new Member States, but also from a qualitative factor: the fact that the anti-colonial thesis has in its favour all the ethical, economic, demographic, social and political motivations. Only reasons of power and state relations can explain postponements, since the so-called technical motivations, such as cultural development, capacity for self-government, national viability, lack of preparation of leaders and other related arguments, militate in fact against the colonial thesis, because whatever was left undone during the past decades can hardly be expected to be accomplished in the few remaining years. And if nothing was done, this was due to the willingness to do nothing intrinsically related to the colonial problem.

38.	As early as the eighth and until the fifteenth session of the General Assembly in 1960 —the African Year of the United Nations— decolonization was making enormous strides ahead, year after year, in a growing and cumulative movement, the theoretical preparation of which was due, to a large extent, to the action of Latin-American delegations. This movement received an extraordinary impetus as a consequence of the Second World War, when the peoples of the dependent territories in Africa and in Asia played a very important role, not sufficiently emphasized to this day. The Second World War generated conditions for national independence which, if impeded, would have jeopardized the precarious peace of the world. Within the Organization of the United Nations, after resolution 1514 (XV) containing the Declaration for the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples had been approved in 1960, the Organization began to fail in its determination to implement the principles embodied in the Declaration for the liquidation of colonialism, which, though verbally required as immediate, met with difficulties previously foreseen by some observers, if not yet officially mentioned in the debates.

39.	Brazil recognizes that the residual elements of colonialism are still offering resistance and still require, for a certain time, concentrated efforts and great wisdom. Nevertheless, the decolonizing movement can be peacefully completed within the framework of the United Nations Charter and General Assembly resolutions. The Special Committee of Twenty-Four on the implementation of the Declaration deserves the support of all the Members of the United Nations. The Powers which in the past had possessed a colonial empire have all heeded, almost without any exception, the voice of the new times. The remaining points of resistance to this process require increased efforts on the part of the United Nations in order to achieve its rational and harmonious solution. This is, therefore, an appropriate moment for the Special Committee, at the resumption of its work, to pass in systematic review each one of the continents, without omitting the American continent and its territories dependent on extra-continental powers. As long as there remains a dependent territory, there will be a source of international misunderstanding inherent in this type of international relations which is both obsolete and anachronistic. Such is the lesson of our times.

40.	Brazil views the struggle for decolonization as comprehending all the aspects of the secular fight for freedom and human rights, Brazil stands against every form of colonialism, be it political or economic. For the same reason, Brazil regards with extreme caution the emergence of alternative forms of political colonialism already defined as neo-colonialism. It would thus be desirable that the organs that are now entrusted with the problems of decolonization within the framework of the United Nations turn their attention to this new phenomenon of the modern world, the dangerous implications of which I have no need to emphasize.

41.	The United Nations would be one more failure and the most bitter one in the long history of the hopes of the human race, and would betray its purpose and destiny if it does not face, with all the urgency and determination required by our times, these three sources of vital international problems: disarmament, development and decolonization.

42.	However, as we are advancing towards the attainment of those objectives, we recognize the inescapable need of strengthening this Organization so as to allow it to adapt itself to the tasks resulting from its own duties and commitments. This task of regeneration has been dynamically stimulated by the insight and wisdom of our Secretary-General, U Thant, whose qualities of thought and action are complemented by an exact comprehension of what the United Nations ought to be in this world of nuclear dangers and underdevelopment, of great challenges and yet of great prospects.

43.	The positive achievements of the Organization cannot be challenged, no matter how sceptical its critics. However, the mere acknowledgement of these achievements does not suffice in itself, because the process and the pace of history are being accelerated and along with that the urgency of the collective needs. The Organization reflecting the pressures of these collective needs, and as a tool devised to deal with them, cannot allow them to reach the critical explosive point. It is therefore necessary continuously to infuse vitality into the Organization, first by considering what should have been done, and then considering what should be done.

44.	Here it is appropriate to formulate certain questions in the light of the text of the Charter itself. Why were so many Articles of the Charter never applied? Why, for example, was Article 26 not applied? Why was Article 43 never institutionalized in connexion with Articles 45, 46 and 47? Why was no action taken as outlined in Articles 57 and 63 and why was it not recognized that, despite the expenses involved, it would have had considerable advantages in respect of the organic structure of the existing specialized agencies as well as of those which it would be appropriate to set up by reason of superior collective interests? Why, on the other hand, are we not endeavouring to supersede completely Chapters XI, XII and XIII of the Charter by the fulfilment in toto of its explicit objectives?

45.	There is no reason to keep silent on the causes which produced these impediments. The Charter —apart from the enormous merits which accord to it the character of the most lofty diplomatic instrument so far devised by mankind— carries the marks of the historical conditions which gave it life, namely the heritage of the Second World War. It reflects those conditions as an instrument of big-Power policy, a residue of the struggles terminated in 1945, so that its true objective, the establishment in a disarmed world of peace based on universal justice, was jeopardized by certain inherent imperfections in its origin, inevitable at the time but which today should be corrected and overcome. What can be said, for example, about Article 107 of the Charter today?

46.	The effective application of the Charter is obstructed by the effective directorate exercised by the great Powers. Their action nonetheless could be deemed positive if it were kept within the real and literal limits of the Charter itself. Today, we all feel the urgency of a modernization and an adjustment of the Charter to the conditions of the present-day world, in the very form outlined in Articles 108 and 109. Nonetheless, certain perfectly justified claims, such as the immediate increase in the membership of the Security Council and of the Economic and Social Council, the possible creation of new councils, the setting up of an effective machinery for the maintenance of peace —objectives supported by an overwhelming majority of the Member States— suffer defeat at the hands of the directorate of the great Powers, which insists upon conditioning the action of the United Nations to the unyielding play of power politics or of specific political solutions to a given question.

47.	It was in this manner that the vicious circle was created in which the revision of the Charter was frustrated, as was the possibility for asserting the presence of the United Nations in the most significant acts of contemporary diplomacy. Indeed, is it not true that the nuclear test ban agreement was recently concluded in Moscow outside the framework of the United Nations?

48.	There is no doubt that if this vicious circle is not broken and the invisible veto is not overcome with the co-operation and goodwill of all nations, including the great Powers of necessity, the Charter, though dynamic in character, will tend to come to a standstill. It is necessary that all Powers, all Member States, all States not yet Members but aspiring to membership in the United Nations, that all, in short, be imbued with what they claim to possess: the desire for peace. It is necessary for us to be able to overcome all the obstacles opposing human progress and freedom. For on our march towards progress, we are not prepared to forsake freedom.

49.	The fundamental co-ordinates of the important task of revitalizing the Charter can, in our opinion, be outlined as follows: first, today the concept of security is inseparably linked to the concept of peace: without peace there will be no security for any nation, no matter how great the number of nuclear weapons it has in stock and the number of tests it has conducted. Therefore, the concept of security is truly collective and conditioned by collectively disarmed peace. The Charter, which was based on the concept of an absolute and individual security for each country, must reflect the new thermo-nuclear reality. Secondly, the economic concepts —which were practically absent from the Covenant of the League of Nations, where there was but one single paragraph Article 23, paragraph e which referred to the "freedom of communications and of transit and equitable treatment for the commerce of all Members of the League"— appear in the Charter also at a level of extreme generalization, even though this represents a stride forward in the recognition of an international responsibility for the promotion of economic development. Today's world with its urgent needs certainly requires much more than these very broad generalizations. The efforts made in recent years to establish such international responsibility must be materialized within this Organization, which demands a Charter forcefully expressing the requirements of a world which must become dynamic in order to survive. Thirdly, the concept of colonial emancipation and the self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter is today a reality so firmly imbedded that it is necessary to speed up its ultimate practical effectiveness. The process of its application had indeed created the Organization we behold today, and its Charter, approved by fifty-one original signatory Member States, imposes itself upon the sixty new Members, who never had the opportunity to state their views on the new features required by the realities of the present-day world. It is not possible to delay any longer the right of sixty States admitted since 1945 to express themselves on the nature and the objectives of an Organization of which they are a part and to which they bring a great creative force. This consideration makes it imperative to revise the Charter, in order to adjust it to the reality of the nuclear era.

50.	At the San Francisco Conference, where the structure of the Organization was first built, Brazil was one of the first and most persistent defenders of the principle of the flexibility of the Charter, maintaining the thesis that its provisions had to be continuously subject to an organic process of revision. In that sense, the Brazilian delegation submitted an amendment under which the General Assembly was to proceed to a mandatory examination of the basic statute of the Organization every five years, in order to embody all the modifications suggested by experience. After citing an opinion according to which the revision of constitutional provisions is a question of experience rather than of logic, my delegation proceeded to say:
"Once a legal institution is created, it acquires a life of its own. Given sufficient time, the Organization will reveal the virtues and the defects of its structure, and indicate what adjustments are necessary to make survival possible and to bring about peace and justice."
As may be seen there is nothing new or revolutionary in the idea of revising the United Nations Charter. The concept of the need of revision as well as of its process are provided for in the Charter itself.

51.	My delegation, in conformity with the ideas just expressed in respect of the various questions pertaining to our organizational collective life, shall maintain, in the course of the period of work we are about to initiate, the closest liaison with all the other delegations, On the basis of such consultations and conversations, the Brazilian delegation reserves its right to submit, either individually or in association with other Member States, certain draft resolutions incorporating these ideas and geared to a new concept of the United Nations —the United Nations of today. I repeat, it is not in vain that eighteen years of history have been lived through a nuclear era. Disarmament, development, decolonization, these are the only alternatives to death, starvation and slavery. Because, in everything and above everything, the essential goal is to secure human freedom. In the final analysis man will have gained nothing if he loses his freedom— freedom to live, to think and to act. For progress and economic development my country will make every sacrifice, yet it will not sacrifice freedom. No idea will be acceptable to us if it brings with it the suppression of human freedom. But as security is today linked to peace, so is the concept of freedom linked to those of social progress and economic development. And we must advance rapidly for time is running short, both for the United Nations and for mankind.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
1. Mr. President, allow me to offer you the warm congratulations of Brazil on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. The unanimity of the choice made by the membership of the Organization in selecting you for this high office has particular significance. It testifies to the wide renown in which your name is held in the United Nations. and the certainty that your statesmanlike qualities will enable you to guide the Assembly to the best advantage in this hour.
2. It is no coincidence that a distinguished representative from Africa presides over this session. In your person, the General Assembly looks with hope and confidence to the contribution that the young States of Africa bring to the grave issues that trouble the world.
3. I heard with great appreciation the inspiring words of your acceptance speech, reflecting how very well you grasp your duties and the duties before us. You mentioned the voices of Africa. In my country, this has a very familiar sound indeed. One of the classics of Brazilian literature is a poem entitled "Voices of Africa", composed by Antonio de Castro Alves, a champion of the cause of African freedom. It bears witness to the imprint left by your people in the blood and in the soul of our people.
4. Now, as in every previous year, we are meeting to examine the vast field of activities of the United Nations and to attempt to arrive at favourable solutions for the great problems for which answers can be found through international co-operation. The honour I have in opening this debate is even greater as I can recall those days in a distant past when I took part in the work of the Preparatory Committee and at the first session of the General Assembly, in London in 1945-1946. It is thus very clear in my mind how much the international scene has changed during those nineteen years and how much has been accomplished by the United Nations in that span of time.
One thing has not changed, however, the main principles which guide us and which are embodied in our Charter. The loyalty of Brazil to these principles has not been altered either, for they are part of the political philosophy of our nation. The unswerving loyally of my country to the aims and principles of the United Nations I reiterate here today with firmness and renewed confidence.
5. Brazil has now resumed the broad path of its genuine traditions, after a brief attempt had been made to divert it from them. In a great surge of national renewal, my country has regained all its possibilities for progress and order, allowing us once more, without denying the past, to face the future with confidence.
6. The corner-stone of both our international and national policies is the fullest possible exercise of our right to self-determination, by means of which the Brazilian people made a basic choice, which they uphold—that of spiritual and political loyalty to the system of representative democracy.
7. The President of the United States of Brazil, Mr. Castello Branco, in a recent speech defined the governing lines of our foreign policy as follows:
"We should not shape our attitudes on the basis of a homespun Machiavellism or on a policy of extortion. On the other hand, we should not give a priori support to the attitudes assumed by any of the great Powers—not even by those Powers which form the bulwark of the Western world—for, in the foreign policy of the latter, a distinction must be drawn between the fundamental interests of the preservation of the Western system and the specific interests of a great Power. In short, a foreign policy is independent in the sense that the policy of a sovereign State must perforce be so. An independent foreign policy in a world increasingly characterized by the interdependence of problems and interests means that Brazil must have its own way of thinking and its own course of action, without subordination to any interest external to Brazil. The interests of Brazil coincide, in many cases and in widening circles, with those of Latin America, of the American continent and of the Western community. Acting independently, we shall not fear to lend our solidarity to other nations. Within the context of this independence and this solidarity, our foreign policy will be active, timely, and adjusted to the conditions of our times and the problems of our day.
"Regarding Africa and Asia, our purpose is not trade alone. Every element is present for brotherly co-operation and a broad understanding between Brazil and the peoples who have just recently attained their freedom and are prepared to maintain it. Co-operation, understanding, and harmony of interests, this is what we seek, with all countries and all peoples, with all due respect for the hierarchies compatible with national interests. These are basic principles of the Organization of the United Nations in which we participate so actively. Despite its shortcomings, the United Nations is, in today’s world, the essential tool for the maintenance of peace. Without if nothing is possible."
9. Our position is clearly defined: the ties that bind us to the brotherhood of the Latin American republics form our first line of international solidarity. We are united with those nations by enduring links of geography and history, by common traditions and aspirations, and we shall do everything in our power to bring our continent ever closer together. Secondly, we can never act counter to the Western roots of our culture and of our institutions. This leads us to affirm our state in the preservation of the democratic way of life which the West seeks to uphold. Nor can we neglect our ties with so many other nations in Africa—which has contributed so much to the formation of the Brazilian people—as well as in Asia, whose needs for development are similar to our own, and with which we share ideals of liberty, progress and justice. All the new nations—and I consider as new nations all the developing countries—need to avoid being held back by ideas and systems of sheer conservatism; they have an overwhelming urge to achieve social and political evolution. Aa we on the American continent are doing, they are setting up regional communities which can contribute a great deal towards harmonizing and strengthening the efforts of individual nations, being at the same time a factor for world peace.
10.	Inspired by its inter-American, Western and universalist calling, Brazil wants peace, along with security and freedom. In order to free our generation, and those generations to come, from the threat of the scourge of war that atomic terror renders even more awesome, Brazil lends its full support to the concept of a rational and controlled disarmament, which may give us the security that weapons cannot provide.
11.	Brazil wants human dignity to be respected and guaranteed in all spheres. We should like the United Nations to contribute to the establishment of universal respect for the fundamental rights of man, eradicating once and for all every manifestation of racial discrimination which still afflicts some areas of the world.
12.	Precisely because of this respect for human dignity, we desire for the whole of mankind minimum standards of material comfort and social well-being. To this end we regard it as indispensable that the more developed nations, in their own interests as well as in the interest of all humanity, participate in those measures intended to establish a higher degree of justice on the international economic level.
13. In our time, there is a well-defined awareness of the urgency of promoting a more equitable pattern of international trade to meet the needs of the developing countries. Brazil has co-operated actively with the countries of Latin America and with the other countries whose shared aspirations united them in the "Group of 75", and will do everything it can to ensure the continuity of the programme of action outlined in the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. The present session of the General Assembly, in our view, has sufficient perspective to take up the revision of the Final Act of Geneva. Brazil believes, however, that the best Way to perfect the decisions contained in that Final Act is to begin to carry them out. With regard to the Conference on Trade and Development, it is imperative not to allow a repetition of the historic failure of the 1948 Conference on Trade and Development. We must at all costs prevent the Final Act of Geneva from becoming a mere declaration of good intentions, as has been the case with the Havana Charter.
14.	The Assembly will devote its attention to other equally important economic issues. Among those considered paramount by my delegation, on which we will be prepared to put forth suggestions in the Second Committee, I should like to mention the establishment of a United Nations capital development fund and an agency of industrial development. Both these organs will address themselves to the vital needs of developing countries.
15.	I venture, however, to say that the solution of the question of unfavourable terms of trade affecting those countries is quite as important as the maintenance of world peace. The former concerns the development of at least two thirds of humanity; it is a matter of justice in international relations, which is one of the aims of the Charter of the United Nations. We would not be in step with the great world expectations of our time if, in this forum, we failed to deal forcefully with the serious question of the struggle for better and more equitable terms in international commercial relations.
16.	We should like to see the exercise of the right of self-determination assured to all peoples by the elimination of the vestiges of colonialism, which is in its death throes.
17.	The San Francisco Charter has already been called "The Charter of Decolonization". The epithet is an exact one, but it would be even more exact and richer in meaning if qualified by the adjective "Peaceful". Posterity will most certainly refer to Chapter XI of the Charter as the political instrument of liberation of colonial peoples through peaceful means, and will pay tribute to the wisdom, prudence and foresight shown by the statesmen who drafted that document. Through the gradual, orderly and peaceful implementation of the Charter and of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, more than half of mankind has attained independence, thanks to the application of the principles of self-determination, In its wisdom, the Organization not only has become the propulsive force of the march of the colonial peoples towards independence, but also has provided a legal and political framework for the negotiations and agreements required for its peaceful evolution. Exceptions to this rule serve only to enhance the foresight and wisdom of the Charter. It is our duty to preserve and improve upon the experience acquired by the United Nations in the realm of decolonization. This experience enabled the United Nations and its Member States to carry out their obligations without increasing international tension. On the contrary, the pacific method of decolonization has generally served as an instrument for the maintenance of peace.
18.	For these reasons, my delegation views with apprehension and strong misgivings the initiatives which would bring an element of violence to the application of the decolonization procedures provided in the Charter.
19. 1.	The exercise of the right of self-determination is, in our view, a broad concept which transcends the issues of colonialism. It is a right that all peoples should be able to exercise—and I am thinking particularly of the German nation, cut asunder by a demarcation line which has no justification, and subjected to restrictions inconsistent with the spirit of the Charter.
20. All these are matters of substance, incorporated into so many of the items of the agenda of the nineteenth General Assembly, and yet I have the impression that, at this moment, we all share a fundamental feeling of concern—a concern of an instrumental nature. It regards the very future’ of our Organization, of its existence and the means which it must employ to attain its objectives. I refer to the veritable institutional crisis which faces us, owing to the opposition of some Member States to acknowledging the validity of their financial obligations in the question of peace-keeping operations.
21. The delegation of Brazil is fully aware of the implications of the problem. We know that it can threaten the very future of the United Nations as a universal institution and we are entirely prepared to lend our support to conciliatory arrangements. conducive to settling the crisis, which might prove fatal.
22. My delegation, however, is not in a position to accept solutions which would entail forsaking those principles which, are basic to the Organization since- this would mean, in a different manner but with the same certainty, the end of the United Nations as we know it; that is, as a democratic institution, where rights and obligations are the same for all. The difficulties with which we are faced encompass more than a mere financial problem, more than a question of contributions which should be paid.
23. The peace-keeping operations which are at the root of this crisis constitute one of the most effective forms of United Nations action. Not foreseen by the Charter, their need was demonstrated by the realities of international life and they have become, little by little, a powerful tool in the achievement of the aims of our Organization.
24. It was in 1956, when an international force was set up in the Gaza Strip, that this type of operation was undertaken for the first time, subsequently to be developed with the United Nations action in the Congo and in Cyprus. In all these instances, the purpose of the troops, acting under the aegis of the United Nations, was not to punish or to repel aggressors, but, by their presence, to prevent the outbreak of armed warfare and to ensure respect for the cessation of hostilities. Much more than a simple unit of observers, much less than an international army drawn up for battle, the Force never had the mission of making offensive use of its weapons, nor of assuming control of the region in which it operated. That control remained in the hands of the sovereign local authority whose consent was sought and obtained for the stationing of the troops. The objectives of the Force were not ordinary military objectives, but only those of assuring the maintenance of conditions of peace, which would pave the way for the necessary peaceful solutions by means of the implementation of the recommendations of the competent organs of the United Nations.
25. It is possible to acknowledge that the peacekeeping operations have emerged as a new and vigorous concept, altogether different from the enforcement measures contemplated to. Chapter VII of the Charter. As a living instrument the Charter was not incompatible with this development, but the difficulties which have so far arisen, and of which the question of financing is merely one aspect, seem to indicate that this new concept should be incorporated into the Charter as soon as possible.
26. This could be done by means of the inclusion of a new chapter entitled "Peace-keepingoperations'1, which could be placed between the present Chapter VI and VII. We would thus have a graduated crescendo: "Pacific settlement of disputes", "Peace-keeping operations" and "Action with respect to threats to the peace, breaches of the peace, and acts of aggression".
27. Peace-keeping operations would thus be conducted on the territory of one or more States, members of the United Nations or not, at their request or with their consent. They would be undertaken by military contingents, preferably designated in advance and supplied chiefly by medium and small Powers; their only objective would be to preserve peaceful conditions, in contrast to operations- falling under Chapter VII to be undertaken against the will of one or more States, transgressors of international order, to impose the will of the international community represented by the United Nations. This certainly does not exclude, during peace-keeping operations, recourse to coercive action in given circumstances and for a limited period of time. Such an amendment of the Charter could provide, in more precise terms, for a method of financing for both coercive and peacekeeping operations.
28. I am well aware that the ideas which I have just put forth are not easy to implement. We well know the difficulties encountered so far in attempts to adapt the Charter to the new requirements of the world. But the grave nature of these problems points to the absolute need for global political and constitutional solutions to be pondered. In this way it would perhaps be even easier to solve the immediate problems which face us and which, as I said, seem to threaten the very life of our Organization.
29. In that respect, the position of my country could not be more clear or more categorical; the people and the Government of Brazil see in the United Nations a form of international relations essential to the contemporary world. We do not even dare to think of the alternatives to the system of coexistence and negotiations which the United Nations represents. What we wish to see is the consolidation and strengthening of its structure and machinery, since it is only through the United Nations that we can activate our ideals of peace, progress and development.
30. This is what Brazil thinks, and I cannot convince myself that other Powers—particularly those which hold a privileged position among us because of their economic and political importance-can or could insist upon courses of action which may lead to disaster.
31.	May coming generations never be in a position to say that our actions were dictated by immediacy when it was our duly to be men of vision; may they never say at the crucial moment we lacked the courage and the wisdom to build the happier world which was almost in our grasp.




===== Session 20 - 1965 =====
2. On behalf of my delegation and the people of my country, may I extend to you, Mr. President, my congratulations upon the distinction bestowed upon you. In our world, to earn the honour of being chosen President of the General Assembly of the United Nations is perhaps the highest recognition that can be conferred upon a statesman in acknowledgement of his endeavours on behalf of international peace and security. You more than merit this' distinction, Mr. President. As a parliamentarian, as a Cabinet Minister and as Prime Minister, you have fought for peace untiringly, with tenacity and talent. In your person there is represented the great nation of Italy, cradle of Latin culture, heir and herald of the Mediterranean civilization. We, the people of Brazil, treasure the memory of your recent visit with President Saragat to our land, on which occasion you were able to observe the interweaving of our two nations, as several million Iralians form part of the Brazilian people.
3. May I also pay tribute from this rostrum to our three new Members — Gambia, the Maldives Islands and Singapore — as they join the family of the United Nations. I should like to express my warmest wishes for their prosperity and complete success in their life as independent States.
4. Once again the delegation of Brazil opens the general debate. This practice represents a tradition of interest in the great debate engaged in each year by the nations of the entire world — a debate in which they seek, in the divergency of their points of view, some common ground and some fruitful understanding as a basis for the hope of harmony and accord which inspired the United Nations Charter but which, unfortunately, has so frequently been frustrated by international events. It is with the same faith we have always held in the future of the United Nations that Brazil appears today before this universal forum. We are aware of the special significance of the work we now embark upon as our Organization completes its twentieth year and is seeking to overcome perhaps the gravest crisis in its history.
5. After twenty years of activity, the United Nations finds itself confronted by a world which is perhaps as disturbed and uncertain as it was during the days of San Francisco, when the Charter was drawn up. Throughout the world, thinkers, philosophers, statesmen and scientists proclaim that civilization is in danger, that moral, spiritual and material values fashioned throughout history are menaced, and that the very survival of mankind is in jeopardy. Perhaps for the first time in history mankind really feels mortally wounded. There are those who, even more pessimistic, believe we are currently witnessing the twilight of our civilization, not by virtue of some historical process or some natural catastrophe, but by the political frustration of man, overwhelmed by the technology he himself has created. In a world in a state of trauma as the result of an ideological conflict without equal, in a world dubfounded by unprecedented economic and social problems, could it be possible that the scientific revolution, applied to the art of war, may have endowed human beings with a power greater than man's ethical structure can bear? Could it be possible that the alleged imbalance between technological and moral progress has divested man of his spiritual substance and transformed him into the fragile instrument of his own destruction?
6. Technological progress, which created thermonuclear weapons and which is pulling outer space into our world, has increased the feeling of insecurity among people and yet has not improved the living conditions of the large majority of mankind. The scientific revolution is contributing dramatically to multiplying the threats to peace and the threats to the very survival of our species. What is it that prevents nations from making the proper use of science? In my country, where the ethical and spiritual values are deeply rooted in our culture and in our history, we reject as an explanation that it is a feeling of disenchantment with, or lack of faith in, the ethical principles of life and of man, as created and consecrated by Christian and Western traditions we received through our Portuguese heritage. In our view, a political crisis is involved, a constitutional crisis of mammoth proportions: man would seem to be incapable of meeting the problems of international organization at a crucial moment in history. This seems the fundamental problem of our times, the great challenge to the statesmen of the era.
7. Unless we create a community of nations working effectively for the political and economic equality of States, for their freedom, and for the supremacy of law in their mutual relations; unless there is an international community able to assure at one and the same time fundamental liberties to the citizens of each State and equal opportunity for economic and social development to each nation; unless we proceed with the task of decolonization begun in San Francisco by democratic, and hence by exclusively peaceful means; unless we forge instruments for the prevention and punishment of international aggressions; unless we place armaments under effective international control; in a word, unless we solve the basic problem of international organization — we shall have built this House on sand. And we, this House, our people and even our future as a civilization will be inviting total destruction.
8. We should constantly bear in mind the fact that the United Nations Charter, however flexible, represents a style of political architecture that, as in the case of certain modern weapons, has been superseded by reality just when the blueprint is completed. The Charter in fact preceded the cold war and even preceded the eruption onto the political scene of a recent scientific revolution, with its important repercussions on world politics and from which fundamental phenomena of our times derive: the thermonuclear era, the space age and the full development of the Industrialized nations. The picture of the crisis is further complicated by two additional elements: first, the implementation of the Charter which accelerated the peaceful process of decolonization to a surprising tempo; secondly, the scientific revolution which multiplies wealth, and the population explosion which in a large number of non-industrialized countries multiplies poverty. On the one hand, man transforms outer space into humanity’s youngest province, while on the other, he becomes aware of his earthly poverty and realizes with anguish the uncertainties of a better future for his offspring.
9. In the context of these already grave problems, still other serious attritions and conflicts are emerging, luckily not yet so widespread as to render the threats to world peace even more ominous. Two great nations, outstanding Members of this Organization, are today still plunged in a struggle of unforeseeable consequences. On the same long-suffering and troubled continent, the Viet-Namese situation continues to represent one of the greatest dangers to the preservation of world peace. Brazil trusts that India and Pakistan will be able to find a peaceful formula for the final settlement of their controversies. And may I say that we congratulate both countries and the United Nations for the cease-fire which has already been obtained. In like manner, we dare hope that the Government of Hanoi will accept the constructive proposals made by the United States of America, as well as by the United Kingdom, the non-aligned countries and the Secretary-General, U Thant, to discuss the problems of Viet-Nam at the negotiating table, in search of a solution which would make it possible to free South-East Asia of the war which has for so many years been inflicting bitter suffering on the people of that region.
10. It is not the intention of the Brazilian delegation to sketch here the outlines for a revision of the Charter which would endow the United Nations with the instruments it needs to create the international community to which we have alluded. The task is not for one country alone, but for all of us. However, we could try to analyse, in the light of the foregoing ideas, the more important problems which face us and point out approaches that might perhaps contribute to the reformulation of our political structure.
11. One of the most serious signs of the need for a revision of the Charter is to be found in the crisis that virtually prevented the nineteenth session of the General Assembly from being held. In my view, the crisis has yet to be conclusively settled. The United Nations did not touch upon the core of the problem. The strained consensus which was arrived at constituted merely an interim plan of action; you might call it a truce. The problem is a constitutional one. The problem of the payment of the assessments for peace-keeping operations arises out of diametrically opposed interpretations of the Charter, and in matters of principle any compromise is precarious for it does not alter the substance of the divergent positions. At the last session of the General Assembly the Brazilian delegation suggested [1289th meeting], as an adequate solution for the crisis, a revision of the Charter which would take the form of a new chapter on peacekeeping operations. The efforts and discussions of the Committee on Thirty-three, as well as the provisional solution agreed upon, served but to strengthen our conviction of the urgent need for such a revision.
12. Brazil considers it essential to maintain the United Nations peace-keeping operations as one of the most useful and effective remedies for the settlement of conflicts which threaten world tranquillity. My country gave its enthusiastic support to the Suez Force, in which we have participated from the very outset with a battalion of soldiers and which is currently under the command of a Brazilian soldier. It has likewise contributed to the operations of the United Nations in she Congo and bent every effort to gain approval for the Security Council resolution [186 (1964)] which gave origin to the Cyprus operation. It never hesitated to meet the ensuing financial obligations.
13. In the regional sphere, my country made an effective contribution to the establishment of another peace-keeping operation through the Inter-American Armed Force in Santo Domingo — a subject of much controversy. The facts have proven, however, that it was a sound measure which helped to enable the Dominican people, safeguarded from civil strife, to set up a provisional Government and guide the country toward democratic normalcy and social progress. I would like to point out, apropos, that the regional systems, within the structure of the United Nations, should be understood as a deliberate effort of their members to show their firm belief in the solidarity of their common interests and in the benefits of recourse to consultation whenever controversy threatens. By their access to collaboration and consultation during international emergencies, the regional organizations represent, within the framework of the United Nations, an imperative of our era.
14. Returning to peace-keeping operations, we are rather at a loss to understand why the United Nations should neglect to write into its Charter one of its most efficient political tools. What indeed could be more apt to stabilize situations that could degenerate into conflicts and to establish conditions leading to the halting of already declared conflicts? The delay in the spelling out of the constitutional pattern to be given peace-keeping operations causes us serious apprehensions.
15. We see another motive for concern in the stalemate in the negotiations conducted by the Eighteen- Nation Committee on Disarmament in Geneva. The constant harping on problems completely unrelated to the recommendations addressed to the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament by the Disarmament Commission — actually a sad survival of cold-war issues — precluded in the course of the recent Geneva talks any further agreement leading to the reduction of international tensions. No headway was made toward extending the Moscow Treaty to underground nuclear weapon experiments, as the mediating countries — of which Brazil is one — proposed time and again in Geneva and in the Disarmament Commission. Nor has anything yet been done to solve the problem of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The nuclear club gained a new member — I might say: what a member! — and may dangerously increase in the near future with the acceleration in various countries in carrying out research programmes and programmes for nuclear production for military purposes. In spite of some suggestions and proposals that have been submitted — and your proposal, Mr. President, was very noteworthy — nothing was accomplished in Geneva to prevent this proliferation. This task requires the best efforts of all those who, without losing sight of the ultimate goal of general and complete disarmament under effective international control, fear the risks run by an international community whose survival will depend upon the fragile correlation of forces based exclusively on the nuclear balance. May the extensive exchanges of views in the debates of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament assist all Powers concerned in narrowing their differences when they again take up negotiations on disarmament.
16. In the regional sphere, however, note should be taken of the efforts of the Latin American countries to transform the area into a nuclear-free zone. General Assembly resolution 1911 (XVIII) served as a point of departure for the study of a programme for the denuclearization of Latin America. At the meetings of the Preparatory Commission for the Denuclearization of Latin America, the Latin American countries have worked hard to overcome certain difficulties which, by their nature, slow down the drafting of a treaty of such great scientific, military and political importance, a treaty without precedent.
17. The geographic demarcation of the area subject to the future statute, as well as the obtention of formal guarantees on the part of the nuclear Powers that the statute will be respected, constitute, in the opinion of my Government, essential requisites for the preparation of an instrument which will prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and yet not imply any present or future risk to the security and to the scientific advancement of the countries signing the treaty.
18. It is worthwhile noting today that the inclusion in the United Nations Charter of what now constitutes its Chapter XI was not altogether a peaceful and simple matter at San Francisco. Some colonial Powers were opposed to Chapter XI at that time and proposed that its principles merely form an appendix to the Charter. Time has shown that the decision adopted was a wise one, for the problem of decolonization was soon to emerge and it would have been a blunder for the United Nations not to have foreseen it in the Charter. We would now have been confronted with one more constitutional crisis. Unfortunately, however, the fact that it was foreseen in the Charter did not prevent the occurrence in these last two decades of many serious conflicts involving the process of decolonization. I might point out here that the only form of decolonization envisaged in the Charter is that accomplished by peaceful and democratic means. Recourse to violence, to armed fighting, and, above all, the interference of a State or group of States in the process of decolonization being carried out under the responsibility of another State, not only flouts the principles of the Charter, but could retard that process. If military in nature, this outside interference not only produces the retarding mentioned, but also engenders tensions and conflicts which can spread, to the detriment of international peace and security.
19. Brazil, true to the commitments assumed when it signed the San Francisco Charter — and, furthermore, true to its own history and destiny — firmly supports the principle of self-determination for all peoples, provided the desire for self-determination represents their will, freely expressed and free of outside interference. It is in keeping with this principle, moreover, that we wish to see the German people granted the right to express their will, through freely held elections, on the question of being reunited as one nation.
20. In order to understand the roots of the political crisis which rocks a large part of the under-developed world, it might perhaps be useful to seek a parallel in history. The principle of the equality of the individual before the law revealed its limitations during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. It was found that merely acknowledging a man’s rights as a citizen was not enough. Only in the twentieth century, through the extension of the same principle to the economic and social plane, did the ideals of political equality begin to be satisfied in full. Without economic and social equality, the Western industrialized societies would inevitably have been the prey, for a long time, of totalitarian régimes which, in the final analysis, would render impossible that equality longed for by the masses.
21. At the present time, owing to the new communications systems, it would be impossible to convince the countries in process of development that their poverty and their backwardness cannot be speedily eradicated. A machinery must be created on the international plane to facilitate the transfer to the developing countries of the instruments and techniques created by the scientific revolution, as well as of the necessary capital for their full development.
22. The foregoing considerations stem from the observation of the economic picture of a large part of the under-developed world. Indeed, if we examine the current world economic situation objectively, we note that concrete progress, although considerable in absolute terms, has been relatively slight. Despite the goals of the United Nations Development Decade, the truth is that the difference between the per capita income of the industrialized countries and that of the poor countries continues to rise. Relatively speaking, the poor countries are even poorer today.
23. We all realize that the process of development is first and foremost the internal responsibility of each country, the result of a national decision to affirm and fulfil itself, even through sacrifices. Whatever international contribution might be possible, there is no substitute for the desire to attain the objectives dictated by the special needs of each nation. The developing countries are fully aware that this truth is valid, not only on the political plane, wherein they achieved independence through the process of enforcing their legitimate claims, but also on the economic level, wherein prosperity is the result of persistent courage and hard work. As an example I can cite the efforts made by the Brazilians, which are being carried forward with unwavering tenacity by our Government: efforts to curb inflation, to foster development by promoting reforms in the agricultural, fiscal, banking and housing sectors, as well as in others; in sum, retrieving the country from the brink of chaos and resuming, in an orderly fashion, the road to progress. My country is firmly striving to prepare the basic conditions’ demanded for the continuation of our march towards economic development, in the persuasion that this is the only way to guarantee prosperity and fair distribution of wealth and social benefits.
24. Yet, problems remain whose solution continues to escape the internal sphere of the developing countries. Among those problems one could mention the large degree of instability affecting raw materials and basic commodities on the international market.
25. As for the international efforts being made to solve these problems, we cannot fail to refer with satisfaction to the establishment on a permanent basis of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, with its own governing Board and secretariat — indeed, a proof of the political foresight of the last session of the General Assembly.
26. Within the framework of the institutions of the United Nations, a specialized organ of great importance awaits international action for its establishment. I refer to the agency for industrial development. The approval, at the last session of the Economic and Social Council, of the resolution [1081 F (XXXIX)] proposed during the fifth session of the Committee for Industrial Development, indicates that the idea has developed sufficiently and has the firm support of those who have the greatest interest in it, that is, the less industrialized countries. The fact that the percentage of technical assistance expenditures for industrial development has decreased in the last three years — they represent today only 11 per cent of total assistance expenditures — is an undeniable indication that, under the present set-up, it is not possible to provide for the growth of the industrial sector of the developing countries.
27. Still within the context of multilateral co-operation for economic development, particular mention is due to special assistance activities sponsored by the United Nations, notably in connexion with the pre-investment programmes of the Special Fund. According to the data submitted to the twentieth session of the General Assembly, after six years of technical assistance operations, 485 projects are in progress, benefiting about 130 developing countries and territories. These projects, some of which have already been completed, made possible the specialized training of more than 70,000 nationals of developing countries and, on the other hand, contributed to attracting investments in different sectors of the economy mounting to over $1,000 million.
28. The above data present modest but encouraging dimensions and results in the area of technical- economic co-operation which serve to strengthen our conviction that we should redouble our efforts to meet the needs of the under-developed countries and help them to surmount the problem of the under-utilization of their natural resources. However, for these initiatives of the United Nations to produce the desired effect on the economy and technology of the under-developed countries, multilateral co-operation must not be limited to pre-investment activities.
29. Within this context, two other complementary initiatives of the United Nations which are already in progress merit the attention of the General Assembly for speedy implementation, with resulting general benefits. The first of these has to do with the formation of the United Nations Development Programme, stemming from the merging of the two principal organs of technical co-operation, including the Special Fund. Following this train of thought, the second initiative relates to the gradual participation of the new programme in the area of direct investment in accordance with the proposal for the creation of a capital development fund, thereby rounding out the role of the United Nations in the area of economic co-operation through the mobilization of capital for development projects.
30. As regards the efforts of the regional organizations in this sphere, Brazil places well-founded hopes in the success of the task being pursued by the Latin American Free-Trade Association. In its first years of activity, it already presents very encouraging results, not only towards strengthening interregional trade, but also in the preparation of other bases of the move towards the economic integration of Latin America. This ideal has for some time been claiming the attention of those Governments, and particularly that of the Chilean Government, which has brought it up again, to general applause.
31. These are the observations of the Brazilian delegation at this opening of the general debate. They arise from our desire to seek to contribute to the solution of the problems which trouble the international scene. To accomplish the task before us, we cannot, remain wavering between "fear and trembling hope". We need great courage and steadfast hope.
32. This courage and this hope are now to receive renewed vigour from the forthcoming visit of the Sovereign Roman Pontiff, who adopted the name of the Apostle of the Gentiles, and whose words of wisdom and peace will inspire us to bring our task to a successful conclusion. The Brazilian nation, the largest Catholic nation in the world, hails this unprecedented and most significant gesture of the Common Father of Christendom — a pledge on behalf of the establishment of a climate of peaceful brotherhood, so vital to the building of a better world.

===== Session 21 - 1966 =====
3. In pursuance of a time-honoured custom, which has become a proud and cherished tradition in the eyes of the people of Brazil, it is now my privilege to deliver the opening address in the general debate of the twenty-first session of the General Assembly. 4. Let my first words be of congratulations to you,  Mr. President, on your election to the Chair, a choice  which so aptly expresses the respect and affection of  this great gathering of nations towards the noble Afghan people and  towards their Permanent Representative to the United Nations.  I am confident that I speak on behalf of all the delegations present here today when I say that we all place the fullest reliance on your  well-known ability to handle with an impartial mind, with calm and  unruffled courtesy, and with firm and unswerving authority, the weighty matters that shall presently appear before us. 5. In the discharge of your duties, Mr. President, you may count on the assistance and sound advice of the illustrious Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Thant, to whom on behalf of my delegation and Government I make an ardent appeal to remain in his present position, which is the general wish. It is my hope that he will overcome his natural hesitation and his intimate objections and will continue to give to mankind the valuable contribution of his efficient action and constant inspiration. 6. As we prepare to deal with the agenda of the twenty-first session, we are necessarily led to examine the results of the labours of the twentieth, which was so ably presided over by that great statesman Amintore Fanfani, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Italy; and as we do so we may look back with pride at some tangible and encouraging achievements. 7. First and foremost, great credit must be given to the twentieth session for having succeeded in weathering the gravest crisis in the history of the Organization, and for finding a way out of the deadlock which paralysed the nineteenth session. 8. It is true, on the other hand, that no remedy has been found to end the bitter struggle in Viet-Nam, where countless thousands are daily suffering the hardships and misery of war and where so many young lives are daily being lost, both to Viet-Nam and to her allies in the cause of democracy. It is no less true, however, that in other parts of the world it has been found possible to avert conflict and bloodshed, and to dispel grave threats to world peace. 9. In the Dominican Republic, for instance, the timely and efficient intervention of the regional Organization brought about a prompt end to civil strife and cleared the way for the restoration of democratic rule through fair and peaceful elections. In Asia, two great nations, India and Pakistan, already on the brink of a full-scale war, gave heed to the voice of the United Nations and laid down their arms in response to a resolution of the Security Council. Even now those two countries, which must be counted among the most influential and oldest Members of this Organization, are engaged in endeavouring to settle their differences within the framework of the Charter and with due respect for the principles upheld by the United Nations. 10.	In the Gaza Strip and in Cyprus, while no appreciable headway has been made toward a permanent settlement, even so, the presence of United Nations forces has continued to keep the peace, to ensure the safety of the population in both areas, and to prevent the outbreak of open violence. Brazil is proud to contribute one battalion to the United Nations; by the same token, it is proud to have contributed substantially to the Inter-American Peace Force in the Dominican Republic, where Brazilian soldiers and marines have shared with their North American, Central American and Paraguayan comrades the task of enforcing law and order and of saving a sister nation, already sorely tried in the recent past, from succumbing to internal strife and to foreign political aggression. 11. As we review the events of the past year, we are compelled to note with regret that in one domain at least no perceptible success has been achieved. I allude to the problem of disarmament, which we find still bogged down in the discouraging morass of the Geneva talks. Some rays of hope had seemed to be discernible during the last session of the General Assembly, where, for the first time in many years, a number of constructive resolutions were passed. Nothing, however, has come out of them, in spite of a growing consciousness, on the part of all nations, of the dangers of nuclear proliferation. Brazil would like to urge that the highest priority be given to working out some formula that may lead to the concentration, and not the reverse, of the power of decision as to the use of nuclear weapons. 12. This last, of course, is stated as but an immediate goal, for there can be no disguising the fact that the ultimate aim is and must remain total disarmament. We seem to be as far as ever from reaching that goal; but it must also be recognized that certain intermediate steps must necessarily be taken. It is in this respect that General Assembly resolution 2028 (XX) must be regarded as a substantial step forward, inasmuch as it has defined non-proliferation as a means toward an end, and as it has just as clearly defined the respective balance of responsibilities and obligations of both nuclear and non-nuclear Powers. 13. It is quite clear nowadays that non-proliferation cannot be assured by a veto of the nuclear Powers, Non-proliferation is really dependent upon voluntary surrender by non-nuclear Powers of their possibilities of eventually joining the "Atomic Club" through their own efforts. In the absence of a really reliable system of collective security, such a surrender would obviously involve a singularly grave and fateful decision, since it would be tantamount to surrendering the most powerful means of ensuring national security against possible aggression, relying ever after on the benevolence and good faith of third parties for that all- important purpose, the protection of the very life of a nation. This would be indeed too much to ask of or to expect from any country, unless we were to achieve a completely trustworthy framework of legal and material guarantees, bearing the stamp of infallibility to the fullest extent attainable by human endeavours. 14. Such a system would obviously place great burdens upon both nuclear and non-nuclear Powers and require them to accept considerable limitations on the exercise of their sovereign rights. I maintain, however, that the best interests, if not the very survival, of mankind demand such sacrifices from even the greatest Powers, and I trust that no Member nation will shrink from its duty to this Organization and to the human race by balking at small or even great sacrifices of pride or of freedom of action where so much is at stake. It is the manifest duty of all of us, but most especially of such nations as already hold or have nearly within their grasp the awful power of destruction vested in atomic weaponry, to remove from mankind the fear of annihilation, to clear from the farthest horizons that threatening cloud of an all too familiar shape, to give good and sufficient guarantee of our determination to use for good alone, and never for evil, the fateful forces that lie hidden in the very heart of matter. 15. Another issue where, unfortunately, a deadlock seems to have been reached is that of defraying the costs of peace-keeping operations. The Special Committee on Peace-Keeping Operations appointed to attempt to solve this problem has so far failed to do so, in spite of its earnest labours. The time has come, therefore, to acknowledge frankly the fact that there is little or no hope of arriving at a satisfactory conclusion in this respect, and that to pursue it further would be simply a waste of time and effort. 16. No country is more deeply convinced than Brazil of the usefulness, and indeed the necessity, of carrying out peace-keeping operations by means of emergency forces every time a situation arises entailing a threat to world peace. Furthermore, we think that no international organization can be really effective unless it has at its disposal the material means to deal with such situations; yet we are the first to advocate a realistic approach to the problem of apportioning the expenses arising from operations of this nature. It has become all too evident that some Member nations will not waver from their position of refusing to acknowledge their common share in expenses made for the common good, and to honour what seems to us their plain obligation. The only realistic approach, therefore, is to carry out a reform of the United Nations Charter, framing explicit rules on the conduct and financing of peace-keeping operations. 17. That future peace-keeping operations may be needed is only probable. Brazil has actively supported them in the past, supplying, as I have mentioned above, one battalion of infantry to the United Nations Emergency Force in the Gaza Strip — a force which was for some considerable time under the command of a Brazilian general—supplying air force personnel for the United Nations Force in the Congo, and having maintained observers, both military and civilian, in Greece, Cyprus, Cambodia, Viet-Nam and Kashmir, as required by the appropriate organs of the United Nations. Brazil feels justified, therefore, in claiming that the time has come to settle, by the only effective means, namely, through a revision of the Charter, the vexing questions of apportioning the costs of such operations. 18. A new field has recently been opened to the fruitful action of the United Nations, that of devising rules to accelerate the development of under-developed Member States and to improve the economic relations between such countries and the more fully developed ones. I refer to the creation of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, an organ for the success of which Brazil voices sincere wishes. 19. Far be it from us to advocate any form of "class struggle" between nations, opposing "haves" and "have-nots". Such a confrontation would be not only sterile, but definitely harmful to the cause of unity and friendship among nations and to the best interest of mankind. Yet I must emphasize with equal firmness that it would be no less disastrous to reject the self-evident truth that close and intelligent co-operation is called for between the fully developed States and the less developed ones, in the best interests of all. I say "intelligent" co-operation, because it is too late in the day to propose inadequate formulae for or to apply evasive tactics to a problem that is not to be denied and which brooks no postponement, It would indeed be folly, and dangerous folly at that, to reject this postulate, that the achievement of an adequate rate of economic development, and of an adequate degree of social welfare and security, is the common concern of all mankind. Man has long ago conquered the ends of the earth; he is now conquering outer space and the celestial bodies far beyond the orbit of our planet. Even now, man-made objects already lie on the face of the moon, and other objects, also the handiwork of man, speed silently through interstellar space. At a time when almost unimaginable resources are devoted to these staggering achievements, when these same achievements seem to prove that there are no limits to the ingenuity and enterprising resourcefulness of man, it is a cruel mockery to our fellow-man, and a blasphemy against Divine Providence, to allow poverty, hunger, sickness and fear to stalk the earth. 20. I am well aware that prosperity is the result of effort, and that those who need help must be disposed to help themselves. Yet it is also very evident that the gifts of nature have not been equally apportioned among all countries; and it is equally evident that the under-developed countries, whatever the reason for their initial disadvantage, are severely handicapped in the struggle to bridge the gap between themselves and the more highly developed States. To channel resources where they are needed, resources in money, in men, in technical and scientific knowledge, is the great challenge of our times. To improve terms of trade, to make free the access to old and new markets, to open up economic vistas, to break down the barriers of narrow self-interest — all this I believe to be consistent with the highest aspirations, and indeed with the ultimate interests, of the highly developed countries themselves. 21. In view of the immense possibilities to be explored for the future welfare of the world, in view of the immense tasks that challenge in our day and age the creative spirit of man and set us such high standards of mutual solidarity, it is deeply regrettable that the United Nations Cocoa Conference, convened to prepare an international agreement to safeguard the cocoa market against disruptive influences, should have been such a dismal failure. 22. Some countries still apparently fail to understand that some measure of protection is imperative for such basic commodities as are vital to the exchange-earning capacity of any individual country. Under-developed countries must rely on their ability to earn foreign exchange in order to obtain the capital goods essential to their development effort. In so far as basic commodities are concerned, often their main or only source of such income, protection against ruinous price fluctuations is a condition of the very survival, economically speaking, of such countries. The best interests of the highly developed countries are surely more consistent with the spread of prosperity and increased earning capacity to new areas and new potential markets, rather than with the impoverishment of struggling countries and the decline of their respective national economies to bare subsistence level. 23. The failure of the Cocoa Conference must be remedied; the United Nations must set itself resolutely to the task of ensuring to all Members fair access to world markets, and also fair access to those technological and scientific resources which today bid fair to change the very face of the earth. In the latter respect, I welcome with particular satisfaction the steps that have been taken to establish the United Nations Organization for Industrial Development. That will be a fitting complement to the United Nations Trade and Development Board as well as to the United Nations Special Fund. Financial assistance for development projects, technical guidance for the operation of industrial projects, adequate protection for prices of essential exports of the under-developed countries: those three parallel lines of attack can and should lead to victory in the struggle for full economic development — the decisive and vital struggle from the viewpoint of the immense majority of all men and women who inhabit this earth. It is greatly to be desired, therefore, that the United Nations Organization for Industrial Development may soon achieve full operational status, that a United Nations conference may soon be convened to decide on this point, and that the United Nations Development Programme, of which the Special Fund is now apart, may soon reach the $200 million level set for it at the twentieth session of the General Assembly. It is also greatly to be hoped that the new forms of economic association, now so prevalent in the world, shall not operate as walled-in enclosures behind high tariff barriers, nor resort to import restrictions to discriminate against the products of other areas. Latin America looks uneasily upon the thorny network of rules and regulations that hinder its trade with Western Europe, and its uneasiness and displeasure are by no means allayed by the unequal treatment granted, to the detriment of Latin America, by the European Common Market to other non-European countries. 24. In the field of social problems and of human relations, Brazil is proud to have been the first country to sign the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination, as approved at the last session of the General Assembly. Within the boundaries of Brazil, indeed, small need would be felt for such a document, since Brazil has long been an outstanding, and in fact I would be tempted to say the foremost, example of a true racial democracy, where many races live and labour together and freely mix, without fear or favour, without hate or discrimination. Our hospitable land has long been open to men of all races and creeds; no one questions, or cares, what may have been a man's birthplace, or that of his forebears; all enjoy equal rights, and all are equally proud of being part of one great nation. While the new Convention is, therefore, superfluous in so far as Brazil is concerned, we none the less welcome it as a useful pointer to other countries placed in less favourable circumstances. And I would take this opportunity to suggest that racial tolerance should be exercised by all races towards other races: to have been sinned against is no valid reason for sinning against others. May the Brazilian example, and the moderation without effort, easy tolerance and mutual respect in our racial relations be followed by all multiracial nations. 25. In in this connexion, what I had the opportunity to note during the trip I made before arriving in this metropolis gives additional strength to my hopes. I have in fact, come from Portugal, Italy and the Vatican. In Portugal and in Italy I felt at close hand the Latin spirit which inspires Brazil and leads it on the path of tolerance and understanding. Those two countries, which have already given so much to world civilization, are still called upon to perform great deeds, both for the benefit of their populations and in the interest of other peoples linked to them by political or sentimental bonds. And the Holy See, thanks to the actions and to the nobility of spirit of Pope Paul VI — whose visit to this Assembly was certainly the highest moment of its session last year — abounds in ability, interest and dedication to the tasks of international conciliation and of the spiritual and social perfection of mankind on the basis of the sacred teachings of the Gospel. 26. The satisfaction of opening this debate becomes deeper because it gives me the opportunity to extend a welcome to Guyana, a country I take special pleasure in greeting, not only as a neighbour, but also as a friend of Brazil, one which, for the first time, takes its seat amongst us. Membership in this gathering of the sovereign Powers of the world is a high privilege and, thanks to the labours of previous sessions, one that entails no small material advantages. However, not only rights, but also duties are the portion of Member States. First and foremost, of course, is the duty to abide by the United Nations Charter, faithfully observing both its letter and spirit. This implies respecting the rule of law in international relations, accepting the decisions reached by the majority In the General Assembly or its Committees, abstaining from any form of aggression against other countries, and observing the rule of international courtesy in all dealings with other States. If all States enjoy equal rights in this august Organization, so also are they all bound by equal obligations and by reciprocal rules of mutual respect. Too often in the past this Assembly has been the scene of shrill recriminations, with bitter accusations often couched in unseemly language. I sincerely trust that we shall be able to avoid this in the future. The General Assembly is indeed a proper court for the statement of legitimate grievances, for the hearing of occasional differences, a fit place for those seeking relief and justice; but we must never forget that concord is our goal, that a spirit of mutual tolerance should be our guiding rule, that reason, right and impartiality should reign supreme among us. Wrongs should not be merely pointed out, but patiently righted as a result of the sincere efforts of us all. This Organization will stand in our eyes, in the eyes of the world and in the eyes of posterity, as high as our efforts will place it, not according to how much we ask of it, but according to how much we give to it. Many Members of this great fellowship of nations have freely and consistently given to the Organization of their wealth, their effort, their loyalty, of the blood of their sons. All honour to such nations: may they be an example and an inspiration to us all. Loyalty, good faith, devotion to the common good, forbearance and mutual respect are the necessary conditions for success in our task. If we fail, we shall have forfeited the greatest, and possibly the last, hope of mankind for peaceful coexistence among the sons of Adam, and we shall know that the curse of Cain is still upon us. If we succeed, and succeed we must, it will be through slow and painful progress, but we shall know that some day our children, and our children's children, will come to live out their days in peace and comfort under skies which no longer hold the daily menace of sudden annihiliation, upon an earth made bountiful to their labour and from which, God willing, poverty, pain and violence will be gradually banished.

===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
1. Since it is customary for Brazil to open the general debate, the privilege and the honour fall upon me to be the first speaker to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election. In so doing, may I express to you my most sincere wishes that your term of office will be a successful and fruitful one. This, I am certain, will be guaranteed by your outstanding qualifications and your great experience.
2. For more than twenty years we representatives of the States Members of the United Nations have been gathering here for the purpose of reviewing the international scene, combining our efforts to seek measures which will bring us peace, strengthen international security and promote the well-being of mankind.
3. During the last few months there have been increasing indications of better understanding between the United States of America and the Soviet Union, to the great satisfaction and renewed hope of all nations. It must be acknowledged however that, despite all efforts, the nuclear armaments race continues and no way has been found to solve the conflicts existing in areas that are highly sensitive from the standpoint of international security. Indeed, we see with alarm that they not only remain unsolved but tend to gain in intensity.
4. Moreover, we view with deep concern the fact that instead of diminishing, the gap between the highly industrialized countries and the developing nations is growing wider. This represents a serious threat to peace and a frustration of our common endeavours on behalf of universal well-being.
5. We must, therefore, do our utmost to encourage the now foreseeable slackening of international tension; we must commit ourselves to finding effective lasting solutions to the present conflicts; we must devise formulas to eliminate the poverty in which two-thirds of mankind lives.

6. The maintenance of peace is not a task limited to the political and military fields. This task must inevitably be the outcome of a complex process set In motion by economic and social factors. Peace cannot be dissociated from development. Even an agreement among the most powerful nations would be meaningless if it operated only in areas in which their own specific interests happened to coincide. No civilization today is self-sufficient or isolated. The prosperity of each nation — I would even say its very survival — is dependent upon that of all the others.
7. It follows therefore that prosperity and peace are the responsibility of all nations, and that each nation must devote all the mean sat its disposal to the pursuit of those goals. The industrialized countries have special duties in the face of this gigantic undertaking.
8. It must be recognized, however, that the means at the disposal of the international community have not as yet been mobilized in the urgent, effective manner dictated by the grave needs of the time. When we proclaimed the United Nations Development Decade we all seemed to be convinced that if we wanted peace we had to reduce the economic and social imbalances besetting the world. Now that the decade is drawing to a close, it is apparent that our actions have not lived up to our expectations. Indeed, the results have been exactly the opposite of what we had hoped: the gulf between the developed and developing countries has never been as wide as at present. The developed countries have accelerated their growth, and the developing countries can barely free themselves from stagnation. The developing countries may not have done all they should, hut co-operation from the wealthy countries has fallen far short in every respect of what had been expected. For example, the flow of financial assistance lags far behind the 1 percent of the gross national product recommended by the General Assembly. Negotiations such as the Kennedy Round give added impetus to trade among highly industrialized countries and only remotely benefit the others, Even in the meetings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) a sense of frustration is evident.
9. Primary commodities, exports of manufactured goods, general and non-discriminatory preferences and a larger participation in international services — all these aspirations of the less-developed countries are being dealt with on a make-shift basis, and the behaviour of the industrialized countries has not been Inspired by a desire to create general prosperity which, after all, is the real and long-term interest of all nations.
10. The group of thirty-one developing countries members of the Trade and Development Board have dealt lucidly in a memorandum with the various specific problems requiring immediate solution.Brazil hopes that that fundamental document will serve as the basis for effective decisions and that the UNCTAD meeting to be held at New Delhi in 1968 will mark the beginning of its implementation.
11. It is urgent for us to find adequate solutions to the problems of international commodity trade on which the developing countries depend to such a large extent. It is urgent for us to adopt measures of international co-operation, so that the developing countries can expand their exports of manufactured goods, an indispensable requirement for their economic growth. And it is no less urgent for international financing to be made available in sufficient volume and under appropriate conditions in order to promote development, and not just to cover the servicing of previous loans.
12. In 1964, 120 countries met in Geneva and agreed that the problems faced by the developing countries were well known and that only the determination to act was lacking for their solution. Yet here we stand, almost three years later, and the determination has still not materialized on the international level. If we wish to keep our faith in the solidarity of nations we cannot afford to subject it to further trials. It is indispensable that the political will to act be translated into effective measures instead of taking the form of renewed pious declarations of good intentions.
13. In the concerted action undertaken by UNCTAD there is no place for ideological motivation, which would vitiate its meaning. The seventy-seven nations, united by common interests, make up a group for the attainment of clearly defined and specific goals, exclusively linked to the promotion of economic development. It is strictly in this sense and in full awareness of our responsibilities that Brazil participates in the group.
14. The increase of wealth on the part of the industrialized nations is being partly diverted to the accumulation and improvement of military equipment. Many of the best brains in the world have been recruited to devise and perfect the techniques of those armaments and the art of their application. Ever more distant seems the arrival of the day on which those vast human and material resources can be released to serve the progress and well-being of the developing countries and the less favoured communities of those very Powers engaged in the arms race.
15. The United States of America and the Soviet Union have recently submitted two identical drafts of a treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons to the Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament at Geneva. We read this as a sign of international détente. Brazil welcomes this important step in the hope that a better under standing between the two Powers may result in concrete measures leading to general and complete disarmament under effective international control. Only in that context will the treaty achieve meaning and validity.

16. We note with satisfaction that the two Powers, in contrast with the procedure adopted in the case of the Moscow test-ban Treaty, have chosen to submit their drafts to the Disarmament Committee, thus acknowledging that the proposed measure does fit into the framework of the efforts undertaken by the United Nations to achieve disarmament as one of its objectives.
17. Imbued as we are with the spirit of co-operation and objectivity we cannot but observe that those drafts do not imply any reduction of existing nuclear weapon stockpiles, nor do they even discourage the increase and development of nuclear weapons by those countries which already possess them. No resources are to be released to serve economic and peaceful ends. For all practical purposes, the drafts propose limitations only for those countries that do not possess nuclear weapons and they include restrictions which are not essential to the objectives of non-proliferation.
18. The adherence to the purposes of non-proliferation must not entail a renunciation by any country of the right to develop its own technology. On the contrary, Brazil, while supporting, as it always has, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, is convinced that the measures to this end should facilitate nuclearization for peaceful purposes. Such nuclearization for peaceful purposes should include the technology of nuclear explosives which might become indispensable for major engineering projects of significance for economic development.
19. As a matter of fact, Brazil has already undertaken the sovereign commitment to renounce nuclear weapons by signing the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America, concluded at Mexico City on 14 February 1967, The manner whereby this Treaty draws a distinction between nuclear weapons, which it prohibits, and unlimited peaceful nuclearization, which it authorizes, seems to us quite appropriate for an agreement on a world-wide basis. The drafts presented in Geneva can and should benefit from the Introduction of amendments improving them and ensuring a fair balance between the obligations and responsibilities of the contracting parties, thus making the drafts universally acceptable.
20. The scientific and technological gap between the Member States of this Organization is growing at an increasing pace to the detriment of the aims of the United Nations. As the President of my country has recently pointed out:
"We must realize that the planning of our development must take place within the context of the scientific and technological revolution which has ushered the world into the nuclear and space age. In this new era which we are entering, science and technology will increasingly condition not progress and the well-being of nations alone, but their very independence."
21. The fact that human resources of the highest calibre in science and technology are drawn from all parts of the world and are being concentrated in the already developed countries constitutes another serious problem. Some aspects of this situation were taken up by Secretary-General U Thant in his report to the Economic and Social Council on the development and utilization of human resources in developing countries.
22. It is my opinion that we should consider the possibility of collecting, co-ordinating and completing the studies undertaken under the aegis of the United Nations and the specialized agencies on the various aspects of this problem of the growing scientific and technological imbalance. A high level committee might be established for this purpose by the Secretary-General, expressly enjoined to give special attention to the study of the causes, effects and possible solutions of the problem of the constant brain drain of technicians and scientists by the more developed countries.
23. This brief outline of my country's position on current international problems would not be complete without a reference to some issues which are the concern of the United Nations and which deserve my Government's most careful attention.
24. The recent outbreak of hostilities between Arabs and Israelis with the resulting human and material losses imposes upon us the duty to find the way for realistic and objective negotiations towards a conciliatory settlement between the States concerned. During the fifth special emergency session I had the opportunity of stating the position of my country on this matter [1540th meeting]. On the one hand, we recognize the existence of the State of Israel with all the rights and prerogatives of a sovereign nation; on the other hand, as I pointed out on that occasion, we recognize the validity of many important claims of the Arab countries. What must be avoided is the continuance of a state of belligerency between Members of the Organization, punctuated by military clashes and bringing substantial damage to the economies both of Israel and of the Arab countries, as well as being a constant threat to world peace. We shall continue to co-operate in the spirit of friendship which binds us to both sides in the search for a just and lasting solution which will enable the peoples of the Middle East to concentrate their efforts on the rewarding pursuit of their development and prosperity.
25. Brazil reiterates its adherence to the principle of self-determination and its staunch support for the task of decolonization which the United Nations has been carrying out since its inception. There have been major accomplishments in this area, but we still have a long way to go. The consolidation of the objectives of decolonization will only be made effective in the global context of the economic and social development of the less-developed countries. This premise is essential if the process of decolonization is to be conducted in a peaceful and orderly way.
26. We are convinced that extreme inequalities both on the international and national levels are sources of insecurity, dissatisfaction and apprehension, thereby constituting, as much as the nuclear weapons race, a serious threat to peace. My country is determined to fulfil its destiny by creating wealth and distributing it fairly among our people, while preserving our multiracial society bound together by deep-rooted Christian and non-discriminatory traditions.

27. We have overcome economic difficulties and faced serious financial problems. We are meeting the needs of our economic and social development with our own resources and with the limited assistance we receive from abroad. We do not for a moment doubt that our efforts will meet with success. Our goals, however, will be more readily attained as we succeed in translating into practical measures the common belief that peace and development, indissolubly linked, require universal conditions and a collective effort on an international scale.
28. This is the reason why we shall strive in all bodies of the United Nations to ensure that the principles of international co-operation in the economic field shall be used not merely for verbal formulations but as a guide for action on the part of all States. This is also the reason why we insist that this Organization must face, purposefully and with decision, the problem of the increasing scientific and technological gap which divides the highly industrialized Powers from the developing countries. And finally, this is the reason why we shall make every effort in order that disarmament be translated Into measures which shall effectively ensure the security and the development of all nations.

===== Session 23 - 1968 =====
1. Mr. President, I should like to begin my address today by expressing the gratification of the Brazilian Government at seeing you preside over the work of the twenty-third session of the General  Assembly. For my Government, your presence in the Chair represents not only the election of a representative of a sister nation of the Hemisphere but the choice of an experienced statesman, former permanent representative of Guatemala to the United Nations and its present Minister for External Relations, whose legal knowledge and political experience are a pledge of the successful outcome of the twenty-third session of the General Assembly. Allow me also at this time to express our gratitude to Mr. Manescu, Foreign Minister of Rumania, for presiding over the proceedings of the twenty-second session with such tact, impartiality and objectivity.

2. On behalf of the Government of Brazil, I wish to express our deep satisfaction at seeing today in our midst the representatives of Swaziland, which has just been admitted to our Organization. During the relevant proceedings of the Security Council, Brazil had the occasion to strongly support and recommend its admission, which bears a special significance for Brazil in view of its historical and cultural bonds with the nations of the African continent.

3. We convene here for the twenty-third session of the General Assembly at a time of insecurity for international peace and for the cause of law and justice among peoples. The year 1968 is one of tensions that test to the utmost the purposes and principles which gave life, shape and content to the San Francisco Charter. The events in Czechoslovakia, the absence of any progress in the control of vertical nuclear proliferation, the dismal failure of the last session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) are all aspects of a deplorable reversion to the most primitive of logics: the logic of force. The patient labour of the United Nations on behalf of international peace and security, economic and social development, human rights and the emancipation of peoples is in danger of suffering a serious setback. 

4. Not only the small and middle Powers suffer the impact of events which threaten the return of the atmosphere of the cold war which we thought had become a thing of the past. Also threatened are the expectations of a permanent understanding among the great Powers. What a precarious security is that in which the tranquillity of peoples is contingent upon the existence of arsenals that daily increase in their sophistication. The world is lacking in the mutual confidence essential for the development of political co-operation among nations. 

5. Which way are we bound? Towards a new cycle of the cold war? Will we consign to oblivion the political and cultural experiment which seemed to place humanity 
at the threshold of a new destiny? 

6. The United Nations was built upon the idea of the maintenance of peace through the preservation of the victorious alliance of 1945. In the name of political realism, we were led to accept situations and operational formulae which, to a large extent, were irreconcilable with our juridical conscience and with the principles which preside over our legal systems. Concessions, however, were made to be used according to the principles of the Charter, and to ensure the achievement of its high purposes. These principles and objectives are what make the United Nations so much more than a simple conference-holding mechanism. 

7. As unacceptable as the invasion of Czechoslovakia itself are the arguments that have been advanced to justify and condone it. It has been stated in the Security Council that the events in Czechoslovakia are of an internal nature, of sole and exclusive interest to the members of the Warsaw Pact. There was even an invocation of Article 2, para- graph 7, of the United Nations Charter, a curious invocation indeed which purports to construe the action of the Security Council and the United Nations as a violation of this precept, while reconciling it perfectly with the movement of troops and cannons across national frontiers. Never have the rights of force been enunciated in such peremptory and undisguised fashion. As Brazil has already had the occasion to state, we cannot build international peace and security on the precarious foundation of spheres of influence or on the delimitation of power along certain arbitrary geographical lines. 

8. No one denies to any State whatsoever the right to provide for its own security and to join whatever military pacts it deems convenient, adequate or necessary to its interests of self-defence. Each State is the sole judge of its own needs and interests. As long as the principles of general and complete disarmament and international collective security do not prevail, the existence of military alliances will continue to characterize world reality. This cannot be said to be perfect or ideal as a state of affairs or, even less, a reassuring one, but it is accepted by the political realism so often invoked in the meetings of our Organization. At any rate, the thesis that joining a military pact implies surrendering one’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and equality before the law, is totally inadmissible. We are face to face with new concepts and ideas which, if not
challenged and repudiated, will render impossible the coexistence of free and sovereign States, conscious of their mutual rights and obligations.

9. We seem to have had confirmed some of the views set forth by Brazil when we were fighting for the fair and equitable Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in which we would renounce weapons we never wanted in the first place, but not the benefits of science and technology. Both in the Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament and in the resumed twenty-second session of the General Assembly, we insisted upon the necessity of a balance of obligations between the
nuclear-weapons countries, and the other nations. And, more recently, at the Conference of Non-Nuclear-Weapon States in Geneva, we had the opportunity to reiterate our
arguments and suggestions. Recent developments have confirmed the precariousness and insufficiency of the guarantees extended to the non-nuclear countries under
resolution 255 (1968) of the Security Council.

10. Brazil fully accepts a general policy of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. The success of such a policy, however, depends upon the effective security conditions and increased stimulus of the peaceful use of the atom. We hope that the military nuclear Powers will ponder carefully the latest recommendations made in Geneva, seeing in them not just the specific aspirations of the non-nuclear States, but the basic elements of the preservation of the peace and security of all. We have reached a point in the evolution of history where no real progress can be made towards peace unless guarantees against aggression or the threat of aggression by nuclear weapons are made politically more effective and juridically more perfect. For that purpose, we favour the idea of a world-wide convention, which will represent a step beyond the Charter of San Francisco, and we likewise emphasize the urgency of drawing up conventions for nuclear disarmament, under effective international control.

11. To be valid, a policy of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons must necessarily guarantee unrestricted and non-discriminatory access to science and technology and to
nuclear materials for peaceful purposes. In like measure, it ought to provide for concrete measures of technical assistance and financing. World peace cannot be the resultant of a mere parallelogram of opposing forces. True peace exacts assured co-operation for constructive purposes, to accelerate the economic and social progress of
peoples within the framework of respect for the freedom and safety of all.

12. During 1968, no progress can be recorded in the furthering of solutions to the serious problems of trade and development. At the second session of UNCTAD in New
Delhi, the developed countries employed evasive and dilatory methods and tactics. On 26 March, Brazil made the following statement:

   “ The balance-sheet of the Second UNCTAD Conference is dismal indeed. It could have become a turning point in the history of international economic co-operation.
Instead, it may well become a source of frustration and disenchantment. At New Delhi, developed countries could have paved the way for a new era in the field of international economic relations. Instead, by systematically blocking all important initiatives of developing countries, they have chosen to deepen the cleavage between North and South, fraught with such dangerous social and political implications.”

13. After the experience of New Delhi and the results of the debates on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in New York, we now venture to express
the hope that, in formulating a legal régime for the sea-bed beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, the interests of all, developed or developing, may be fully satisfied in the
exploration and exploitation of that immense region which is the common heritage of mankind. The result of the work of the Ad Hoc Committee to Study the Peaceful Uses of
the Sea Bed and the Ocean Floor beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction, to which the Brazilian Government had the honour to extend its hospitality recently in Rio de
Janeiro, can serve as a basis for effective measures to be taken during this regular session of the Assembly.

14. It is precisely in order to fight for a better world that we meet here today in this Organization, which represents our best hope for the establishment of an international
order that will prove just and long-lasting. We are once again called upon to express our ideas and to vote upon the great themes of peace and war, of collective security, of
human rights, of economic development and the emancipation of peoples. We shall have to consider complex problems, both those which appear on the agenda and those
which do not. We will have to contribute, directly or indirectly, to the effect that the Paris negotiations may, within the shortest possible time, bring an end to the conflict in Viet-Nam.

15. As far as the Middle East is concerned, Brazil has expressed its apprehensions as regards the arms race in which the countries of that area are engaged. We would like
to reiterate our appeal for the flow of arms and war material to the parties in conflict to be suspended, limited or regulated. If allowed to go on unchecked, this arms race
can lead to a new conflagration of unpredictable consequences. We still think that resolution 242 (1967) of the Security Council is a fair and reliable basis for the
establishment of peace in the Middle East. We ought to spare no efforts to create conditions propitious to the mission that Ambassador Gunnar Jarring has undertaken as
Special Representative of the Secretary-General, a mission that he is discharging with so much patience and tenacity.

16. Finally, the Government of my country observes with great concern that. there is a continuing violation of the human rights consecrated by the United Nations and the
international community. During this very year, which has been proclaimed in resolution 1961 (XVIII) as the International Year for Human Rights, it was with sorrow and
dismay that we watched the Pretoria Government take a series of measures in relation to Namibia, in flagrant disrespect for the resolutions of the Security Council and
the General Assembly. We again call upon that Government to abide by the decisions of the United Nations. For our part, through the adoption of concrete, specific and
mandatory measures, the Brazilian Government acted promptly upon the Security Council’s decision on Rhodesia aiming at the establishment in that country of a government fully representative of its inhabitants, and at the elimination of its present heinous policy of racial discrimination.

17. Great are the dangers and grave the risks that surround us, and yet never has mankind had at its disposal so many efficient tools to employ in the solution of its problems and difficulties. Science and technology for the first time in history allow an adequate response to the needs of social well-being and progress for all peoples. But, at the same time, there has never been an historical period with such an accelerated chain-reaction of basic problems. The need for frequent readjustments to a great extent explains, if it does not justify, the set-backs which periodically occur in our arduous quest for true peace.

18. Brazil adheres to the belief that the ideals of this Organization will at last prevail over narrow political concepts, over near-sighted and short-term economic positions, over methods of action inadequate to the complexity and unity of today’s world. Amid a sequence of crises we witness the affirmation of a sentiment of solidarity that transcends boundaries and the occasional divisions of mankind. Such circumstances and the simple fact that we gather here today the representatives of 125 nations, strengthen and justify our earnest hopes.




===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
1. Madam President,  first of all I should like to extend to you my heartiest congratulations for the unanimity of choice which singled you to preside over the
proceedings of the twenty fourth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.

2. That inspired choice was made in recognition of your great personal and professional qualifications, as well as in testimony of appreciation and admiration for
your country, placed, since its founding, under the aegis of liberty. Your election as President is, moreover, a tribute to the African nations which so often in
this forum have joined the Latin American delegations in defence of the principles of United Nations Charter, in affirmation of the freedom of man, and in
furtherance of the great causes of economic development and social progress. Let us express our earnest hope that this General Assembly, under your guidance, will
represent a step ahead towards freedom, justice and the sovereign equality of all nations.

3. After extending our good wishes to you, my delegation cannot fail to render tribute to the memory of Emilio Arenales, who presided over the work of the General
Assembly at its twenty-third session with unquestioned political and diplomatic leadership, under circumstances which exacted from him the greatest personal sacrifice.
To the delegation of the sister Republic of Guatemala we are moved to express our deep sorrow at his early demise, which has deprived Latin America of a most effective
spokesman and of one of our greatest statesmen.

4. At the same time, allow me to recall a colleague who for twenty-three years placed his wisdom at the service of this Organization, in the cause of law. The delegation
of Brazil mourns his loss; and here today, among friends to whom he was deeply attached, the outstanding personality of Gilberto Amado is very vivid in my mind.

5. I should also like to acknowledge with deep appreciation the honour shown my country in the election of a member of my delegation to the chairmanship of one of the
Main Committees of the General Assembly.


6. When each year, on the third Tuesday of September, we gather here in order to resume our great dialogue, it is the custom, and a most opportune one, to look
around us in order to ascertain whether we are moving towards peace or towards war. In doing so, on this occasion, we are forced to conclude that we are not living
in a time of peace, for we still see the use of force in the settlement of controversies. Instead of building a world of solid peace and lasting security, we have
to content ourselves with cease-fire agreements, truces and armistices.

7. We are going through what is a clear and avowed cycle of power politics, which expresses itself not only in military force, but also through a whole range of
pressures — political, economic, financial, commercial and technological. This regrettable trend towards unilateral resort to force has severely put to test the
principles contained in Article 2 of the United Nations Charter, which has been covertly or overtly disrespected.

8. Notwithstanding progress in certain areas and a combined effort to reach understanding, which, for lack of a better name, we might call “agreements for survival“,
the confrontation between the two super-Powers had not yet given way to the desired phase of negotiation. The arms race continues, unimpeded, unchecked and more
foreboding than ever. The vertical proliferation of nuclear armaments tends to become more complex because of the development of more and more sophisticated weapons.
The destructive power of these weapons now encompasses the whole environment which sustains human life, and may even lead to the elimination of all animal and vegetable
life on our planet.

9. Meanwhile the term “disarmament“ is gradually being superseded in the lexicon of the great Powers by the concept of “arms control“. It is worthy of note that in
Geneva the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament seems to have virtually abandoned its attempts to negotiate a treaty for general and complete disarmament, the final
final objective assigned to it eight years ago by the General Assembly and by the very terms of the Zorin-Stevenson Agreement. It might be said that the matter has between
shelved as a utopian and unattainable objective The shift in emphasis from the concept of “disarmament” to that of “limitation of armaments” means a step backwards
politically far beyond the range and scope of a mere variation in semantics.

10. Also in regard to disarmament, there is another element we cannot ignore. I refer to the question of chemical and bacteriological weapons. One needs only to
peruse the conclusions of the report of the Secretary-General. It constitutes an impressive and sobering document, depicting a strange and irrational world, which goes
so far as to admit that the mobilization of germs, bacteria and viruses can be instrumental in handling frictions and dissensions among human beings.

11. It might not be inappropriate to recall in this connexion that, while a terrifying arsenal of weapons is continually being increased and refined, some scientists,
encouraged by Governments and international agencies, insist upon trying to dramatize the dangers of the population explosion, drawing alarming generalizations, without
regard for the specific situation of each country or region. It is my opinion that there is much more cause for alarm in a graver, more ominous problem — that of the
possibility of the disappearance of man from the face of the earth. Brazil is determined to resist any pressure directed against its demographic growth. As far as we
are concerned, life is entitled to take precedence over death.

12. Sometimes one cannot avoid the feeling that the United Nations, which will shortly celebrate its twenty-fifth anniversary, is being put aside, as though its
purposes and principles were cumbersome and its machinery and procedures inadequate.

13. There is a loss of confidence in the organized action of the international community and an abusive and unwarranted return to unilateral action, to intervention,
open or disguised. Even more serious, there have been attempts to justify some interventions by the invocation of concepts the United Nations. There is no way to
dismiss what happened in Czechoslovakia last year. In truth, if there were many who deplored and denounced the invasion and occupation of that country, there were few
— and these not necessarily the most powerful—-who impugned the barbarous and uncouth doctrine of limited sovereignty on which the act of aggression was based. It is
as if an attempt were being made to return to the situation which existed prior to the founding of this Organization, in conditions still less favourable to peace and
security, since there is a rejection of the traditional principles of international law, arising from the sovereignty and equality of States.

14. Our agenda is comprehensive and covers a large number of questions, but in vain would we seek to discover in it any reference to some of the more serious problem
which weigh heavily upon us. There even seems to prevail a curious tacit understanding to the effect that a debate in the United Nations on a given matter could
poison the atmosphere e to such a point that the question would thus become insoluble. It is difficult for us to accept this concept, lest we condemn the United Nations
to silence, inaction and impotence.


15. The same distrust concerning an open and frank debate seems to motivate the tendency, which my delegation deplores, to deal with certain questions in narrow and
ever-dwindling circles. Quite often, without any plausible reason being adduced, a transfer of forum has been favoured from a General Assembly of one hundred and
twenty-six Members to a Security Council of only fifteen, on the argument that it would be unrealistic to try to reach or even undertake a solution of a matter in
a body so broad in scope and so numerous in membership. Once on the Council level, the idea is advanced that it might perhaps be more practical and more convenient
to avoid discussion by a body consisting of fifteen members, which at this juncture likewise appears to be cumbersome. So we fall back on the five permanent members;
and, in a very short lapse of time, the five are reduced to four. Then the idea prevails that, in the final analysis, after duly weighing and measuring the realities
of power, it might be more advisable, more realistic, to set the matter aside in order to leave it to the discretion of the super-Powers, as if a new world directorate
had already been established. This is exactly what has happened in the case of the Middle East, and of other world problems as well, such as disarmament and the
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Such a final stage of negotiation actually has little or nothing to do with the United Nations. It seems to be inspired, in fact,
by notions of spheres of influence and of balance of power which, in themselves, are the very rejection of the principles and purposes of our Charter.

16. Formerly, the argument went that the United Nations, while in a position to play a part in solving conflicts between small nations, could net interfere effectively
in conflicts involving any of the major Powers. Now the theory seems to have been polished up so as to extend it to conflicts between small countries as well since,
it would seem, such conflicts always involve the interests of the major Powers, it is an extremely dangerous delusion to attempt to draw a sharp dividing line
between “big conflicts” and “small conflicts”. In a world continually drawn between the opposing forces of policentrism and bipolarization, the so-called small
conflicts tend to insert themselves into the context of larger and more complex ones affecting the whole international community. The Brazilian delegation called
the attention of the Security Council to this point when we emphasized some time ago in that forum that the problem of the Middle East, difficult enough to settle
on its own terms, could become downright impossible to solve if allowed to move in the direction it is
even now taking, of becoming one more chapter in the long history of confrontations between the great Powers.

17. If we cease to apply the Charter and if we no longer avail ourselves of the Organization to deal with the larger world problems, with the questions of peace and war,
disarmament and collective security, we shall end up with either a useless Charter or a pointless Organization, or both, incapable of settling any conflicts whatsoever.
Furthermore, if we abandon the principles of the United Nations and procedures through which it acts, both of which are the very raison d'étre of this Organization, then
we shall end by drawing the logical conclusion that dialogue even between two parties, is futile and that international negotiation has become purposeless.

18. Here we feel bound to stress a point: no one can have any reasonable or valid objection to the super-Powers continuing their attempts to bring about a harmonization
of their interests and responsibilities. The hopes for peace in the world rest on the assumption of a détente in the antagonism and rivalry between the two super-Powers.

19. Many times, in different forums, Brazil had insisted upon the need for a permanent understanding between the United States and the USSR in order to lay the groundwork
for nuclear disarmament, or at least for a diplomatic process that would lessen the risks involved in the vertical proliferation of nuclear weapons. And, more than once in
the debates held in the Security Council on the question of the Middle East, Brazil had the opportunity of stressing and emphasizing the special responsibilities of the major
Powers, to which we have addressed an appeal — which has so far been ignored and unheeded — for a reduction or balance in the supply of armaments and war material to the
parties in the dispute. In all these matters, agreement between the super-Powers is of the essence.

20. But such an agreement can contribute to a true and lasting peace and to the progress of mankind only if fully consistent with the principles and purposes of the Charter
of the United Nations, which means that due attention should be paid to the legitimate rights and aspirations of the non-nuclear, non-developed countries. Unfortunately,
we could allude to some questions in respect of which this has not occurred.

21. We could mention, for instance, the bilateral talks which led to the conclusion of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons [resolution 2373 (XXII)].
We could mention the fact that at the twenty-third session of the General Assembly the nuclear Powers opposed the establishment of an ad hoc committee to co-ordinate
the implementation of the results and conclusions of the Conference of Non-Nuclear-Weapon States, held in Geneva from 29 August to 28 September 1968. We could also
mention the fact that the super-Powers could not set a deadline for the resumption of the talks in the United Nations Disarmament Commission in order to consider,
inter alia, the question of co-operation of States in the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, two inseparable aspects of
the same fundamental problem. In this case, however, since the arguments then put forth have lost much of their validity and cogency, we are hopeful that the question may
now receive adequate and constructive consideration.

22. Before leaving the question of disarmament, I wish to point out that this might be the appropriate opportunity to refer to the decision taken by the two
co-Chairmen of the Geneva Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to enlarge its membership. We do not wish to question the legality of the decision, nor have
we any objection to the choice of the new members. On the contrary, we are gratified by the admission of the eight new members, including another Latin-American
country, Argentina, which I am sure will be a valuable addition to the Committee. We do hold, however, that the procedure followed by the co-Chairmen was politically
ill-advised, since the normal method would have been to bring the matter to the attention of the General Assembly as it was the Assembly which endorsed the
Zorin-Stevenson Agreement and which, since 1961, has annually assigned specific terms of reference to the Eighteen-Nation Committee on
Disarmament.

23. On another important matter, the attitude of the major Powers would not appear to take into account the most legitimate aspirations of the international community.
I am referring to the problem of the peaceful uses of the sea-bed and the ocean floor. As far as the developing countries are concerned, this area constitutes the
common heritage of mankind and, as such, cannot be the object of claims of sovereignty or of appropriation. It must be regulated and administered by the members of the
international community, which should be entitled to share in the benefits obtained from the exploration and exploitation of the resources of the sea-bed.

24. It is equally indispensable that the sea-bed and the ocean floor be reserved exclusively for peaceful purposes, preventing an arms race from developing in the
area to the prejudice not only of the exploitation of the sea-bed resources but also of the traditional activities on the high seas, such as navigation and fishing.
It is difficult to accept the position taken by the great Powers, or by the technologically advanced countries, in favour of a laissez-faire régime of unqualified
and indiscriminate freedom. Such a régime would be potentially anarchic and dangerous and would result, above all, in widening the gap which already prevails between
those who possess an advanced technology and those who are striving to develop one: We should then see a small number of nations with full access to the riches of
the marine environment, enjoying all its advantages, while the majority of nations would helplessly witness the utilization, by that privileged minority, of resources
which belong to all.

25. All these positions add up to an open rejection of the commitments undertaken in other organs of the United Nations, and the over-all philosophy of our Organization,
aimed at narrowing down the economic disparities among nations. Let us hope that an objective examination of the problem will bring about fair and reasonable solutions.

26. I have just referred to economic disparities: no examination of the present world scene could fail to include those questions which refer to economic development and one
of the means of achieving it — international trade.

27. The balance of the last decade — the United Nations Development Decade — is conclusive: the relative underdevelopment of the developing countries has clearly increased.
And it is against this sobering background that the programme for the next Development Decade will have to be examined, making full use of the lessons we have learned
from our experience in the last ten years. If we really wish to do so, this is the way to avoid incurring the same mistakes. The errors of the past are linked to some facts
which it might be pertinent to recall.

28. As a matter of fact, we have roughly three quarters of mankind simultaneously attempting to accelerate their development. To a large extent this effort is an internal
one, and finds expression in an increase in production and in a reduction in consumption so as to liberate resources for investment. However, a substantial portion of the resources
created and not consumed are channeled to the developed countries — a quarter of mankind — to serve as payment for goods essential to the development process. When primary
goods are involved in the transaction, there is a constant deterioration in the terms of trade of the underdeveloped countries; when the export of industrial goods is involved,
quantitative restrictions have been established, in a more or less disguised fashion, so that the end result prevents the essential rise in value of the exports of the underdeveloped
countries.

29. Efforts by the developing countries to improve the commercial rules of the game have been frustrated by the lack of understanding on the part of the developed
countries. Under present conditions, a good part of the exports of the underdeveloped countries are dashed against the barrier raised by import quotas, or have a
part of their value transferred to the developed countries, in the form of unfair prices.

30. If this state of affairs is allowed to prevail, development can expect little from external incentives and will have to turn inwards. Some countries will have to
resort to a policy of full employment and protectionism, others will have to do the same by way of regional arrangements, likely to secure them adequate economic dimensions.
But then we shall have to conclude that international co-operation in this field makes no practical sense, and its usefulness is a fallacy.

31. It is indispensable that plans for the Second United Nations Development Decade should be conditioned to the need for accelerating development by having the
underdeveloped countries use their own resources; they should foresee the maximum of assistance compatible with the balance of payment of the recipients and above
all, the restrictions imposed on exports from developing countries must be reduced to a minimum. It is pointless to attempt development with resources that simply
do not exist. The goals must be realistic and attainable by procedures linked to the social, political and economic realities of the developing nations.

32. Economic domination and technological monopoly are not conducive to peace and the same should be said of the balance of arms. What we seek is the participation
of all the members of the international community in peace, progress and development.

33. A joint participation in which all voices can make themselves heard is just as necessary in connexion with problems such as that of the Middle East. Security Council
resolution 242 (1967) in our view still provides us with the best basis for a constructive and enduring political settlement. It is regrettable that more effective action
on the part of the Security Council has been thwarted by the fact that its individual members, including the permanent ones, each give a different interpretation to
a text which was unanimously adopted. We urge a renewed effort to achieve in interpretation the same unanimity accorded the enunciation of principles. It is urgent
that a permanent political solution should be arrived at, lest we move inexorably into a new cycle of “open warfare”, to quote the expression used by Secretary-General, U Thant.
Brazil continues to place great hopes in the mission entrusted to Ambassador Gunnar Jarring and appeals once again to the parties directly involved not to permit
isolated incidents, condemnable as they may be, to aggravate a situation which is already pregnant with danger.

34, As one of the largest Catholic communities in the world, Brazil attaches particular importance to the question of the Holy Places. We continue to maintain the necessity
of implementing Security Council resolution 267 (1969), unanimously adopted on 3 July 1969, and we cannot remain indifferent to the measures, unilaterally adopted, which aim
at altering the status of the City of Jerusalem.

35. The basic concept of the United Nations is a primary concern with the condition of man and with social progress. The premise of our activities, the central idea
of our efforts in all fields, the reasoning behind the decisions we take, is the desire for justice, freedom, social welfare and the betterment of all peoples.
On several occasions we have explicitly reaffirmed this concept, and we have adopted many declarations, conventions and resolutions to implement it. However, we
must recognize that the progress made in certain areas, such as the affirmation of the rights of women, the protection of the rights of children and the eradication of
slavery, have not found their counterpart in efforts to meet the insolent challenge of the odious practice of racial discrimination.

36. Brazil — a country in which inequality and hatred between races are unknown — would not be true to itself if it were not always in the forefront of the fight against
discrimination. As the spokesman of a people who have equal respect for all others, the Brazilian Government cannot fail to fight, wherever the opportunity arises, the
policies and practices of discrimination which lead to apartheid, the object of our formal condemnation and abhorrence.

37. As we gather here today we have before us the prospect of the tenth anniversary of the Declaration of the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples.
As we look around this chamber, we can see how great has been the contribution of the United Nations to building a new world. Offsetting the undeniable difficulties
faced by this Organization, and lightening the pessimism induced in us by the prevalence of power politics, we have the reassuring reality of the presence at our debates
of some fifty States awakened to sovereign life since the creation of the United Nations, in many cases with the encouragement and support of our Organization. The
contribution we have made to the process of decolonization will be inscribed with special distinction, among our more positive achievements. I am particularly pleased
to point out the consistent participation of Brazil in all the diplomatic and parliamentary phases of the moral and political action of the United Nations on behalf of
the self-determination of peoples. The valuable contribution the new States—African, Asian and American — have made to our work is proof of their political maturity and
of their noble purpose in the cause of peace and international co-operation.

38. A year from now we will celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations, which will give us a good opportunity of taking stock of our achievements and
planning our future. The world of today, in which the boldness of science and of the human spirit has carried man beyond the limits of our own planet, is very different
from the world of a quarter of a century ago. The Charter of the United Nations is a document of the year 1945. But the purposes and principles enshrined in it have not
lost their validity and continue to represent a clear expression of the ideals which should guide international life.

39. The sovereign equality of States, good faith in international relations, the use of peaceful means for the settlement of disputes, the abandonment of the use of
force, strict adherence to obligations arising from treaties and other international agreements, co-operation to maintain peace as well as to achieve economic, social
and cultural progress, non-discrimination, respect for the self-determination of peoples, non-intervention—these make an impressive programme, to which we can still
today give our most conscientious and firm support, as we did twenty-five years ago.

40. This continued adherence to basic principles does not prevent us from recognizing that it is possible to improve the structure and machinery of co-operation at our
disposal. As soon as possible, it would be well to revise our Charter so as to consolidate and reinforce the ideas crystallized over the last quarter of a century,
particularly in regard to defence against the new insidious forms of pressure and intervention, and co-operation on behalf of peace and the enunciation of a universal
obligation for solidarity in development.

41. The Charter is a document that signalled the close of a war. By revising it and adapting it to the needs of our times and, whatever happens, faithfully applying it,
it is incumbent upon us to make of it a document signalling the beginning of an enduring peace.


===== Session 25 - 1970 =====
1.	Mr. President, I should like, first of all, to congratulate you on your unanimous election as President.of the twenty-fifth regular session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Your excelled experience in international affairs, your proven competence in all matters pertaining to the theory and practice of the Organization, your outstanding contributions as professor, statesman and diplomat, and the fact that you are a national of a country which loves peace and is dedicated to the great causes of mankind are a pledge of the kind of action and leadership which will guide us in the debates that we are now starting. Allow me also to express our gratitude to Mrs. Angie Brooks-Randolph for the tact, impartiality and keen political sense with which she presided over our work during the twenty-fourth session.
2.	At the same time, it behooves me, on behalf of the Government I represent, to express to all representatives here assembled our gratification upon the election of Brazil to one of the Vice-Presidencies of the General Assembly at its twenty-fifth anniversary session. Brazil accepts this honor and this trust as a mandate for the active defense of the ideals, the rights and the aspirations which the Latin American nations share with other developing countries.
3.	If you will allow me now a remark of a personal nature, I should like to say that I am now reliving in spirit the experience of twenty-five years ago, when, in the early years of my diplomatic career, I was assigned as a Junior Adviser to the delegation of Brazil to the San Francisco Conference. Like many others in this hall, I had a small share in the creation of this Organization, and it would be less than human of me to fail to contrast the dreams and illusions of 1945 with the disturbing realities of the year 1970.
4.	I do not wish to begin my statement without a special, albeit brief, mention of three highly significant recent events in the domain of international relations.
5.	In the first place, I would cite the re-establishment of the cease-fire in the Middle East and the concurrent creation of better prospects for a peaceful solution to the crisis. The developments of the last few days are showing, however, how fragile and precarious is the present cease-fire regime, which will be meaningful and effective only if accepted as a first step towards the political settlement of the problem on the basis of resolution 242 (1967) of the Security Council and the purposes and principles of the Charter. Time and again Brazil has stressed in the organs of the United Nations the need for an open and frank debate on the fundamental causes of the conflict. For historical reasons, very special responsibilities devolve upon the United Nations in connexion with the question of the Middle East. It is imperative, therefore, that the Organization, with the support of all its members, fulfill the obligations it has assumed.
6.	Secondly, we have the conclusion of the German- Soviet treaty of 12 August 1970, an important milestone in the history of international relations and a concrete step towards at long last breaking the bonds which hold us to 1945, thus superseding the post-war concept. It cannot be denied that the significance of this agreement transcends the scope of bilateral relations involving the two signatories. It affects European politics as a whole, and even the over-all pattern of international relations. Its impact upon the United Nations is equally significant; it would not be far-fetched to point out that it is tantamount to a suppression of Articles 53 and 107 of the Charter. Here is additional evidence that the world has not stood still during the last twenty- five years, and that the structure of international life does not cease to evolve.
7.	Finally, I could not fail to mention the convening of the first special session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States, putting into effect the changes in the structure of the OAS provided for in the Buenos Aires Protocol of 1967. In bringing the machinery for co-operation up to date, the nations of the western hemisphere reaffirm their decision to broaden the scope of their common endeavors for development and justice. They take this positive stand at a time when very small minority groups, in obedience to an outside guidance which they blindly follow, try in vain to use the weapons of terrorism to undermine the progress of their own peoples. Insane acts such as the hijacking of aircraft, armed assaults and robberies, the seizure and holding of innocent hostages, particularly diplomatic representatives, dastardly, brutal assassinations these are crimes at which world public opinion recoils, vehemently condemning the perpetrators. The Organization of American States has classified these as common crimes, and even as crimes against humanity. Echoing this line of thought, at the first special session of its General Assembly, the Organization of American States reaffirmed its emphatic repugnance for such methods of violence and terror.
8.	Brazil is particularly sensitive to this situation. For over a month and a half, we have been suffering the agonizing drama of having a member of our diplomatic corps held by despicable kidnappers, the defenseless victim of heinous brutality.
9.	Moreover, the serious incidents of the last few days are demonstrating that the problem of aircraft hijacking and the imprisonment of hostages demands clear and effective measures on the part of this Organization, as an instrument of the collective will of the community of nations.
10.	By instinct man attempts to evade eternity, and in doing so resorts to artificial divisions and demarcations of time, to the expedients of clepsydras, clocks and calendars. Man himself continues to be the measure of all things, and he feels the need to impose upon the measuring rod of his existence certain marks and points of reference, way stations, stop-overs, from which he can look back at the road he has already traveled and prepare himself for the rest of the journey. In this moment for pause and reflection it is important not to allow ourselves to be lulled into the unrealistic attitude of imagining the past and remembering the future.
11.	The Assembly of the twenty-fifth anniversary is indeed one of these way stations at which we can stop for a brief moment before proceeding along the road which will hopefully lead us to peace, justice and progress.
12.	This year we are also commemorating the tenth anniversary of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. The adoption of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) was one of the most important decisions ever taken by this Organization. It embodies the formal reaffirmation of the inalienable right of all peoples to self- determination. My country here and now reiterates its full support for this principle, just as it cannot fail to reiterate its concern over the persistence of policies of apartheid and racial discrimination, objects of the most formal repudiation and strongest condemnation by the Government and people of Brazil.
13.	Peace is no longer a simple ideal, a dream or a Utopian scheme. It has become the most pressing, the most elementary, of all needs. It has ceased to be an objective and has become a premise. Either we have a peaceful future before us or we run the risk of having no future at all. It is no longer a matter of evoking ideals of self-denial and altruism. It is no longer a matter of emphasizing the necessity for moral and political advances to match the prodigious scientific and technological progress of our day. It is a matter of appealing to the fundamental interest of man, to his instinct for self-preservation, for what is really at stake is the survival of man.
14.	No institution is more important than the men who set it up or the purpose it was designed to serve, and no political institutions are to be more revered than the people whose interest they are intended to protect. For that very reason, as far as the United Nations is concerned, we should first of all ask ourselves if our world Organization measures up to the ideals and desires vested in its creation at San Francisco and, then, what we can do today to improve it in the light of the experience we have acquired during the last twenty-five years.
15.	As for our first question, there is no doubt that the United Nations has not played the full role it was intended for in a world of crises, open conflicts, war communiques, shocks and counter-shocks. Without solving and at times without even discussing in depth the problems of peace, collective security and economic development, the United Nations has managed to give the impression that we have found it possible to content ourselves with the so-called new tasks  matters of science and technology, the preservation of the environment, population growth and others. Of course no one underestimates the importance of all these problems and, in some cases, the need for their adequate treatment through effective international cooperation with all due deference to the principles of the Charter which guarantee the national sovereignty and juridical equality of Member States. It is obvious that we have no objection to dealing with these matters in this forum, although it might seem more logical and practical to turn them over to the specialized agencies, ratione materiae. However, we must be careful to avoid turning the scale of priorities upside down. We cannot afford to reduce this Organization to the meager proportions of an international institute of technology. We must not forget that the United Nations represents the only specialized agency we have for peace, development and collective security. Should the Organization fail to carry out the fundamental tasks entrusted to it by the Charter it would be so debilitated that it would not even be able to cope with the ancillary assignments.
16.	One has the impression that there has been a retreat from the ideals and principles of San Francisco. If this were allowed to happen world peace would shrink to a mere process of detente or relaxation of tensions; the concept of general and complete disarmament, which strictly speaking should be inscribed among the purposes and principles of the Charter, would be superseded by the concept of "limitation of armaments" or "arms control"; the concept of collective security would dissolve into mere "security assurances" more limited in scope than those already provided for in the Charter. In the process dubious concepts would gain ground: "political realism", "spheres of influence", "balances of power" and above all the uncouth doctrine of "limited sovereignty", which stands for the very negation of international law and the freedom of nations.
17.	An attempt is being made to present the objective of general and complete disarmament as chimerical or Utopian while in reality it is no more Utopian or chimerical than the purposes and principles of the Charter which preclude the use of force in international relations. To relegate disarmament to the roll of unattainable objectives would be tantamount to denying as a premise the validity of the principles of the Charter in the world of today. In this context abandoning disarmament as the end objective of our efforts would be equivalent to rejecting the norm of peaceful settlement for international litigation. If force cannot be used, why do States persist in accumulating arms?
18.	It is up to us to forgo any tendency to consider some of the purposes and principles of the Charter as outmoded or bypassed by events. Supranationalism and interdependence may well constitute desirable goals, but they presuppose a stage, still to be reached, of political and economic independence and of effective juridical equality of all nations. Before declaring that the purposes and principles listed in Article 2 of the Charter are obsolete or outmoded, we should make a common effort to implement and observe them. Legitimate and lasting interdependence can only be attained through full sovereignty and equality.
19.	It is often said that although the United Nations has had little success in the specific field of peace and international security, it should not be forgotten that significant results have been achieved in the area of economic and social development. Unhappily, we are not in a position to share this optimistic view. The First United Nations Development Decade presented an unmistakable balance-sheet of failures and the Second Development Decade may well follow in its footsteps if we do not succeed in defining the strategy for it in stronger, more definite terms. In the final analysis, it must be determined whether or not the nations that make up the Organization are ready to accept, both in theory and in practice, a concept of collective security in the economic field, paralleling those for peace and security among nations.
20.	The failure of the First Development Decade lies as much in the field of planning and co-ordination as in the field of implementation and, above all, in the political field. The measures adopted were inadequate when compared to the needs of the developing countries. But beyond that, in the crucial moments of taking decisions, as for example during the second session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,  the conceptual framework of the United Nations system suffered from the lack of a global theory of development and, primarily, from the absence of the indispensable political will.
21.	Now, as we approach the end of the task of elaborating the strategy for the Second Development Decade, the United Nations has before it a clear new option that will determine the future of the system of international economic co-operation for development. It must choose between a strategy of stability, designed only to maintain the induces of poverty at their present levels, or a dynamic strategy for development.
22.	The strategy of stability, though for obvious reasons never couched in explicit terms, seems to contain three main elements: a demographic policy that fails to take into account the dynamic implications of the process of population growth; an agricultural policy directed towards a quantitative increase in the production of foodstuffs, as an end in itself and not as part of a global policy of industrialization for development; and, finally, an employment policy which, if necessary, is ready to sacrifice the greater objective of development to the attainment of sectorial employment goals.
23.	The dynamic strategy, on the other hand, is designed to go beyond a mere freezing of the present international economic imbalance. This has always been the guiding principle followed by Brazil in all the bodies in which there was any discussion of the prospects for the Second Development Decade: the strategy for the seventies should be, in our view, a program for action with converging and additional measures. Essentially, it should consist of three elements: firstly, global and sectoral objectives that, by the end of the Decade, will make it possible for the developing countries to increase their gross national products so significantly as to narrow the income gap between the north and the south; in the second place, a combination of measures mutually agreed upon in the fields of trade, financing and technology; and, finally, target dates for the implementation of these measures, of which the most important is the goal of 1 per cent of financial transfers.
24.	It should be emphasized that the amount of information and research already available within the United Nations system makes it perfectly feasible to adopt such a dynamic strategy, if -and this is the main point the Governments of the developed countries, both those with a market economy and the centrally planned ones, gird themselves with the indispensable political will to accept their commitments and to see that they are carried out. The alternative would be a sad realization that the scheme of international cooperation for development can only result in failure, a failure that it is impossible to cover up with half-way measures and declarations of good intentions.
25.	Such a failure would not imply that economic and social development would become unattainable, though, for many, the road would certainly be rendered more painful and more difficult. We all know that some Member States achieved notable growth indexes by internally mobilizing their own resources may I be allowed to say that my own country, Brazil, for instance, in 1969 had a 9 per cent increase in its gross national product. I do, however, have some doubt as to the possibility of developing countries as a whole finding viable formula for economic and social progress if we have a continuation of present tendencies towards stagnation in the flow of trade and of economic co-operation. We are not pleading for a solution to our national model. We are fully aware that the development of Brazil is our own responsibility, and we do not shrink from it. What we are attempting to do is to pose the problem on a world-wide basis.
26.	Brazil has repeatedly declared itself in favor of a revision of the Charter of the United Nations so as to adapt it to present-day conditions and relate it to the problems of the contemporary world. We do, however, recognize the political realities and difficulties standing in the way of an immediate revision. We see the revision as an essential step forward. But there is a danger that the prevailing conditions in the world, where power is used every day political power, economic power, military power, scientific and technological power may force us a step backwards, and a new Charter under these conditions may take the form of just one more element for freezing world power, as one of the factors for the maintenance of the status quo. Anyhow, it would be impossible to undertake a sober stock-taking of the achievements and short-comings of the Organization in these last twenty-five years without a full and thorough analysis of the international instrument which gives life to and governs the working of our Organization.
27.	That is why the problem of the revision of the Charter should be posed, and that is why we consider it highly significant that the General Committee should have decided yesterday to recommend the inclusion on our agenda of item 88 relating to the "Need to consider suggestions regarding the review of the Charter of the United Nations".
28.	As of now it is imperative to bring back to the forum of the United Nations certain problems which clearly fall within its competence and are now being discussed behind closed doors in dwindling circles. As a concession to the realities of power, the United Nations Charter conferred special prerogatives upon the permanent members of the Security Council. The permanence of their powers in the field of peace and international security is already in itself one of these prerogatives. But the Security Council as an institution cannot abdicate from its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security by acknowledging a new world order based upon a co- chairmanship in the hands of a very reduced number of Powers, in direct opposition to the spirit of the Charter. Powerless before the conflicts and dissensions that threaten and disrupt world peace, the Security Council seems little by little to be taking on the shape of a public registry office for the filing of complaints and counter-complaints, claims and counter-claims. It is well known that the methods of work of the Council have changed substantially during recent years with the result that now decisions are reached after a series of informal consultations rather than in open debates at formal meetings of the collective organ. Despite this development, which has been accompanied by a trend towards unanimity, the Council has been unable to ensure the enforcement of its decisions. This is largely due to the fact that the consultations carried on by the members of the Council are, as a rule, directed at collateral aspects of the problems and not towards the search for a political solution capable of eliminating the causes of the conflicts. Moreover, it so happens that consensus and unanimity are almost always reached at the expense of the relevancy of the texts adopted, language so vague and ambiguous being employed that the decisions are open to varied interpretations by the Council members. We are thus threatened with the emergence of a "veto by interpretation".
29.	In a memorandum dated 3 April 1970[see AI7922], in reply to a consultation by the Secretary-General of the United Nations under the terms of resolution 2606 (XXIV), the Brazilian Government took the opportunity to declare that any effort to reactivate the security system of the United Nations should lead the Security Council to a substantive examination of the differences underlying every specific situation that presents a threat to peace and security. The substantive consideration and study of the questions would be greatly facilitated by the active participation of the litigants in the informal process of consultations which is now prevalent. For that very reason and with the objective of institutionalizing these consultations, the Brazilian Government advanced the suggestion which I now reiterate that the Council, utilizing the faculties with which it is endowed by Chapter VI of the Charter, should in each case consider the advisability of the establishment of ad hoc committees for the pacific settlement of disputes, such committees to be made up of the parties to a conflict together with other delegations chosen by the Council at the suggestion of the litigants. These committees would have the broadest and most flexible mandates and would function, unhampered by records or a predetermined agenda, under the authority of the Security Council with the objective of harmonizing and reconciling the positions of the parties to the dispute.
30.	All of us are aware of the difficulties that arise whenever, once the means provided for in Chapter VI have been exhausted, an attempt is made to choose among the range of coercive measures set forth in Chapter VII. This is only natural considering that we can almost always count on a lack of unanimity among the permanent members and that if coercive measures were to be applied certain consequences would arise. What we should ask ourselves in a good number of cases is if the potentialities of Chapter VI have really been explored to the fullest. It is our earnest conviction that the United Nations and, more specifically, the Security Council should make greater use of the large variety of means and resources authorized by Chapter VI of the Charter.
31.	In short, what Brazil proposes now is a diplomatic reactivation of the United Nations. The adoption of procedures similar to the one suggested would afford the Organization much greater efficiency and authority as well as a more active role in the major problems of the world.
32.	Why should this suggestion strike anyone as unrealistic or impractical, and why should the eternal argument of "political realism" be leveled against it?
33.	Let us not forget that this so-called political real-ism has pushed us to the brink of war and destruction and is the chief cause for the $200,000 million spent every year in the arms race. Apart from possible catastrophic consequences, the arms race has already done irreparable damage to mankind by draining off enormous means and resources which could have been used to further peace, justice and progress.
34.	Our problems and difficulties are not outside the reach of human intelligence and its creative power. With all its short-comings and frustrations the United Nations is the only forum in which we can still opt for life, peace and development.
35.	At this stage, my country does no more than advance the most modest and the least original of proposals: let us use our Organization and let us apply the Charter; no more, no less. The acceptance of this proposal, which is a commonplace in the statements delivered in the general debate of every Assembly, could none the less have a dramatic impact upon the shape of our future.
36.	Brazil will never forsake this great hope: the hope for peace, justice and progress.


===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
3.	 Mr. President, let my first words be of congratulation to you on behalf of the Brazilian Government and in my own name, on your unanimous election as President of the twenty-sixth session of the General Assembly. Your personal and professional
qualification, fully recognized by all of us who are acquainted with you, assure us that the guidance of our debates will be in the hands of a skillful and internationally respected diplomat. May I also express the appreciation of the Brazilian Government for the efficiency, tact and assurance with which your distinguished predecessor, Mr. Edvard Hambro, carried out these functions.
4.	We are saddened by U Thant’s irrevocable decision to leave his post as Secretary-General at the end of his second term. The Brazilian Government had previously expressed its hope that U Thant would still be in a position to reconsider his decision and would agree to place his valuable services at the disposal of the international community for another period. Now that he has reaffirmed that his wish is irreversible, I should like to reiterate the gratitude of my Government to the Secretary-General for the dedication with which he has worked to serve the United Nations. The need to replace him leads us more than ever to ponder the delicate nature and the importance of that position as well as the political responsibility the Secretary-General holds within the system of our Organization, U Thant has given us ample evidence of this kind of understanding in the course of the 10 years during which we have become accustomed to seeing him work for the cause of international peace and harmony.
5.	In the course of the celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of our Organization, we unanimously asserted the belief that the United Nations continued to provide the most valid alternative for the theories of power and balance of power which nourish hegemonic ambitions. Despite the unanimity with which this belief was expressed, we concurrently pointed out the limitations which were reducing our Organization's capacity for action because of the resurgence of political concepts and diplomatic practices that run counter to the purposes and principles of the Charter.

6. The purposes and principles which the 51 founding Members of the United Nations incorporated into the institutional Charter of the Organization have made it possible for 79 nations, in the course of the quarter century of the existence of the United Nations, to accede to membership with the same sovereign status. When in July of 1945 we faced the misery, suffering and destruction brought about by the Second World War, we also assumed collective responsibility for eliminating the unjustifiable poverty plaguing two thirds of mankind. We were not aware then that a few weeks later the destructive force of the atom would appear on the scene as the major threat to peace and international security. It is indisputable that that event has conditioned the evolution of international relations since San Francisco, and its negative impact will persist as long as the knowledge that breeds power is not
placed definitely and unconditionally at the service of the international community.
7.	The contemporary crisis and the danger that the United Nations will be left to play but a marginal role in it will grow more and more acute so long as wealth and power continue to be concentrated in a few States, so long as scientific and technological knowledge remain "oligopolized" so long as, in the last analysis, the practice of power politics downgrades the United Nations and progressively lessens the importance of its position as an organizing, valid and active forum for international relations. Therefore, the alternative to the United Nations, both for the poor States and for the rich ones, for the powerless and the powerful, is chaos, which is the inevitable consequence of theories that set up force, the naked force of economic, scientific and military power as a pattern for international behavior.
8.	The Brazilian Government thus maintains, and will continue to stress, that peace and collective security, as well as the social and economic progress of developing countries, are the crucial problems of our time and that on their solution depend harmonious relationships among States.
9.	For the same reasons, during the General Assembly's twenty-fifth anniversary session Brazil strove for the adoption of the Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security [resolution 2734 (XXV)], through which we reiterated the purposes and principles of our Organization and its competence to examine, debate and settle major world issues.
10.	That reiteration doubtless implies a rebuttal of the so-called political realism used as a means of imposing and justifying new modes of the freezing of power, as well as the implicit or explicit establishment of spheres of influence.
11.	At the present session of the General Assembly we are invited to consider, in the light of this pseudo-realism, the accession of another great Power to our Organization. This realistic spirit seems to be a modem version of Realpolitik, a term which brings to mind less than happy memories. As a matter of fact, I would prefer to have that so-called realistic spirit applied to the recognition by the United Nations of a process that can no longer be delayed: the translation into concrete deeds of the moral duty and political obligation of wealthy nations to make an effective contribution to the progress of the less-developed countries, or, at the very least, not to raise obstacles to their development. There is no lack of studies on the subject. Quite reasonable proposals have been put forth and even adopted. Yet when we take stock of the outcome of their implementation we are made aware that all we have succeeded in achieving is the splitting up of our deliberations into comfortable time-packages. That is how we came to the Second Development Decade.
12.	Now, unfortunately this is not Realpolitik we are dealing with-not the Realpolitik that would lead us to lasting and fruitful peace. Quite the contrary, the Realpolitik we are invited to apply on this occasion is the admission of the fact that a nation counting its population in the hundreds of millions and possessing its own nuclear
 


weapons-even though, incidentally, the proliferation of these weapons is supposed to be proscribed-could not fail to be given a position among us compatible with its strength. What we are facing here is another instance of power politics, which can hardly set proper criteria for organizing an international society based on peace, justice and the equality of States.
13.	In relation to this issue, which is being given top- priority attention in all the chancelleries of the world, I should also like to remark that the new fact before us is not the discovery of a new star in the constellation of the great Powers. This star has long been shining. It has been there ever since it mastered the technology and means to jeopardize the survival of mankind -- in other words, ever since it proved it possessed atomic weapons. The very novelty of the situation now in the offing that fundamentally changes the prospects of the membership of the United Nations is that a super-Power has decided the time has come to acknowledge the existence of another great Power. This fact seems to be irrefutable. Consequently the candidate for membership comes into existence from the moment the directorate of the club of power so decides.
14.	The participation of this new partner is taken for granted, whether it be today or tomorrow. Timing appears to be irrelevant. The important point, the relevant innovation, would be for this display of Realpolitik to result in the United Nations henceforth discussing and deciding upon major issues of international peace and security which, strangely enough, have not been discussed in the General Assembly.
15.	Certainly, while I am attempting to picture the freezing of power as a trend that has become a major obstacle to the achievement of the objectives of peace, security and development, I do not postulate, either directly or indirectly, a symmetrical evaluation of the super-Powers, their world interests or political behavior.
16.	Even if, hypothetically, the international community were willing to accept a "nuclear peace" and therefore the resulting principle that absolute power engenders absolute rights, historical experience disavows any permanent differentiation of States into a small, group endowed with, on the one hand, unparalleled power and, on the other, a second category of countries condemned to the role of spectators or protégés of power.
17.	On the contrary, the political philosophy of our Organization rests on quite a different basis: the equality of rights, duties and opportunities of all Member States, respect for the sovereignty and independence of States, the non-use of force in the settlement of international disputes, and the fulfillment in good faith of the obligations contracted under the Charter, It therefore becomes obvious that the doctrines of power threaten the existence of the United Nations as the normative organ of international society, downgrading it politically as the international forum competent to impose discipline on the fact of power itself--discipline that should benefit the international community as a whole rather than the oligopoly of force that acts to the community's detriment.
18.	The most evident, and in the long run most dangerous, attempt to sanction immobility is the systematic refusal 
even to entertain the possibility of reviewing the Charter. The Brazilian Government does not think the political philosophy of the United Nations, as expressed in its purposes and principles, is in need of revision. That was the sense of the appeal I made during the twenty-fifth anniversary session: "let us use our Organization and let us apply the Chatter" [1841st meeting, para. 35].
19.	But since times change, the machinery established for the implementation of these purposes and principles must now be submitted to review and revision. The scenarios that have evolved and disappeared in the changeable international reality, the experiences we have accumulated during our 25 years of work to put a stop to or contain crises and causes of conflict, and, even more basically, the entrance into these scenarios of so many new, sovereign States, have rendered many of the mechanisms created a quarter of a century ago archaic, inadequate and insufficient. Revision is a prerequisite for making available to the United Nations instruments which will make them more active, more normative and more agile.
20.	As an illustration of the need for revision, I could point to the limited representativeness of such organs as the Economic and Social Council, the current membership of which renders it incapable of reflecting and interpreting the whole and complex gamut of the economic and social interests of Member States of the United Nations.
21.	Along this line of thought I wish to reiterate that the Brazilian Government cannot agree that the principle of sovereign equality of Member States should be questioned in any way or restricted in its consequences. This principle is not subject to any qualification other than those prerogatives explicitly set forth in Article 27 of the Charter. An exceptional rule is involved here. Its effects cannot be extended to any other forum or activity of the Organization, thus endowing the permanent members of the Security Council with special prerogatives. Nor should this privilege, which is restricted to the forum of that same Council, serve to assure its permanent members any advantage or priority of membership in the subsidiary organs of the Assembly, to the detriment of the principle of equitable geographic representation.
22.	It seems necessary here to stress the obvious since the obvious frequently becomes distorted under the impact of powerful conflicting interests. The establishment of peace is the fundamental task of the United Nations: a peace which is not to be confused with the balance of power or its nuclear counterpart, the balance of terror; a peace which should not be the mere perpetuation of an unjust international situation, or the mere absence of conflict with a whole range of sinister nuclear overtones; a peace, in short, which should not be reduced to sheer hope for the survival of mankind on the morrow and a hope, consistently renewed on a short-term basis, that the nuclear arsenals will not be used. On the contrary it should be a peace resting on the stable structure of collective security and providing conditions for progress, a peace which is identified with the eradication of under-development and which guarantees to all Member States territorial integrity, national identity, the right to develop their human potentialities, their political and social capabilities and the unimpeded possession and disposition of their factors of progress.
23.	The basic requirement for the permanent establishment of peace and political and economic security lies essentially in general and complete disarmament, which cannot be reduced to the inadequate dimension of partial measures of arms control or non-armament. Although necessary and praiseworthy, these measures have not gone beyond the maintenance of the present distribution of nuclear power under the deceptive cloak of the co- chairmanship. The existence of nuclear arsenals and the sums expended annually to strengthen them quantitatively and improve them qualitatively are the result of antagonisms which the practice of the balance of power does not allow to be resolved. No one disputes any longer the irrationality of "over-kill", or that unrestrained spending on nuclear arms constitutes the greatest impediment to any integrated plan for global economic development.
24.	We meet here once again entrusted with the responsibility of seeking a solution which, viewed rationally, seems about to materialize. Yet this solution stubbornly eludes us, prodded beyond our grasp by a diabolical illusion that power, which only apparently renders a few immune, will through its own dynamics guarantee the survival of all.
25.	Hence our eyes and ears are fixed on the doors behind which, in Helsinki and in Vienna, the secret talks on the limitation of strategic arms are proceeding with the slowness to which we have, unhappily, become accustomed. Around those tables, where we have no seats, the negotiators of the super-Powers play with the destiny of us all.
26.	 In a few months the third session of the United Nations	Conference on Trade and Development [UNCTAD] will be convened, the third opportunity afforded the developed world in less than 10 years to co-operate concretely with the developing countries to improve their living standards, and to close within the shortest possible time the economic, scientific and technological gap separating the nations of the world.
27.	Disappointed at the poor results of the first and second sessions of UNCTAD, and aware of the reluctance of developed countries, of the intransigence of some and the even less excusable indifference of others, Brazil believes that the fate of the third session of UNCTAD will depend on the growing acceptance by the international community of the concept of collective economic security through the adoption of decisions of broad range and significance at the institutional level, and through the creation of new and more ambitious mechanisms.
28.	The concept of collective economic security will complement the system of collective political security. In practice, this concept, which Brazil has consistently defended since 1953, upholds in the first place the right of all nations to economic and social development. It also postulates the ditty of the more developed countries to contribute to the elimination of the external barriers which they have created and which hinder the acceleration of the growth of developing countries. This should be achieved in accordance with the negotiated time-tables and, in any event, before the end of the Second United Nations Development Decade.
29.	To the extent of its capabilities, Brazil is prepared to take up its responsibilities towards the least developed
among developing countries, bilaterally as well as multilaterally. And we are naturally moved to do so by reason of the solidarity that links us to these countries, and also because we consider it to be an ethical imperative. We want to see this issue frontally tackled in Lima, at the Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77, so that the third session of UNCTAD may bring about concrete and global solutions to this problem. We are convinced that other countries in stages of development similar to Brazil's will join us in seeking such solutions; concurrently, it is essential, in accordance with the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade, that developed countries be prepared to contribute additional resources to eliminate more rapidly the disparities in growth among those in process of development. In the Latin American context, we are already acting increasingly in accordance with this political decision.
30.	Collective economic security further presupposes the protection of all Member States against economic aggression, threats or pressures, especially in relation to international trade and financing; it also presupposes respect for the sovereignty of all States over their natural resources and the political and economic consequences thereof, namely, the right freely to protect those resources and exploit them for the benefit of their own peoples and in accordance with their own priorities.
31.	Brazil reiterates the right and duty of riparian States to avail themselves of the resources of tire seas, the sea-bed and the subsoil thereof adjacent to their coastlines in order to ensure the economic and social well-being of their peoples. To this effect we maintain that such States are entitled to exercise the right to determine the extent of their sovereignty or jurisdiction over those areas, in accordance with their geographical, geological and biological peculiarities, and their requirements in the fields of security, scientific investigation and with respect to the preservation of the marine environment. The Brazilian Government wishes to express its gratification at the wide-spread understanding and support these principles are increasingly receiving from States of all continents and levels of economic development in the context of the preparatory work on a comprehensive conference on the law of the sea.
32.	I have no intention of bringing into this debate matters that are already being discussed in other international forums in a more adequate technical manner. But I cannot refrain from pointing out that Brazil is following with deep concern the new trends and developments that now characterize the international monetary and trade scene as a consequence of the decisions taken by the Government of the United States of America to offset the deficit in its balance of payments. It is undeniable that the fundamental interests of developing countries have in this case once again been neglected. It should be stressed that developing countries have in no way contributed to bringing about this abnormal situation on the international financial and trade scene. Therefore, it is imperative that their interests be duly safeguarded in the search for corrective solutions in order to avoid any further set-backs to their economic and social development process, However, I very much fear that if Governments and specialized organs adopt measures to reshape the international monetary
 
 system without previously consulting the developing countries in the appropriate international organs-I very much fear, I repeat-that the action program for development embodied in the International Development Strategy adopted last year by this Assembly [resolution 2626 (XXV)] will be gravely impaired in the very first year of its existence.
33.	The Latin American countries have already taken a common political stand on those problems. We firmly trust that the United States of America, as well as the developed countries currently engaged in mutual consultations for the purpose of maintaining their stability, will not abandon their prior commitments towards the developing world.
34.	Brazil, with an already accelerated rate of economic growth and social progress which heralds the breaking of the barriers of under-development; will continue to the best of its ability to strive for the strengthening of an international order based on the concepts I have just outlined.
35.	Since historical events are rendering obsolete the bi-polarization which dominated international relations, its alternative cannot be a new power system also to be based on a small number of nations claiming a de facto hegemony over the rest of the world; rather it must be an international community organized in conformity with the broader and more equitable provisions of the purposes and principles of the Charter.
36.	The consistent tenor of our foreign policy is summed up in. the following words of President Emilio Garrastazii Mddici
“Brazil is opposed to the division of the world into spheres of influence; it believes that peace is essential to the achievement of progress, and it adheres faithfully to the principle of the peaceful settlement of international disputes as its guide-line in the conduct of its diplomacy.
37.	That is the understanding of the contemporary reality that Brazil wishes to share with other Member States at the opening of this general debate. Nothing can undermine our determination to go on working toward our common ideals and aspirations, which will draw us ever closer in progress and in peace. Nothing shall alter our certainty that, despite so many set-backs, we still retain in our hands, in the hands of the peoples of the United Nations, the power to repudiate, once and for all, the tragic legacy of violence and folly which drenched in Mood and tears the road we had to travel in order finally to create this Organization. Nothing shall weaken our efforts to improve the United Nations by expanding its responsibilities and increasing its effectiveness in disciplining international relations among States for the benefit of world peace and security,






===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
Brazil is attending the twenty-seventh session of the General Assembly in the conviction that the intense diplomatic activity which has in recent months attracted the attention of our foreign ministries should be the subject of thorough study, not only because this diplomatic activity will have an impact on the general interests of the international community, but also because we shall thus be able to gage its compatibility with our Organization's specific competence and objectives.
3.	Before I undertake such an analysis, allow me, Mr. President, to congratulate you on your unanimous election and to express my gratification at seeing you preside over our work; for I also bear in mind that you represent a country whose sons migrated to Brazil in substantial numbers and, by their productive efforts and perfect integration into the open and multiracial Brazilian society, contributed in large measure to the progress of their adopted homeland.
4.	In addition, I would avail myself of this opportunity to convey to Mr. Adam Malik my appreciation for the serene and correct manner in which he presided over the twenty- sixth session of the General Assembly.
5.	It is also my wish to reiterate to Mr. Waldheim, whom I have so often met in other diplomatic forums, the satisfaction that my Government and I myself experienced upon his assumption of the responsibilities of Secretary- General of the United Nations. His sense of mission, already evidenced during the brief period in which he has been exercising the functions so worthily discharged by his predecessors, and his diplomatic experience which we all acknowledge and which contributed so decisively to his unanimous election to a post so exacting, yet so full of possibilities-all these qualifications are the best assurance of a reactivation of the role that the United Nations, through its Secretary-General, should play in the international political field. I am certain that in my words of greeting Mr. Waldheim will detect not only the affectionate message of a colleague and friend of many years standing but also and chiefly the conviction held by the Foreign Minister of a country whose international involvement keeps up with its growth that our Secretary-General possesses the indispensable qualities of moderation and dynamism required by the office he occupies. Proof of his capacity for taking the initiative to bring to the attention of the United Nations major problems we are now facing was the solemn appeal he addressed to the General Assembly to find the most appropriate means to combat terrorism and other forms of violence which endanger and take innocent human lives [A/8791 and Add.lJ.
6.	It is, in my view, most deplorable that the Assembly has failed to endorse the wording of item 92 as recommended by the General Committee [see A/8800/Rev.l, para. 18]. After the voting on the amendments presented at the plenary meeting last Saturday night [2037th meeting], the Brazilian delegation stressed two points that we deemed essential to clarify our position: first, we cannot accept terrorism, or any form of violence, as a legitimate political instrument; secondly, the wording of the item as finally adopted contains expressions which have been frequently used in attempts to justify or even tolerate terrorism. We are seriously concerned lest this wording encourage attempts at undue interference in matters falling within the exclusive domestic jurisdiction of States and consequently lead to acrimonious and sterile debates.
7.	It is not only in recent days that we have been concerned with the problem of terrorism which has affected so many countries, including my own, as is generally known. In January and February 1971 the General Assembly of the Organization of American States met at Washington in extraordinary session to attempt to establish on the regional level a juridical order capable of facing up to and overcoming this intolerable threat to the peace and well-being of our peoples. However, the limited results then obtained did not constitute, in our opinion, an adequate instrument with which to meet this pressing need, as subsequent tragic events have unfortunately proved. I do not feel it necessary to recall the clear and forceful position that Brazil has always adopted with regard to this grave problem. Nor is it my purpose to recall here recent history which must certainly still be in the minds of all. What I wish is to launch now, in this world forum, a vehement appeal for us to hanker to the outcry which requires our statesmen and government leaders to take practical and immediate measures to defend the most elementary principles which should preside over social relationships.
8.	We are not prompted by any political preference or any ideological bias when we declare that it is urgent, that it is indispensable, for us to unite and organize ourselves with firmness and determination against the hideous and indiscriminate violence of terrorism to which each and every country has become exposed; indeed, this brooks no delay. We continue to maintain that this indiscriminate violence gives the outright lie to the thesis that terrorist subversion is the fruit of social injustice or of the poverty of a given society.
9.	At this juncture let us be truly the "United Nations", regardless of our respective and different ideological convictions or patterns of political organization, and let us heed this clamor and be firm and united in the struggle for the final extirpation of violence in any of its forms.
10.	The Brazilian nation celebrates this year the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of its independence. The civic enthusiasm with which we commemorate our entry, a century and a half ago, into the community of sovereign States strengthens our determination to build our national destiny in the certainty that, to progress, Brazil must rely on itself and on the work of its people, and to build it in the conviction that this development can be accelerated by the establishment and maintenance of that peace and security which will ensure to each and every one of the members of the international community the right to progress and to stability as well as a sovereign voice and an active presence in the formulation of the world political order. Brazil's diplomacy, which it is today incumbent upon me to conduct, abides fully by the traditions of understanding and negotiation bestowed upon us by our elders.
11.	For the past 26 years Brazil has been given the privilege and responsibility of opening our general debate, a custom which brings me to this rostrum as the first speaker for the third consecutive session of the Assembly. This tradition also presents the challenge of initiating a critical analysis of the international political scene in the light of the diplomatic events of the past 12 months and from the angle of the repercussions that same activity will have on this broad and irreplaceable forum for the harmonization of the external behavior of States which is the United Nations.
12.	Contemporary international political relationships are characterized by the complexity, extensiveness and swiftness of their evolution. No less characteristic of the times in which we live is the unrelenting persistence of situations and ways of action which Brazil considers ethically unjust, politically anachronistic and juridically condemnable. The conflicting interaction between a new concept of peace and security-new because it is as young as the aspirations we inscribed in our Charter-and the old patterns of international behavior, which we have not yet succeeded in superseding, is basically responsible for the crises and tensions which still exist on the large stage of inter-State relations.
 
13.	It is not that I am unaware of, or appreciate any the less, the encouraging progress that we are achieving, little by little, along the intricate path of reconciling differences and in the search for the easing of tensions. But I cannot fail to deplore the fact that this slow progress towards the realization of our ideals of peace and security is being attained amidst contradictions and paradoxes, for there continue to weigh on the horizons of the world, albeit apparently less heavily, the dense clouds of nuclear confrontation; a kind of suspended sentence of doom hovers over mankind as a whole. Neither the doctrine nor the practice of strategic balance, nor arbitrary compositions among the poles of international power, have succeeded in extinguishing the fires of regional conflicts. The attempt to coexist within a strategic arrangement or, in other words, the contemporary "balance of prudence" referred to by the Secretary-General [A/8701lAdd.l, p. ./] determines the outstanding bilateral diplomatic activity in which the great Powers are currently engaged and reflects the complex problems of today's international reality.
14.	But it so happens that the easing of tensions and coexistence are not synonymous with the peace and security we pursued when founding the United Nations. Rather they are palliatives, perhaps opportune in the circumstances, but inadequate and insufficient, serving only to render the political atmosphere less oppressive, yet still not succeeding in brightening it. In fact, to be lasting and fruitful, the easing of tensions should be more than a mere expedient resorted to by the predominant Powers as a function of their national interests.
15.	Our sense of reality obliges us to recognize the pragmatic merit of the various initiatives which have enabled us to leap over the walls of dissension and irreducible ideological conflict and pass from the sterile and sombre cold-war years to this period of dialog. But it is indispensable and urgent that the spreading awareness of the impossibility and irrationality of a final nuclear confrontation should result in the institutionalization of an equitable system of international peace and security. I submit that this system, to be enduring and universally accepted, has to be built within the framework of the United Nations and legitimized by it; for this is the true, the genuine, normative forum of inter-State relations.
16.	A few months ago, after a long period of waiting that became more and more anxious in view of the unbridled increase in the means of mass destruction at the disposal of the super-Powers, the international community was informed of the first and meager results of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks results which in the final analysis reflect the interests of the microcosm of strategical parity.
17.	It is worth-while asking whether the subsystem of lateral pacts is to supersede the United Nations and even override it, or whether our Organization prevails over these pacts and retains its right to appraise and sanction them. So long as strategic parity per se remains the goal, or so long as this parity is construed as the only possible condition and guarantee for peace, this peace will, by definition, be unstable and fleeting.
18.	Recent and explicit references to an alleged primacy of the security interests of the great Powers to which lesser interests and, viewed from that perspective, supposedly parochial interests should be subordinated betray the original assumption that some countries can act in consonance with special responsibilities which would politically validate their conduct. The logical consequence of such a doctrine and its ensuing application relegate to a category of secondary objectives the implementation of an effective system of international security in conformity with the conceptual terms of the purposes and principles of the Charter.
19.	The considerations of Realpolitik, which at San Francisco influenced the composition and functioning of the Security Council, are not enough to justify bypassing the mechanisms for action envisaged in the Charter, as is increasingly occurring, through negotiations in lateral forums of restricted membership, without the active presence of the medium-sized and small Powers. It is beyond question, in our view, that the participation of the medium-sized and small Powers would be highly constructive and creative; it would be tantamount to an infusion of new blood, which might serve to heal the sclerosis of structures that have aged apparently without being aware of it. How can one deny the validity of the claim to a broader role for the international community in the solution of problems that, after all, are of collective' world interest?
20.	We are asked to be realistic. Well, then, let us be truly realistic and take advantage of the atmosphere of detente, the momentum provided by the initiatives that in Europe have resulted in the accommodation of interests through the German-Soviet and German-Polish treaties and the Berlin agreements, which have opened favorable prospects for a future conference on European security. And let us apply this momentum to the international scene as a whole by making full use of the diplomatic mechanisms available in our Organization. Let us give a voice and role in building true peace and lasting security to all of us gathered here, persuaded as we are that the destiny of each of us is closely intertwined with that of all the others, that the development of the poor segment of mankind is a condition for the stability of the wealthy segment of humanity, and that peace and security both political and economic-are inseparable.
21.	These same purposes of reconciling points of view and of accommodating legitimate sovereign interests enabled us at Santiago to further negotiations on so many important matters falling within the competence of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development [UNCTAD]; and in Stockholm to achieve fairly appreciable results towards the solution of the major problem of safeguarding the human environment.
22.	The Brazilian Government considers that the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment attained its stated objectives, namely, to arrive at a common "to inspire and guide the peoples of the world in the preservation and enhancement of the human environment".    The normative and operational framework adopted in Stockholm provides the bases for broad international co-operation in the preservation of the environment and indicates rational criteria to serve as guidelines for the sovereign action of States in the exploitation of their natural resources, in accordance with their national plans and priorities and without undue interference.
23.	The unwavering defense that Brazil has undertaken, and will continue to maintain, of the sovereign right of each State to make full economic use of the resources of its territory for the benefit of its own people does not preclude recognition of its responsibility to carry out its development plans without risk of significant damage to the environment of bordering areas. Our attitude in this regard can be illustrated by the positions we have been taking, in all good faith and in the best spirit of good neighborliness, at the regional forum which specifically deals with this subject and where, we believe, practical solutions that meet all the interests at stake can always be found.
24.	Despite the persistence of serious situations of conflict I recognize that, in many aspects, the evolution of international relations appears to be following a more constructive course. But the conspicuous absence of the United Nations from the whole process of the easing of tensions, as though the flow of the major currents of negotiation had been diverted in order to bypass our Organization, has engendered a crisis of confidence and a feeling of frustration which limit the normative capacity of the United Nations. We are obliged to acknowledge that we have not as yet been able to assert the juridical and ethical preeminence of our constitutional document, nor have we been able in the political and security field to render the Organization fully operative.
25.	I am stressing the political and security field inasmuch as in the economic and social spheres the performance of the United Nations is less discouraging. Economic cooperation and assistance, as we understand them today and as we intend to develop them further, are products of the consciousness which was born and raised in this very hall and which has in fact enlarged the scope of Chapter IX of the Charter and converted into reality many ideas originally expressed as timid aspirations. I emphasize this fact because the General Assembly christened and sponsored many initiatives which were later shaped in other organisms of our system because the Economic and Social Council did not bestir itself in time to deal with the multifarious problems of economic development and did not exercise its responsibilities in the area of policy-making and co-ordination.
26.	In any critical analysis of the United Nations there must be a chapter acknowledging the merits of our Organization or, if one prefers, the merits of its General Assembly-in activating, in giving form and substance to the aspirations to assistance and co-operation nurtured by the large majority of its membership.
271 There remains, of course, much very much more to do, in this field. Many myths must be destroyed and much conservatism must be eliminated if we are to make more effective and more active the rendering of international assistance by the rich countries to the poor ones; in order, in a word, to reshape at last the international division of labor, so that the mechanisms of co-operation can function in a manner less hindered by such preconceptions, myths and conservatism. It has been a long and patient effort which is beginning to thrive and which can flourish if we are willing to fertilize other ideas sown in the Charter, ideas that interrelate collective economic security and collective political security.
28.	That is the path recently shown us by the Secretary - General, with the authority vested in him, when he said:
“... development issues which in the past might have been local or regional in character today affect the entire world and should therefore be dealt with at the international community level... economic problems, just as political and military disputes, affected world security. Collective economic security was therefore a necessary correlate to the concept of collective political security. The concept of collective economic security would give added life and meaning to the International Development Strategy and its review and appraisal mechanism.
“It was most timely and appropriate that, at a time when the Economic and Social Council was in the process of self-renewal, it should give serious and careful consideration to this idea and to the practical ways it could be realized.”
29.	Here I wish to convey the satisfaction of my Government with the endorsement by the Secretary-General of the Brazilian concept of collective economic security. He has granted this concept the passport with which we hope it will travel through the international economic thinking of the 1970s. It is not Brazil's intention to advocate that we should hasten to arrive at a final formulation of this concept, or that we should hurry to put it into operation, thus risking its faulty, incomplete or insufficient implementation. Quite to the contrary, what we propose is wide-open, frank dialog; what we expect is that we shall work together to refine this concept and to formulate its operational principles. The Brazilian delegation will return to this subject on the proper occasion, in the proper forum, with the sole intent of contributing to the strengthening and improvement of the foundations on which world peace and security should rest.
30.	Let me now sum up the main line of reasoning of this presentation.
31.	If the process of international organization is irreversible, inasmuch as it embodies a universally shared aspiration and inasmuch as it is a constant in the historical evolution of inter-State relations, why does our Organization so frequently find itself bypassed? Does this situation derive from an option by .some countries not to utilize the Organization as an organ of collective decision? Or is the weakening of the United Nations to be attributed to structural deficiencies stemming from its institutional stagnation, from its inadequacy vis-a-vis contemporary international reality, already so distinct from that prevailing at the end of the Second World War, which the Charter had to mirror?
32.	Whatever the reasons for the progressive political, diplomatic and even financial impoverishment of the United Nations, it is urgent to reinvigorate our Organization, to fortify it as a converging center for international politics, to make it regain control over the revamping of the system of inter-State relations, for only the United Nations can provide the juridical-political parameters of conciliation between legitimate national interests and what suits the collective interest.
33.	The diplomatic marginalization of the United Nations has been and still is derived to a large extent from its institutional aging process, which reduces its procedural capacity to transform words into action, will into deeds, determination into reality. The Charter of the United Nations is to international relations what national constitutions are to the domestic political-juridical order of Member States. No written constitution has historically succeeded in remaining unaltered. As the societies to which they apply change and evolve, national constitutions evolve and change to avoid becoming a dead letter as the result of refusing to acknowledge and to institutionalize new situations and new social facts. We are currently witnessing at the international level a growing gap between constitutional norms and reality. This is the normative gap, I would say, now being added to the other gaps which so afflict two thirds of mankind.
34.	Obviously, the degree of effectiveness of the United Nations is less dependent upon the text of the Charter than upon the political will of States to respect and implement its purposes and principles; it is no less true that any anachronistic norms become in themselves a hindrance to evolution and that the over-validity of supplanted institutions discourages the exercise of that same political will.
35.	The Brazilian Government holds that the only alternative is adaptation and reform.
36.	My Government fully acknowledges all that is permanent and valuable in our Charter. From this very rostrum, on the occasion of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations, I launched an appeal for us to apply the Charter in its high normative sense, and for us to make full use of the diplomatic capabilities of our Organization.  Thus, as I reiterate Brazil's total adherence to the purposes and principles, I also maintain that it is high time to improve the Charter. I find it a fallacious argument that if we were to redraft the Charter, the political conditions of today would prevent us from producing a document as valuable as the one drawn up in 1945. In this argument there is implicit the pessimistic assumption that, in the course of these past 27 years, the world has become worse and statesmen have become less rational.
37.	It is not the intention of the Brazilian Government to suggest that we rewrite the Charter; what is in fact incumbent upon us is to revitalize our constitutional document, to correct its inadequacies, to update it, and, if I may say so, to adapt it to a world that is already distant from the international reality of the post-war period.
38.	Interpreting the will of our Governments, the drafters of the Charter themselves acknowledged, with the humility of true statesmen, that they had not produced a perfect and everlasting document. In Article 109 they themselves foresaw and affirmed the need for reform in setting a time-limit for review, a process considered indispensable for the United Nations to endure and advance. I should like to recall that, as early as in San Francisco, the Brazilian delegation, aware of the changeability of the times, suggested that the Charter should be reviewed automatically every five years irrespective of the veto.  When are we to follow the course of action so wisely set forth in Article 109?
39.	The Brazilian Government believes that a review and eventual reform of the Charter would decisively contribute to stimulating the political will of States to utilize the avenues of the international Organization in the most effective and comprehensive manner, to render the Organization itself operative and dynamic, at the service of a world in such an obvious phase of transition.
40.	In replying to the questionnaire of the Secretary-General [see A/8746], my Government has already indicated those matters which in its opinion should be assigned first priority in connexion with a review of the Charter. Specific reference was made to the concept of collective economic security and to peace-keeping operations. We also presented suggestions regarding the enhancement of the effectiveness of the Security Council. And, while stressing the inter-connexion between these different subjects, we noted that the debate on the item concerning the review of the Charter would offer an opportunity for an in-depth examination of all related issues and positions of principle having a bearing on the work of the Security Council as well as on its organizational structure. This issue calls for a thorough and unbiased re-evaluation, free from considerations based on the outdated power structure of the immediate post-war period.
41.	The acceleration of the pace of international relations and the growing development of the communications media afford the emerging countries the opportunity to break out of the historic isolation in which they have been living and to project their national interests on the international plane. Domestic development concurrently broadens international obligations; growth increases international responsibilities and, consequently, commitments and duties. Brazil has long since made its irreversible choice in favor of all that presupposes clarity and harmony, in favor of just and correct relations with other nations, of good faith in discharging obligations, and systematically rejects the theses of separate paths of progress and of the false rights stemming from power.
42.	New life should urgently be given to the ideals of collective security which inspired the Charter, in the form of a system of more operative norms that better encompass contemporary reality,, these norms being firmly linked to germane principles of sovereign equality and equality of opportunity among States.
43.	True political realism consists in trying to construct a permanent international order founded on collective consensus. This Assembly is the forum par excellence to expand the understandings arrived at among a few on matters of interest to so many, and to render these understandings beneficial to all. It is incumbent upon the United Nations, where the organized international community is represented, to assume the final and untransferable responsibility for forging the bases of an equitable system of international co-operation, to build peace and to defend it.


===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿Mr. President, I wish to begin by expressing the gratification of the Government of Brazil and my own at your election to preside over the twenty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Your vast diplomatic experience and the brilliant services you have always rendered to your country, to the inter-American system and to the international community assure us that our work during this session will be guided by your proven lucidity and political acumen. As a Brazilian, I recognize among your attributes the outstanding values of the noble people of Ecuador, a country which has always been linked to Brazil through friendship, mutual respect and a co-operation which we are today expanding more than ever; as a Latin American, I am aware that your personal attributes are highly representative of the long lineage of statesmen and internationalists who have built up the cultural and political heritage of our continent. The historic deeds of those statesmen and leaders mirrored the common cultural origins of Iberia — that discoverer of seas and continents, sower of civilizations, and heiress to and propagator of the Mediterranean cultures. Luso-Spanish Iberia intermingled with the aboriginal races of America and acquired a new dimension through the contribution of the blood and cultural values of Africa. This is exemplified by my own country, Brazil, where all these influences were amalgamated, rendering it for that very reason so profoundly Latin American and so much part and parcel of the Latin American world which nominated you, Sir, as an authentic representative of our continent, to the presidency of this Assembly. 

3.	The presence in this hall of the delegations of the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic, resulting from a long and patient process of political evolution, is a positive sign of the detente now sought by contemporary diplomacy. My country, which did not hesitate to sacrifice the lives of its sons to defend the ideals of freedom and democracy on European battlefields, can well appreciate the true significance of the admission to the United Nations of both those States. To the United Nations, founded as an alternative to the use of force in inter-State relations, this event overcomes one of the most acute problems of the political balance-sheet of the post-war era. Brazil maintains with the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany relations that I dare to describe as exemplary. Wide-ranging common interests have for many years been drawing our two countries together again, under reciprocally and increasingly advantageous conditions.
4.	It is my hope that negotiations in progress with the German Democratic Republic, with which we have been sustaining fruitful commercial relations for over a decade, will result very soon in a reciprocally beneficial relationship based on mutual respect.
5.	It is with the greatest pleasure that I welcome in a very special way the delegation of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, a sister country from our continent, which we shall receive with an open heart into our Latin American group and with which we wish to develop increasingly broad and cordial co-operation.
6.	No one in good faith can fail to applaud a policy of detente which seeks and propounds understanding and co-operation as alternatives to mistrustful isolation and to latent conflict. We look upon this relaxation of tensions with renewed hopes that inspired diplomatic action may gather momentum and reach all the existing hotbeds of crisis and eliminate them. None the less, while squarely facing the political, economic and social realities of our times, we are bound to ask objectively: detente for whom, detente for what?
7.	We view as the source of the policies of detente a willingness on the part of the super-Powers and the great Powers to launch a process of peace-seeking and understanding which has brought about a National and pragmatic placation of the conflicts of interests in the vast field of the political-strategic balance as well as in the area of dominant influences — dominant because they are built on objective conditions of unmatched power. That willingness to desist from further confrontation has motivated and rendered possible new European developments — as evidenced in recently concluded treaties and in other agreements still under way — aimed at establishing peace in Europe and creating a European security system, envisaging the reduction of arsenals and troops and also serving the purpose of stimulating closer economic co-operation. Although laudable, meritorious and of extreme importance, this detente none the less cannot-by inference be a regional goal, nor can it be thought of as a temporary arrangement to accommodate certain conveniences and interests.
8.	We hope that this determination to desist from confrontation, this rationalization of what is politically viable and diplomatically feasible, will provide elements of action to extend those processes of peace-bringing and understanding to all areas of conflict, thereby safeguarding and rendering compatible the mutual interests of the parties directly concerned.
9.	Detente, as we envisage it, should be the extension to the whole of the international scene of this political will to pacify and co-operate. It should inject this political will into the body and system of our Organization. It should offer opportunity for finally implementing the purposes and principles of the Charter, and for the United Nations to pay its ethical debt to itself — namely, the eradication of underdevelopment. To reduce detente to a rationale for the use, and for the balance, of power, to regionalize its scope and objectives —  and hence to forgo using it as an instrument for normative reconstruction and as an inspiration and guide line for a policy of global relaxation — would be tantamount to reviving the fallacy of arrangements based on considerations of power which are transient and fleeting because they fail to comprehend the dynamics of internatiotial problems and because they are uninspired by any sense of the future.
10.	From the renewed diplomatic interaction which these first steps in the process of detente may set in motion, a more equitable international order must emerge, one which should foster an effective system of collective political and economic security based neither on oppression nor on the alleged acquired rights of the strongest but on the recognition of the just claims and interests of all States, their sovereign right to full economic development and social well-being, and their participation on an equal footing in the institutionalization of the rules of collective behavior. It is hard, if not impossible, to believe that the policy of relaxation of tensions will succeed outside those parameters. The past is teeming with examples of the fragility of arrangements contrived merely to serve the momentary interests of the exercise of power or to allocate such interests within the fallacious framework of spheres of influence. These arrangements have never survived the wear and tear inflicted by crises and contradictions of policies inspired by the myth of power and its alleged rights and hence policies which are unequitable and unjust, What we need today — now that we would appear to be more experienced and more convinced of the frailty of the exclusivist concepts of international security — what we need today, I repeat, more than a temporary harmonization of means, is a common and global concept of the ends we seek.
11. As a means or an instrument, the policy of relaxation of tensions will either achieve greatness or demean itself, depending on the ultimate aims it pursues. As it is not endowed with mechanisms for automatic control and adjustments, the success of detente will be contingent on our capacity to expand it so that its long-term aims are not lost sight of and so that it does not become an instrument for the imposition of hegemonic arrangements. I am ready to agree that such is not the purpose. Since it is not, let us stand guard to prevent it from being reduced to such a purpose by temptations along its course and by unforeseen crises. It is our belief, furthermore, that the new orientation that is being sought for international relations will be meaningless in the long term if those attempts aim at no more than drafting a charter to discipline inter-State interests in the affluent areas of mankind and fail, therefore, to meet the very legitimate claims of countries outside that area.
12.	This is an ovemding concern of Brazil's foreign policy which, conscious of its global responsibilities and commitments, assigns priority to close co-operation with all developing countries, and especially those of Latin America.
13.	During the last few years, it has been my duty to translate into diplomatic action the instructions and directives laid down by President Medici to foster and expand the political, economic and cultural ties between Brazil and the sister nations of our continent. Bilaterally and multilaterally, Brazil's inter-American policy will firmly continue to seek the goals of solidarity, reciprocal assistance, understanding and the minimization of sporadic dissidences, since Brazil is averse to rivalries, resentments and hegemonies which have no place among us.
14.	It is our conviction, however, that while regional scenarios must be dealt with in accordance with their specific needs, they should be seen in perspective within the system of the United Nations. The lines of negotiation now prevailing cannot run parallel to the normative system of the Charter but on the contrary must be geared to it; otherwise, they will lack consistency and will not profit from the constructive evaluation and invigorating support of the community of States joined together in this Organization in the search of peace for all, security for all and collective progress .
15.	It is for this forum to decide on the compatibility between instruments laterally negotiated and the purposes and principles of the Charter, so that the convenience of some will not be construed as the measure of the interests of all the others. Thus, once submitted to the scrutiny of our General Assembly, the agreements on the non-use of force in international relations and on the prevention of nuclear war, which are timely and valid in principle, will gain a new normative dimension, thereby allaying the suspicion that they may become an instrument for the imposition of a tutelage system by the great Powers. The expectations aroused by the policy of ddtente will materialize only if the relaxation of tensions puts an end to the nuclear arms race and if effective measures of general and complete disarmament are not confined to the secret negotiation of agreements that do not go beyond disciplining the expansion and sophistication of nuclear devices.
16.	Like so many other Member States, Brazil hopes that the relaxation of tensions in critical areas will prevent the interrelated questions of disarmament and collective security from remaining intractable and unsettled in this forum, as they have been to date. The task of achieving disarmament and arms control was assigned to this General Assembly by the founders of our Organization as one of its primary responsibilities. I would be less than candid were I not to express my Government's disappointment at the lack of concrete results of disarmament negotiations, particularly during the last two years, both in this Assembly and in the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament. Vitiated by its original flaws, the Special Committee on the World Disarmament Conference has not really come into being.
17.	In the specific case of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, we are led to the conclusion that it has increasingly eluded its tasks, or to say the least, that it has been incapable of carrying them out. Notwithstanding a much-touted spirit of conciliation, the meetings of the Conference and the negotiating process itself have been handicapped by political restrictions that have blocked the 
possibility of reaching meaningful decisions. What is the explanation for the frustrating results of so many efforts? It seems clear that the work of the Conference has not been as attuned to international trends as one would hope or wish. The ambiguous relationship between the General Assembly and the Conference, which has existed since the very inception of the Disarmament Committee — that is, since the Zorin-Stevenson Declaration of 1961' — may perhaps have been the greatest obstacle to our goal of making its work more responsive to the aspirations and desires of the community of nations. In reality, the important bilateral understandings between the major nuclear Powers have been arrived at, and continue to be arrived at, outside the Conference. As a result, obviously, the Conference is gradually transforming itself into a mere advisory body.
18.	But the widening gap between the General Assembly and the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament does not stem solely or exclusively from a question of deficient machinery or structure. As it happens, negotiations on the most vital disarmament issue, namely, nuclear disarmament, have proceeded without the involvement of all the nuclear Powers, as though the main responsibility for the arms race did not devolve upon all those Powers, individually and collectively. Unless effective steps are taken to ensure the presence and co-operation of all of them around the negotiating table, the quest for disarmament, irrespective of the negotiating machinery available, faces the threat of becoming politically irrelevant or being reduced to a subject of merely academic interest.
19.	Brazil believes, therefore, that the time has come for the General Assembly to rededicate itself with renewed vigour and zeal to the disarmament purposes enshrined in the Charter. This would thus appear to be the opportune time for a debate in the Political and Security Committee focusing on the existing machinery for negotiation on disarmament and on the methods of improving it. I am well aware that various proposals to that end have already been put forward and that they all deserve careful study. If a broad exchange of ideas is to prove of value, the General Assembly should consider the advisability of reconvening its own Disarmament Commission, where the full membership of this Organization is represented, to seek new and effective instruments for collective negotiation. The Disarmament Commission could act as a kind of preparatory body for the world disarmament conference.
20.	In today's world, political security is intertwined with collective economic security. I have already dwelt on ddtente, which is undoubtedly one of the major political facts of the 1970s. If it is not allowed to degenerate by having its scope reduced to that of mere political accommodation, if it maintains momentum and creative spirit, the current relaxation of tensions may well open up new and extraordinary prospects for international economic co-operation. To that end, it should go hand in hand with the global objectives of expansion and economic development and should ensure economic security, with which political security will thrive.
21.	The world's economy indeed is passing through a critical transitional period; in order to expand, international trade needs new rules to correct present-day distortions in this field; concurrently, the monetary crisis persists unchecked. It would be absurd and dangerous to suppose that minor plastic surgery or superficial measures, unrelated to each other and to the root cause of such evils, might eradicate them. I believe, none the less, that in these times,

so deeply marked by a collective malaise in economic and financial relationships, the elements of disruption and distortion will finally, however paradoxically, arouse our consciences to the need for more effective world-wide solidarity and collective participation in the global enterprise of development and expansion.
22.	The complexity of the world's economic and financial system and the growing importance of the external sectors of national economies have made of the adjustments and harmonization of existing diverse interests basic factors conditioning the global security process. The prevailing political situation and the series of bold initiatives which are being taken at the major conceptual and operative levels encourage us to believe that the embryonic awareness of joint responsibility for the settlement of important international economic and financial questions will begin to supersede the view that the affluence and well-being of a few can coexist indefinitely with the under-development of the destitute two thirds of mankind.
23.	The trade negotiations which have begun in Tokyo under the auspices of the Genera] Agreement on Tariffs and Trade [GATT] should provide the world with an opportunity to ascertain whether the principles of solidarity and cooperation which ought to inspire a concerted effort towards development and expansion remain mere dreams, mere abstract expressions of contemporary political semantics, or whether, on the contrary, they will act as a driving force in the reformulation of the world trade system, so as to afford a fair and equitable division of labour, which is an essential condition for the growth of world productivity. The aggregate growth of the world product and its improved distribution call for a recognition of the need to accord special treatment to the developing world so that it may increase its participation in international trade and cease to be a minor, statistical and decreasing part of it. It would be a tragic mistake to believe that only or chiefly the interests of mature economies will be in play in those negotiations, or that the fate of the world's economy is linked merely to the harmonization of the currently conflicting conveniences of those who, as of now, weigh more decisively in international trade. If the multilateral trade negotiations confine themselves to these purposes, they will have rendered a disservice to the international community and will have the effect of curtailing the objectives of global development and expansion. This was the conviction that emerged from the last meeting of the Special Committee on Latin American Co-ordination held in Brasilia, in connexion with the coordinated position of the Latin American countries in regard to these negotiations.
24.	I believe that, on another level, the same can be said for the crisis that assails the international monetary system and the need to reform it. It would be impossible and futile to conceive of this reform, which is so urgent, without taking into full account the claims of the developing countries, without seeing to it that their needs are met and without affording them solutions for their problems that neither the Bretton Woods Conference nor, more recently, the unproductive and short-lived Smithsonian Agreement could find.
25.	The Brazilian Government' is gratified at seeing that the reinvigoration of the Economic and Social Council is taking place concurrently with events of such great importance in the trade and monetary fields. Now that it has gained renewed vigour and is disposed to exercise the normative role in the field of international economic relations envisaged for it by the Charter, the Council has demonstrated, both in New York and in Geneva, that it has resumed its functions within the panorama of the United Nations. These functions relate essentially to its right to oversee all matters pertinent to social, economic and financial co-operation, a right which will make it a central negotiating forum within our Organization.
26.	Parallel to these institutional developments, which augur a more active participation of the United Nations in rendering international economic co-operation more dynamic, we have been given the opportunity in this year of 1973 to embark on a comprehensive review of the nature and range of this co-operation, through the first exercise of review and appraisal of the implementation of the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade [resolution 2626 (XXVj] as concluded a month ago by the Economic and Social Council. The balance sheet for the first two years of the Decade is not encouraging, to say the least. The gap between developed and developing countries has widened, and even among the developing countries the performance of individual economies has been extremely uneven.
27.	While some very positive results have been registered in certain regions or countries, the over-all picture continues to be gloomy. What is worse, the flow of development assistance and financial transfers has lost the momentum reached in the late 1960s. The industrialized world seems more and more concerned with its own internal conflicts.
28.	Brazil has taken the initiative of reviving the concept of collective economic security. We see in this economic counterpart of political security the synthesis of our aspirations for a better world, one in which global development, expansion and social progress may become additional components of our concept of peace and security. The Economic and Social Council has already had the opportunity to begin a very timely debate on the subject and should now study the concept and its institutional and functional implications in greater depth.
29.	The definition of this concept in terms of doctrine and practical potentialities requires prolonged examination, analysis and critical evaluation. On the basis of the existing interrelationship between political and economic security, one of the possibilities worthy of consideration is a study of ways and means to endow u\e United Nations with the faculty to launch economic peace-making and peacekeeping operations to prevent or remedy critical situations. Once ideas have matured and the elements of the concept, together with its operational capabilities, are broadly identified and accepted, an effort at negotiation to that end would render the Organization even more active in one of the areas in which it has, it is only fair to say, distinguished itself in these 28 years of its existence.
30.	Among the issues attracting the growing attention of the international community, there stand out the peaceful uses and practical applications of outer space in promoting development.
31.	The Brazilian Government is convinced that in this area, as in so many others, it is indispensable that the interests of all countries be duly taken into account, regardless of their respective stages of development in the area of space research. Moreover, at this point, it is necessary to discipline activities in the fields of remote sensing by satellite of the natural resources of the earth and of space communications, so as to ensure strict respect of the sovereign rights of States. On the basis of these principles, which uphold, after all, our international system, it should be possible to ensure that the progressive results of the exploration and peaceful uses of outer space are equitably shared among the members of the world community.
32.	While addressing the Assembly last year, I referred broadly to the question of review of the United Nations Charter and I stated that, in the opinion of Brazil, the review or reform of the Charter remains an essential element in the process of the political and diplomatic reactivation of the United Nations. I consider it essential that the General Assembly at its next session finally assert its willingness to study this subject with imagination and political foresight in order to enable us to adjust our constitutional instrument to the realities and the needs of today's world. Brazil will continue to press this point precisely because it believes in the destiny of this Organization.
33.	The unrestricted adherence to the ideals, purposes and principles of the United Nations is, and will remain, a fundamental premise of Brazil's foreign policy.

===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
Mr. President, I would like, at the outset, to express my delegation's satisfaction and, in particular, my own, at seeing you directing the work of the twenty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I remember with special satisfaction the brotherly relationship we shared at Algiers, in 1967, when I had the pleasure of sitting beside you when you presided over the first ministerial meeting of the developing countries. On that occasion there were countless times when we found that our views converged regarding solutions for the most urgent and acute problems the developing countries were facing. No less numerous were the occasions on which I witnessed the demonstration of your exceptional qualities of leadership. For this reason, I am convinced that you will prove able to impress upon the deliberations of this General Assembly the objectivity, the firmness and the political acumen required by the complexity of the subjects under debate.
3.	I also offer Mr. Leopoldo Benites the thanks of the Brazilian delegation for the able and sound way in which he presided over the twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Mr. Benites is not only an asset of this Organization, which he has served for so many years with unchanging dedication, but is also an asset of Latin America and of his valiant country—Ecuador—which has in him a respected spokesman in the service of its most authentic aspirations.
4.	May I be allowed to address a very special word of greeting in our common language to the representatives of the Republic of GuineaBissau, present here today in their full right, to the great rejoicing of us all.
5.	As Minister for External Affairs of Brazil and as a Brazilian, nothing could give me greater satisfaction than to salute the admission to this Organization of a new country of Africa and of Portuguese speech, to which we feel linked therefore by bonds of blood and culture. These links constitute the strongest guarantee for the close and fertile friendship which will certainly unite our two peoples.
6.	Our greetings are also directed to the delegation of Bangladesh. We are sure that there will be many opportunities for us to extend within the scope of the United Nations the friendly relations we already entertain bilaterally.
7.	I also address an equally warm expression of brotherly feelings to the delegation of Grenada, which has added its presence to our regional group.
8.	An honored tradition, which goes back to the first session of the General Assembly, gives Brazil the privilege of opening this great dialog of sovereign nations each year. This tradition I take up today, speaking for the first time as my country's Minister for External Affairs in this forum. I do so with redoubled emotion, for I am conscious that I am addressing the community of nations at a particularly important moment in the history of the Organization and of our participation in it. It is unnecessary to make more explicit the importance of this hour in universal terms. It seems obvious to all that we are at the threshold of a new era which will be one of peace and prosperity or of insecurity and poverty, according to whether we know how to harmonize, in a constructive fashion, the most essential objectives and the most enlightened national interests of each country here represented. Brazil has the benefit of facing the challenge Of this new hour with a Government whose term has just begun and which carries, in its objectives and mode of action, the indisputable stamp of realism and diligence. This allows us to contemplate our action within the Organization against a background that is simultaneously broader in time and more encompassing in tenus of solutions to the problems under consideration.
9.	We have repeatedly and publicly enunciated the principles on which the international conduct of President Ernesto Geisel's administration is based, and we have already given sufficient demonstration that we know how to unite action with words when it comes to turning those principles into reality.
10.	During recent years Brazil has taken broad steps, first in correcting the main distortions that disrupted its economic and social development and, subsequently, in the consolidation of a model of growth that truly attempts to respond to the authentic aspirations of our national community. Thus the country has grown internally and thus also it has grown in terms of its presence, its potentialities and its responsibilities in the international field. While this is happening, we try to avoid the traps of history by not repeating the errors of nations which became great, many times at the expense of others. We want our presence in a wider ranging international scene to be accompanied by the preservation of the primordial ethical values that have been and that continue to be the bases of our foreign policy.
11.	We want our words in the international field to be direct and simple, without ambiguity or subterfuge. We want the Brazilian Government to be able to accomplish the oecumenical vocation of its people, who are open to uninhibited and frank communication. We want to explore the paths of understanding, for we believe, fundamentally, that cooperation is more effective than antagonism and that mutual respect is more creative than ambitions of preponderance.
12.	Our conduct for attaining those objectives is pragmatic and responsible: pragmatic to the extent to which we desire effectiveness and to which we are disposed to seek, wherever Brazilian national interests may move us, areas of convergence and zones of coincidence with the national interests of other peoples; and responsible because we will always act within the framework of ethics and exclusively as a function of objectives clearly identified and accepted by the Brazilian people.
13.	I do not intend to comment on the various items on the agenda of the present session. There will, I am sure, be many occasions on which the Brazilian delegation will speak on those items during the coming weeks. From this rostrum I wish only to underline which are the problems, in our understanding, to the solution of which we must jointly dedicate our most urgent attention.
14.	Immediately the problem of decolonization springs into view. We have on this question a position of absolute clarity: Brazil believes unreservedly that there is no justification for delay or subterfuge in the process of decolonization, both in the American continent itself and over the entire world. Brazil will give its support so that those peoples still subject to forms of colonial domination may achieve, within the shortest possible time, the national independence to which they aspire. We believe that to the extent that the will of the community of sovereign nations in support of acceleration of the decolonization process becomes general, so much greater will be the possibility that decolonization may be achieved peacefully and under conditions that will allow constructive cooperation between the peoples of those countries that were previously held as colonies and the peoples whose Governments had theretofore followed a colonizing policy. In this sense, support given to emancipation is as important as action directed towards the colonizing Governments so that they may detach themselves quickly and with conviction from their policies of colonial domination. In both forms of action the forum of the United Nations has demonstrated its effectiveness, and it is our intention to support it in this role.
15.	Brazil is following this; path, which is not always the easiest one or one which pleases those who cannot distinguish appearance from reality. For the Brazilian Government, the challenge faced by those who want to rid the world of the colonial stigma is the challenge of efficacy. To blame the colonizing past is not what matters; what matter? is rather to help build the future of free nations. This position corresponds to what is deepest in the Brazilian soul. We are prepared to make explicit those sentiments and the aspirations that correspond to them by offering our concrete cooperation in the building of these new nations.
16.	Amflcar Cabral, the great leader of the independence of GuineaBissau, was aware of the anti colonialist will of the Brazilian people. His words are so similar to those we have so often uttered in relation to African peoples under colonial domination that they seem almost to have come from the same mouth. I quote them:
"Our interest" in developing relations of friendship, solidarity and cooperation with Brazil is all the greater as we feel ourselves linked to the Brazilian people by bonds of blood, culture and history, and we ardently desire to establish with Brazil, after the conquest of our independence, broad fraternal relations in all fields, just as we desire them with the people of Portugal, which we never confused with Portuguese colonialism."
17.	The same feeling of brotherhood binds us to Mozambique and Angola, whose independence we want to see completed. We hail the agreement that on 7 September the Portuguese Government concluded with the Frente de Libertagao de Mozambique [FRELIMO]. Little more than a century and a half ago the same date marked the first independence of a former Portuguese colony, and it is Brazil, that former colony, which is here represented and which offers its hand to its African brothers. To Brazil this gesture signifies not just an unbending adherence to the inalienable principle of self-determination. To us, the emergence of African nations to independent life has an additional dimension which allows us to take up again, on an equal footing, the close sharing of life with peoples that have been among the most generous sources of our mode of being.
18.	To the opening up of prospects for the populations in the Territories under Portuguese administration in Africa, there has not been, unfortunately, any corresponding visible progress in respect to areas under colonial domination in other continents. In the same fashion, there still remain forms of subjugation resulting from racial or religious prejudices.
19.	In the United Nations and outside, apartheid has been universally condemned in the name of the most diverse principles. Ethically, it runs directly contrary to the universal values of the human conscience. From the viewpoint of doctrine, it incorporates the most discredited theories of alleged racial superiorities.
20.	When we repudiate apartheid we also repudiate any pretension of the international community wishing to colonize culturally the nations of Africa. Thus, when we rejoice at the emergence to independence of new Portuguese-speaking nations, we are not uttering praise for any cultural supremacy but are simply welcoming the opportunities now open for a broader brotherly understanding by the communities of the same language. For the African Portuguese-speaking nations and for other nations what we want is that they may be authentic in the expression of their own rich and varied cultures. We in Brazil, who owe so much to the different African cultures, can only hope that they may reinvigorate themselves in the climate of freedom offered to them by national independence.
21.	It has been said, and rightly so, that in the history of mankind ours is the first generation upon which has fallen the task not only of making the world but also of preventing the world from being unmade. It is an enormous responsibility for those who, like the great majority of mankind, have such minute means available to them for influencing global decisions which have such a great effect on them.
22.	We stand almost as helpless spectators of the accelerated arms race, which is incessantly pursued under the mantle of protestations of detente at promises of disarmament. The disproportion between the scope of the problem and the measures agreed on for its solution is smaller only than that which exists between the alleged defense justifications and the overwhelming destructive power that has been accumulated already.
23.	More than anything else, it is shocking to see the magnitude of financial and technological resources devoted to arms production, so many times higher than that which would be necessary to reform the present structure of economic inequities and thus to allow men to live in a world free from fear, more unfettered by shame and, above all, more favorable to the expression of its creative potentialities.
24.	There would be reasons, perhaps, to welcome the evolution during recent years from a world in a climate of "cold war" to a world in a climate of detente. We would have more reasons to rejoice if we could see confirmed in the future what seems to be the present evolution of that climate into a virtual entente. It depends in part on ourselves, the countries that seek development, whether such an entente will be made to our benefit or to our prejudice. It is to a certain extent natural that the great Powers should seek such an entente and, above all, for the preservation of the status quo -which, however, would benefit them only in the short run. However, under its shadow, and this is the only benefit which we receive, we who are less strong must seek only to realize a policy of closer and less tense cooperation in the international field. We must utilize this opening in order to obtain a better coordination of the less developed countries in the defence of their interests in economic and social progress.
25.	This evolution has saved us from the spectre of apocalyptic war, which would be the logical consequence of a boundless arms policy. This does not mean that the world has reached the certainty of being able to live in peace and security, a certainty which is the most profound aspiration of the majority of peoples. Many are those who still continue to suffer from the bitterness of armed conflict or who live under the recurrent threat of its intensification. We have to recognize that the contribution made by the countries not directly involved in those conflicts to their solution is precarious. And we have to admit that it is the very terror of total nuclear conflict which feeds or allows the growth of those localized wars.
26.	The question of the Middle East deserves constant and real attention from all of us.
27.	It is surprising—I would even say shocking - to see that the world seems to turn its preoccupations towards the Middle East only when a war crisis occurs in that disturbed region. The set of problems which for so many years have afflicted the peoples of the Middle East should require of the international community a concern to .bring about continuous and creative cooperation. Within that context, if the implementation of Security Council resolution 242 (1967) may indeed constitute one of the possibly indispensable conditions for the development of the solution to the problem, it is also true that that implementation does not exhaust the range of measures essential to the attainment of the greater objectives of peace, security, tranquility, and social and economic development of the countries of the region.
28.	Objection to wars of conquest is a constant factor in the history of Brazil and a norm inscribed in our Constitution. We hold the right to territorial integrity and the obligation of respect for sovereignty to be absolute. Consequently, we believe that withdrawal from the occupied territories is an integral part of the solution to the conflict.
29.	Only those frontiers which have been negotiated and recognized by all for the good of all will be calm. This is the solution which, by bringing them peace and security, will truly serve the countries of the region.
30.	We, the countries of the American continent, are fortunate to have an institutional solution to such problems and we are proud that the security agreement binding us together has determined, for many years now, that all regional conflicts be solved starting from the initial and indispensable assumption that occupying forces are withdrawn from areas under military invasion.
31.	The drama of the Middle East is enlarged and made universal to the extent that it involves human aspects which cannot be ignored. The community of nations must not spare an/ effort, including efforts made in conjunction with the peoples of the Middle East, to ensure that the sufferings of the Palestinian people are alleviated by appropriate measures. It is inhuman to consider that any solution that does not attend to their rights is equitable, and it is an illusion to think that such a solution would be lasting.
32.	We are sure, on the other hand, that a greater effort of international cooperation with the countries of the Middle East in the economic and social fields may provide a decisive contribution to peace. It is gratifying to note that wide prospects seem to be opening up in this direction, and there will arise if all parties, conscious of their growing responsibilities, work with creative imagination and firmness of intention unprecedented modalities for cooperation which will be of great significance to the international community, and especially to the developing countries. Such cooperation, which is in the interest of all countries and all regions, if correctly implemented, may bring about results of extreme importance in the reorientation of the flows of trade, of investments and of financing, correcting the existing distortions which contribute to insecurity and instability in the international field.
33.	Latin America, in its mutual solidarity, has a clear conception of the challenge that the present crisis represents for each one of our countries. This challenge does not frighten us; rather, it stimulates us to redouble internally, within each country, the efforts needed to accelerate national progress, and to expand, in the external field, forms of cooperation to achieve common objectives resulting from the convergence of our national interests.
34.	One of the characteristics of the time in which we are living is the growing command that developing countries are assuming over their natural resources. This evolution is allowing those countries to reduce their excessive dependence on the economies of the developed countries and better to orientate their own economic growth. It also opens up unprecedented opportunities for cooperation among developing countries.
35.	In Latin America, an awareness of the importance of this process is visibly increasing. The full use of natural resources in Latin American countries is fundamental to the acceleration of the growth of the region and may become a relevant Latin American contribution to the alleviation of the world crises of energy, raw materials and food. At the same time, the strong cultural and political solidarity that binds together the countries of Latin America, also makes joint endeavors in the economic field ever more viable. Thus we see ever-growing possibilities of cooperation in the use of natural resources common to or shared by more than one country. The. novelty of this form of cooperation, at least on the scale on which it is being developed in Latin America, has not yet permitted a general understanding of its potential or of the problems it involves. I consider it important to bring before the international community my country's point of view on these questions.
36.	Brazil considers that the free use and exploitation of the natural resources in its territory is a right inherent in the sovereignty of the State. Such a right cannot brook restrictions. In the case of resources which are, by nature, not static and which flow through the territory of more than one country, that right remains unalterable, those restrictions alone being acceptable that result from the obligation not to cause significant or permanent damage to the exploitation by other countries of the natural resources in their territories. To subordinate the sovereign utilization of our own natural resources to consultations of a.suspensive nature would be to introduce an intolerable disruption in international order, with the result of making the right that we were trying to preside a mere "dead letter". The Brazilian Government, which does not refuse to make use of or to resort to consultation between Governments in this as in any other matter, and which has resorted to this method of procedure frequently in the past, cannot 'accept the perversion of the cooperative function of consultation by questioning the sovereignty of States. For this reason we think it is our duty to awaken the consciences of Governments to the implications of principles of consultation that would injure the sovereign right of countries to use their natural resources, and that, though seemingly constructive, would be potentially disruptive to the international order, which it is our aim to preserve, and an impediment to the material progress of nations, which it is our objective to stimulate. We should all be aware that natural resources, the use of which it is intended to regulate in opposition to the sovereign decisions of territorial Governments, do not flow over ground only. There are those that flow beneath the ground, as there are those that flow in the territorial sea. The characteristics of certain resources must be the motive for responsible behavior on the part of those who use them, rather than for hindering their use and thus benefiting no party at all.
37.	We are experiencing all these problems in Latin America and we are seeking solutions to them based on the principles of harmony of interests, peaceful understanding and enlightened cooperation, principles that this Organization has established as the foundations of international life. If I bring to this rostrum the example of Latin America, it is because I sincerely believe that it constitutes a positive contribution to the realization of the ideals of the United Nations.
38.	My reflections have barely touched on some items of the agenda for the present session. The reason is that I have tried to confine myself to an enunciation of Brazil's. position on questions that belong to the agenda of mankind more than to the agenda of the Assembly, and on the set of fundamental problems, the solution of which will determine the shape of the coming decades.
39.	I have chosen to concern myself with those problems that are more closely connected with the aspirations of liberty, human dignity, justice, progress and peace. On many of these questions the international community has made considerable progress. On others, the results obtained have been imperceptible. Nevertheless, there is no reason for dismay. The severity of the problems should constitute for all of us not a reason for disenchantment, but an incentive to redoubled efforts, creative imagination and fidelity to the purposes and principles upon which this Organization of sovereign States was built.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====
 Mr. President, may my first words express the satisfaction with which the delegation of Brazil received the news of your election to the presidency of the thirtieth session of the General Assembly. Luxembourg has a long history of peaceful coexistence and international co-operation which, along with your personal qualities, augurs well for a particularly productive session.
38.	It is also a pleasure for me to voice the recognition of the delegation of Brazil for the dedication and efficiency with which the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Algeria, the eminent Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, guided the work of the twenty-ninth session and the seventh special session just concluded.
39.	The tradition that the delegation of Brazil opens the general debate offers me the very particular satisfaction of being able to extend the first welcome to the delegations of three new Members of this Organization. These are Cape Verde, Sao Tome and Principe, and Mozambique. Brazil is especially linked to these nations by the ties of a past that is common in many respects and that we now wish to see projected towards a future of co-operation and understanding. I am certain that the presence of the three Members in this Organization will .be reflected in benefits for the international community.
40.	In greeting the new Portuguese-speaking nations that have joined the Organization, I wish to express the fraternal understanding with which Brazil follows the unfolding process of decolonization in Angola. Brazil feels linked to the future new African State by ties of history and blood that underscore the community of interests resulting from a spirit of brotherliness forged over the Atlantic. We extend our wish that those who so vigorously promoted the liberation of Angola may overcome the difficulties of the present moment in order to give the new nation the political stability that will definitively ensure its territorial integrity and its independence, free from foreign interference of any kind.
41.	Our Organization is about to conclude the third decade of its existence. For individuals, as well as for institutions, 30 years of life has a more than merely chronological significance, in the sense that that space of time usually covers fundamental changes in social life and coincides with the very rhythm by which generations succeed one another and history is renewed. The United Nations is undergoing a dynamic and critical revision which could, we all hope, renew it and prepare it for the difficult tasks of the coming years. That impulse for renewal is not generated spontaneously. It springs from all of us who compose the Organization and who are, in fact, its essence.
42.	That is a fact frequently overlooked in evaluating the performance of the Organization during these 30 years. Thus it is that the frustrations felt by the international community are systematically attributed to the United Nations as an Organization, when, in the majority of cases, they result from the very limitations inherent in the current international order. Our Organization, however flexible its constitutional structure may be, does not operate within a closed system but in an ambiance of constant interaction with the international macro-structure.
43.	Thus, the skepticism which for some time has surrounded the activity of the United Nations often constitutes a kind of shifting of blame by which States attempt to absolve themselves from responsibility for the failures that, in the final analysis, rest primarily upon them. As far as Brazil is concerned, we prefer to avoid straying into a state of general pessimism, in the same way that we frankly avoid the illusions of an equally unrealistic international optimism. Above all, we lean towards a sober vision of the limitations and the possibilities of the United Nations, a vision that would lead us to achieving the objectives of its Charter with a maximum of efficiency.
44.	We do not deny reality and we recognize that the United Nations has been unable to achieve the lofty objectives entrusted to it in such fundamental areas as the maintenance of international peace and security and the creation of a more equitable international economic order.
45.	It was customary initially to attribute the limitations of the United Nations in respect of maintaining peace and security to the trauma of the cold war, which paralyzed the will of the Organization in those frequent cases in which a conflict of interests occurred between the super-Powers. Currently, the tendency is to blame detente, a policy which would dispense with the intervention of the United Nations and permit a direct and bilateral understanding between the two principal centers of world power. In any event, both trends reflect the same reluctance, rooted in centuries of power politics, to accept the workings of a system such as that of the United Nations, which aims at the adoption of horizontal guidelines based on the principle of the sovereign equality of States, in favor of a vertical system funded upon subordination. The so-called crisis of the United Nations, as far as the implementation of its loftiest objective is concerned, is based on that fact. It does not originate, either in part or even primarily, in the structural faults of the Organization, but rather in the decision, inspired by considerations of power, not to resort to such means as it places within the reach of States.
46.	The long history of disarmament negotiations is a striking example of what I have just said. Article 11, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the United Nations expressly mentions "the principles governing disarmament and the regulation of armaments as constituting the special responsibility of the General Assembly and of the Security Council, as does Article 26. Nevertheless, for some years now disarmament negotiations have been experiencing a growing bilateralization that limits all initiatives in the matter to the two super-Powers, as if the security of those Powers exists above or at the margin of the international community, or as if the developing nations did not have their own security interests, which are qualitatively different from the security interests of the great Powers or even of the developed nations.
47.	The examples that may be extracted from an analysis of the conduct of the United Nations in the economic area are no less eloquent. In that sphere, we must recognize that the Charter was less precise in formulating the objectives and principles for international co-operation. But those were different times. During the past 30 years great progress has been made in the universal awareness of the real significance of economic co-operation. The United Nations rendered significant service in this respect, having served as the principal forum for the dialog between the major groups, the developed and the developing nations. Notwithstanding the multiplication of specific forums for dealing with economic matters within the Organization, there has always existed, particularly on the part of the Governments of the more developed nations, an unshakable objection to considering as guidelines recommendations designed to orient international co-operation in a way that would foster the balanced development of the community of nations.
48.	Such thoughts do not relieve us of the responsibility to rethink these mechanisms and reorder the activities of the Organization. On the contrary, they should stimulate our efforts in that regard.
49.	Brazil has given all its support to the work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Charter of the United Nations. But we understand that the updating of the United Nations must include, along with a revision of the Charter, the adoption of measures that might be put into force independently of amendments to the basic document of the Organization. In fact, this concerns two means leading to the same end, both of which must be undertaken.
50.	The revision of the Charter, as is natural in constitutional reforms, gives rise to unfounded enthusiasms and unjustified fears. We should moderate the former and dissipate the latter through an objective effort to identify those Articles that really should be amended. Above all, we should avoid overambitious plans for an ideal revision, which the Charter does not need, in favor of a pragmatic reform that transforms it in the light of what the experience of 30 years has taught us. We should bring together the results of different efforts dispersed among various organs, such as the Ad Hoc Committee on the Charter, the Special Committee on Peace-keeping Operations and the Group of Experts on the Structure of the United Nations System. Finally, we should not overlook the possibility of reforms that do not require a revision of the Charter. If these premises are observed, I believe that a revision is politically feasible, as is evident from the progress already achieved with the approval of amendments to Articles 23,27 and 61 of the Charter, which came into force in 1965.
51.	During the seventh special session [2327th meeting], I had the opportunity to express the position of Brazil concerning the present state and future perspectives of international economic relations. Whereas a reasonably efficient structure of guidelines prevails in economic relations among industrialized nations, a virtual laissez-faire prevails in the relations between developed and developing nations. The main reason for this lack of symmetry was the fact that, until recently, recessions originated at the center of the world economic system, that is, in the industrialized nations, and propagated themselves in the direction of the periphery, that is, towards the developing nations.
52.	From this perspective, it was determined that the crises could be overcome by anti-cyclical regulations in the national sphere in the more developed nations, complemented by trade and monetary accords among them. Similarly, according to this reasoning, an objective solidarity of interests existed between the center and the periphery. The latter, being the first to feel the repercussions of a crisis, would benefit from a renewed expansion of interchange among the industrialized nations.
53.	The current crisis in the world economic system differs considerably from that model. This time, the periphery, instead of passively suffering the effects of the crisis, has also engendered pressures of a recessionary nature. The destabilizing potential of the current international division of labor and the risks inherent in the current structure of North-South economic relations were cruelly felt. Today it is no longer possible not to recognize the need to extend to the relations between industrialized and developing nations the structure of guidelines until now limited to the industrialized sector of the world.
54.	It was in the light of these observations that the delegation of Brazil proposed, during the seventh special session, the negotiation of a general agreement on trade between developed and developing nations, in order to provide a politico-juridical matrix for specific negotiations. Such a general accord would not be a substitute for general agreements in force, nor would it attempt to replace existing forums and mechanisms. But it certainly would be an attempt to bridge the gaps left by these and correct the distortions resulting form a vision centered on the developed nations.
55.	On that occasion we stated that we believed the time had come to proceed from declarations of principles and maximalist claims to a negotiation of specific guidelines to govern the economic relations between developed and developing nations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjold Library
56.	We do not ignore the important role that resolutions adopted in the General Assembly and other forums of the United Nations have played and continue to play in the formation of a universal awareness of the problem of development. In this respect, what is declaratory or re-vindicatory is not irrelevant. We find, then, that many of the ideas presented so far have already matured, especially in the heat of debates and antagonisms. We believe that the time has come to undertake negotiating efforts that will lead to concrete and comprehensive results. We wish to build on what has already been achieved by the alert warnings of the past. We believe that it is time to proceed beyond warnings and appeals, just as we believe that is is too late for palliative or miniaturized solutions.
57.	A general agreement of the type we propose would be the antithesis of all that. It would be structured for the purpose of operational efficiency and would attack the problems of international trade in a direct manner and at the very core. For the developing nations, it is a matter of recognizing their right of access to the markets of developed nations for their export products not only their raw materials, but also, and in a growing manner, for their manufactured goods. It is also a matter of recognizing their right of access to the markets of assets which are indispensable to the development process, be they material or cultural. For the developed nations, it is a matter of recognizing, reciprocally, their right to guarantees of supplies of raw materials under equitable conditions of price and as a counterpart to concessions offered to the developing nations.
58.	The negotiation of such a general agreement should not interrupt the understandings arrived at within the scope of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which so far have attended primarily to the needs of the industrialized nations. On the other hand, it would not prejudge the negotiation of specific mechanisms aimed at preserving the purchasing power of the export earnings of nations producing specific raw materials. All these efforts would be complementary if certain general guidelines were accepted by the parties as being capable of governing international co-operation.
59.	The admittedly brief period available to the seventh special session to carry out its mandate did not permit an in-depth examination of the proposal then made by Brazil. Nevertheless, I am certain that it will be possible to reflect on its terms during the session that is now beginning. The fact is that we have today, for the first time in the history of international economic negotiations, a real opportunity to begin the task of constructing a new world economic order. For the first time the developed nations and the developing nations are in a position to achieve concrete results, since the negotiating conditions are less unequal than before.
60.	We have before us a long general debate and a complex agenda that will demand our best efforts during the coming three months. At the end of that period, we shall have made progress on several questions, advanced slowly on others and perhaps achieved nothing on some. The decision-making process in multilateral diplomacy is slow by its very nature and constantly challenges the subtlety and patience of those who practice it. Nevertheless, there is no more effective alternative for the consideration of the problems that are constantly increasing today and that are of interest to a large number of States.
61.	We must not succumb to the quantitative temptation of measuring the achievements of the United Nations by using the arithmetic applied to decisions implemented, problems resolved and objectives achieved. Its influence is more subtle and diffused. The Organization should also be assessed on the basis of the trends it impresses upon, and the directions it sets for, the international community. Also, it acts principally through ideas, which historically have constituted a more efficient agent of political change than other forces, such as power, to which homage is so frequently paid.



===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
Allow me first to say how pleased I am to see Ambassador Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe vested with the presidency of the thirty-first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Ambassador Amerasinghe is a man who enjoys great prestige in international forums, in which he has served with particular distinction as the representative of the Government of his noble country, Sri Lanka, and his presence presiding over the work of this General Assembly is a guarantee of calm and proficiency in the lofty functions which the international community has called upon him to perform.
5.	I should also like to address a word of sincere appreciation to the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Mr. Gaston Thorn, for the relevant contribution he made to the General Assembly as President of its thirtieth session.
6.	Moreover, I am happy to be able to welcome the Republic of Seychelles on the happy occasion of that State's becoming a Member of the United Nations. The Brazilian delegation wishes to establish a close and friendly relationship with the delegation of Seychelles and hopes to co-operate intimately with that delegation when we deal with the items on our agenda.
7.	In recent years the United Nations has become the target for mounting criticism leveled against its operation. The time has certainly come to place these criticisms, which are at times quite blunt, in true perspective. It would not be difficult to ascertain how much of this attitude is self- serving. Such an attitude does not meet the most enlightened interests of nations, those very interests which justified the creation of the United Nations and its later call to universality. Therefore, it is always opportune to reaffirm, in a constructive manner that the international responsibility of this Organization derives from commitments freely and spontaneously undertaken by States under the Charter of the United Nations, commitments which do not admit of exceptions or reservations.
8.	The United Nations is a political organism immersed in a world which is also political. The United Nations, in reality, constitutes the only political forum of universal scope at the disposal of States. In addition to fulfilling the normative functions laid down in its Charter, the United Nations must deliberate on the international problems the Member States bring to it in order to safeguard their national interests at the international level.
9.	Accordingly, international problems of the most varied nature are included in the agenda of the General Assembly, and those problems must be discussed according to the procedures set forth in the Charter and in the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. As is only natural, such discussion entails characteristically parliamentary behavior and attitudes. It would be illusory to think that such procedures and related behavior could ever be isolated from the political circumstances that generated the problems and from those surrounding their discussion. 
The United Nations does not function in a world apart from the real world where political facts take place. Events in this hall are not independent of the real context of international relations. Quite the contrary, what happens here reflects a wider political reality. That reality explains better than words the atmosphere of frustration and tension which at times prevails in this forum. The debates in the General Assembly and the resolutions that this body, more than any other major organ of the United Nations, has the capacity to adopt make equally apparent the hopes and the disappointments of the Member States and portray both the advances and the set-backs in the international political process.
10.	In recent years international life has gained much in complexity. Not only have new States been admitted to the United Nations but also increasingly varied matters are being subjected to international rule, as witness the current cycle of great, thematic conferences held under the aegis of the United Nations. This broadening of the scope of multilateral negotiations may or may not be of benefit to the majority of States. In many cases, it is; in others, it may also serve to direct attention towards problems of secondary importance, an attention' that should, first and foremost, be concentrated upon the fundamental issues of international security and the harmonious development of nations. For the process of universal negotiation to produce lasting results, however, it is necessary to keep it under the authority of .the principle of sovereign equality, a principle that ensures to States equitable participation in international decisions affecting the future of each State and of mankind as a whole.
11.	It must perforce be recognized that, as an organization essentially devoted to promoting international peace and security, the United Nations does not present a record of important gains in recent years. The picture is rather one of institutional and operational impasses. The machinery of collective security seems to be obstructed, decisions are delayed and, when they are taken, they meet frequent obstacles in the way of their implementation.
12.	This weakening of the central functions of the Organization is symbolized by the deadlocks that characterize the proceedings of the Security Council. The unrestricted use of the veto continues to leave room for apprehension, particularly as no special diligence can be noted on the part of some permanent members of the Security Council to seek negotiated solutions for the delicate questions submitted to that body. It seems paradoxical that two apparently contradictory tendencies coexist on the world scene, namely, a relaxation of international tension, especially between the super-Powers, and a weakening of the collective security machinery of the United Nations.
13.	Such deadlocks are found in almost all multilateral efforts in the field of international security, as can be seen from the deadlocks which over the years have dominated the negotiations for both disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, and peace-keeping operations.
14.	Stalemates in the political field are one aspect of the stratification that characterizes the present international structure. Perhaps only the advances made towards decolonization allow us to discern a trend away from that stratification, a trend that holds out new possibilities for positive interrelations and for a more just international order.
15.	We are living in an era marked by, dissent and by the persistence of areas of international tension, as well as by the permanence of generalized conditions of under-development. I do not now intend to list these areas of tension, but the eye is immediately caught by what is happening in Africa and in the Middle East.
16.	Southern Africa, where racial oppression persists, is today not only seized with unrest and fear, but also devastated by violence and slaughter. In the face of recent events, the items now on our agenda concerning the problems that afflict that region have taken on unprecedented importance. Brazil has always been in favor of peaceful solutions for those problems and has always been convinced that there was no time to be lost in arriving at them. Our opinion, repeatedly stated over the years, was that, unless solutions were promptly reached, the region would be irresistibly drawn into open conflict. Unhappily, we have no reason to revise our diagnosis, but we should still like to believe that the unanimous international repudiation of the injustices committed will serve as a grave warning to those that consider it possible to continue to maintain racial oppression. It is our hope that the peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia, who still have not achieved their independence, may soon be able freely to exercise their true national will.
17.	In the Middle East, alongside the Lebanese tragedy, which Brazil particularly regrets because of the ties of all kind that we have with Lebanon, the same basic problems still exist, problems that have for years been challenging the political ability of the international community. The reactivation of these problems is a disquieting prospect, one that is always possible and always present.
18.	The experience of the last few years confirms the widely shared perception that, in the absence of speedy and just solutions for regional conflicts or disputes, such disputes end up by acquiring a wider international character, thus disseminating to other regions and to the international system as a whole an unrest which was initially localized. Contrary to what might have been expected, the present situation of relative international strategic balance has not created favorable conditions for the prompt correction of those localized situations. The Brazilian delegation is convinced that, in dealing with these difficult issues, more intensive use should be made of the United Nations not only because the Organization offers the parties opportunities for negotiations but also because, among the principles of the Charter, there is one concerning the non-use of force or the threat of force in international relations.

19.	Sadly, it is today considered commonplace to affirm that the disparity between the developed and the under-developed countries has become flagrantly unbearable and that it is urgent to negotiate concrete measures to correct it. Four sessions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development UNCTAD have already been held and, ironically, not one but two decades have, one 
after the other, been declared to be United Nations Development Decades. A variety of formats of negotiation have been attempted during that period. We have participated on the international level in case-by-case approaches; we have negotiated work programs on different themes; we have been present at countless generic declarations. All those efforts have led to such scanty results that their paucity is now universally acknowledged.
20.	There is increasing frustration, as much in practice as in theory, over the whole basic issue of international trade and the economic and social development of the less- developed countries we exclude the oil-producing countries from our analysis, we can see that the net transfer of capital from the developed areas to the less-developed ones is becoming a myth. In net terms, that flow may shortly run from south to north. And while the relative participation of the less-developed countries in world trade is dwindling, there is a disproportionate increase of their presence in generating the surplus that is accumulating in the balance of payments of the main world business partners.
21.	All that is all the more surprising since it can be shown that if the financial transfers of the developed countries to the developing ones were directed into productive sectors, they would not detrimentally affect the possibilities for economic growth of the developed countries themselves. Studies prepared by experts of the United Nations show that if, as a hypothesis, the net flow of capital to non-oil-exporting developing countries reached in the next few years levels compatible with the objectives of the Second United Nations Development Decade -that is to say, an average rate of increase of the gross national product of at least 6 per cent the income of the developed countries members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development would increase at a rate faster than the present one. Contrary to what superficial reasoning might lead one to believe, the effective implementation of measures designed to maintain the international buying power of the developing countries would not have a negative effect on the developed countries but would benefit them by increasing their income and their rate of employment. Moreover, it is possible to predict that this expansion would occur precisely in the less inflationary sectors of their economies.
22.	The debate about the essence of the problem of under-development has lost its impetus, although attitudes, perist that seem to wish to impute to the developing countries an alleged guilt for their conditions of economic backwardness. This determination of historical guilt lacks any practical sense and should not be used to avoid or postpone concrete negotiations, or to lead countries to fail to take more constructive stands in international economic negotiations. The so-called sterile confrontations have their origin precisely in the general frustration felt by the under-developed countries at the diplomatic immobility that such attitudes engender or stimulate.
23.	To this negativism, founded on alleged reasons drawn from the past, there recently has been added another, this one addressed to futurological concerns. It is alleged that for ecological reasons the economic development of the under-developed countries of today is no longer practicable.
Now, the stagnation of the poorer areas of the globe cannot be the price to be paid to conserve the environment. What is really necessary is to proceed to a broad reorganization of the world economy so as to correct the acute disparities both in the distribution of the means of production and in the patterns of consumption. Invoking ecological motives in order to frustrate expectations for development would be a new and unacceptable form of domination that would meet with the opposition of all those peoples that have been subjected to colonialism and that, despite all the predications to the contrary, knew how to organize themselves politically in order to achieve their independence and to preserve it, as well as to struggle for their economic autonomy.
24.	As this century draws to a close, the people of the world have a right to social and economic development, and it is a right they do not intend to give up.
25.	The other face of the struggle for development is the increasing interdependence of States. Opening the general debate of last year's session of the General Assembly,  1 had the opportunity to dwell on the distinction Brazil believes should be drawn between the present vertical interdependence-that is, one based on a rigid and discriminatory international stratification and a desirable horizontal interdependence that would be founded on a legitimate community of interest and on equitable sharing of the world's wealth by all States.
26.	Today I wish to add that the persistence of under-development, resulting as it does in the continued political and economic marginalization of most developing countries, will inevitably hold back the evolution of the process of interdependence of States itself.
27.	It is especially disquieting to note that, although external trade may be more and more significant for the economy of developing countries as a whole, the share of these countries in the international flow of trade the oil exporters naturally excluded-is less and less important in percentage terms. The great majority of developing countries is losing ground in the global exchange of goods and services, and what is more, even as suppliers of raw materials to developed countries, which more and more have taken to trading among themselves. If this trend continues, developing countries will be pushed farther and farther to the edges of the international economic system.
28.	As a result, the integration of the world economy is being carried out at the cost of a radical disequilibrium that it is urgent to correct. It is unacceptable for the process of interdependence to continue indefinitely to accentuate exclusively the expansion of the strength of the great industrial centers, where the essential part of the world's technical and economic capacity is concentrated.
29.	It is necessary to give a new meaning, more just and more open, to the dynamics of interdependence. The imbalance that distorts it must be speedily eliminated and the only way to do that which is consonant with the 
general interest is to create international conditions for the real and not just the apparent overcoming of economic underdevelopment. An essential facet of the joint efforts we should undertake along these lines is the narrowing of the technological gap- not only by transferring technology from north to south but also by establishing an inter-national structure which will facilitate the production by developing countries of the technology they need.
30.	An awareness of these new needs is, happily enough, being spread. There are those who think, however, that obsolescence of States will be the inevitable counterpart of the general process of interdependence. I do not think so. World economic integration cannot dispense with the role of States, which, far from being mere cartographic facts, reflect ineradicable political realities. On the contrary, for interdependence to continue on its course with a minimum of attrition and as a rational, consensual and harmonious process, it can only be based on the independence of States and on the gradual elimination of the economic disparities between them.
31.	I have attempted to show, that disequilibrium and disparities are not limited to the socio-economic field but also permeate the sphere of multilateral political negotiations. These disparities will remain as long as there is an unyielding conflict between development and under-development, as long as the transition from the latter to the former economic stage is obstructed by external factors, as long as here and in other forums impasses continue to impede operative understandings for the removal of inter-national obstacles to development.
32.	It is in this context that the United Nations must do' more than simply reflect international reality; in fulfillment of the functions conferred upon it by the Charter, the United Nations must discharge a positive role in changing the present international structure. In spite of all the difficulties, Brazil still cherishes the hope that we can carry out this task by taking the path of comprehension and understanding among States, understanding and comprehension based on sovereign equality, on equity and mutual respect.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿
1.	Mr. President, permit me to express to you the satisfaction of the Brazilian delegation at seeing you presiding over this session of the General Assembly. I bring you our congratulations on your unanimous election to this high office.
2.	I also wish to express the appreciation of my delegation for the manner in which Ambassador Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe conducted the work of the thirty-first session.
3.	Brazil supports the principle of the universality of the Organization, to the fulfilment of which we draw nearer each passing year. It is, therefore, always a pleasure to mark the admission of new Member States to the United Nations as we now do in the case of Viet Nam and Djibouti. We hope that other peoples that still seek their independence will shortly join us in the common endeavour to promote international peace and security.
4.	The United Nations mirrors a concept of international relations based on mutual respect and co-operation among
States. Although in some Articles of the Charter allowances were made for the realities of power, it is undeniable that the principle of equality among States is one of the fundamental pillars of the Charter. The co-operation which is sought is horizontal co-operation among sovereign States, in which there is no room for hegemony or subordination. The Charter of the United Nations as the supreme instrument of contemporary international law urges each of the States here represented to co-operate and to harmonize our interests in accordance with the parameters defined in its principles and purposes. Such co-operation naturally presupposes the seeking of a point of convergence which would be of benefit to all countries. To Brazil co-operation is a spontaneous gesture flowing from the ecumenical nature of its people. As Brazil understands and practises it, co-operation presupposes respect for national identities and for the sovereign right of States to seek the most adequate ways to reach the goals of welfare and progress of their peoples. It presupposes, therefore, respect for the principle of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of States which, more than a general principle of the United Nations, is a legal obligation assumed by all States upon signing and ratifying the Charter.
5.	The factors which contribute most to the frustration of the first of the purposes of the Organization, namely that of guarding peace and avoiding the use of force in the settlement of international disputes, still exist. The reason is that among the areas of action of the United Nations, that of disarmament is perhaps the one in which the positive results have been fewest and on which the strengthening of international peace and security is most dependent.
6.	In spite of that, Brazil continues to regard disarmament as one of the central endeavours of our time. New and redoubled international efforts in that direction must be made, for the meagre results hitherto obtained fall far short of the needs of the international community. The first of those needs, it cannot be repeated too often, is the very survival of human beings; and it is in the light of this, the greatest of all needs, that all others should be seen, such as the establishment of true conditions of international peace and security in order to benefit all peoples without distinction and to offer them tranquillity and the advantages of economic and technological progress.
7.	The States which have the greatest potential ability to jeopardize our life on earth also have a correlated specific responsibility for facilitating the progressive attainment of understanding among all nations, with a view to the setting up of a more stable and equitable international political and economic order. The international acceptance of these values is not a simple matter of convenience but, in the world of today, a condition for survival. 

8.	The inefficacy of multilateral efforts on disarmament and the paucity of results achieved up to now can only be a cause for disquiet. The ban on nuclear tests in three environments, besides being incomplete, has contributed little or nothing to the aims of disarmament or even to arms control. There is little confidence that international undertakings now in force will be sufficient to guarantee the use of outer space for exclusively peaceful ends. In relation to the seas and oceans, the only progress achieved relates to the ban on placing nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction on the sea-bed, on the ocean floor and in the subsoil thereof. The Convention on bacteriological weapons was made possible only because the countries which do not possess such weapons in their armouries have made great concessions, including the relinquishment of a mechanism for verification and safeguards and the acceptance of a separate negotiation of a convention on the prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of all chemical weapons and on their destruction.
9.	The arms race goes on. Strategic weapons are still being perfected and multiplied. The introduction of new generations of tactical nuclear armaments seems to be accompanied by the generalization of a tolerant attitude towards their possible use. By this course—and apart from the fact that the new weapons have an enormous potential for destruction—almost insensibly a new option is open for a possible nuclear escalation. Especially cruel weapons continue to be invented. These developments, as well as the dangerous experiments being made in genetic engineering, jeopardize the rights of all peoples and the integrity of the human person, both now and in the future.
10.	We must not forget that it is in this context—in which negotiations among States coexist with the still inexorable pursuit of the arms race—that are rightly placed the efforts being made towards the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, although these are not the only element in the problem. It does not seem to me necessary to repeat at this moment the criticism of the gaps and grave imperfections of those efforts, as mirrored in the 1968 Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This criticism was put forward by the signers of that Treaty themselves, during the Review Conference which took place in 1975.
11.	In this regard, the Brazilian Government has recently had, in an official document with wide international distribution, the opportunity to state its position on the ensemble of questions related to the use of nuclear energy. The essence of our thinking bears repetition here.
12.	Brazil is a peaceful county. The dominant concern of the Brazilian nation is its integrated, harmonious economic and social development. Brazil is opposed to all proliferation of nuclear weapons, whether vertical or horizontal, and is ready to participate in international efforts aimed at reducing and in due course eliminating nuclear arms, as well as preventing their proliferation. We believe that the true
2	Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction.
3	Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, held at Geneva from 5 to 30 May 1975.
meaning of non-proliferation is to ban the diffusion of nuclear weapons, not the dissemination of nuclear technology. Given adequate safeguards, access to the technology for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy should not be subjected to discriminatory restrictions.
13.	The Brazilian decision to implement an important nuclear programme for peaceful purposes was based on a careful evaluation of the energy needs of the country and the possible options for meeting such needs. Brazil is convinced that international co-operation, supported by appropriate safeguards, is the best means of ensuring the objectives of the development of the utilization of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes without the risks of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The same directive, incidentally, was elaborated in the United Nations itself, for IAEA, whose long experience accumulated over the last two decades has proved so useful, was conceived and created precisely in order to attempt to accelerate and increase the contribution of nuclear energy to the peace, health and prosperity of the whole world, ensuring that such co-operation is not used in a way that would contribute to military ends.
14.	We trust that the next special session of the General Assembly dedicated to disarmament will be a positive step in the multilateral negotiations concerning the problems in this field. Having in mind the preparatory work under way, we are especially confident that it will be possible to concentrate the attention of the General Assembly on the most critical of the areas of disarmament, namely, the negotiations for effective measures of nuclear disarmament.
15.	Our community is annually called upon to pronounce itself on the Middle East, an area where advances and retreats occur on the road to peace. The Brazilian position has been reiterated in this plenary Assembly and in other bodies. True to the guiding principles of our nationality, we consider as indispensable elements for a just and lasting solution respect for the right of all States to their existence and for the right of all peoples and countries of this region to enjoy self-determination, to exercise their sovereignty and to live in peace. True, furthermore, to the principle of the non-acquisition of territory by force, we share the widely manifested concern with regard to the recent initiatives that run counter to United Nations resolutions and that pretend to give a kind of de facto legitimacy to situations created by force. These initiatives make more difficult the establishment of peace in the region.
16.	As a result of racial oppression and the persistence of colonialism, southern Africa is another region where serious tensions are widespread and put at risk the very maintenance of international peace and security. Brazil has repeatedly made plain its repudiation of racism and colonialism, together with its growing apprehension at this situation which is a challenge to the conscience of humanity. It was thus with special interest that we participated in the major meetings that took place this year in Maputo and in Lagos, namely, the International Conference in Support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia and the World Conference for Action against Apartheid.
17.	The questions of interest to the peoples of southern Africa must be solved without further ado. The international community has the undeniable moral and political duty to create conditions to accelerate the solution of these international questions. In spite of the numerous obstacles raised by those who still benefit in the region from the present situation, the path to negotiation must be trod will perseverance. The options provided by the Charter of the United Nations should be utilized, among others, so as to make it perfectly clear that the international community is determined to see that the negotiations are conducted with speed.
18.	Discrimination, segregation and racial hatred constitute one of the most extreme violations of the rights of the human person. The practices of apartheid deserve condemnation both at the ethical and juridical levels and at the political level, for, in addition to offending the moral conscience and transgressing human rights, they represent a factor that disturbs peace.
19.	I should like also to mention, although very briefly, the geographical region to which we belong and with the aspirations of which Brazil fully identifies. It is with pleasure that I refer to the constructive relationship among the countries of Latin America developed on the basis of open friendship and positive co-operation aimed at mutual benefit.
20.	Non-intervention in the internal and external affairs of other States and attachment to peaceful and effective means for the solution of occasional disputes, which stem very often from the very closeness of their relationship, constitute the incalculable heritage of the countries of that region.
21.	Within the inter-American framework it is with satisfaction that I record a significant event, both for the countries in the hemisphere and for the international community, namely, the signing on 7 September of the treaties on the Panama Canal. This is an historic episode in which the search for convergence and an effort at cooperation prevailed. Panama and the United States of America have demonstrated a sense of opportunity and of realism in finding a mutually satisfactory solution of a question of long and painful duration. The treaties are an important step towards the re-establishment of justice and of the respect that all countries deserve, be they great or small, powerful or not powerful.
22.	As I have pointed out, co-operation—which is urged upon us by the Charter of the United Nations—presupposes as a basic requirement respect for national identity and for the sovereignty of States. The Charter places the theme of human rights precisely within the field of international co-operation, and within that field makes the promotion of those rights one of the most important tasks of the Organization. The treatment of this question at the multilateral level might assist the creation of favourable conditions for the full exercise of those rights which, in our view, embrace not only civil and political aspects but also social1, and economic questions such as the right to food, to education, to culture, to work, to a life free from pauperism and to support in old age. All these matters must be dealt with within a broad and integrated perspective.
23.	International concern over human rights is not new, and there is no novelty in the efforts of many States to see those rights respected. It would be useful to recall, even though briefly, the common conceptual heritage accumulated over the years in the consideration of this subject at the international level.
24.	The first component of this heritage is the conviction that the problem is one of a fundamentally ethical nature, a basic fact that does not always seem to be present when the matter is being examined in this body or elsewhere. Very often the subject is dealt with intentions that differ from the sincere desire to protect the rights of man.
25.	A second component of our common heritage lies in the conviction that the question of human rights is of a universal character. To justify discriminatory treatment on the basis of national interest is to destroy the very foundations of the defence of those rights.
26.	Thirdly, it would be unrealistic to imagine that these question are, in practice, isolated from consideration of other problems which afflict the community of nations. The creation of conditions favourable to the generalized respect for human rights will depend on the substantial improvement of political and economic security at the international level. As long as the nuclear arms race continues unchecked and as long as no satisfaction is given within the framework of North-South relations to the just aspirations of the developing countries, the basic prerequisites will be missing to permit human rights, in their wider and truer meaning, being effectively respected on a global scale. The refusal to facilitate the establishment of a more just and more stable international economic order, one that would meet the claims of collective economic security for development, is a factor that cannot be ignored or overshadowed in the interest of respect for human rights.
27.	Finally, the solution of the problems of the rights of man lies within the responsibility of the Government of each country. In a world which is still, unfortunately, marked by interventionist attitudes, be they open or veiled, and by the distortion of certain matters, no country or group of countries should enjoy the status of judge of other countries on such serious and intimate questions of national life.
28.	Bearing in mind this conceptual heritage, Brazil has recently associated itself with the work of the Commission on Human Rights, an association which will allow it to contribute more effectively, at the normative international level, in the promotion of these rights. The machinery and procedures already available to the United Nations for the consideration of human rights problems seem to us ample and sufficient to enable the work to proceed at the rhythm required by the complexity of the subject and preserved from passing factors and circumstances.
29.	International co-operation cannot and must not be an instrument to be resorted to for momentary convenience nor must it serve as the last resort for help in circumstances of acute crisis. It must be a continuous, constructive and creative effort An objective evaluation of the field of international economic relations demonstrates that such an effort is truly indispensable.
32.	Initiatives and projects succeed one another without, as we should wish, any change occurring in the harsh realities facing the developing countries. Almost 20 years after the launching of the First United Nations Development Decade, almost 15 years after the convening of the first session of UNCTAD, and more than a generation after the creation of the Economic and Social Council where the central problems of world economic relations have been discussed, the developing countries still face severe obstacles and encounter structures and machinery which no longer respond to the claims of the present world.
33.	Brazil was among the first to understand the threat to international security necessarily constituted by economic inequality. We were able to see in the international structures as they were then, and still are today, a grave restriction on the development process. In 1974, the Brazilian proposal on collective economic security for development proceeded from that finding to demonstrate that social justice and economic progress are essential to the system of guarantees among States and thus inseparable from the goal of peace and security.
34.	The results arrived at after 18 months of work by the Conference on International Economic Co-operation cannot be described as encouraging. It had been expected that that Conference, even though it might have found it impossible to solve immediate problems, could have been the source of a new spirit which would prevail in the examination of sensitive and controversial questions when they were the subject of negotiations in specific forums. That did not come about, as demonstrated by the fruitless nature of the Paris negotiations. I do not wish now to begin the examination of the substance of the talks at the Conference, but I should like to recall that unfulfilled hopes and non-binding manifestations of goodwill are not substitutes for effective action.
35.	If the weight of congealed structures and the immense obstacles raised by history in the face of those countries which arrived later to the process of industrialization is not enough, I must point out with special concern another aspect of the present picture of international economic relations: the re-emergence of protectionism in some developed countries. To overcome these additional difficulties, international co-operation is ever more necessary for the benefit of both the developing countries and the industrialized countries. Brazil expects developed countries to discourage discriminatory attitudes and to pledge themselves to give equitable treatment to exports from developing countries.
36.	The recognition of the fact that difficulties do exist and the small margin of progress achieved do not dishearten us in our search for new ways. The developing countries must, above all, make use of their own efforts, of the growing weight of their economies and of their solidarity, which was tested under severe conditions, to continue pragmatically to act with strength, even within the present rules of the game, to overcome the difficulties and obstacles facing them.
37.	But this, however, should not let us lose sight of the imperative need to continue to work, both at the operational and normative levels, to obtain structural changes in the intrinsically unjust nature of those rules.
38.	It is, therefore, with a confidence tempered by realism that we identify the usefulness of two important coming conferences to be convened under the auspices of the United Nations: that on technical co-operation among developing countries and that on science and technology for development. I believe that few areas hold so much promise of beneficial results for the international community.
39.	We have seen within the United Nations the expansion of the capacity of countries to express their national aspirations and to influence decision-making processes the consequences of which effect everyone We want to see this reality consolidated and strengthened. We want to see the complete abolition of the gap which still keeps many States at a distance from international consideration of questions affecting their interests. This is an urgent matter, for the accelerated technological development of some States may result in a new factor which will facilitate the survival of obsolete forms of international relations.
40.	To allow the United Nations fully to discharge its great duties, it will be necessary to encourage the equitable participation of all States in the political process, thus reinvigorating the international system and giving new momentum to common efforts towards peace, security and development Brazil has confidence in the world of tomorrow.
 

 



 
	


===== Session 33 - 1978 =====
﻿
7.	Mr. President, the tradition which offers Brazil the privilege of opening the general debate at the United Nations General Assembly gives me this year the very special pleasure of being the first among the speakers to compliment you on your election by acclamation to the presidency of this thirty-third session of the Assembly. Without stressing the strong and traditional ties that bind our two countries, neighbours and sisters, it is for me a source of particular personal satisfaction to see the labours of this main political body of the United Nations entrusted to the skilful and experienced guidance of my Colombian colleague and friend, Indalecio Lavano Aguirre.
8.	Nor can I fail to express to Mr. Mojsov our appreciation of the manner in which he accomplished in this past year the task of presiding over the General Assembly during its thirty-second regular session and the unprecedented total of three special sessions.
9.	Thirty-three years after the creation of this world Organization we have arrived, as a result of the process of decolonization promoted and accelerated by the United Nations itself, at a membership of 120 States. Solomon Islands now joins the community of nations with full rights, and we bid them welcome.
10.	The tradition to which I referred in my opening words gives Brazil not only the .privilege but, above all, the responsibility, which falls upon me, of opening this debate, the only one to be held every year at a high political level among the representatives of the international community as a whole, without distinction between the powerful and the weak or the rich and the poor.
11.	This is the fifth time I have addressed the General Assembly as the Minister for External Relations of my country. When I spoke in this forum precisely four years ago  as the Foreign Minister of President Ernesto Geisel's Administration, whose work was then beginning, I pointed out that we wished our language in the international field to be plain and straightforward, that we desired frank and 
uninhibited communication among the States Members of the United Nations and that we would explore all roads to understanding, for we held the fundamental belief that co-operation is more effective than antagonism and that mutual respect is more creative than the ambition of preponderance. I stressed, further, that we were ready, wherever Brazilian national interest might move us, to look for areas of convergence and zones of coincidence with the interests of other peoples, acting always in pursuance of objectives that were clearly identified and accepted by the Brazilian people.
12.	That, in brief, has been the guideline followed by Brazil during these years in its external relations, both bilaterally and multilaterally. And the balance, I believe, is positive. We have greatly increased the areas of co-operation and understanding with our neighbours of the Latin American region, with our overseas neighbours, the sister republics of Africa, and with the other countries of the world. Traditional friendships have been strengthened and new and mutually beneficial friendships have been developed. Zealous for our sovereignty and independence, we have reaffirmed whenever necessary by word and deed our unshakeable adherence to the principles of non-interference in the internal affairs of States, mutual respect and self-determination. And we have lived in peace, always trying to solve with serenity our differences of opinion with, or eventual divergences, from other nations.
13.	We have sought, as far as possible, to break obsolete patterns of international relations and to replace them with more equitable and more balanced arrangements. This has enabled us to open up new diplomatic horizons. And we have thus revealed the true international profile of Brazil, ever sensitive to changes in the world reality.
14.	Thus, a solid base has been created on which Brazil can stand in the coming years, a country firmly devoted to the task of promoting its ideals of peace, justice and development in harmony with the other nations of the earth.
15.	In that same speech of September 1974,1 underlined certain grave problems afflicting the international community which were included in the General Assembly's agenda and which, directly or indirectly, also affected and continue to affect the country I represent. In some of those cases the balance of these last four years has been positive, although still unsatisfactory. In others it was clearly negative.
16.	To mention only one of those problems, I then referred, first of all, to the general theme of decolonization and to the inhuman policy of apartheid. The past years have brought great rejoicing to Brazil with the independence and admission to the United Nations of all former Portuguese territories in Africa. But our attention is still turned to the peoples of Namibia and Zimbabwe, who still seek their self-determination and independence, not to mention other peoples, in other parts of the world, who still remain under the yoke of foreign domination. We anxiously await the occasion, which we hope will come very soon, to welcome to the United Nations the nation of Namibia, free and sovereign at last, with its territorial integrity fully preserved. But our cautious satisfaction with the apparent progress of that African country towards independence-the object, this year, of the historic ninth special session of the Assembly-is not enough to counterbalance the continued frustration of the expectations of the international community in relation to the self-determination of the people of Zimbabwe and the abolition of the apartheid regime.
17.	Nor can we be reassured by the relatively unstable peace which prevails over a great part of the world when we observe the persistence of explosive situations and, in some cases, their rapid deterioration. In a world of solidarity and interdependence, there is no peace while there remain focuses of tension, of injustice and of conflict, even when localized.
18.	In this sense, the extremely volatile situation in the Middle East gives all of us reason for the most profound concern. The continual resurgence in that region of the mistrust and hostility that have so often marked its turbulent history and, in particular, the tragic events in Lebanon, which caused the convening of the eighth special session of the General Assembly this year—all contribute to create a climate of disquiet and discouragement.
19.	The recent negotiations at Camp David are a new element in the search for peace in the region of the Middle East. We await with interest new stages in the process that is now under way, and we are attentively observing the degree of acceptance it is being accorded by the other parties more directly involved in the question, while cherishing the hope that it will be possible to arrive at just and lasting solutions compatible with the principle of the non-acquisition of territory by force, with the principle of the recognition of the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people, and with the right of all parties to the conflict to survival and self-determination.
20.	I cannot avoid making special mention of a problem which increasingly endangers the very existence of mankind. I refer, obviously, to the arms race and, in particular, to the nuclear arms race.
21.	The situation today demands decisive action on the part of the international community, which has complacently and for many years contemplated the uncontrolled accumulation, by a few States, of arms of mass destruction and the terrifying and permanent refinement, by those same States, of instruments capable of annihilating human life on earth. The threat to us, to each of us in this room, and to each one of the 150 countries we represent, lies not only in the danger that those weapons may one day be used, but also in the very existence of that weaponry.
22.	The spirit of frankness which should inspire this general debate leads me to say that, in this sense, the results of the first special session devoted to disarmament—the tenth special session—which was held in May and June of this year, were disappointing. Although we were conscious of the limitations which would inevitably follow from the realities of power, we nurtured the hope that the special session would be a first step, albeit a modest one, towards the solution of priority problems relating to nuclear weapons.
23.	Aware of the need to ensure the co-operation of all States, particularly of the nuclear Powers, we all agree that the appropriate method of work was to seek solutions by consensus. Nevertheless, we witnessed the blockage even of successively diluted versions of texts that addressed themselves effectively to disarmament. Entire sections dealing with the really urgent problems relating to nuclear weapons were completely suppressed or made ambiguous. The Final Document of the special session [resolution S-10/2] contains serious omissions and confers disproportionate importance upon issues of secondary urgency in the general field of disarmament.
24.	Since it was not possible to achieve significant progress on the substantive issues of greater priority and urgency during the special session, it is symptomatic that the main practical results of the Assembly on disarmament lie precisely in the procedural area of machinery for future negotiations and deliberations. Willing to continue contributing, in good faith, to all constructive efforts in that area, we supported the decisions on the new negotiating body and on the new Committee on Disarmament. Within the limits of its possibilities, Brazil will exert every effort to help those bodies to achieve the results urgently required in the field of disarmament, particularly in the field of nuclear disarmament.
25.	The obstacles that certain developed countries try to raise against the acquisition by the remaining States of technologies indispensable to development, including nuclear technology for peaceful purposes, are only one area in which some highly industrialized countries, aware of the g-owing political and economic importance of technology in a world of more and more limited natural resources, systematically try to hinder, restrict or block the access of developing countries to the means which are needed for the promotion of the welfare of their peoples. The situation, which tends only to become more grave, is a source of concern, especially as it fits into the increasingly bleak picture of North-South economic relations, marked in practically all its aspects by a worsening of trends, such as protectionism contrary to the establishment of a more just and equitable international economy.
26.	It is to be regretted, in this context, that the lack of political will on the part of a large number of our developed partners continues to block the progress of constructive negotiations. Two weeks ago, the seventh session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea held its last meeting in these halls. Nothing would give me more pleasure than to be able to affirm that that session, the latest in a long series, arrived at positive results. Unfortunately such was not the case. During that part of the session which took place in Geneva we had noted some progress on important issues, but the continuation of the work in New York seems to have provoked setbacks and withdrawals, a fact which does not allow us to declare ourselves even modestly satisfied with what was achieved.
27.	The prospect of having national legislation on matters under negotiation adopted unilaterally, in direct opposition to resolution 2749 (XXV), which was accepted without dissenting voices, did not contribute to better results. We cannot yet evaluate precisely just how far the consequences of such actions will go, but it is not possible to view them without deep concern. It is worth remembering that the Conference on the Law of the Sea is, in the judgement of many, the most important negotiation since the San Francisco Conference, at which our Charter was established and our Organization was created.
28.	Another glaring recent example of this situation was the suspension some days ago of the work of the Committee Established under General Assembly Resolution 32/174,; known as the Committee of the Whole, a body which, in principle, should have decisive influence on the progress of specific negotiations within the framework of the North-South dialogue.
29.	Brazil will always continue to be pledged to the promotion and improvement of international co-operation, but it sees with disenchantment the gradual fading of the hopeful picture that had been sketched as a result of the seventh special session of the General Assembly. This thirty-third session will, consequently, be of crucial importance in determining the direction which the North-South dialogue will take.
30.	It is in the light of these facts that we attribute special importance to the development of machinery aimed at filling the gaps in North-South co-operation. With this aim in mind Brazil has put forward and supported efforts _to promote, enlarge and intensify horizontal and equitable co-operation among the countries which strive for development. The United Nations Conference on Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries, which took place recently in Buenos Aires, was an important landmark for multilateral efforts in this field.
31.	The United Nations is the only universal body with the duty of maintaining international peace and security and simultaneously promoting co-operation for the social and economic development of all peoples. It is an imperfect system, much in need of reform. But, above all, it is a system imperfectly utilized.
32.	The Charter of the Organization itself establishes, as the first of its basic principles, that of sovereign equality among all States. But that provision, which should be the foundation of universal co-operation for the solution Of the great problems of today's world, is undermined every moment. We do not deny that certain States are immensely more prosperous and more powerful than others. What we cannot continue to accept is that a few States seek to resolve the political and economic destinies of the world, with the United Nations kept on the margin and without regard for the interests, of the great majority of its Members. To these latter, participation in the process of making decisions which directly or indirectly will affect their fates can no longer be denied.


===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿As the general debate opens, I have the honour and sincere pleasure of conveying to you, Sir, the first expressions of congratulations on your election to the presidency of the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly. You have the support of the international community represented here, thanks to the esteem we have for your country and for your own personal qualifications, which we recognize and admire. Your constant dedication to the principles of sovereignty and self- determination and the remarkable contribution you have made in the efforts for peace and independence have distinguished your role in the last years as Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with Regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. You are well aware of the significant ties that exist between the African nations and my country. Endowed with a common heritage in many fields, and as partners in basic aspirations, we have striven to develop our ties into a network of mutual co-operation, which already includes a wide range of activities. It is with particular satisfaction that, in this context, I refer to the imminent opening of the Brazilian Embassy in Darussalam, which will thus establish a direct diplomatic channel with one of the most important capitals of Africa.
3.	Before proceeding, I should like to express my Government's appreciation for the very able and productive manner in which a distinguished South American—a representative of Colombia, a country to which Brazil is bound by fraternal links—Mr. Indalecio Lie'vano Aguirre, conducted the work of the thirty-third session.
4.	For many years and in various ways I have been associated with the work and the development of this Organization and have therefore witnessed its transformation into a true universal forum. Thus it is with satisfaction that I welcome a new Member State—a country from Latin America—Saint Lucia, to whose representatives I extend my warm greetings, anticipating fruitful co-operation in this Organization.
5.	Upon taking office on 15 March last, President Joao Figueiredo reaffirmed that the foreign policy of Brazil is dedicated to the noble ideals of peace, justice and inter-national co-operation for development. In the coming years we shall persevere in exploring new paths for understanding and co-operation with nations from all parts of the world. In this endeavour we shall be guided by our traditional capacity for friendly dialogue and by our sense of national dignity.
6.	As we look to the future, it seems fitting to reaffirm Brazil's adherence to the principles of national independence, the sovereign equality of States, the self- determination of peoples and non-interference in the internal and external affairs of States, as well as our support for the peaceful settlement of international disputes, as provided for in the United Nations Charter. In this connexion, Brazil will continue to work for the strengthening of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security, in co-operation for development and in the furtherance of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion.
7.	For the Brazilian Government, it is a matter of satisfaction that relations with our immediate neighbours, the sister nations of Latin America, are increasingly pervaded by positive trends. Winds of change are blowing in Latin America. The countries of the region are conscious of the need to add new dimensions to their historical ties through the intensification of their political consultations, the establishment of new and dynamic cultural links and a substantial expansion of their trade and economic relations. While retaining their own features and peculiarities, Latin American countries are closer than ever to each other. As the area for co-operation expands, new forms of joint action will be required. For its part, Brazil is ready to co-operate, and our concern is that peace and tranquillity prevail in our region and that the countries of Latin America face, side by side, the common struggle for development. With this aim, we are prepared to work with other nations from all parts of Latin America.
8.	Brazil feels especially close to its neighbours to the east, the nations of Africa. The links that we have developed over the years reflect not only geographical proximity but also the deeply rooted affinities between our peoples. Together we have identified our interest in the establishment of new patterns of economic and technical co-operation and new flows of goods and services. Together we have sought common solutions in our efforts to overcome the challenges of development and independence, on a basis of mutual trust and respect.
9.	We are particularly sensitive to the profound grief of the people of Angola over the untimely death two weeks ago of President Agostinho Neto. To his people he was the guide in the struggle for independence and nation-building and an African leader whose personal qualifications won him great respect and esteem. In my country he was also regarded as one of the most significant contemporary poets of our common language. His death came before Africa could achieve the goal of complete freedom from political and economic domination and racial injustice. But, as he would say, the struggle continues for the self-determination and independence of Zimbabwe and Namibia and for the elimination of apartheid.
10.	With the nations of the Middle East, Brazil has forged strong ties of friendship, understanding and cooperation. We view with increasing concern the problems afflicting that part of the world. During the past year, new developments have marked the situation in the Middle East. However, it would be excessively optimistic to say that the prospects for peace—a just, lasting and comprehensive peace—are, in some way, better than they were a year ago.
11.	Nevertheless, some States are still reluctant to accept the changes that must be brought about for true peace to be attained. Some still insist on closing their eyes to the basic fact that there will not be peace in the area until all territories taken by force are vacated and until the rights of the Palestinian people—their inalienable rights to self-determination, independence and sovereignty in Palestine, in accordance with the United Nations Charter—are duly recognized and implemented, Furthermore, one cannot foresee true success in peace negotiations without the participation of the Palestine Liberation Organization, which is one of the relevant parties in the region's political scene.
12.	We believe that all States in the region have a right to exist within recognized borders. This right implies, actually, the recognition of the right of all peoples in the region to live in peace, including those who are homeless and have suffered the most. The world can no longer afford delays in the adoption of effective measures directed towards a future of good understanding, peace and justice in the Middle East. It is the hope of the Brazilian Government that the present session of the United Nations General Assembly may help create diplomatic conditions that will allow for a new political situation to the benefit of all.
13.	The world economy is about to enter the decade of the 1980s in a state marked by widespread uncertainties. After more than 20 years of intensive negotiations for the reformulation of relations between the industrialized North and the developing South, the results achieved did not go beyond the theoretical recognition of unbalanced situations and the need to revise them.
14.	It cannot be denied that practical measures for the correction of the factors of economic imbalance have been essentially limited to the convening of international conferences or to the creation of multilateral organs concerned more with the debate of the problems than with their negotiation and solution.
15.	The institutionalization of UNCTAD and the unfolding of its work over five high level meetings; the establishment of UNIDO; the addition to the text of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of a chapter on trade problems of less developed nations; numerous sessions of the General Assembly and dozens of meetings and conferences on a variety of subjects; the launching of two United Nations Development Decades; the so-called North-South Paris Conference —all this huge effort fell short of modifying the picture of injustice and asymmetry which deeply marks the North-South relationship.
16.	The remarkable prosperity enjoyed by the Western economy in the post-war period is threatened today by numerous difficulties. The very essence of the economic problem experienced by the highly developed nations has changed. Formerly, during the period of accelerated growth, the question was how to minimize the elements of instability in a context of sustained expansion; now it is a matter of preventing the international system from reaching heights of intolerable instability.
17.	At present, there is a disquieting slackening in international trade, the volume of which until 1973 grew at an average rate of 9 per cent but today increases at an annual rate of less than 5 per cent. The contraction of economic activities anticipates the increase of protectionist trends, and introduces a disturbing element of friction in an economy which is becoming more and more interdependent and internationalized.
18.	In the commercial field, it is increasingly clear that lines of division are being established between the North, which is as integrated as ever, and the South, where the share of countries like Brazil in international exports is less than proportional to their contribution to world prosperity. This contribution lies not only in the acquisition of goods and services, but also in well remunerated imports of technological inputs and financial resources, either direct investments or capital loans.
19.	Paradoxically, the very difficulties which prevail in the present situation have encouraged increased integration among the highly industrialized economies. Another ambitious round of negotiations within GATT has just been concluded. We note that the results of this round benefited above all the trade of the sophisticated among the highly industrialized nations. In the Northern Hemisphere reciprocal trade is liberalized and constructive solutions are adopted, leading to greater intertwining of the respective industrial sectors, with added financial technological co-operation and increased exchanges of direct investments.
20.	Meanwhile, the industrialized world has been drawn closer to those nations which have come to enjoy a greater availability of financial resources as a result of increases in the price of oil.
21.	These facts are positive for the world economy and, to that extent, they deserve recognition and support.
22.	From the point of view of the specific interest of developing countries like Brazil, however, the pattern of commercial relations with the developed world gives rise to concern, for what is taking place is not the removal of protectionist structures but their development into new modalities, which at times are more subtle, but which none the less are always effective.
23.	Far from being abolished, protectionism acquires new features and is updated; it strikes with redoubled impact precisely those nations which, due to a chronic tendency towards external imbalance—an inevitable requirement of their development effort—are more in need of access to the larger world markets.
24.	Concern for the pressing aspects of the economic difficulties—such as inflation in the developed world and the rise in the price of oil—must not overshadow the broader issue of the struggle to overcome the structures of under-development. Industrialization in developing countries is being hindered at the very moment when the efforts of these countries are starting to yield results, and when they can most contribute to the world economy also as suppliers of increasingly competitive manufactured products. Probably worse than openly practised protectionism, in the form of trade barriers against the sales of those countries, is the omission implicit in the disregard for the problems of North- South relationships which became evident, for example, at the Tokyo Economic Summit, held from 28 to 29 June 1979.
25.	As President Figueiredo recently stated in a speech made at the launching, by both the Brazilian Government and private businessmen, of a renewed exports drive:
"To our industrialized partners we affirm our disposition towards dialogue and understanding, and our rejection of any unwarranted attitude of confrontation. We wish to reach, together, stable and constructive solutions. Through them we expect to eliminate the spectre of protectionism which has been revived by current widespread difficulties, and also open increasingly wider channels for trade and international co-operation."
26.	In this spirit, we address our friends from the developed world. Brazil favours the resumption of the North-South dialogue through a new and intensified effort for effective negotiations with a view to reshaping the relationship between the developed world and the developing nations.
27.	In this context we look forward to the practical results we trust will be attained by the special session of the Assembly to be held in 1980.
28.	We trust that the developing world will maintain its fundamental solidarity before the highly industrialized countries. But the developing world cannot have its unity based exclusively on the coincidence of interests vis-a-vis the developed nations. This unity must reflect an effective sense of understanding and co-operation. In order to be authentic, the solidarity of the developing world must be increasingly geared to concrete action. I refer here particularly to the present energy crisis. New forms of commercial co-operation between developing countries must be established. Direct economic and financial flows among developing countries must increase on a mutual basis so as to ensure that situations of acute imbalance do not become a permanent feature in the third world. With this aim, we think that developing countries should maintain urgently all necessary consultations, which should also serve as a preparation for the dialogue they will have with the industrialized countries.
29.	Brazil, for its part, is undertaking a major effort to increase its relations of trade and co-operation with other developing countries. We have shared, to the limit of our possibilities, the experience we have accumulated as a tropical country with a relatively high and diversified level of industrialization. Our trade relations with nations from Latin America, Africa and Asia, which in the 1960s accounted for 9 per cent of our exports and approximately 23 per cent of our purchases, represent today 25 per cent of our sales and more than 40 per cent of our imports. More than a billion dollars was allocated by the Brazilian Government in the last few years to the opening of lines of credit in favour of other developing nations. We have provided technical co-operation, though still on a modest basis, to some 40 countries in Latin America and Africa, and we have today approximately 15,000 foreign students in Brazilian technical institutions and universities.
30.	In the field of renewable sources of energy, we are opening an entirely new area for our co-operation with other countries. Thanks to substantial investments in the production of alcohol for fuel purposes and the development of a technology for its use, Brazil can become the focus of a broad effort of developing alternative sources of energy with beneficial effects for all countries, producers and consumers, which seek the rational use and adequate conservation of oil reserves, as well as greater stability and predictability in the market development of such an essential product. We are thus contributing to the maximum of our possibilities, to broadening and enhancing the sense of harmony and solidarity in the developing world, which is an indispensable condition for success in the task of revising the patterns of relationship between North and South.
31.	Serious political and economic problems with world-wide repercussions have made us all acutely conscious of the importance of dialogue and co-operation among States. Developing countries have awakened to the fact that they can and should seek each other to solve their common problems. They are also aware of the fact that they are denied access to negotiations and to the international decision-making processes which directly affect their legitimate interests and aspirations in so many ways.
32.	It can no longer be ignored that all States, without discrimination, have the right to participate equitably and effectively in the decisions affecting their national destinies. It is not only in the energy, trade, monetary and other issues in the economic field that such participation is required. I wish also to consider the present situation in the field of disarmament. Although the tenth special session of the General Assembly, held in 1978 on disarmament, fell far short of producing a clear-cut commitment to nuclear disarmament, it did produce what appeared to be a more open and democratic machinery for disarmament negotiations. But the results of the first year of work of the Committee on Disarmament have not been encouraging. The Committee concentrated on debating its rules of procedure and other procedural questions, while negotiations on basic, substantive questions continued to be conducted directly by the two main military Powers.
33.	The agreements reached as a result of the second round of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks [SALT], hailed in some quarters as a major break-through in the field of nuclear disarmament and described in others as not more than a limited step towards what might be called the rational management of the arms race, are a result of such direct negotiations between the two main military Powers. Presumably all other States will be asked to commend the agreements during the present session of the General Assembly. We shall not stand in the way of such a request. But we see the second round of these talks primarily as an intermediate stage which should lead to the early start of negotiations on the third round of SALT, with its promised substantive reductions in nuclear armaments. At any rate, SALT negotiations should be integrated in a broader effort open to the participation of all States, with a view to general and complete disarmament, under effective international control.
34.	The Committee on Disarmament itself did not have the opportunity even to begin meaningful negotiations on two measures that had been on the agenda of its predecessor, the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament for a great many years. Neither the trilateral talks on a nuclear weapons test ban, nor the bilateral discussions on the prohibition of chemical weapons led this year to the long-awaited presentation of concrete proposals to the Geneva Committee on Disarmament. Instead, the multilateral negotiating body was presented, at almost the last moment, with a draft on radiological weapons produced by the two major military Powers, with the recommendation that it be speedily approved and forwarded to the General Assembly for endorsement. While welcoming the initiative, the Committee wisely decided that it was entitled to discuss the proposed text more thoroughly. Furthermore, it is significant that the only major disarmament effort in 1979 open to the participation of all States had to do, not with the top priority area of nuclear weapons, but with certain specific conventional weapons.
35.	Before concluding, I wish to refer to two issues which received ample consideration at the United Nations during this year. I refer to the law of the sea and to science and technology. The Brazilian Government has actively participated in the work of the Third United
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, spurred on by the desire to reach, with all members of the international community, a universally acceptable legal structure for the use of maritime space. The results of the latest session of that Conference seem to indicate the path towards solving some of the most delicate points of what would be the future convention. However, we are under no illusion about the difficulties still facing us, difficulties which can only be resolved in a constructive mood and in a serene atmosphere. It is regrettable that untimely initiatives should disturb the natural pace of the Conference's work, which is now moving into its decisive phase. I refer, inter alia, to the possible adoption of unilateral legislation on the exploitation of the resources of the sea-bed beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, defined by this Assembly as the common heritage of mankind. Brazil hopes that in this case as well the sense of collective responsibility, which is essential for the success of such a complex and vast project, will again prevail.
36.	Brazil has also participated very actively and with great interest in the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development. We hope that the Vienna Programme of Action1 and the Intergovernmental Committee on Science and Technology for Development, to be established, as well as the continuation of negotiations, including those in conferences already programmed within the United Nations, will lead North and South to solutions on the issue of the transfer of technology and the revision of rules which regulate industrial property, in accordance with the needs of the developing countries.
37.	In concluding, I should like to assure the Assembly that as in the past the delegation of Brazil stands ready to work together with other delegations for the solution of the issues before the General Assembly. I should also like to state that in Brazil we remain confident and optimistic regarding the future, despite the frequent and serious adverse changes which in the present international situation have opposed our efforts. We are convinced that we are able to overcome the various obstacles facing our country and we are determined to continue to co-operate on an equitable basis in international efforts, here at the United Nations and elsewhere, for the promotion of justice, development and peace.

===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿Mr. President, may I offer you the first compliments in this general debate. I do so with sincere satisfaction and in the certainty that my words will be a part of a general expression of recognition of the qualifications which so well entitle you to provide the leadership in the work that we are about to begin. With you in the Chair, we have every certainty that the debates on the items to be dealt with at this session will be conducted in an efficient and equitable fashion.
3.	Before going any further, I should like to express my thanks to the President of the thirty-fourth session, Mr. Salim A. Salim, who was repeatedly called upon during the past year to give us the benefit of his guidance in diverse and complex situations. It is fitting here to recall once more his impressive performance at the head of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, a task that he performed with wisdom and prudence.
4.	I take this opportunity of welcoming two new Members of our community of nations, the Republic of Zimbabwe and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and I congratulate you and the Assembly on this occasion. Both countries have our best wishes for a future of progress and peace.
5.	It is particularly auspicious to see among us the delegation of Zimbabwe, as that means the culmination of a long process of struggle. When I recently visited that country, brief as my stay was, I could appreciate the spirit with which its Government and people face the task of building a society both just and efficient.
6.	We again welcome the delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, whose presence in this Organization is an effective contribution to the consolidation of the principles of self-determination and independence among the Caribbean nations. Its admission will enrich the group of Latin American States, where it will be fraternally received.
7.	In opening this general debate, I reaffirm my country's commitment to the general principles of international conduct which are prescribed in the Charter of the United Nations and which are the heart and soul of this Assembly. Brazil will dedicate its best efforts to the preservation of international peace and security, to cooperation for development and to the promotion of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, without any distinction as to race, language or religion, just as the Charter of our Organization provides.
8.	It is difficult, unfortunately, to find causes for optimism in the present world situation. Since last year, tensions that have already caused mankind so much anxiety have grown still stronger; risks of upsetting world peace have become far more grave; the world economic crisis has become more severe; and famine and poverty persist, with their accompaniment of deep imbalances among nations. There is little reason for us to be proud of or even to accept the present state of things in the community of nations.
9.	The process of international decision-making has itself too often proved short-sighted. That process, shaped in an era prior to decolonization and to the global spread of economic and political problems, and unchanged in its essence, has shown itself to be painfully defective. At the political level, it reflects and reinforces the imbalances which so much affect the lives of our peoples. It fails to include the participation of new political forces. Its centralizing character does not reflect the philosophy of our Charter, and as a result has become unworkable. On the one hand, an important and essentially positive development has taken place in recent history: no single country, no condominium of Powers, has the ability effectively to control events in the different regions of the world. On the other hand, the use that the main Powers make of their strength, which is still tolerated by the international order, is inadequate to the new realities and needs of the world. Those Powers continue to think and 
act according to specific strategic interests; they continue to show perplexity and immobility regarding the crucial problems of peace and development; they continue to magnify regional tensions instead of contributing effectively to the resolution of the root causes of such tensions.
10.	Neither the ideal of justice nor the recent course of events allows us to suppose that the maintenance of the present international order may lead to peace and prosperity. We have become used to references to interdependence in the world of today. At times, however, we have the feeling that no attention is paid to the fact that that word obviously conveys the idea of reciprocity. Interdependence is a two way road. Its political dimension is mutual respect among nations. Its institutional foundations lie in universal obedience to the principles of the Charter, such as equal sovereignty among States, self-determination, non-intervention and the peaceful settlement of disputes. There is no need here for further definition and qualification. Equality means equality, sovereignty means sovereignty and non-intervention means non-intervention. It is necessary for those basic principles to be observed in their entirety by ail Members of our community, for quibbling about their implementation means adding new and serious threats to already tense international relations.
11.	That means that no country, however strong, can presume to legislate to the world, as if it were a kind of overlord. That means that matters which affect everyone must be decided by all, and those which relate to the life of only one country must be decided by that country alone. That means that the international system must not be vertical and centralizing, that the international decision-making process regarding issues of global interest needs to be opened to the wide and representative participation of the community of nations.
12.	There is no better channel for dealing with world problems than dialogue and the effort to defuse tensions as they arise. A mature attitude is needed. The so often illusory prospects and temptations of immediate gains which characterize confrontation strategies should be resisted. Beyond immediate concerns, self-discipline and courage are required if we are to talk and negotiate rationally and objectively. A mistake frequently made is to believe that public opinion in each country and at the international level is incapable of perceiving the long-term common interests. There is no serious reason to prevent the more powerful States from adhering to truly common goals, while they use their imagination and wisdom to move beyond routine approaches.
13.	In the context of the recent increase in tension, it is encouraging to note the political ability demonstrated by Western Europe and by the third world. The developing countries with their voice and their vote in the General Assembly have clearly shown the importance they attach to respect for the basic principles of international law and their determination not to be used as pawns on the chessboard of crisis. They have reaffirmed their faith in non-intervention in dialogue and in the relaxation of tension. They have demonstrated, and surely will continue to demonstrate, a will to play a constructive role, each acting in accordance with its particular situation.
14.	We are appealing to precisely that constructive approach and spirit of international cooperation. We do not restrict ourselves to the criticism of attitudes and the denunciation of injustice. We are ready to cooperate in the establishment of a more just and effective international order. My country, within the limits of its resources, has given repeated demonstrations to that effect. We are committed to fostering a climate of trust among nations; we are always alert to the possibilities of cooperation on an egalitarian basis; we repudiate the formation of Power blocs; we seek to give a forward thrust to existing opportunities for development. We have the right to expect the United Nations to work effectively for the creation of a better future, one of peace and prosperity, free of hegemonies, intervention or war.
15.	The wide-ranging work of our Organization requires the adoption of an equitable scale of priorities in the consideration of the problems we must face. But peace and development are inseparable goals. No distinction should be made between them. Peace—not a state of precarious balance among heavily armed nations, but indeed a just and reliable international order—will never be attained without development. Development—not just economic growth in some areas, but indeed the redressing of the grave imbalances among nations—can be a realistic undertaking only if peace prevails.
16.	The quantitative and qualitative increase in the nuclear arsenals of the great Powers continues to pose a paradoxical contrast with the unmistakable desire of the immense majority of nations to live in peace. It is embarrassing to see that the concentration of scientific and technological knowledge of those Powers is being wasted on research in and development of constantly improving deadly devices. New strategies are planned with a sinister logic, as if it were possible to survive a nuclear war.
17.	The new momentum in multilateral discussions on disarmament arising from the commitments entered into at the tenth special session of the General Assembly has met with reluctance on the part of countries with intercontinental offensive power. Nevertheless, the Committee on Disarmament, a body which has our fully participation and support, has kept on trying, only to be blocked by an inversion of priorities which postpones the consideration of nuclear disarmament in all its forms.
18.	The ninth session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea has adjourned at Geneva on 29 August last with significant results to its credit. However, there are still gaps in the informal text  of the draft articles which are to become the future convention, and additional efforts will be required in order to improve upon it. If the constructive spirit, serenity, and sense of collective responsibility which we have advocated throughout the Conference are allowed to prevail, we trust they will result in the adoption by consensus of a well-balanced charter of the seas that will guarantee the interests of coastal States and give substance to the principle of the common heritage of mankind in the international seabed area.
19.	Like the overwhelming majority of nations, Brazil deplores the haste of countries which, in the course of negotiations, have enacted unilateral legislation on the exploitation of resources of the seabed beyond national jurisdiction. Such acts bring undue pressure to bear on the negotiations and contravene resolutions of this Organization and should, therefore, be repudiated by the international community.
20.	In our own region of Latin America this is a period of disturbance, but the prevailing trends are essentially positive. Relations among Latin American nations are deepening and there is more room for them to cooperate with each other as equals on the basis of balanced and mutual advantage.
21.	Thanks fundamentally to the operation of endogenous factors, a new and dynamic Latin American reality is being created. Political and economic stagnation is being replaced by a more complex situation, one richer in opportunities for change. Diplomacy is increasingly active and the strengthening of a network of bilateral dialogues certainly facilitates the launching of new Latin American regional efforts and the building of a more homogeneous, more creative stand for the region in its comprehensive debate with the rest of the world.
22.	Brazil's stance is that regional unity should be based on the purposeful exploitation of the countless affinities among our countries. It also depends on the mature and balanced recognition of the political, economic and cultural diversities existing among us. Latin American unity is a project for democratic, egalitarian and mutually trusting coexistence among our countries. Such unity rejects hegemonies, interventions, axes or blocs.
23.	President Joao Figueiredo has pledged himself to provide additional impetus for these positive trends and to increase his contacts with other heads of State in Latin America. During the last 12 months the President of Brazil has paid official visits to Caracas, Asuncion and Buenos Aires and in turn has been the host in Brazil of President Morales Bertnudez of Peru, President Lopez Portillo of Mexico and President Gorge Videla of Argentina. Brazil thus participates with its sister nations in the common effort for the construction of a truly operative and dynamic understanding among the Latin American nations.
24.	In the course of the present session we will be celebrating the twentieth anniversary of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, a basic instrument for the affirmation of the right to self-determination, sovereignty and independence.
25.	We must now concentrate on the questions of Namibia and of the elimination of apartheid in South Africa, lest we face the continuing frustration of those peoples there and of all of us at the United Nations. Every effort must be made to ensure that prompt and fruitful results are gained from the work accumulated throughout these years at the United Nations towards a solution for the problem of Namibia, those people are represented by the South West Africa People's Organization. The risk we have been running since Security Council resolution 435 (1978) was adopted two years ago is that of having placed too much trust in negotiations that have not developed in accordance with legitimate expectations.
26.	The persistence of military aggressions conducted by the Government of South Africa against Angola and Zambia is unacceptable. Political contrivances such as the installation of the so-called national assembly of Windhoek are also unacceptable. The very latest exchange of messages with the Secretary General betrays the evasive and delaying attitude of South Africa. In this, as in other problems pending on our agenda, the position of the Organization of African Unity [OAU] and, in particular, that of the frontline States, is fundamental inasmuch as, on 2 June last, they have reaffirmed at Lusaka the priority they accord to the question of Namibia on the basis of documents already adopted by the United Nations.
27.	The responsibly of this Organization for the preservation of international peace and security does not allow us to ignore the present escalation of intransigence, arbitrariness and violence which render the prospects for peace in the Middle East increasingly remote.
28.	Particularly serious are the implications of certain measures—recently adopted or announced—of consolidation of illegal occupation and of formal annexation of territories taken by force. The Security Council has already firmly expressed in its resolution 478 (1980), its universal rejection of the measures which purport unilaterally to modify the status of the City of Jerusalem.
29.	In connexion with the establishment of the basis for a comprehensive, just and lasting peace, Brazil reaffirms that it is indispensable for the consensus to prevail so as to ensure the following: the complete withdrawal of occupying forces from all Arab territories; the exercise of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to return to their homeland, to self-determination, to independence and to sovereignty in Palestine in accordance with the Charter and the relevant United Nations resolutions; the participation of the Palestine Liberation Organization [PLO] in peace negotiations; and the recognition of the right of all States in the region to exist within recognized boundaries.
30.	We can also expect the Council to provide a more complete and appropriate framework for the Consideration of the question, in which the rights of the Palestinian people are duly recognized.
31.	I also wish to make a particular reference to the tragic situation in Lebanon, the country of origin of so many Brazilians who have greatly contributed to our national life. Lebanon deserves our full solidarity, and its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity must be preserved.
32.	When I addressed the General Assembly last war. I noted that the world economy entered the decade of the 1980s in a state of generalized uncertainty.' The aggravation of the global economic situation, throughout the last 12 months, only strengthens the evidence that we are all facing an entirely new situation in qualitative terms.
33.	We are going through much more than a simple transitory stage, that of a slackening of the rate of growth of world output and of a simultaneous increase of inflationary tensions, There is a profound and comprehensive system wide network crisis which affects industrialized economies and accentuates the distortions and imbalances of their relations with the developing world.
34.	The so-called "energy crisis", as central as it may be today in our concerns and as dramatic as may be its economic impact, should be recognized for what it really is: not as something accidental or exogenous, but as a component part of an underlying structural crisis of a broader and more lasting nature. The energy problem is felt essentially in the North South dimension. Therefore, in order to be effective, its solution can be sought only within the context of efforts aimed at a global revision of the relations between highly developed countries and the developing world as a whole.
35.	This finds eloquent proof in the fact—which no one would dare deny—that developing countries have recently assumed an increasing and even decisive role in the fabric of the international economy, either as providers of raw materials, as markets, as increasingly competitive industrial suppliers, as areas for new investments or as users of capital often lacking alternatives for application in developed economies which are either in a state of stagnation or reduced growth.
36.	This role of the third world has been attained not because the world markets have become more responsive to the aspirations and needs of the developing countries, but in fact it was achieved despite persistent and. in many cases, increasing obstacles such as the new and more effective forms of protectionism, the transferral of inflationary tensions and the generalized increase of interest rates in capital markets.
37.	In the last few years, the third world has been a weights factor in sustaining the level of economic activity of the developed world. Nevertheless, possibly under the pressure of its own difficulties, seen from the narrow viewpoint of the present state of affairs, the developed world has. in practice, adopted an increasingly distant attitude towards the problems of underdevelopment. It is obvious in the summit meetings of the so-called "Seven" and in several multilateral forums that less attention has been given to the structural problems of the North South relationship, and an attitude has become prevalent which practically limits itself to considering marginal measures and to assigning the responsibility for the evils that now afflict the world economy to increases in the price of oil.
38.	Another and more subtle expression of the aloofness of the North towards the South is the attempt to introduce restrictive categories for developing countries, grouping them according to level of income or industrialization or classifying them either as importers or exporters of oil. An entire conceptual arsenal is being put together to bolster this effort to produce divisive and diversionary effects. In fact, this categorization is just one more proof of the protectionist attitude of the developed world and of its lack of interest in grasping the problem of underdevelopment in its entirety, with all its economic, technological and social aspects.
39.	It is time to realize that the full, true integration of developing countries into the international economy cannot be brought about by imposing upon them an institutional framework which is unilaterally predetermined by the major economic Powers but, rather, can be achieved only by allowing them adequate access to decision-making processes for the problems affecting the international economic situation. It is an illusion to presume that in the new international scene which we face it is possible to maintain privileged structures and, at the same time, solve global problems. The attempt to preserve obsolete structures of domination over international flows in matters of trade, finance and technology can only prolong and even aggravate the present difficulties. In the world today, the exercise of power is contradictory with the objectives of prosperity. The time has come for us to interpret anew the ties between nations of the North and the South and to replace the rhetorical affirmation of interdependence with the practical construction of mutuality.
40.	In order to do so, the developed countries must recognize that solutions will not spring spontaneously from piecemeal deliberations in different multilateral agencies and forums if the present elitist decision-making structures are maintained and operational criteria remain unaltered. These might have been adequate in the past, but they no longer serve their purpose. The essential meaning of the so-called "global negotiations" is precisely that of offering to all of us what may be one last chance to seek an integrated and harmonious set of measures to reformulate the North South relationship. This opportunity can materialize only if we are able to undertake the urgent task of devising a political thrust which can generate from the universal forum—that of the General Assembly of the United Nations—significant modifications in multilateral economic institutions, so as to make them more open to the participation of the developing countries and more receptive to their specific needs.
41.	Therefore, the Brazilian Government cannot conceal its grave concern regarding the stalemate which occurred a few days ago during the eleventh special session of the General Assembly. In our opinion, the failure to launch global negotiations is not in any way compensated for by the existence of a consensus reached on the text of a new International Development Strategy.  Such a text, as my Government sees it, is not satisfactory, for it does not even take into account substantive progress related to previous agreements reached in other bodies, and it will still be subject to reservations and declarations of a restrictive or interpretative nature from the developed countries.
42.	A most meaningful fact is that the third world has been able to preserve its fundamental sense of unity, despite the legitimate differences in interest which might occasionally arise and regardless of external pressure, as I have mentioned.
43.	The present crisis necessarily leads to an increasing unity among the nations of Latin America, Africa and Asia in a common effort to revise the patterns of their relationship with the North. However, the crisis does not cease to present us with renewed challenges and obstacles. Our unity should be continuously reaffirmed and reinvigorated even more so when the effort—legitimate in itself—to increase the value of scarce and non-renewable resources causes effects of a dramatic nature in other developing countries.
44.	The time has come for us to deploy, within the South South relationship, an intensified effort to diversify and enlarge the bases of understanding and cooperation. Concrete, substantive and effective flows of trade and financing among developing countries must be added to the political ties and to the common platforms in the North South context.
45.	The industrial, technological and financial potential which now exists in the third world—added, of course, to its immense natural and human resources—opens to the nations of the three developing continents broad prospects of a fruitful direct relationship, avoiding the often politically or economically onerous procedure of going through the main centres. The challenge before us is, in short, to create for the third world a profile of its own, based on its internal reality and dynamism, and not merely on the expression of the differences between us and the developed nations.
46.	Success in this truly pioneer effort of establishing ties of effective partnership among developing countries rests on a clear political commitment. Only the common will to draw closer will allow us to reach concrete results. Such a decision must be as firm as the difficulties are great in establishing ties among nations like ours, which for a long time have remained far apart and which, even today, are predominantly oriented—in the economic and financial fields— towards the great industrial centres.
47.	Brazil, for its part, fully trusts that the nations of the South will be able to take advantage of the present difficulties in order to reaffirm their own personality, strengthen and enrich their unity and solidarity—an element indispensable for the success of their struggle to overcome underdevelopment—and revise the terms of their relationship with the industrialized North.
48.	These are in the main, the remarks that I want to make on behalf of the delegation of Brazil as the debate at the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly opens.
49.	If throughout all these years we have reiterated our concerns, it is because the march of international events proceeds at an inexorable and even accelerated pace, while solutions lag behind. Therefore, our work cannot but reflect the ever-growing problems and the shortcomings of the international decision-making process. It is fitting that my delegation stress that it awaits the day when contentious subjects in our annual agenda are replaced by matters of common cooperation and understanding.
50.	Throughout the three months of work before us the delegation of Brazil will spare no effort to help create better conditions for participation and international dialogue, in the certainty that the United Nations is still the most adequate instrument at the disposal of the international community for the achievement of the objectives of peace and development.


===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
Sir, as the first speaker in the general debate, it is my privilege to extend the first words of congratulation to you upon your election as President of the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session.
3.	Relations between Iraq and Brazil, based on the solidarity between our two nations and strengthened by our converging action towards common objectives, fit into the broader context of co-operation between developing countries on an equal basis.
4.	Your election is certainly a tribute to your country, but just as certainly a tribute to your personal and professional qualifications. I am confident that under your leadership the work of the present session of the General Assembly will be conducted with the greatest skill and efficiency.
5.	I should also like to express our appreciation for the able and confident manner in which Mr. von Wechmar presided over the thirty-fifth session. His performance fully justified the international community's decision to entrust him with this important role in such particularly difficult times.
6.	On the occasion of Vanuatu's admission to membership in the United Nations, I should like to express a cordial welcome to this new Member of our Organization.
7.	In the Latin American tradition of support for decolonization, I congratulate Belize upon its accession to independence. Brazil wishes for that country a future of peace and prosperity.
8.	Conflicts and tensions of both a political and an economic nature exist in various parts of the world, adversely affecting the Organization and the functioning of the international system. Beyond those tensions and conflicts, which are almost inevitable given the present state of relations among nations, what causes us even greater concern is the perception that the international order's ability to contain and resolve those conflicts is diminishing. The ideal of a community of nations is being gradually replaced by an attitude of conformity and the acceptance of perpetual conflict. The strategy of mutual challenge tends to limit the efficacy of the means for peaceful solutions of international disputes. Purportedly for the purpose of strengthening peace and security, the arms race has resumed, particularly in the nuclear field, to the detriment of essential priorities for the building of the future.
9.	For some years now we have been living in the age of overkill. What was once to have been the final absurd chapter in a spiraling race has now proved to be only the groundwork for building new nuclear arsenals. Nevertheless, no country is more secure now that it was then. Despite the fact that the stockpiled capacity for nuclear destruction has now reached the equivalent of two tons of dynamite for every living human being, the diversification and sophistication of strategic weapons continue. But the risk of war is as great as ever. Hundreds of billions are spent on activities which are, at best, unproductive. International co-operation to improve living conditions and to create a more equitable international society receives a lesser priority, as if the problems of development should, or even could, wait for a better opportunity.
10.	That irrational allocation of resources and the very international order that endorses it neglect the real problems that beset most of mankind. This state of affairs only favors the perpetuation of inequality among nations.
11.	We do not face a purely moral or ethical issue. What is at stake is the future of the international system itself. A new sense of direction is urgently needed in order to reverse this trend. The second special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament scheduled for next year therefore takes on a very special significance.
12.	Even though the nuclear-weapon States bear the responsibility of reversing the arms race, the search for satisfactory and lasting solutions must take into account the aspirations of the international community as a whole. Full use should therefore be made of the negotiating machinery provided by the United Nations, which plays a vital role with regard to disarmament.
13.	The present world economic crisis has been with us now for a decade. Yet no clear signs of recovery are m sight. This lack of progress is in itself the strongest evidence of the international community's incapacity so far to adapt to changing circumstances and to react in a creative way to new realities.
14.	Besides the very complexity of the economics involved, perhaps the worst crisis we face is one of management. What is still lacking is due recognition of a basic fact: that however traumatic its immediate consequences may be, the meaning of the rapid and unique process of change in the world economy is essentially positive.
15.	The new, more dynamic, and increasingly diversified role played by developing countries in all areas of international trade is a healthy event. Its overall effect has been to expand opportunities for growth in the world economy as a whole. The maintenance of relatively high rates of growth by several developing countries in the 1970s was an important factor in sustaining basic rates of expansion in certain highly industrialized countries, which otherwise would have been in even greater difficulties than the ones they currently face.
16.	What is missing now, particularly on the part of the developed countries, is the recognition of the need properly to manage the process of change so as to maximize the numerous opportunities for creative partnership between developed and developing countries. That process of change, I might add, cannot be halted and should not be hampered, because it is healthy and desirable for us all.
17.	The unprecedented expansion in trade and capital flows over the past decades, together with the increasing trend towards the internationalization of the factors of production, far outstripped the resources and managerial capacity of the structure devised at Bretton Woods to carry out an orderly evolution of international trade.
18.	As regards the third world, there was a widening of the gap between its needs for external support and the resources available for development co-operation. Insufficient progress in the improvement of the rules and mechanisms of multilateral agencies has made even more acute the inadequacy of the institutional framework to meet the new, larger, and often more complex needs of developing economies.
19.	The international agenda has thus been broadened to include new issues. In many cases, linkages have become apparent between problems that formerly seemed amenable to topical, isolated treatment. In a complex and increasingly diversified world economy, it is not enough to proclaim the fact of interdependence. A serious attempt must be made to resolve the problem of underdevelopment, which affects nearly two thirds of mankind.
20.	For too long the third world countries have been told that development in the South must come about as a by-product of prosperity in the North, as if high levels of demand in the industrial world for products from the developing countries would by themselves ensure the solution of problems that are qualitative in nature and are directly related to the unequal patterns of trade with the highly developed countries.
21.	Almost three decades of accelerated growth and hard, though mostly fruitless, work on the North-South issues have demonstrated that prosperity in the central economies does not necessarily lead them to a higher pie- disposition towards progress in redefining obsolete and unfair patterns of trade with the third world. Recent events have shown that difficulties in those countries tend immediately to harden their position vis-à-vis the developing world, while the remedies resorted to often have a strong negative impact on the situation of the latter.
22.	We think it would be a mistake, besides being a waste of precious time, to hold the North-South issue in abeyance until the major economies succeed in recovering. On the contrary, we hold that what the international community needs in the present circumstances is a concerted effort to draw up, for the first time in history, an integrated, comprehensive set of principles and measures capable of sustaining world trade, finance and technology flows on a sound course, while paying due attention to the needs of the developing countries.
23.	The North-South issue has passed the stage of confrontation which, incidentally, was never inherent in the exercise but it has yet to move on to the stage of true dialog. This will come about only when the developed world shows itself ready to engage in a negotiating process with the third world. Moderation is, after all, required on both sides, and its expression by the North will have to take the form of a constructive position on development issues as a whole.
24.	The basic premise underlying the whole North- South issue is that it affects all nations, rich and poor alike, In this context, differences of perception need not stand in the way of negotiations about what ultimately are common interests, provided that issues are tackled in a broader, longer-range perspective. The North-South exercise is not a win-or-lose game; it is not a matter of redistributing existing wealth, but, rather, an attempt to define a framework of relations that will provide all countries, developed as well developing, with greater opportunities for growth.
25.	An inescapable conclusion should be drawn: the time is over when benefits in the economic sphere would be best assured by continued additions to a country's power. When the world economy becomes highly diversified and problems assume global dimensions, the challenge is no longer how to gain unilateral advantages, but rather how jointly to define viable ways, of managing an increasingly unstable system. It is our hope that the major developed countries, precisely because of their global responsibilities, will not fail to acknowledge the need for multilateral action on global issues.
26.	The international community has at its disposal a vast heritage of concepts and ideas to use as a basis for a serious commitment to settle the North-South issues. It is high time to take a decision to that effect. The meeting of 22 Heads of State or Government of North and South* to be held in Cancun, Mexico, next October, will provide a unique opportunity for t'" major Western Powers to regain the trust of the third world by showing that there will
be no relapse into unilateral attitudes and negative judgments on the relevance of North-South problems. It is essential that this exercise be conclusive. We expect it to result in a clear-cut commitment to contribute to the early launching of the global negotiations, to be conducted in the universal forum of the United Nations. We also hope that a basic consensus will be reached on principles and premises to inspire thereafter what will only then become worthy of the term "North-South dialog". I am instructed to assure this Assembly that President Figueiredo has a deep personal commitment to the success of the Cancun meeting, and that he will spare no effort to help bring about the results we all look forward to.
27.	The prospects for concluding this year the long work of codification of the new law of the sea were frustrated by the sudden decision of one country to revise its entire position on the draft convention. This setback, with its serious implications, gives rise to real concern among all those devoted to the success of the multilateral cooperation effort. However, it served to demonstrate that the vast majority of the countries represented at the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea firmly adhere to the principles subscribed to in the Declaration incorporated in resolution 2749 (XXV) and show no disposition to reopen the fundamental points in the draft convention.

28.	Thus the Conference succeeded in advancing its mandate and formalizing the draft convention. A sign of the firm determination of the international community to adopt the convention and to open it for signature next year was the selection of the headquarters of the International Sea-Bed Authority and of the International Tribunal of the Law of the Sea. I take this opportunity to congratulate' once again Jamaica and the Federal Republic of Germany which were chosen, respectively, to host those two international bodies.
29.	At this time, when there is so much international instability, the movements being made by developing countries towards regional affirmation must not be wasted, since they may well be one of the most efficient means of containing international differences. Regional affirmations supply a basis that cannot be dispensed with if we are to safeguard the complexity and variety of the international scene and to relaunch the drive towards peace, justice and development, in all their aspects.
30.	The efforts of Latin American countries to act on the international scene on the basis of their own national profiles fit perfectly into this larger movement effectively to reduce the levels of international tension.
31.	The Latin American inclination for international co-operation stems from no artificially created option. Attitudes that favor the peaceful settlement of disputes are deep-rooted in Latin America. These attitudes define the mechanisms of international co-operation and demand from Slates mutual respect, equilibrium and equity in bilateral relations.
32.	Just as deeply implanted in Latin America is the disposition towards multilateral efforts, towards working together to mould the international system, on the basis of the principles of justice and progress. In fact, the Latin American contribution is its understanding that acceptance of change is the minimum prerequisite for the construction of peace. The processes of change must be democratic, open to participation and based on freedom. The objectives of change must be generous, shaped by ideals of justice and the contours of tolerance.
33.	I do not wish to paint an idealized portrait of Latin America. The countries of Latin America have differences of opinion since areas of controversy still remain. There are still disputes over boundaries. The political processes are subject to difficulties. There are structures of dependency that have not been eliminated. Painful problems of development cry out for urgent solution and our countries lack the immediate means to deal with them.
34.	Nevertheless, through all this diversity there is a clear perception that we must work together. We are proud of the values we have forged from our rich historical experience, in which the defense of the principle of non-intervention is outstanding. Our efforts are inspired by our own ideals and do not attempt to repeat what may have been successful elsewhere. Our major contribution to the international system, a disposition towards negotiation and peace, has never been denied, even in the most difficult and controversial situations.
35.	Brazilian diplomacy has always been faithful to these ideals. One of the cornerstones of our foreign policy has been the stimulation of dialog with our neighbors at every opportunity and at every level. President Figueiredo has had meetings with his Latin American colleagues, accepting as his own the responsibility for promoting the ideals of regional co-operation.
36.	Brazil views the situation in EI Salvador, as well as in any other part of Latin America, in the same spirit of full respect for the principle of non-intervention. It is the hope of the Brazilian Government that all States will respect the sovereignty of that country and the right of the people of El Salvador to solve their own problems without foreign interference. Brazil believes in the importance of intensifying consultations among the countries of the region so as to avoid the weakening of the fabric of Latin American unity and solidarity by specific issues to the detriment of our common interests.
37.	Brazil is proud of its African roots and, faithful to them, is open to co-operation with the developing countries on the opposite shore of the South Atlantic. I should have preferred to confine my remarks to the accomplishments in the process of bringing Brazil closer to Africa. However, one cannot speak of Africa without dealing with two crucial questions which remain unresolved those of apartheid and of the independence of Namibia.
38.	Brazil emphatically condemns the institutionalized practice of racism which characterizes the regime of the Republic of South Africa. The universal conscience of mankind, and more specifically the Brazilian national conscience, totally rejects such a way of life, which is incompatible with any idea of justice and equality. Brazil associates itself with the community of nations in the renewal of efforts to ensure South Africa's total compliance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, to which we are all committed.
39.	The question of the independence of Namibia has been dealt with by the international community on the basis of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and of the
plan drawn up by our Organization which the Council has embraced by that resolution and which has been internationally accepted. Brazil fully supports the independence and territorial integrity of Namibia founded on the efforts of the United Nations. The problem, however, has not yet been solved, owing to the intransigence of South Africa, which persists in its illegal occupation of Namibia and deliberately undermines international attempts to achieve a negotiated solution, in sharp contrast to the flexibility and willingness for negotiation shown by the other parties involved. And that is not all. Using illegally occupied Namibia as a base for operations, South Africa carries out systematic acts of aggression against Angola which culminated recently in the invasion and prolonged occupation of areas in the south of that country. These violations of the United Nations Charter, international law and elementary rules of international behavior have been compounded by acts of aggression against other countries that border on South ^Africa.
40.	The attitude of the South African regime constitutes a flagrant disservice to the cause and interests of the West which it absurdly claims to defend. It is a permanent source of tension and polarization in southern Africa, contributing towards turning it into one or more areas for East-West confrontation, to the detriment of the freedom of the peoples of the area. These South African acts of aggression must stop immediately. The illegal occupation of Namibia must cease at once so that it can achieve its independence forthwith and so that all countries of the region, freed at last from the tensions of war, its burdens and commitments, may devote themselves, in Favorable circumstances, to the just cause of their own development and to the authentic expression of their national existence in independence and sovereignty.
41.	In the Middle East a succession of crises bears witness to the deterioration of the general situation. The issues relating to the future of the Palestinian people, that is to say, to the creation of the State of Palestine, and to the conditions that exist in the occupied Arab territories, seem to perpetuate themselves. Furthermore, we have had to witness the aggression against the nuclear reactor of Tamuz and the renewed aggression against the territory of Lebanon.
42.	In the face of such a worsening of the situation, it becomes more and more urgent to implement the resolutions of the United Nations that reflect the international consensus regarding the search for a comprehensive, just and lasting peace. My Government firmly holds to the proposition that the condition? indispensable for peace are the complete withdrawal of occupation forces from all Arab territories; the exercise of the right of the Palestinian people to return to Palestine and recognition of their right to self-determination, independence and sovereignty; the participation of the Palestine Liberation Organization [PLO] in the peace negotiations; the recognition of the right of all States in the region to live in peace within recognized borders.
43.	The absence H)f a comprehensive solution helps to increase tension and provokes localized crises. By the same token, it lessens the possibility of resorting to means for a peaceful solution provided for in the Charter and leads to further violation of its principles. The attack on the nuclear plant in Iraq comes within this context. Despite the attempt made to classify this act as "preemptive", the attack on Tamuz was a flagrant example of the use of force incompatible with the Charter of our Organization.
44.	Although the position and reactions of my Government in this case have already been expressed, I should like to reaffirm our solidarity with the Government and people of Iraq in the face of the act of aggression they have suffered, in violation of their sovereignty. Moreover, I cannot fail to convey the anxiety we feel about the turmoil and violence in Lebanon, which has so often been the victim of aggression. I reiterate our support for the preservation of the independence, sovereignty and integrity of Lebanon, which has made such a great contribution to the progress of Brazil through the efforts of its emigrant sons.
45.	I could not conclude my remarks on the Middle East without expressing my concern about the status of Jerusalem, particularly the steps most recently taken by the Israeli Administration regarding the Holy City.
46.	Our position concerning events in Afghanistan is clear, and coincides in essence with that of the broad majority of the developing countries. We are opposed to the violation of the principles of non-intervention and the self-determination of peoples. We are equally in opposition to the manipulation of domestic political conditions in a country in order to create a facade of legitimacy for acts which amount to foreign intervention. Legitimacy cannot be imposed from the outside, and any attempts in that direction only aggravate the situation they purport to resolve. Our support for these 'principles is universal in scope. Any attempt to interfere in internal political processes in Asia, in Africa or in Latin America, as well as in Europe, will forever be the object of unconcealed, open condemnation by the international community.
47.	-	Looking back on the year just past, we see once again that events give us no reason to be optimistic. Serious problems continue to plague international relations, due less to an inability to balance them properly than to an absence of the political will to make use of the mechanisms designed to resolve them. In these circumstances, we should lose neither our confidence nor our analytical spirit, neither our creativity nor our realism. We reaffirm that the international system, to be both just and efficient, must allow for broad, effective and representative participation by the entire community of nations in the decision-making process on world issues. We reiterate our respect for the United Nations Charter, for its purposes and principles, to be equally observed by all. We renew our pledge of confidence in the Organization under the Charter, for which there is no substitute as the legally competent instrument for the achievement of our highest aims.
48.	Mr. President, I wish every success for the work of this thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly under your able guidance in dealing with the issues on our agenda. The Brazilian delegation will always stand ready to give you its best and most attentive co-operation to help make that success possible.


===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
1.	Sir, on behalf of the Government and people of Brazil, I wish to congratulate you on your election as President of the thirty-seventh session of the General Assembly.
2.	I warmly greet the representatives of the Member States gathered together in this Hall. I extend warm greetings o the Secretary -General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar,  brilliant diplomat who is a credit to Latin America. I also wish to extend my sincere compliments to Mr. Ismat Kittani, representative of Iraq, who with assurance and ability presided over the work of the thirty-sixth session.
3.	At this time, as the general debate begins, I wish to express my hope that this session of the General Assembly will effectively contribute to a just solution of the controversies which are jeopardizing international peace and security and to the removal of the threat to the stability of the world's economy.
4.	A few decades ago, an unprecedented economic depression and uncontrolled political tension brought about a catastrophic war. The society of sovereign States decided then, in 1945, to create a vast network of institutions to further co-operation between Governments in order to avoid a repetition of such severe economic crises, promote economic and social development, ease political tension and spare future generations from the scourge of war.
5.	Symptoms dramatically reminiscent of the events of the 1930s are reappearing today. A new economic crisis of global dimensions indiscriminately affects countries under different systems and resists orthodox therapies.

6.	Paradoxically, the United Nations, which was established in order to examine and resolve controversy between States, has all too often been transformed into a forum for sterile confrontation. We are aware, however, that alternative forms of organizing international life inevitably depend on the arbitrary will of the most powerful States which, at times, runs counter to the cause of freedom and justice among nations and men.
7.	Having these considerations in mind, the Government of Brazil renews its pledge to work together with the other Member States in order to make the United Nations a true centre for harmonizing the actions of States. I do not hesitate to call on all Governments represented here to adhere strictly in their international behaviour to the purposes and principles of the Organization. I launch a pressing appeal that we rededicate ourselves to the task of building peace.
8.	There is no future—nor can there possibly be one—in that sad, unacceptable substitute for peace which is the balance of terror. We cannot persist in the illusion that world harmony can be founded on an excess capacity for destruction. Decades of talks and attempts at negotiation have not prevented the increase, improvement and diversification of nuclear arsenals capable of destroying mankind in various ways and under various circumstances, several times over.
9.	in view with great apprehension the persistence of the Middle East crisis, the major features of which are the conflict between Iraq and Ira a and the consequences of the military action that has engulfed Lebanon, a country with which we have close fraternal relations. The recent massacre of Palestinian civilians in Beirut has deeply shocked the world public. We are all aware that the question of the Middle East will be solved only when the Arab territories now under military occupation are evacuated and when the right of the Palestinian people to a sovereign State is recognized, as well as the right of all countries in the region, including Israel, to live in peace within recognized borders.
10.	In southern Africa, also, there persist situations of tension caused by the occupation of Namibia and by repeated acts of aggression against independent countries, notably Angola. Brazil cannot fail to condemn racial discrimination, particularly its institutionalized forms, which threaten international peace itself. The success of the on-going negotiations for the speedy independence of Namibia on he basis of United Nations resolutions is the right way to remove the tension which has so terribly frustrated the just aspirations of the peoples in the area to economic development and true independence.

11.	My country is deeply troubled by the increasing transfer to the less developed areas of the tension generated by the confrontation between the super-Powers. The policy of prestige and power applied to the third world engenders divisions and seriously affects the prospects for co-operation among developing nations. It is the firm stand of Brazil that such a process should be immediately stopped and 
reversed, and we are ready to continue our efforts to that end.
12.	We cannot accept that, as a result of power- bloc policies, sovereign countries should be occupied, their domestic affairs subjected to interference and their freedom restricted, as is the case in Afghanistan. The principle of the non-use of force should be strictly observed in today's main areas of tension.
13.	In Central America, there are recurring symptoms of a deep crisis of historic proportions, with social, political and economic implications. In accordance with the principles of self-determination and non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries, Brazil believes that a political solution to Central America's problems must be found by the peoples involved, free from any overt or covert outside interference. In the economic sphere, one cannot isolate the difficulties of Central America from the world crisis or minimize the responsibility of the industrialized countries to work for the creation of conditions favourable to the resumption of economic and social development. Peace and stability in that region are basic prerequisites for sound hemispheric cooperation.
14.	In the South Atlantic, the mechanisms of violence were recently set in motion for a while. My Government has made considerable efforts during the last few months to help find a permanent political solution to the question of the Malvinas, and we are determined to pursue these efforts in the interests of peace, security and harmony among nations. Since the beginning of the controversy in 1833 Brazil has recognized the sovereign rights of the Republic of Argentina over the Malvinas, and it continues to insist on the necessity for negotiations as a suitable means of solving that problem.
15.	I wish to stress the importance of consideration by the General Assembly of the question of the Malvinas. An initial step must be the implementation of all the provisions of Security Council resolution 502 (1982). It is time for those who so vigorously condemn the use of force in the solution of controversies to demonstrate the consistency and sincerity of their designs. Negotiations must start in order to avoid the risk of increasing tension in an area naturally inclined to co-operation and prosperity.
16.	Brazil lives in peace with its neighbours in Latin America and with all nations which observe the principles of sound international behaviour. Relations between Brazil and friendly countries of Latin America are clear testimony to the success achieved when the path of mutual respect and non-interference is taken with determination and when the search for harmonious and profitable co-operation prevails over controversies or topical divergences.
17.	As part of Latin America, Brazil trusts that its neighbours will know how to resolve their differences, including those of a territorial nature, by peaceful and conciliatory means, and hopes that our sister countries in Latin America will strengthen their capacity for dialogue and understanding at the regional level. We must all work to see that our region attains higher levels of development and co-operation and engage in positive actions on the world scene.
18.	With sister countries of Africa—our neighbours across the sea, with which we are linked by a common history—Brazil's objective is to develop close, direct and cordial relations. Equally friendly purposes guide our policy of strengthening ties with the other nations of the third world.
19.	As part of the Western world, Brazil strives to fulfil its national aspirations with total respect for freedom, democracy and human rights. These lofty values and the Western tradition of pluralism and equality among nations provide Brazil with a framework for action outside the constraints of the hegemony of the super-Powers and of the pressures of opposing ideologies.
20.	With the Eastern European countries Brazil seeks to maintain correct relations, particularly in the economic and commercial fields, on the basis of mutual interests and reciprocal respect for the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other States.
21.	For my country, peace and development are not ideals detached from the goals of and action on foreign policy. Brazil is firmly committed to the principles of universalism, friendly co-operation and national dignity.
22.	It is the seriousness of the international situation that, for the first time, has brought the President of the Federative Republic of Brazil to the United Nations. Never in the history of the Organization have the risks and threats to the peace, security and progress of nations been so serious. Never have the challenges been so great. I call on the Governments of all Member States to make a determined effort together to tackle the mounting international problems and turn back the tide which leads to despair. It is our common duty to fulfil the expectations of our predecessors, who, having themselves experienced the direct consequences of political disorder, economic depression and war, pledged their resolve, as well as ours, to promote peace and development.
23.	There are too many shortcomings in the present international order. It is a picture poor in accomplishments, yet rich in problems, poor in creativity, yet rich in disorder; poor in efficacy and justice, yet rich in waste and imbalances. It is not possible for me to remain indifferent to this picture. I believe it to be imperative to correct the serious flaws that so clearly stand out.
24.	The society of nations is essentially a political community. Just as domestic decisions cannot be taken without consulting the interests and yearnings of the people, so it is impossible to ignore in this forum the just and legitimate claims of the great majority of nations, thus preserving vertical structures of international power.
' 26. The United Nations has a crucial political role to play in the struggle against conformism, intransigence and ambitions for absolute victories. Only through the Organization can a truly democratic framework of relations among States be created.
27. The extraordinary release of productive forces on a world-wide scale in the post-war period wrought within a few decades the intricate patterns of a different world, a complex and unstable world, but
also a diversified and promising one. The interdependence of nations has thus become a historic necessity.
28.	Yet the improvements we have been able to introduce in the structures of international life have been few and unsatisfactory. Regrettably, even the efforts towards international co-operation for development, however meagre, are being scaled down. The practice of the interdependence of nations appears at times to degenerate into attempts to reconstruct hegemonistic situations or systems of subordination, which in no way contribute to prosperity, either in the industrialized or in the developing world. As actually practised in many cases, interdependence seems to have become a new name for inequality.
29.	The interests of the North and the South are not in contradiction. In truth, there is no crisis between North and South; there is, rather, a profound crisis in the international economic system itself. The same situation affects both groupings. It is a uniquely adverse situation, which can be overcome only through mutual understanding and solidarity, not through a retreat into acrimony and confrontation. The challenges faced by all countries alike is that of adjusting to the new realities of the 1980s.
30.	The North must understand to its full extent—and its potential for enriching international trade—the inescapable fact of the definitive emergence of the third world as a dynamic partner, and of its search for a position of greater prominence in the world economy.
31.	As for the South, the moment has come for us to give effective expression to the cohesion we have been able to preserve above external difficulties and internal differences. We must move towards the consolidation of a truly solidary interdependence between Latin America, Africa and Asia. We must make it clear, by deeds as well as words, that the diversity within the third world contains unsuspected opportunities for economic complementarity, and is a uniting element, not a fact to be used as a pretext for initiatives—such as the arbitrary discrimination among developing countries embodied in the concept of "graduation"—which aim at undermining the cohesion of the third world international cooperation for development and North-South dialogue.
32.	We must also demonstrate our capacity for seeking, in a serene and constructive spirit, the fulfilment of our claims. However legitimate, our claims should not lead us into rigid and maximalist negotiating postures—lest we weaken our own principles and ideals and exacerbate even further the intransigence which characterizes certain sectors of the developed world.
33.	The efforts of the third world to change normative frameworks, decision-making structures and discriminatory rules in institutions such as International Monetary Fund [/MP], the World Bank and GATT, among others, have been fruitless. Claims repeated for years or even decades clash against the impenetrable wall of the veto power of a few countries, which are in a position to oppose the most obvious considerations of rationality or the soundest requisites of equity. But initiatives multiply whenever the interests of the great powers are at stake.
34.	GATT's role should not be diverted towards new normative tasks in areas such as the export of services and investment policies, with a view to creating rules which might hamper access of developing countries to international markets and even hinder their capacity to regulate their own internal markets. By the same token, fundamental questions related to the improvement of GATT and to the satisfaction of the claims of the developing countries should not be neglected.
35.	In financial institutions, measures are devised —sometimes adopted against the will of the majority, as a result of inadequate decision-making processes— which restrict the flexibility of operations, add to the requirements of conditionally, and unjustly discriminate against the developing countries. Paradoxically, certain countries endeavour to maintain control over organizations which they appear to condemn, if not to disappearance, at least to insignificance, so great is the disproportion between the growing needs of the developing countries and the financial resources placed at the disposal of those organizations.
36.	The principles of free trade must not be applied selectively and arbitrarily to the flow of capital, while the transfer of technology is inhibited and the capacity for action by capital-importing developing countries is restricted. The ideals of free trade cannot be in contradiction with the preservation and even strengthening of the autonomy of the countries of the third world. Interdependence should not be a concept inimical to national sovereignty.
37.	The developing countries, which for so long have striven for the principle of permanent sovereignty over their natural resources, today face the new challenge of maintaining sovereignty over their own economic space. That does not mean, however, that the developing countries should oppose or show lack of interest in greater interaction at the international level, with respect to the flows of capital and technology and even operations of multinational corporations. Quite the contrary. It is undeniable that the vast majority of developing countries, beginning with those which have a clear Western identity, such as Brazil, but including others with a different political- economic organization—aim at improving and diversifying their links with the developed West, which is a valuable source of the factors of production necessary for their development.
38.	The preservation and strengthening of the national economic space of those countries will not hamper the expansion of the international economic system, but will rather be a factor in the broadening of the global economic space, for the benefit of us all.
39.	Although I was unable, for reasons of health, to attend the International Meeting on Co-operation and Development, which was held at Cancun in October 1981, I followed that event with interest and hope, and even with emotion. I cannot therefore fail to voice here, on behalf of the Government and people of Brazil, the feeling of deep disappointment at the lack, so far, of any practical follow-up action to the Cancun meeting.
40.	We are watching with anxiety the continuous and even accelerated erosion of the instruments and institutions which should bring about a solution to
international problems. We are troubled to see that there is even more resistance by important sectors of the developed world to what had been the great conceptual achievement of Cancun, namely, the recognition of the fact that the paths to the solution of the present crisis pass also through the South, and should lead towards co-operation among nations, instead of being subject only to the uncertainties of the market.
41.	The crisis we face is global in more than one sense: it affects practically all countries and encompasses both the financial and commercial spheres. It is not only broad, but also deep: productive investment is being stifled on a world-wide scale under the impact of high interest rates, and of the uncertainties over the prospects of international trade and finance. It is as if a sudden paralysis of a large economic Power in the developed world had taken place: such is the situation created by the fact that 30 million highly qualified workers are now unemployed in North America and Western Europe.
42.	However, the effects of this crisis situation on the countries of the South are even more devastating. The non-oil-exporting developing countries have experienced over the past three years a deterioration in their terms of trade unequalled in history. Their often successful efforts to increase exports have been neutralized by declining foreign exchange revenues, leading to spiralling pauperization Years of patient investment in the creation of an export infrastructure, which made it possible for consumers in developed countries to acquire products from the South on advantageous terms, have been frustrated by insurmountable protectionist barriers. The persistence of high interest rates makes existing long-term investments unprofitable and threatens to undermine the viability of projects which are indispensable for overcoming present difficulties. The high cost of foreign debt servicing has created impossible situations for certain countries, as shown by recent events which have dramatically affected a few of the most promising countries of the South.
43.	All this sacrifice could be tolerated if, in return, a restructuring of the international economic order could be seen on the horizon within a reasonable period of time. Regrettably, this is not the case. The present economic policy of the great Powers is destroying riches without building anything in their place. The decreasing fluidity in financial flows and the mounting difficulties in international trade are destroying the prospects for overcoming present difficulties.
44.	The circumstances require that we all assume an attitude of reciprocal understanding and flexibility. The North-South dialogue must be urgently reinvigorated. Long-term efforts—for which the launching of the global negotiations is so necessary—must be ' supplemented now by a discussion of the short-term aspects of the crisis.
45.	The shaping of the future world economy necessarily requires the overcoming of our present problems. The task of reformulating the international economic system cannot be deferred but, in the present circumstances, we must begin it by an effort to prevent the disruption of the system itself.
46.	Therefore it is essential that the major international organizations begin immediately to undertake an integrated and objective examination of emergency measures which can unblock the international flow of trade and finances. It is essential that the developed countries agree to take initiatives in order to liberalize trade, expand international financial flows, adopt a new policy on interest rates, and urgently start revising the international monetary system. The developing countries, because of their structural tendency to deficits in current accounts, cannot be the first to eliminate trade barriers, a measure which would only add to their deficits without creating sufficient momentum towards a recovery in the world economy. The developed countries have to accept the idea that a restructuring of their economies is inevitable. Only when the developed countries give up the protection of sectors which are no longer competitive can the manufactured and semi-manufactured goods from developing countries take their place in international markets, thus benefiting both the consumers of the North and the producers of the South.
47.	It is urgent that there be an increase both in the availability of resources controlled by the international financial organizations and in the participation of monetary authorities in the preservation of the liquidity and stability of the international financial system, Only thus will the international community, particularly the developing countries, be freed from the strait-jacket resulting from the simultaneous contraction of trade and of official financial flows.
48.	As for the question of interest rates, there need be no discrepancy between the major objectives of the economic policies of the countries of the North and a management of the interest rates compatible with the economic and financial viability of the developing economies. Indeed, it is in everybody's interest to avoid a dislocation of the developing economies which would result in an undesirable destabilizing effect on the countries of the North.
49.	Furthermore, it must be recognized that one of the essential conditions for reactivating world trade is the recovery of a minimum of stability in the international monetary system, which must not become a factor of turbulence, left to the whims of unilateral changes in the economic policies of a few great Powers.
50.	The solution of the present crisis lies not in aid for developing countries but in ensuring conditions that would enable them to meet their obligations through a fair return for their work.
51.	I have come here to express the most legitimate aspirations of my country. I am motivated, above all, by the desire to ensure my people's well-being. We have made considerable efforts towards economic development, with promising results which fill with hope not only the people of Brazil but also all peoples yearning to attain standards of living compatible with human dignity and present-day levels of social, economic, scientific and technological development.
52.	It is my duty to seek international conditions propitious for the pursuit of this noble effort by my people, for Brazil will never give up its rightful place in the concert of nations. 
53.	I hope that the competition from the South will be understood as a valid expression of the political and economic dynamism of peoples that aspire to development. I hope that this competition will not serve as a pretext for the compliant preservation of unjust and inefficient patterns of exchange but will instead be a motivation for a courageous search for renewal. I am convinced that the most powerful countries will respond creatively to the reality of the emergence of the developing world as an active partner in the many sectors of international life. I have unshakable confidence in the international society's capacity for renewal.
54.	Today, however, the climate of conflict among nations in the political and economic fields is reaching threatening levels. It is in times like these that the moral and political imperative of international co-operation has to be fully acknowledged if the destinies of the society of nations are to be rationally assured.
55.	The awareness that the international community today faces the broadest challenge to its capacity for action makes necessary bold and urgent efforts in the following areas: negotiated solutions to the tension and disputes which are poisoning international relations, both on the East-West level and in third world areas; greater use of dialogue and compromise and the strengthening of international institutions, starting with the United Nations itself; effective resumption of the North-South dialogue, including the launching of global negotiations, as a token of the will to respond to the expectations of the great majority of nations; concrete and immediate action, without prejudice to the resumption of that dialogue, on the most pressing economic questions which present a short-term threat to the international community.
I express my hope that this session of the General Assembly will be most successful. I urge representatives of the Governments assembled here to shoulder to the full their inalienable historic responsibility to live up to the hopes and expectations of those who founded the Organization in 1945 and to build for future generations a broader road to peace and development. We are on the threshold of a new world. May God grant that, thanks to our efforts, it will be a better world. Brazil, I can assure the Assembly, is ready to undertake its share of this task.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿1.	It is with great pleasure, Sir, that I congratulate you on your election as President of the thirty-eighth session of the General Assembly. This choice does justice to the services you have rendered to the United Nations. I am certain that thanks to your professional and personal qualities our work will conducted in a most able and competent manner.
2.	At the same time, I wish to express my Government's recognition of the solid and productive work done by your predecessor, Mr. Imre Hollai, in presiding over the thirty-seventh session.
3.	I greet you as a representative of a Latin American nation in the year in which we commemorate the bicentennial of Simon Bolivar. It is both just and gratifying for us to pay homage to the Liberator, whose ideals should be recalled at this moment when Latin America must give renewed proof of its historic commitment to peace and to the causes of concord, progress and dialogue. In this context, allow me to stress the important contributions made by your country, Panama, at the international level.
4.	I wish also to congratulate Saint Christopher and Nevis on its admission to membership in the United Nations. We extend our best wishes to the new Member State for a future of peace and prosperity.
5.	The general debate traditionally gives us the task of presenting an assessment of the international situation, and this makes it essential for us to reflect upon what is today an unprecedented state of crisis.
6.	At the last session the unparalleled seriousness of the international situation brought, for the first time, a head of State of my country to the General Assembly. On that occasion, President Joao Figueiredo gave a much-needed warning about the risks and dangers that threaten the very existence of international society.
7.	In the face of a situation that evoked dark memories of the crisis of the 1930s, the head of the Brazilian Government made a vehement appeal that we once again combine our efforts in the task of building peace and making a fresh start on international co-operation ft development. I am certain that President Figueiredo expressed hopes and concerns shared by the vast majority of peoples and nations.
8.	In the past 12 months, however, our reserves of faith and confidence have been harshly tested. In his first report to the Assembly, the Secretary-General warned that we were "perilously near to a new international anarchy". Despite the seriousness of these words, little has been done to relieve the extraordinary tensions that affect us all at both the political and the economic level.
9.	The fact of the matter is that tensions are growing, trade and the economy languish in a cycle of depression, and the recovery of some coincides with worsening difficulties for others. Misery and disorder prevail; the nuclear arms race prospers; and the powerful seem reluctant to seek moderation and dialogue.
10.	The thirty-eighth session of the General Assembly is being held under the negative sign of an organic and lasting crisis that demands structural solutions. It should be recalled that the word "crisis" comes from a Sanskrit root that also means "to clean", "to untangle", "to purify". At its very roots, then, crisis is an invitation to purification and renewal. It behaves us all to reach decisions that will lead to evolution without rupture, to change within a context of order. International order is based upon an adequate understanding of the different needs of each nation, and the achievement of such an understanding is precisely the role of the United Nations as an institution dedicated to the democratic and egalitarian coexistence of States.
11.	While calling to mind the obvious imperfections of the international order, Brazil is not departing from its traditional policy of moderation and balance, inspired by the pluralistic background of its national society. Brazil is both a Western and a third-world country, with a foreign policy that reflects internationally the invaluable wealth of our historical experience. As inheritors of different cultures, we have a natural and deep-rooted respect for diversity—an indispensable condition for harmony.
12.	In the political sphere, many years have elapsed without a single truly significant multilateral success,, without a single solution to any important question: to 3 Middle East, Central America, southern Africa, South-east Asia, Afghanistan, the Malvinas, strategic and medium-range nuclear missies—the list is long.
13.	When positions of strength, such as that of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, seem to become consolidated instead of giving way to justice and reason, it is the international system as a whole that deteriorates. Likewise, the incident that led to the destruction of a South Korean commercial airliner by Soviet aircraft, with the unpardonable loss of innocent lives, is a cause of acute concern and condemnation. The principle of rejection of the use of force—one of the essential foundations of the Organization—admits of no devious application in any areas of tension.
14.	With respect to the problems affecting Central America, the Brazilian position is clear and known to all. The basic principles of self-determination and noninterference in the affairs of each country must be applied in this context. We favor a diplomatic and negotiated handling of the tensions so that a climate of understanding may be created, in lieu of confrontation and ideological polarization, and so that the process of transferring global tensions to that area may come to an end.
15.	We have confidence in the spirit of responsibility and independence of the Central American countries. We have confidence in democracy and pluralism, not only as a system of internal coexistence but also as a norm of coexistence of countries. We hope that in Central America no nation will become a satellite or an instrument of any other.
16.	However, we should not restrict ourselves to the current aspects of the Central American crisis. The real problems will not be solved until the basic structural deficiencies—decades or even centuries of unending frustration and blatant internal and external imbalances- have been overcome. We believe that a serious and concentrated effort of international co-operation must be undertaken, particularly in socio-economic terms, with the aim of effectively eradicating the chronic problems that beset Central America.
17.	In Latin America, practical actions towards peaceful solutions of controversies and respect for the basic principles of international law are deeply rooted. For that reason, Latin America—acting particularly through the nations belonging to the Contadora Group —is in the best position, through proximity and cultural affinity, to make a valuable contribution towards working out a peaceful solution to the problems of Central America. We should all give our support to the serious efforts made in this context, which give the greatest hope of a positive and diplomatic approach to this grave situation.
18.	The current difficulties cannot be isolated from the extended context of the international crisis we are undergoing. The Central American problem cannot be reduced to ideological confrontation. Nor is it possible to remove its evils by force. Further to initiatives taken to reduce tensions, the solution to the problems of the region clearly calls for efforts on the part of each nation to demonstrate that it is not a danger to the security of its neighbors. Experience has taught us that polarization does not favor lasting solutions. In the case of Central America, the small nations would be the major victims of an undesirable radicalization of the situation. There again, it is absolutely essential to re-establish a climate of confidence conducive to dialogue.
19.	The fundamental principles which orient Brazilian foreign policy are identical with those governing the best traditions of Latin American diplomatic action. Brazil reaffirms its immutable resolve to strengthen its relationship with all its neighbors, on the basis of solidarity and co-operation, equal to equal. Mutual respect, seeking for legitimate grounds of agreement, and strict adherence to the rules of law and good neighborliness, in practice as well as in theory, are the best patterns for international comportment. In this regard, the Brazilian Government reiterates its support for the full implementation of Security Council resolution 502 (1982), on the issue of the Malvinas. The role that the United Nations can and should play in seeking a peaceful and negotiated solution for this question, which closely affects the Latin American countries, is of fundamental importance. In this respect, Brazil reaffirms its support for Argentina's rights of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands and expresses its growing concern over any militarization of that area. It is the position of Brazil that the South Atlantic must remain an area of peace and harmony.
20.	I cannot fail to express the anxiety that we feel before the picture of insecurity and violence in Lebanon, a nation so often victimized by aggression. It is urgent to stop this new escalation of violence. I reaffirm Brazil's determination in favor of preserving the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country, whose sons have contributed so much to the progress of Brazil.
21.	It is increasingly urgent to implement the United Nations resolutions which express an international consensus in favor of a comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the successive crises in the Middle East. My Government firmly adheres to the terms of those resolutions and vehemently condemns the policy of apartheid that has hampered negotiations in that region. We must insist upon justice prevailing, upon the evacuation of territory held by force, upon the implementation of the rights of the Palestinian people, upon the creation of conditions that will make it possible for all States in that region to live in peace within their own frontiers.
22.	As a country dedicated to the ideals of social and racial harmony, Brazil reiterates its emphatic condemnation of the institutionalized practice of racism that characterizes the regime of South Africa. The policy adopted by Pretoria feeds the hotbeds of tension in southern Africa and is a disservice even to the ideals and interests of the West. The military incursions into Angola, Mozambique and Lesotho must end. The illegal occupation of Namibia, whose independence is being delayed by the intransigence of South Africa, must urgently cease. There is no pretext to justify evading the implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978).
23.	On the other hand, my Government wishes to congratulate the Secretary-General on his efforts to fulfill the mandate received from the Security Council to carry on consultations with the aim of finding a solution to this grave problem.
24.	It is the task of our generation not only to reconstruct a world in crisis, but, above all else, to prevent its destruction. As President Figueiredo stated at the thirty- seventh session:
"There is no future—nor can there possibly be one—in that sad, unacceptable substitute for peace which is the balance of terror. We cannot persist in the illusion that world harmony can be founded on an excess capacity for destruction.”
25.	The desire for absolute security on the part of one State constitutes a threat of absolute insecurity for all others. Peace will not result from the multiplication of arsenals. It is urgent to seek objective understanding, to create a minimum of mutual confidence and information, and to recreate the mechanisms of the dialogue to reduce tensions, opportunities for misunderstandings and risks of incidents.
26.	The United Nations cannot be kept out of the truly important negotiations on disarmament. It is understandable that any concessions in this field must be extremely complex. But whatever affects all must be considered by all. Realism should not lead us to forget that the balanced use of political intelligence is, in the end, more powerful than the unilateral use of force.
27.	It is alarming to note that, in 1983 alone, the resources spent on weapons came to $800 billion, which is more than the total of the foreign debt of the developing countries. That figure is enough to make us understand the magnitude of the challenge which we must face.
28.	On 16 May 1975, Brazil acceded to the Antarctic Treaty. Ever since then, Brazil has followed a programme which is compatible with its economic possibilities and entirely geared to the development of scientific research. Our decision to participate fully in the Antarctic Treaty is also based on the fact that this document is the only legal instrument applicable to the sixth continent. It can be said that this Treaty has brought about a new objective juridical situation.
29.	On 12 September of this year, the consultative parties to the Treaty, meeting at Canberra, recognized Brazil as a consultative party. In taking on this responsibility, Brazil reaffirms its adherence to the principles of peace, co-operation and freedom of scientific investigation enshrined in the Treaty and in the recommendations adopted over a period of more than 20 years by the consultative parties.
30.	The current recession is the longest and possibly the most serious contraction of economic activity in the past 50 years. It is no longer possible to cherish the illusion that this is a passing crisis. Its deep-rooted causes are to be found in the very structure of international relationships, as demonstrated by the global dimensions of the crisis.
31.	Despite the depth and extent of the crisis, precious opportunities have recently been lost to halt the process of deterioration, which is now accelerating. Ever since the International Meeting on Co-operation and Development, held at Cancun in 1981, the North-South dialogue has been losing ground. The crisis has followed its painful path from the commercial to the financial, bearing living witness to the interaction among the many aspects of the world economic system and to the fragility of the mechanisms of multilateral co-operation.
32.	The total foreign debt of the developing countries is quickly approaching the trillion-dollar mark. The rates of growth of such debt, pushed upwards by absurdly high levels of interest, are far higher than the growth rates of any country in the world. They are even higher than the most outstanding rates of growth achieved during the most favorable periods by the countries which developed most rapidly. What is unbearable today will be considerably worse tomorrow.
33.	International trade, until recently the great lever of progress for North and South alike, has entered a period of stagnation and retrocession, asphyxiated by growing protectionist barriers—an inadequate response to the problems of recession and unemployment—and also by the burden of foreign debt—which together restrict to an unbearable extent the import capacity of the debtor countries, thus making it impossible for them to sustain the levels of economic activity needed to meet the requirements of their peoples and to generate the very resources necessary to meet their commitments.
34.	The international community needs innovative and effective proposals, but it is still operating with outdated conceptual and institutional instruments, which can only provide standardized and mechanically applied responses. That is the dominant intellectual response, but at the factual level there is just as much frustration: there is more and more protectionism at a time when increased foreign trade is more necessary than ever; financial burdens are increasing when it is absolutely necessary to reduce them; lending capacity is contracting when its growth is a basic requirement; recessive policies are proliferating at a time when development is more necessary than ever.
35.	Last June, the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development was the most remarkable demonstration of the constant frustration that has marked multilateral economic negotiations. At the start of the meeting, which was held at Belgrade—for which the developing countries made careful preparations—I stated that the international community could not afford a further failure, and that a wide-ranging co-operative effort between the North and the South should be launched as matter of urgency. Unfortunately, the moderate and constructive attitude taken by the developing countries failed to induce the developed countries to adopt a more flexible position. From Cancun to Belgrade, both the North and the South lost precious opportunities for dialogue and understanding, and at this moment, all that is left to the international economy is an uncertain and risky gamble on the results of emergency measures that were adopted to solve problems which, by their very nature, are structural and lasting.
36.	In the face of such instability and uncertainty, would not this be the moment for the international community to think seriously about readjustments to be made in the Bretton Woods institutions and in GATT, to make them better adapted to the conditions and needs of today's international economy? These conditions and needs are profoundly different from those, which, for three decades after the Second World War, made it possible to keep high rates of growth in world trade and economic output.
37.	Brazil is one of the countries that has been most seriously affected by the current crisis, and this is, to a great extent, an ironic consequence of the fact that the development model adopted by the country was based on a vote of confidence in the international community's capacity to provide all countries with greater opportunities in international trade and on financial markets.
38.	My country has made and will assuredly continue to make heavy sacrifices in order to adjust to the new and more difficult financial circumstances and to fulfill its commitments as a capital borrower. However, the Brazilian people cannot be denied the prospect of development, particularly when the major causes of its hardships are to be found, not in intrinsic limitations to the nation's productive structure, but rather in an unusual combination of external factors related to the economic policies and negotiating positions of some of the great Powers.
39.	In these circumstances, the problems that afflict us are not exclusively ours but also concern those countries that have benefited so much from exports of capital, at costs which they are able unilaterally to define and alter. It makes no sense that such countries, often acting against their own interests in the repayment of their loans, deny their debtors, through the application of a most stringent protectionism, the export opportunities they need to pay their debts.
40.	This was the reason why President Figueiredo said, when he addressed the Assembly last year, "The solution of the present crisis lies not in aid for developing countries but in ensuring conditions that would enable them to meet their obligations through a fair return for their work".
41.	Before concluding my statement, I must refer to a specific problem of a critical nature that must not be seen from an emergency viewpoint only.
42.	For five years my country has been suffering from the tragic effects of drought. The semi-arid north-east of Brazil is going through a particularly difficult period which defies the courage and severely tests the endurance of the local population and creates enormous obstacles to the implementation of plans for Brazilian regional development. The effects of this protracted drought are a national responsibility of Brazil's and are the object of integrated action on the part of the Government, but they cannot fail to have an impact on the nation's activities abroad.
43.	Brazil has consistently supported the activities of the United Nations to combat desertification, especially with regard to the recovery and progress of the Sudan- Sahel region. We have also closely followed the debate on the measures designed to provide resources for the implementation of the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification approved in 1977/ We share the opinion that the question of climatic phenomena such as drought and desertification should be examined within the broader context )f international co-operation and from a long- term perspective.
44.	If the present crisis is to have a renovating and purifying effect, the international system must be revitalized in an authentically democratic sense. At the international level, democracy corresponds to respect for national individualities and recognition of the sovereign equality of States. This means, in essence, that international coexistence should be based on the strict observance of the principles of self-determination and nonintervention and should pursue peaceful, rational and balanced solutions.
45.	The fact that the United Nations is now approaching its 40th anniversary is one more reason for us to learn a lesson of renewal from the contemporary crisis. It is essential that we preserve the spirit of those who took part in the construction and consolidation of the United Nations. A critical review of the past will be truly meaningful only if it is useful as a practical guide to present and future action.
46.	The pace of history is accelerating, and the Organization cannot remain static. There is a wisdom inherent in the purposes and principles of the Charter of San Francisco. It is particularly urgent to apply these purposes and principles in keeping peace, preserving security and resuming development.
As President Figueiredo said in the statement he made last year, the main point is that "It is our common duty to fulfill the expectations of our predecessors, who, having themselves experienced the direct consequences of political disorder, economic depression and war, pledged their resolve, as well as ours, to promote peace and development."


===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿71. On behalf of the Government of Brazil, it gives me great satisfaction to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the thirty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I am certain that I express the confidence that all delegations present here in this Hall place in your experienced and balanced guidance for the success of our labours. I also take the occasion to greet you as a representative of Zambia and the African continent, with which my country has strong cultural, historical and political ties.
72.	At this point, allow me also to pay a well- deserved tribute to Mr Jorge Illueca for the competent and able manner in which he presided over the work of the thirty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
73.	It is a privilege to congratulate the people and Government of Brunei Damssalam upon their new membership in the United Nations, and I hereby renew my best wishes for the peace and prosperity of that country, with which Brazil already has diplomatic relations.
74.	It is our daily experience to live with international tension and crises. Clearly the crises overlap successively in a vicious and self-reinforcing process. More than ever, orderly change is required. 
75.	To face this challenge, Brazil believes in the commitment to the fundamental principles of inter-national life contained in the Charter of the United Nations. My country reaffirms that its foreign policy adheres to the high aim of seeking solutions consistent with the universal causes of peace and development. It maintains a balanced approach to current international issues.
76.	We understand that only confidence can create a lasting basis for dialogue and co-operation among nations.
77.	These values and this will to change guide my words in opening the general debate.
78.	Epochs of crisis, such as the one we are going through, evidence themselves not only in facts but also in ideas and in the political culture. The United Nations cannot remain immune to the crises of our times.
79.	From the generation that founded the United Nations we inherited a message that repudiates double standards in judgements. More than ever, it is necessary to recover the meaning of that message. The strong and the weak, the allied and the adversaries must understand and abide by the criteria that govern international life. Only thus can dialogue become truly possible. This is one of the fundamental reasons for the work performed at the United Nations.
80.	Although authoritarianism may assume many guises, it does not seem right, in this year of 1984, to confuse the ideal of peace with the obsessive proclivity to war. Freedom, justice or progress should not be invoked to cloak a desire to dominate. There can be no quibbling about respect for the universal principles of the Charter. Equality means equality; sovereignty means sovereignty; non-intervention means non-intervention. Those who give in to expedient temptations to the detriment of the values essential to the credibility of the United Nations are only deluding themselves.
81.	Brazil has taken clear, well-known positions on the great foci of political tension that continue to challenge the international community's capacity for action. After years of debate and negotiation on some of these questions, sizeable margins of consensus have been reached.
82.	It will not be denied that the best road to self- determination and independence for Namibia is the implementation of Security Council resolution 433 (1978). As long as this directive is followed, the recent signs of flexibility on the part of South Africa are auspicious for dialogue and negotiation. In addition, the conscience of the international community has remained unequivocal in its repudiation of racial discrimination, and for that very reason the United Nations cannot compromise nor waiver in its absolute condemnation of apartheid
83.	Time has shown that a comprehensive, just and lasting solution in the Middle East cannot be foreseen outside the parameters originally established by the United Nations. A succession of crises resulting from the non-acceptance of those parameters has for more than a generation been preventing the building of peace in that disturbed area.
84.	In the Middle East as in other regions, Brazil condemns the persistence of a policy of faits accomplis in defiance of the Charter of the United Nations. Among the many victims of the recent and persistent crisis in Lebanon, we must mourn the loss of many soldiers of the multinational forces operating there. This should make us all, even the most powerful, reflect on the role that the United Nations can and should play in the conduct of peace-keeping operations in fulfilling the mandates of the international community with the full backing of the Security Council.
85.	In all areas of tension, such as Afghanistan and Kampuchea, the principle of non-intervention should admit no exceptions to its application. Wherever attempts are made to interfere in national political processes, whether by force or by infiltration under the cover of technical excuses, they will deserve the condemnation of the international community. It is no longer possible to believe that public opinion can still be deceived by facades of legitimacy for acts of real intervention which seek strategic advantages or mere prestige.
86.	In Central America there will be no long-term solutions without whole-hearted observance of the basic principles of self-determination, mutual respect among all nations and democratic life. For that reason it is vital that the work of the Contadora Group should go forward and be carried to a successful conclusion, since that Group is best able to promote awareness of the problems of the region in all their historical, social, political and economic complexity. Good relations in the hemisphere today depend, in a very critical way, on stability in Central America.
87.	The spirit of the Charter must prevail so that we may have dialogue and negotiation. In this regard, it behoves us to express our thanks to the Secretary- General, who, whenever called upon, has given his good offices and played the role of mediator, even under adverse circumstances, with a sense for the opportune and a discretion appropriate for each occasion.
88.	The same applies to the question of the Malvinas. The contribution of the United Nations continues to be indispensable for reaching a positive solution and should include providing encouragement for diplomatic understanding between the parties. This is a question that directly affects the Latin American countries, which have a solid position on the merits of the case, recognizing the rights of Argentina and desirous of dispelling the risk of tensions in an area that has a vocation for peace and harmony. This is the time to demonstrate consistency and authenticity, to honour the principles of the Charter by implementing Security Council resolution 502 (1982) in its entirety.
89.	For all the critical problems I have just mentioned, the United Nations has not failed to take stands and prescribe cures.
90.	But the scarcity of effective solutions does not derive from flaws in assessment: the problems persist because of fragmentation in the political will of the international community. While the decision-making machinery and even the implementation of decisions of the United Nations remain stalled, painfully negotiated formulas for consensus are subject to a process of erosion. The practical result is, very often, a lamentable retreat from the bases of understanding officially endorsed by this forum. To use an eloquent example, I recall the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, which was devoted to disarmament. 
91.	Thirty-nine years ago, still under the impact of a conflict without precedent, the United Nations was born under the sign of universality and equality among nations. The Organization, in its very name, mirrors the ideal of solidarity and union and, in addition, the recognition that no longer can any nation afford to live in isolation. If there was a generous utopianism apparent in this vision, there was also a lucid grasp of the real needs for mankind's survival and well-being.
92.	In our century, no nation, however powerful, can defy the international community as represented here, nor can it cut itself off from dialogue with other nations. No single State can enact laws for the whole world. In other words, to be effective, international leadership must be vested with real democratic meaning. It will be strong as long as it maintains this intrinsic value.
93.	The international system should not be vertical and centralized. Whatever affects everyone must be decided upon by all. This argument applies specifically to two themes of global interest that cannot be dealt with separately: peace and development. But it is precisely in these themes of such vital importance for humanity that the political deadlock makes itself felt and equations of power override democratic dialogue.
94.	Last August I had the opportunity to address the Conference on Disarmament, where I reiterated my country's growing apprehension at the acceleration of the arms race. I then announced Brazil's endorsement of the Joint Declaration issued on 22 May 1984 by six Heads of State or Government to the nuclear Powers, and I quoted the following excerpt from it: "It is primarily the responsibility of the nuclear weapons States to prevent a nuclear catastrophe, but this problem is too important to be left to those States alone"
95.	In order to discharge such a task, which is of first priority, international decision-making must effectively incorporate broad and representative participation by the community of nations. This will curtail the current monologue of intransigence which has replaced the negotiating process among those who through dialogue should have the primary responsibility for the security of us all. Under such a paralysing influence, discussions on "arms control" run the risk of completely missing their mandatory final objective: general and complete disarmament under effective international control.
96.	The dynamics of confrontation, in its various doctrinary disguises, only lead to higher levels of terror, not of security. Political intelligence has already identified this tragic rationalization of the will to power.
97.	Peace must not be turned into a mirage; it must not fade in the spiralling arms race. There is no substitute for peace, and peace emerges from a just and credible international order, not from a balance of mistrust. That is a fundamental lesson of the Charter of the United Nations.
98.	It is on the economic plane that the contemporary crisis has its most sensitive dimension, but its dynamics are essentially political. The roads to peace and development cannot fail to be parallel. We are in an extreme situation which forces us to examine its roots without illusions or pretences.
99.	Brazil will not give up its development prospects; it cannot accept a reduction in the place it has gained for itself in international trade within legitimately agreed rules. For a long time my country has been fighting in the proper forums for correction of the defects in the world economic structure, of which we are today one of the chief victims.
100.	Several times in the General Assembly I have voiced Brazil's concern at the course the international economy has been taking during the last few years. In many different ways I have reiterated a call for a determined international effort to overcome the effects of the grave world crisis. I have reaffirmed the need to reverse a growing tendency towards the erosion of a most valuable asset, something for which we all worked hard during the post-war period; namely, international co-operation in the service of development as an indispensable factor for the management of a trade and finance system that is undoubtedly precarious and unstable.
101.	At a certain stage I stated that "when the world economy becomes highly diversified and the problems are universal in scope, the challenge is no longer that of how to obtain unilateral advantages but is that of how jointly to define viable ways to govern an increasingly unstable system."
102.	Recent occurrences, such as the reduction of inflation and the resumption of growth in some developed countries, seem to demonstrate the validity of recourse to unilateral policies by one or other of the main developed countries. However positive the recovery now taking place in some developed economies may be, it cannot be denied that it is limited and that it is leading to an excessive escalation of the coefficient of instability in the international economic system.
103.	Nor can it be denied that, because of recourse to unilateral policies, perverse mechanisms have come into existence whereby debtor countries are led to transfer resources that subsidize the prosperity of wealthy nations. Worse still, those debtor nations see their prospects for development stultified under the impact, often overwhelming, of actions taken by the great industrial Powers.
104.	The solution of the pressing problems of the international economy cannot be found in individual actions or short-term approaches; nor can it be ensured as a by-product of the recovery of one or other developed country. This is all the more true when such recovery, which is subject to strong elements of uncertainty and risk, has a restrictive effect upon the possibilities of expansion of other countries, particularly those most deeply in debt.
105.	The way to a sustained and healthy recovery of the international economy cannot, therefore, be through the precarious reactivation of a few economies and an attempt, inevitably doomed to failure, to maintain an economic policy with restrictive effects upon the prospects for development of the nations of the third world.
106.	The social and political tensions to which those countries have been subjected cannot continue much longer, nor can their peoples continue to live indefinitely at the mercy of abrupt fluctuations in the already intolerably high interest rates, in the availability of financial flows and in the conditions of access to international markets.
107.	Over the past few years there have been recurrent episodes of resistance to concerted international action on the part of the developed countries, as shown by the lack of results at the International Meeting on Co-operation and Development, held at Cancun in 1981; the obstacles posed to the launching of global negotiations; the failure of the latest session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development; and the non-compliance with the principles and commitments of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. In view of the extremely adverse situation confronting us, the time has come to open new avenues in the direction of the objectives which President Figueiredo defined—when addressing the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session [5th meeting]—as the need to restructure the international economic order.
108.	The rejection of dialogue and concerted action among Governments has had particularly harmful consequences over the past two years, which were characterized by the emergence of the debt crisis, with devastating results for Latin America. Countries whose efforts to maintain adequate rates of growth in the 1970s, which were important at that time to sustain the level of economic activity in the developed world, today see themselves, because of events beyond their control, punished by severe recessive pressures. This is certainly not the reward they deserve for the important contribution they made to the prosperity of the world's economy.
109.	The developing world has not failed to give clear indications of its willingness to enter into a realistic and constructive dialogue, as evidenced by several statements delivered in such varied forums as the Economic and Social Council, UNCTAD, GATT and the IMF. Their willingness to do so has been strengthened by a growing internal movement at the level of South-South co-operation and of interregional contacts.
110.	As regards Latin America, three important steps in search of a dialogue with the developed world were taken this year with the holding of the Latin American Economic Conference at Quito in January and, more recently, the meetings held at Cartagena in June and Mar del Plata earlier this month by 11 countries particularly affected by the question of indebtedness.
111.	At Quito, Cartagena and Mar del Plata, Latin American countries, acting in a moderate, objective and pragmatic manner, put forth a body of political principles which, in their view, should govern the relationship between debtors and creditors. They laid emphasis on the need for the creditors to recognize their share of responsibility in the solution to the debt problem, as well as the importance of symmetry and equity in sharing the burden of the adjustments required.
112.	At Cartagena, especially, the participating countries took a significant step by clearly and strongly expressing their political will to act together in search of a dialogue with the Governments of the creditor nations on the general aspects of the debt issue. As indicated in the Cartagena Consensus, the question of the debt requires adequate political consideration at the international level, as it has obvious political and social consequences. Only the will of the governments of creditor and debtor countries will make it possible to modify the conditions which hamper the attainment of lasting solutions to problems which cannot be dealt with exclusively through a dialogue with the banks, by isolated action on the part of international financial institutions or by the mere behaviour of the markets.
113.	The Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Ministers of Finance of the 11 countries that had met at Cartagena gathered at Mar del Plata, on 13 and 14 September to call for a dialogue with the Governments of the creditor nations. In the Mar del Plata Communique, they stressed the need for a meeting dedicated to the debt question and the means to alleviate the burden now faced by indebted nations. This dialogue, which will of course take into account the interests of all parties involved, is considered indispensable for the solution of problems that cannot remain subject to the vagaries of a highly unstable international economic environment. Let us hope that this time our appeal will not be in vain.
114.	Like peace, development also threatens to become a mirage in the eyes of the weaker countries. If I insist on this correlation, it is to stress that in the political sphere, as well as in the economic, the difficulties we face arise from the very structure of the international system, resistant to change not mediated by power.
115.	We can no longer avoid recognizing that if current distortions persist, the existing crisis will culminate in decisively hurting everyone, poor and rich, debtors and creditors alike. As we approach the end of the century, the economic world, like the political world, has become indivisible. Interdependence is not a rhetorical image: it is a historical necessity that demands political action in the sense of co-operation and not of regression or isolation.
116.	To conclude, I should like to return to my initial remarks on the role of the United Nations in the present-day world.
117.	Too frequently, the Organization has seen itself transformed into a "forum for sterile confrontation", as President Figueiredo stated when he addressed the General Assembly in 1982. In acknowledging the virtual paralysis of the machinery of multilateral diplomacy, Brazil seeks a higher objective: the preservation and perfection of the United Nations, to make it what it should be, the forum par excellence for settling controversies between States and promoting international co-operation.
118.	Brazil does not subscribe to the allegation that the United Nations is condemned to becoming an anachronism. What would be more properly anachronistic would be the rejection of democratic dialogue within the community of nations; the rejection of genuine aspirations and formulas of consensus resulting from lengthy and wearing negotiating efforts; the prospect of the geometrically expanding gap in the distribution of wealth between the nations of the North and South.
119.	There will be reason for comfort and optimism if we profit from the lessons of accumulated experience. As the United Nations approaches its fortieth anniversary, it has a more sorrowful, albeit clearer, perception of its limitations. This perception is courageously reflected in the reports on the work of the Organization submitted to the Assembly by the Secretary-General in the past three years. His suggestions for improving the potential of the United Nations are both timely and valuable. This notwithstanding, his warning that we are "perilously near to a new international anarchy" remains frighteningly vivid.
120.	Never has humanity been so indissolubly associated in destiny, and yet, to our peril, the International community's capacity to act is weakening every day.
121.	The United Nations is once again suffering acutely from the corrosive effects of the rivalry between the super-Powers. It would be unwise to ignore the realities of power in international life. None the less, it is also realistic to note that the justification of coercion is, in fact, the acknowledgement that political intelligence and creativity have failed. A greater threat is in the offing: that of a tragic doctrinal retrogression with regard to the rules governing relations among nations. Times of crisis always foster national egotisms.
122.	Once again it must be stated that the Charter of the United Nations is a common heritage of political wisdom. The United Nations is not the monopoly of any country or bloc of countries, nor is it committed to immobility. Efforts to attain harmony must respect differences between individuals as well as between peoples. To reaffirm this philosophy, which is the responsibility of all, rich and poor, strong and weak, is also to preserve an arduously gained spiritual legacy, one to which Brazil remains faithful.


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
I still have before my eyes the suffering that Mexico has just undergone. I landed there to see for myself the tragedy, to see what had happened and to affirm to the people of that country Brazil's solidarity. In so doing, I dare to hope that I conveyed the feelings of the rest of the world, and I begin my statement here today by assuring Mexico of the solidarity of the entire world.
This tribune instills respect and dignity. It is the loftiest in the community of nations. Here, both the mighty and the weak are diminished, so much greater is the burden of mankind's history in the exercise of the task which is the essence of the Organization's work - namely, the preservation of peace, tackling the problems that beset it and the efforts to transform divergences into solidarity.
For 40 years my country, Brazil, has been privileged to open the general debate of the General Assembly of the United Nations. It is with profound emotion that I now exercise that prerogative.

Grave problems and immense responsibilities weigh heavily upon me. In expressing ray feelings I turn to the greatest poet of my land, and I do so because I believe that poetry is neither inappropriate nor anachronistic in the scenario of great debates. The poet wrote: "What rare dream could be More pure or more beautiful And more profound than this Living machinery of the world?" It is with this feeling about the world that I speak on behalf of one of the largest nations of the globe, a complex and dynamic society, the eighth largest economy in the Western world, a country of contrasts and of greatness - the Brazil made up of several Brazils, in which affluence and poverty, aridity and fertility, drought and flood create a geography of contradictory features and, in so doing, enclose in a vast continent a unified people who have known how to construct a racial democracy and a cultural unity that are the invincible force of their destiny.
I am a simple man. I was born and have lived in one of the most severely tested regions of our land, the heavily populated and poverty stricken Brazilian north-east. I have followed a political career for 30 years, but it was in the midst of tragedy and awe, in an abrupt and unexpected way, that I was called upon to lead our nation.
As President of the Republic, I am proud to be a writer for whom a taste for words has not restricted the spirit to mere aesthetic expressions. From words I forged an element of profound identification with the people, sharing in the aspirations of individuals and of society as a whole.
Literature and politics force on us a social and humanistic vision of the universe. I cannot conceive of the pursuit of material gain without a spiritual

substratum that endows human adventure with the dimensions of the eternal. I have faith, and woe unto the man who thinks of the world without the company of God.
Brazil has just lived through a long night. Its eyes are not reddened by nightmares. Its lips display an open gesture of confidence and sing of its love for freedom. He who is a prisoner of the past cannot see the future. Hoses never turned his back on the Promised Land.
The instrument that worked our transition from authoritarianism to democracy was our capacity to reconcile and understand, without violence or traumas. Our determination, courage and resilience were so strong that we managed to survive the loss of our hero, Tancredo Neves, on the very night in which our skies were lit up with the fireworks of victory. Our suffering then was transformed into strength and a resolve to make his dream our dream and to remain united.
The values of transformation proved stronger than death, we applied those values to all classes of society, and, in so doing, we abolished distances and barriers in a patriotic convergence of all schools of thought and in the quest for the effective ideals of justice, conciliation and the institutional consolidation of civilian power. He believe that- social vision is the very life-blood of modern liberalism. Freedom concerns itself with actual living conditions, with the complete achievement of individual happiness, with universal franchise and with the right to be free.
I come to this rostrum to pay a tribute to the United Nations on its fortieth anniversary. Brazil was there at its birth; it is here today, and it will be here in the future, to defend the spirit of the Organization.

This spirit is not to serve as a mere instrument of the strong, but as the voice of the weak - of those who have neither armies, nor arsenals, nor a veto to impose in an effort to nullify decisions.
I am here to say that Brazil no longer wishes its voice to be timid. Brazil wants to be heard - without aspirations to hegemony, but with a clearly determined presence, we shall not preach to the world what we do not say within our own borders, we are at peace with ourselves. Consistency has become our strength. Our domestic discourse matches our international stance. We wish, as of now, to give new life, with renewed emphasis, to our presence in the debate of nations, by espousing an independent, dynamic foreign policy aimed at resolving international issues which have a social content.
We shall not be held captive by great Powers nor enslaved by minor conflicts.
Forty years ago, our founding fathers established, despite the death throes of war and the ruins of oppression, the very foundations for the building of peace and the concert of nations, as well as unlimited co-operation among peoples. The major Powers and the emerging countries were called upon to put an end to colonial exploitation. They proclaimed to the universe the worth of the democratic principles of equality and justice. They condemned racism and intolerance. They gave legitimacy to the universal right to health, well-being and education. They reaffirmed the dignity of labour and the enhanced power of culture.
At present, now that we have lived without a global conflict for twice the number of years allotted to humanity between the First and Second World Wars, we are in a position to state that the role played by the United Nations has not always been recognized; indeed, its performance has almost never measured up. Nevertheless, its role, far from b&ing useless, has been, is and will continue to be necessary. Its founding fathers were quite right.

On behalf of Brazil, I congratulate you. Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fortieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I also congratulate the representatives of the Member States assembled here to commemorate the four decades of active existence of this Organization. I address my sincere compliments to the Secretary-General,Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, of whose talent and diplomatic experience we Latin Americans are so justly proud.
It is only natural that the first topic I take should be that of Latin America. Latin America's extraordinary effort to create a democratic order is the most stunning and moving political fact of recent years, a fact that remains unacknowledged by the uncaring eyes of the center of world power. Little attention has been given to the institutional maturation of our region and to its drama and triumphs. With neither assistance nor interference, tempered only by the force of conviction, we have confronted the threats posed by the temptations of totalitarianism and by the greed of those who see only through the eyes of exploitation.
We have emerged synchronized in a movement of solidarity towards the flourishing of free institutions. We have made our choice as one, irreversibly opting for the trinomial of open society, free institutions,, dynamic economy. Using this threefold democratic definition as a basis, we shall pursue dialog as a bridge between the East and the West, the North and the South, old and new cultures, regimes and ideologies.
Gandhi, the Mahatma, said that the true mission of the man of law is to throw a bridge across the abyss that separates adversaries. The United Nations is the law; we are the men of the law.
New winds are blowing over our continent and are breathing new life into our democratic tradition, as reflected in commitments that preceded the creation of the United Nations.

We therefore champion the principle of the self-determination of peoples and of toe duty of non-intervention, of the peaceful settlement of disputes and of the relaxation of East-West tension. We reject the sharp antagonisms of bloc politics. We advocate the primacy of negotiation over perilous demonstrations of force.
In true democratic spirit, we have campaigned for many years on behalf of disarmament and we have shunned as precarious, violent and irrational the idea of a peace maintained by the parity of atomic arsenals. Brazil believe that there can be no quibbling over these ideals, nor can any concession be made to their suspension, at any level or for any reason whatsoever.
It is also because of our loyalty to the universalist creed of democracy that we are anti-racist - profoundly, viscerally and intransigently anti-racist.
Brazil is a great melting pot of a nation - one that is proud of its identity. Some of the most highly creative expressions of our culture come from racial mixture and from ethnic cross-fertilization. The greatest, most sensitive author we have produced, Machado de Assis, was a mestizo, as were also, in the plastic arts, the great baroque sculptor Aleihadinho, and in music, the world-renowned Villa-Lobos. I wish to remind the Assembly how much Brazil's popular culture owes to the genuis of the blacks and to the spirit of the American Indian.
Brazil has determined that racial discrimination is not only illegitimate, but illegal; it is a crime covered by the penal code. We consider repulsive the upsurge of racial conflict dictated by racist intolerance or the persistence of colonial configurations. I solemnly reiterate our total condemnation of apartheid and our unreserved support for the immediate emancipation of Namibia under the aegis of the United Nations*

He cannot conceive of the United Nations commemorating its age of reason without an all-out offensive against all the vestiges of racism on earth.
As President of my country, I reconfirmed few weeks ago the ban on exports of oil and its by-products and of areas and ammunition and on licenses and patents to South Africa and I suspended all cultural, artistic or sports activities with the Government in Pretoria.
Racism is against humanity and against the future. Racism, a different version of colonialism, which is both amoral and perverted, must not besmirch the golden page of decolonization.
Decolonization will rise above the hecatomb of world conflicts and the sterile confrontations of the cold war as the greatest contribution of the twentieth century to the history of mankind.

The success of decolonization was the result of the common international will, A similar search for consensus solutions will pave the way towards overcoming the frustration which we currently experience and which has been caused by the challenge of the arms race and the proliferation of tensions and conflicts.
Human rights have a fundamental dimension which is intimately linked to the vary practice of coexistence and pluralism. The world that the creators of the League of Nations did not live to see, the structuring of which we still await, is a world of respect for the rights of the human person, such as the United Nations seeks to promote in the international covenants on human rights.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is undoubtedly the most important document signed by man in contemporary history, and it was born in the cradle of the United Nations.
It is with pride and confidence that I announce to this Assembly Brazil's decision to accede to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. With these decisions the people of Brazil take a step towards the democratic affirmation of our State and reiterate to themselves and to the entire international community a solemn commitment to the principles of the Charter and the promotion of human dignity.
In this task, I wish to stress the promotion of women's rights, which has gained new impetus in Brazil through the creation of the National Council for the Rights of Women, as well as the decisive participation of women in the transformations which are occurring in Brazilian society. This in turn is interrelated on the global level with the extraordinary movement of self-affirmation by women, the impact of which is causing a profound reappraisal of human relations as the century draws to a close.
We are at one of the many crossroads that have marked .the 40 years of existence of the United Nations. The peoples are aware that concessions made to the realities of power are a one-way process. Only the united will of the majority to adopt a new attitude can remedy the scenario created by confrontation and by the mechanisms of power.
"Not all is East or West in the United Nations ... The world has other cardinal points." (A/PV.1208, para. 6) So said Ambassador Araujo Castro, who was representing Brazil at the eighteenth session of the General Assembly. Brazil recognizes many negative aspects in international relations, but we have always sought to view the world from a generous, multifaceted perspective.
Let us use our time for co-operation and for science; natural differences should not now endanger coexistence. Celestial space has always been the purest image of peace. Let us preserve the infinite sky as a frontier that weapons must never violate.
Brazilians believe in such values as respect for the individuality of each country and a united responsibility in the face of the impasses and dilemmas of this waning century.
We witness with dismay the innumerable conflicts that affect the developing countries, paralyzing their efforts towards progress. These conflicts aggravate the difficult conditions created by the persistence of an unjust international order and place us at an even greater distance from the attainment of the ideal of peace and security. The transposition of themes from the East-West confrontation to the scenes of many of these conflicts adds a weighty element of exacerbation and disguises their true causes. We are surrounded by examples.
Brazil associates itself with other Latin American countries in proclaiming the urgent need for a political, lasting and stable solution for the conflicts that are tearing Central America apart. It is for this reason that Brazil fully supports the Contadora initiative, which reflects the feelings of all Latin America in seeking a solution that will preserve peace and understanding on the continent in keeping with 'the will of the peoples of Central America.
My Government joined with three sister nations in the creation of the Contadora support group in an effort to translate the broad backing that Contadora has been receiving into concrete initiatives.
The political and deeply ethical character of the Contadora Group is the Latin American response to theories of confrontation; it supports dialog rather than radicalization; it is an invitation to substitute negotiations for the threat of the use of force; it is a vigorous defence of self-determination and ncn-interference against attests to internationalize the conflict.
Brazil feels linked to all peoples in the Middle East by bonds of great friendship. The Brazilian society is greatly concerned about the disheartening atmosphere in Lebanon and recognizes the right of all peoples of the Middle East, including Israel, to live in peace within internationally recognized borders. Brazil wishes to see the creation of a national State of Palestine, this being the aspiration of that great people which has suffered for so long, withdrawal from the occupied Arab territories and acceptance of United Nations resolutions concerning the region.
Brazil, which is linked to Iran and Iraq by growing ties of friendship and co-operation, exhorts those two countries to take a peaceful, negotiated route toward resolving their differences.
He are very concerned about Afghanistan and Kampuchea. There will be no end to the violence in those countries as long as foreign troops remain there and as long as the right of their peoples freely to express their will is not explicitly recognized.

It is also incumbent upon us to press for constructive vision and stance with regard to the question of the Malvinas. Since 1833, Brazil has given its support to the just Argentine claim to sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, stressing that a negotiated settlement is the only way to resolve the problem.
Brazil will make every effort within its power to ensure that the South Atlantic is preserved as an area of peace, shielded from the arms race, the presence of nuclear arras and any forts of confrontation originating in other regions.
In keeping with its firm commitment to the effort to ban nuclear weapons from the continent, Brazil signed and ratified the Treaty of Tlatelolco, whose pioneering goal is to transform Latin America into the first denuclearized zone on territory inhabited by mankind. The denuclearization of Latin America should be the first step in a new movement to deter the vertical and horizontal accumulation of nuclear arms, thereby releasing the $1.5 million squandered every minute on the arias race to be used to combat hunger, disease, ignorance and poverty.

The marathon arms race is a symptom of the evil which threatens lucidity and is a sombre hiatus cm the human conscience.
We are experiencing a new scientific revolution which is moment by moment transforming the world under our very eyes. Control over the advances which occur at dizzying speeds in state-of-the-art sectors of science and technology has become a vital matter of survival. The program of work of the United Nations in the next few years must contain a strategy to prevent the world from becoming fragmented into closed technological blocs; it must place scientific and technological knowledge at the service of the basic needs of all humankind.
Those are the visible problems. But there is another, greater problem, one which permeates international relations and which insidiously threatens all, poor and rich alike - the poor, through destabilization; the rich, through insecurity; and everyone through the possibility of total collapse should we persist in our posture of immobility.
I should like to address the economic problem, which concentrates its virulence in the third world, and in particular in Latin America. Crushed under the weight of an enormous foreign debt, the countries of the region are living through a scenario of severe difficulties with domestic repercussions resulting in recession, unemployment, inflation, increased poverty and violence. Ensnared in a vicious network of economic factors - namely, the rise in international interest rates, falling prices of commodities and the selectivity of markets in the developed countries - we are confronted with a crisis comparable only to that which assailed the market economies in the early 1930s.
The burden of foreign debt imposes an economic policy geared towards achieving trade surpluses earmarked for interest payments. The international organizations propose policies involving inadequate adjustments. This approach leads to recession, to unemployment and to giving up the capacity to grow. Such a policy weakens civilian leadership, renders the social crisis explosive, threatens institutions, jeopardizes order and, as a result, constitutes a threat to democratic structures. To add to our difficulties, the markets of the developed countries are being closed to our exports. Protectionist barriers are proliferating and we are unjustly accused of unfair trade practices. The protectionism that is sought to shield the obsolete sectors of the. developed countries is even confused with the legitimate right of developing countries to create favorable temporary conditions for the installation of emerging industries incorporating modern technologies essential for sustaining growth in the exercise of our sovereignty and independence.
And the paradox stems from the fact that all our efforts are being made precisely in an effort to transfer foreign exchange credits to the very quarters that beleaguer us and discriminate against us. we are thus caught between the threat of protectionism and the specter of default.
We are doing our utmost to compete. Our firms export with meager profits and our labor force receives low wages. It is sad to have to confess that our minimum wage is $50 per month.
To round out our difficulties, we are obliged to maintain a trade-balance surplus to pay, within four years, interest amounting to approximately $50 billion.
That is the situation confronting a country which has potential, which has a broad and diversified range of exports comprising commodities and petroleum derivatives, manufactured goods, machinery and even aircraft. One can readily imagine the impact of these factors on other countries lacking our advantages.

It has been our tradition to honor our foreign commitments. However, we have the obligation to alert the world to the fact that the existing scenario must be changed. It must be restructured, for it is unfair. And anything that harbors the germ of injustice or of the absurd simply cannot survive.
Brazil has no desire to make an ideological issue of the matter of indebtedness, nor does it wish it to be transformed into a source of confrontation between North-South and East-West. Brazil is a country of ingrained Christian and Western ideals, we believe that wherever free enterprise has collapsed, freedom itself has likewise disappeared. Hence we believe in enhancing the world market through competition, and, in denouncing the present order, we are not moved by any political motivation. We wish solely and exclusively to defend our most sacred interests - the sacred interests of Brazil. And we shall fulfill this duty by urging the international community to join us in seeking a solution. Moreover, this solution cannot be based solely on the laws of the market.
At the end of the Second World War, the victorious Powers understood that to achieve peace it was essential to establish a new disciplined international order to govern economic and financial relations among nations.
Fundamental to the establishment of this economic order was the perception that rebuilding Europe was indispensable for stability and international security itself. The success of the program for the reconstruction of Europe demonstrates the ability to carry out projects of co-operation amongst nations when they are conceived with a broad vision of the reciprocity of interests involved and a clear awareness of the connection between political and economic problems.
At present we are experiencing anew a situation which clamors for a creative vision for renewal. The pillars of the current order are eroded and obsolete. It is necessary for us to discuss concrete measures to adjust the international economic order to present-day realities.

Following upon the period of prosperity, with the advent of the recession, it was Bobbes's predatory jungle which began to reign rather than the harmonious, fruitful anarchy of Adam Smith.
The indebtedness of Latin America is no longer merely a regional problem, given the extent of its impact on the stability of the financial mechanisms of the Western world. Awareness of this problem led to the Cartagena consensus, a manifestation of solidarity amongst the Latin American countries most affected by the problem of foreign indebtedness, in an effort to devise a solution through dialog and understanding.
From the Latin American point of view, it is imperative for the indebtedness crisis to be negotiated in terms of its political dimension. Today, just as was the case 40 years ago, the Governments of the creditor nations must be made aware of the fact that there is an exceptional situation the solution of which transcends tiie mere interplay of economic forces.

In calling upon the leaders of the industrialized nations to come forward with concerted political action to resolve foreign debt problems, I do so with the serenity of a country which has not spared any effort to meet faithfully its international commitments.
He have made gigantic efforts. Nevertheless, even if we were to maintain our current rate of growth, only in 1990 shall we have matched the per capita income level we had attained in 1980.
Our people have reached the limits of what is bearable. It is impossible to demand additional sacrifices of a population as impoverished as ours. On the contrary, we must assure the Brazilian people that opportunities for employment will be increasing in the coming years.
Our vulnerability to rises in international interest rates is so great that all we have accomplished will collapse if exorbitant rates are renewed.
We shall face greater difficulties in shaping a liberal and pluralistic society if we do not maintain and expand our contacts abroad. However, the foreign debt crisis has been forcing our economy into a process of isolation and autarchy, resulting in minimal import possibilities and weakened and unsatisfactory ties with the international financial markets, we do not want isolation and autarchy; we have the right to expect of our international partners equitable and fair forms of co-operation and also that they will democratically accept a concrete share of responsibilities. We cannot rely merely on the rhetorics of economic adjustment, on the assumption that sacrifice is all that is required of a third-world debtor for the settlement of his foreign accounts. This narrow view disregards the fact that we are dealing with populations which have a right to a respectable standard of survival and with countries with legitimate national aspirations. Either we realize that the solution to the foreign debt problem is a joint task for creditors and debtors alike or we run the risk of setting fire to the powder-keg that threatens the whole continent.

This picture explains the social cauldron of Latin America, defenseless against Messianic and demagogic seductions and the call of totalitarian ideologies and trapped in an unfair situation resulting from accumulated errors of the past. It is a miracle that the glow illuminating Latin America at this time comes from the torch of liberty and democracy and not that of turmoil.
Brazil has taken its position. Debt does not lead to doubt. We have chosen to grow without recession, without submitting ourselves to those adjustments which would entail relinquishing development.
Brazil will not pay its foreign debt with recession, nor with unemployment, nor with hunger. We believe that in settling this account at such high social and economic costs we would then have to surrender our freedom, for a debt paid with poverty is an account paid for with democracy. I thus wish to affirm with all seriousness and firmness that there is no solution possible without a thorough reformulation of the international economic structures.
Lastly, I must speak of peace, the loftiest ideal of mankind. But what is peace? Is it merely the absence of war, of war between nations, of war between men? Or is peace something more transcendental which signifies the freedom of men from all forms of violence, from all forms of conflict? I believe it to be an inner state of mind projected by man as the conduct to be followed by all nations; but realistically we know that many generations vill pass before this goal is actually achieved.
The reality that sustains us is quite different. The raw material of our work is provided by the harsh landscape of our times: one beset with violence, egotism, retaliation, dependence Jtwardness, servitude, nuclear war, the ills of starvation, cultural disparities, assaults on the ecology, pollution, terrorism, greed and exploitation.

The peace of today is not yet true peace. It is war in disguise. The first path leading to peace is freedom; and the political organization of freedom is democracy. Free peoples do not wage war; there will be no war between democratic peoples that decide their own destinies without submitting to personal tyrannies and to ideological fanaticisms. War and democracy, war and freedom are incompatible terms. As Clausewitz pointed out, war exists only when sovereign States exist. Likewise, we can affirm that peaceful, consensual solutions prevail when free and democratically developed nations exist, with permanent institutions, with fully operational powers, and with the people themselves making the decisions. Thus the best way for the United Nations to work for peace is to work for democracy. We Brazilians follow this example. :e emerged from conflict through democracy. On the day the people felt that could decide, they did not choose violence. They opted for dialog, for negotiation.
We are approaching the end of the century. The task of the United Nations has been to manage circumstantial conflicts. It is time for us to react vigorously against this marginal role, restoring to the Organization the prerogatives and rights deriving from its overall responsibility to all peoples in matters pertaining to peace and security.
The priority for the fifth decade in the life of the United Nations should be a program of revitalization with the following objectives: to help defuse the tensions of the renewed confrontation between the two power blocs; to create a new economic order based on development and social justice; to explore the entire negotiating potential of the Organization to promote solutions for the regional conflicts which are proliferating in the third world; and to regain a major role in the negotiations for the reduction, control and elimination of arms, with emphasis on those with greater destructive power.

However, freedom is not restricted to the exercise of a political right. As a component of the well-being of each of us we have a great social debt, a moral debt to the poor of the entire world who are the human beings we call brothers but whom we treat as though they were not.

The meaning of freedom for contemporary man is not merely the absence of coercion or of interference. It is the prospect of a happy life for oneself and for one's own. Thence the concept of freedom which concerns itself specifically with the actual conditions of a free life and strives to promote the broadest possible equality of opportunity. Modern man is one whose life today reflects Jefferson's dream of the personal and collective pursuit of happiness.
Equality of opportunity is the mainstay of social freedom, enabling the market to serve mankind rather than mankind serving the market. Without a diversity of values and multiple ways of life, freedom does not flourish, but languishes in privilege and drowns in oppression.
Shortly before the creation of the United Nations, Churchill and Roosevelt held a dialog at Hyde Park. Roosevelt asked how peace could be assured and Churchill replied, "By an Anglo-American alliance." But Roosevelt retorted, "No: by improving living conditions throughout the world."
I repeat, that for there to be peace there must be democracy and freedom: a freedom without hunger. The world cannot enjoy peace so long as there is a single hungry mouth anywhere on the face of the earth, a single child dying for lack of milk, a single human being suffering for lack of bread. The coming century will be the century of socialized food. The image of the mater dolorosa in the African desert is humiliating to us. Foodstuffs cannot continue to be mere speculative commodities on the exchange markets. Science and technology are here, announcing a new era of abundance through genetic engineering. Man, who has been able to break through the barriers of Earth and take off for the distant stars, cannot be incapable of eradicating hunger, what is required is a universal will to do so. That is a decision which must be taken without vetoes. It is urgent to have a plan of peace for the elimination of hunger.

Brazil, which experiences the paradox of being a major producer of food while struggling to eliminate pockets of hunger from its own territory, is willing to take part with enthusiasm in an effort to mobilize the international community to wipe out the scourge of hunger before the end of the century. This challenge may prove to be an opportunity for the United Nations and its agencies to rise above the present discredited state of multilateralism, thus demonstrating their effectiveness and validity.
In order to accomplish this, man must have a humanistic vision of politics, otherwise he may be able to think of nothing and produce nothing but nuclear missiles and warheads.
The conquest of the seas brought to man the humanism of the renaissance. The conquest of the cosmos broadens our view to an infinite solitude: The world has become larger and yet at the same time smaller. We must be united on this voyage where all men are condemned to face the greatest temptations of life. The new humanism must be centered on solidarity and peace. Peace can exist only hand-in-hand with freedom, freedom with democracy, and democracy when we provide for the segregated, for the starving, for the unemployed. It will exist when in that poor nations we love our poorer regions, when in the rich nations we love the poor people, and when in the poorer nations we love the poorest people.
Forty years ago we built upon the stark ruins of war. Today we must work to prevent the ruins of an anonymous war, which is hunger. Poverty is the very negation of life.
This is the great mission of mankind: to transform life by transforming the world. The twenty-first century is in sight. Let us look upon the new times with the eyes of the lover of nature, with the eyes of the pursuer of dreams. Let us have the courage to proclaim that freedom and peace will spell the end of poverty and hunger.








===== Session 41 - 1986 =====

 On behalf of the Brazilian Government it is my privilege to congratulate you. Sir, upon your election to the presidency of the forty-first session of the General Assembly. I am certain that I interpret the trust of all delegations present here in your wise and inspired leadership, on the basis of which our work will attain the desired success.
Let me also pay tribute to Ambassador Jaime de Pinies for the competent and skillful manner in which he presided over the last session of the General Assembly, the session which marked the fortieth anniversary of our Organization.
For 41 years Brazil has had the privilege of opening the general debate of the United Nations General Assembly.
At the fortieth session last September it was the President of my country, Jose Sarney, who gave the opening address. He began by paying homage to this tribune:
"This tribune instills respect and dignity. It is the loftiest in the community of nations. Here both the mighty and the weak are diminished". 
In my capacity as Minister for External Relations of Brazil, I come to this podium of the United Nations with emotion and reverence. This is the highest forum
 of mankind. As such it must be resolutely preserved. I spare no words, therefore, in praising it. Its occasional setbacks do not detract from its intrinsic value as an instrument for dialog and peace. Its shortcomings, far from rendering it invalid, rather enhance the imperative need to strengthen it.
Brazil knows of no alternative to the United Nations. If the Organization did not exist, human talent and ingenuity would have to conceive it, create it - in short, reinvent it. It certainly does not lack adequate institutional means, a precise legal framework, or clearly defined and lucid objectives. Truly, what is most missing in the Organization, to translate all its immense potential into the most profitable co-operation between peoples for their common good, is a sincere political universal will to sustain it without faltering in the consistent and dedicated affirmation of the noble purposes consecrated in the San Francisco Charter.
Just when international society is becoming practically universal, it would be contradictory, as well as foolhardy, to condemn the United Nations to extinction or to inertia, thus depriving the world of its basic tools for democratic dialog and fruitful understanding.
For Brazil, strengthening the United Nations is the best way to ensure peace, security and international co-operation.
During his recent State visit to the United States of America, President Jose Sarney referred to Brazil as a factor for stability and peace, for conciliation and equilibrium in all dimensions of world order. "He are a country that contributes", he said, "a country that does not disrupt - a country that brings not problems but solutions". I have come to the United Nations to convey, with certainty and conviction, the responsible and constructive message of a new Brazil, a Brazil that is celebrating its return to democracy, and, with renewed vigour, with decisiveness and assurance, is undergoing significant changes.
The balance sheet of the 18 months of the new Brazilian Republic is. impressive; we have consolidated our political institutions, removing the last traces of authoritarianism, and making room for a progressive and irreversible democracy, a full, open, modern and united society.
We have corrected inflationary distortions that for decades have afflicted our people - and did so without a recession, but on the contrary, with rapid and firm resumption of economic growth. We have begun to settle our chief debt - the social debt, the historical debt the country owes to its own people, by actively seeking to reduce disparities in income and to wipe out poverty.
Just like the nation we have set ourselves to build, we want to have a politically democratic international order, economically prosperous and sharing, socially just. We want liberty, development, equity.
 It does not appear, however, that these aspirations are even close to being fulfilled. On the contrary, on the political level, the trend towards rebipolarization undermines the international machinery for collective and democratic understanding. Confrontation is replacing dialog, power is prevailing over consensus. The threat of force, and even the use of force, are replacing the tools for negotiation in dealing with disputes - as if power, per se, were efficient in settling conflicts. Where force is present today impasse is more frequent than victory or defeat. Force, besides being illegal, has proved itself to be non-functional.
The historian who in the last century foretold that the twentieth century would be the century of terrible simplification was right. The vast complexity of international relations is imprisoned in trivial schematizations that divide countries according to the easy logic of dichotomies, separating them into different and necessarily opposed camps, seeking to obliterate the spontaneous multi-polarity of the world of today.
Reality itself is richer and more contradictory, and has resisted the authoritarianism of binary concepts. But Manichean dualism can be-perverse and end up imposing itself upon reality. To deal with a local dispute, brought about by local causes, on the basis of preconceptions and interests embodied in the confrontation between exogenous Powers, can unleash forces that will end up transposing a minor dispute into the major conflict. Although fallacious in their premises, these concepts can be catastrophic in their consequences. What was false as a principle in application becomes painfully true - and all the more serious.
The international economic system is conducted by anachronistic automatisms which are in conflict with the interests of a good portion of the international community - primarily the developing countries. In the field of trade, rules to prevail which first and foremost reflect the interests of the roost powerful industrial nations - and even these rules are frequently violated. In the financial and monetary fields, the world economy is subject to the impact of measures taken unilaterally that can decisively affect the developing countries without their having any rights - neither the right to speak, nor the right to argue, nor the right to compensation.
As regards equity, the hoped-for reduction of the deep gap between rich and poor countries, we are witnessing the almost total paralyzation of international economic co-operation. The initiatives taken by the developing countries run into the inertia and even the hostility of the developed countries. On the other hand, there is an accentuation of trade protectionism on the part of these countries, an iniquitous practice made even more so by being incorrectly compared with the legitimate measures that developing countries need to adopt in order to protect their infant national production. There is an unmistakable difference between one kind of behavior and the other: one preserves the concentration of wealth, sustaining non-competitive activities? the other seeks to guarantee the survival of the poorest countries in an unjust and unbalanced international system that even obliges them to accumulate ever larger surpluses for the payment of their foreign financial commitments.
And worse, a new model of protectionism is emerging. The action of barring inconvenient imports is now being complemented by the strategy of creating obstacles to the very installation of production processes in the developing countries, even when primarily intended to meet the demand of the internal market. This "preventive" protectionism is particularly evident in sectors which involve the use of more advanced technologies. The climate of international relations does not, therefore, look very favorable for developing countries such as Brazil, However, this does not discourage us from persevering in our quest for the objectives we set for ourselves at home, nor does it lessen our willingness to participate in any endeavor leading to a truly more free, prosperous and just international society - such as the society we firmly propose to establish in our own country.
I cannot fail to mention here the Ministerial Meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), in Punta del Este, in which I have just participated. At that meeting I stressed the firmness of positions and the constructive attitude of the developing countries.
Brazil trusts that the consensus eventually reached may serve as a starting-point for fruitful and profitable negotiations for the international community as a whole, leading to a more just and effective economic order.
Latin America is heroically struggling to extricate itself from an economic crisis at the precise moment at which its democratic vocation is solidly reasserting itself.
Despite the progress that some Latin American countries, such.as Brazil, have succeeded in making at the economic and social levels, the general picture of our continent still presents serious difficulties - recession, unemployment and heavy foreign indebtedness. I am reminded of the famous words of Simon Bolivar, to whom our continent owes so much:
"Slavery is the daughter of darkness; an ignorant population is the blind tool of its own destruction." The Liberator would agree today that the blind population in the deep night of poverty can just as easily become the tool of revolt and destabilization.The present juncture calls for statesmanlike vision. Just as was the case after the Second World War, it is now necessary and of the utmost urgency to take concrete action to launch an authentic new international economic order.
We also stand in need of short-term measures. Latin America cannot continue being a net exporter of capital; it cannot continue paying high interest rates and spreads in renegotiating its foreign debts; it can no longer have access to international markets blocked for its products; nor can it continue to suffer from restrictions on the transfer of technology.*
The keen awareness of the economic problems of Latin America led to the establishment of the Cartagena consensus, through which we issued an invitation to the creditor nations for dialog and understanding.
It is essential that the crisis of Latin American indebtedness be analyzed and understood from its political aspect. It is essential that the Governments of the creditor countries understand that an exceptional situation exists, a situation that cannot be automatically corrected by the simple play of the market forces. It is essential to understand that there is a need to contain and correct patent distortions and inequalities in the international economic system.
President Sarney has declared again and again that Brazil will not pay its foreign debt with the hunger and poverty of its people, nor at the cost of democracy or economic growth. In reaffirming this resolute stand of the Government of Brazil, I do so in the name of a country determined to fulfill its international financial commitments but equally determined to secure a better quality of life for its people, who have already made so many sacrifices.
It was with this superior objective in mind that in February of this year Brazil adopted a broad program for economic reform, to crush inflation, stimulate investments, reward production and labor and penalize speculation. The new program, the highly successful Piano Cruzado, or Cruzado Plan, is today the symbol of new hope for Brazilians, embodying a new mentality, a new force to give impetus to our growth.
There is no longer any terra incognita on this planet; but new frontiers are being opened up in areas that are crucial for humanity: those of technology.
The developing world cannot be kept as an outsider in this new revolution, lest the already enormous chasm that separates our world from the developed world be consolidated and broadened. The technological revolution must be channeled towards the bridging of these two worlds, so that it will benefit both. The effects of this revolution are exponential and qualitative in character. If they are misdirected, they can not only cause an irreversible rift between rich and poor but also inevitably lead to an abyss separating those who possess and control knowledge from those to whom no access to knowledge is permitted.
We do not wish, nor can we accept, the technological revolution's following the same road as the Industrial Revolution, relegating the majority of countries to the role of mere providers of inputs of limited aggregate value. Nor do we wish to be reduced to the role of mere buyers of the surplus and the obsolete.
We will not resign ourselves to being the passive spectators of a new international division of labor, bisecting the world into distinct universes, one containing the post-industrial societies, where activities of information and service predominate, true nerve centres that would govern the planet, and the other for backward, subservient societies.
Neither do we fail to see the implications of the accelerated development of new technologies for military purposes in the rich countries. We are aware of the impact of the civilian applications of these new technologies, whose research and development are endlessly financed by defense budgets. We are not blind to the repercussions that these subsidies to technology have on the entire economic structure of the developed countries, nor do we fail to perceive their negative effect on the competitive capacity of the economies of the developing countries.
In Latin America, in particular, the economic and technological lag is spurring the conscience of our peoples. In Brazil we are firmly, irreversibly committed to the cause of the economic integration of Latin America. Por a long time this integration has been called for, but only now do we have adequate conditions for the emergence of an authentic political will to further it. Integration opens up horizons for the formation of a common Latin American space, conducive to the development of the countries of the region and capable of invigorating them as they confront the adversities of the international economic situation. Brazil, together with Argentina and Uruguay, recently took meaningful steps towards this integration, in agreements that set forth, unequivocally, the mature and intelligent decision of peoples thoroughly convinced of the advantages of their uniting. An ambitious decision, but realistic as well, in which renewed faith in the convergence of our destinies is coupled with complete awareness of the difficulties integration can bring, we, however, do not flinch from taking up this historic challenge, which we know is daunting, but its very magnitude is the measure of our common willingness to co-operate and to progress - our fraternal aspiration to grow, and to do so together.
The continuing existence of regional crises that threaten peace and security is another important aspect on the international scene.
A notable instance is what is happening in southern Africa. I am reminded of the words of President Sarney, in Praia, when he paid a gratifying visit to Cape Verde last Mays
"The complex problems of South Africa can never be solved from the perspective of East-West tensions nor from any other strategic viewpoint of the great Powers. ... The solution to the crisis in that region lies first of all in the disappearance of apartheid and, subsequently, in the solid implantation of a structure of peaceful interaction between the States of the region, enabling all of them to dedicate themselves to the struggle for the implementation of their. national development plans."
The inconceivable recalcitrance of the Pretoria Government in maintaining the regime of apartheid intact and in blocking the process of the independence of Namibia in persistent violation of the Security Council's decision continues to provoke serious tensions and conflicts in southern Africa.
An illustrious Brazilian statesman of the past century, Joaguim Nabuco, fighting against the slavery that stigmatized us at that time, said all those years ago:
"the laws of every country are subject to certain fundamental principles, which are the basis of civilized societies, and the violation of which in any one of those societies amounts to an offense against all the others".
"No State can thus place itself outside the civilized community of the world", asserted that famous abolitionist. This is exactly the case of the abominable regime of discrimination still in effect in South Africa as we approach the third millennium.
The international community is on the threshold of decisions that can no longer be postponed if Pretoria's attempt to perpetuate its nefarious regime is to be rendered unfeasible. Brazil will continue to strive to create conditions for the settlement of that question - an undeniable priority in the light of the explosive situation in South Africa and the critical situation of the front-line countries, which are subjected to every kind of illegal and unjustifiable aggression. Those valiant and long-suffering nations have our steadfast support.
In the Middle East, the cycle of violence continues unabated. Brazil reiterates its consternation at the attacks being carried out in Lebanon, a country with which we have traditional ties and whose full right to self-determination we would wish to see respected.
The bases for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East must of necessity include the return of the Arab territories occupied since 1967, respect for the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and independence in their own territory, and the need for all the States of the region, including Israel, to live in peace within internationally recognized borders.
Brazil is also following with concern the development of the conflict between '.van and Iraq. We deeply regret that those two countries have not as yet resolved their differences peacefully and we renew our appeal for an immediate cessation of hostilities.
Chronic crises and conflicts are also to be found in other parts of the world. Such is the case in Afghanistan and Kampuchea, where the right to
self-determination and the principle of non-intervention are being violated. Violence in those regions will not cease so long as foreign occupation continues and the free expression of the will of the people is curbed.
Another issue which preoccupies Brazil and the other Latin American countries is that of the Malvinas Islands. Since 1833, we have clearly and unswervingly supported the sovereign rights .1 the Argentine Republic to that territory and have insisted on the need for a peaceful and negotiated solution to the dispute. It is essential that a dialog be re-established between the parties involved.
In Central America, exacerbated economic and social problems of a structural nature continue to add to the persistent climate of tension heightened by ideological confrontation. Brazil remains firmly convinced that a lasting solution to the conflict can be achieved only by respecting the principles of non-intervention and of the self-determination of peoples in an atmosphere of dialog and mutual understanding. As a result of that conviction, my country has sought to co-operate in reaching an understanding through its participation in the Contadora peace process Support Group.
When we met in San Francisco to draw up the Charter of the United Nations, we were concerned chiefly with finding a definition for the kind of world we would be bequeathing to future generations. Shortly thereafter, an apocalyptic event radically changed the very premises on which the negotiations for a new international order were based.
The explosion of the first atomic bomb at Hiroshima revealed mankind to be in possession of a weapon capable of destroying the human species as well as the whole world in which we live. Since then, the problem of nuclear weapons has only worsened. Each day, the risk of. a global - global and final - conflict increases.
The process action and reaction, that has taken the lethal and spiraling arms race to ever higher levels is indeed frightening. The prospect that an arms race is to be unleashed in space also causes us deep apprehension.
Brazil maintains a firm and determined policy of opposition to the proliferation of nuclear arms, whether vertical or horizontal. We have actively participated in all efforts towards disarmament carried out by United Nations forums.
My country signed and ratified the Treaty of Tlatelolco, the purpose of which is to make Latin America the first militarily denuclearized zone in territory inhabited by man.
The Treaty of Tlatelolco has not as yet achieved its objective, for it is not adhered to by all the States of the region, nor by one of the extra-continental Powers which has territories under its administration within the area of the Treaty. Furthermore, recent events indicate that for the Treaty to become a truly effective instrument to guarantee the security of the Latin American nations, an efficient verification system to monitor the introduction of nuclear arms is required.
Despite these limitations, Brazil has repeatedly affirmed its unwavering policy of abiding strictly by the terms of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, eschewing any activity involving the acquisition of nuclear arms.
That policy, followed continuously and without vacillation, has had the broad support of the Brazilian people. The complete military denuclearization of Latin America is among the priority goals of the foreign policy of my Government, which is firmly committed, as are the Governments of other countries of the region, to avoiding the development and introduction of nuclear arms on the continent.
The nuclear arms race is not merely a threat to our future; it arouses terror and has already killed, causing death through insecurity, fear, poverty and hunger. In the words of the great Brazilian poet Carlos Drummond de Andrade:
"By the thought alone that it is coming to kill
The bomb will kill;
The bomb is indigence unifying millions of indigences."
Despite numerous protests and numerous warnings, in numerous forums - "The bomb attends all conferences and sits alongside all" - we must ask whether mankind will overcome the threat to its own destruction. A comforting message of optimism may perhaps be found in the final verses of the same expressive poem by the poet Drummond:
"The bomb, confused beast, allows man
Time to save himself.
The bomb will not destroy life
Man (X dearly trust) will extinguish the bomb."
Let us be confident. In the polished words of Thomas Jefferson, we are, after all, moved by
"the conscientious desire to direct the energies of our nations to the
multiplication of the human race, and not to its destruction."
Three other subjects merit special consideration.
First, I wish to reiterate the importance that the Brazilian democracy attributes to the rights of the human person - to the absolute and full, unimpeded exercise of those rights. Significant international instruments, such as the international Covenants on human rights and the United Nations Convention against torture, are being incorporated into the Brazilian legal order, adding new guarantees for the perfect protection of those fundamental rights in our country.
Z cannot fail to refer also to a momentous theme, the subject of drugs, to express the deep concern with which Brazil regards it. In our view, the problem has three essential aspects: the prevention of the improper use of drugs, the suppression of illicit drug traffic and the rehabilitation of chronic users. The problem will not be definitively resolved if those three facets are not taken equally into account. We also consider international co-operation to be essential in combating drug abuse, provided, naturally, that the sovereign rights of nations are safeguarded. Brazil participated actively in the Special Inter-American Conference on Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, held in Rio de Janeiro in April of this year under the auspices of the Organization of American States. We shall likewise give our most dedicated co-operation in the work of the international conference on drugs to be held in Vienna in 1987.
The third theme is terrorism. From this rostrum I wish to express our most vehement, energetic and indignant rejection at its proliferation. The international community cannot continue to tolerate the practice of acts of terrorism and must unite without delay to eradicate their causes and eliminate their effects.
I repeat, with emphasis, what I affirmed at the beginning of my address: strengthening the United Nations is the best way to guarantee international peace and security,, In keeping with this view, my country has actively contributed to stimulating the implementation of measures to revitalize the United Nations. In the opinion of the Brazilian Government, the recommendations of the so-called Group of 18 are a first and promising step in that direction.
We support an increasingly active role for the Secretary-General in the search for solutions to controversies. We support the Organization's examining all disputes and conflicts. We advocate flexibility in working methods, particularly in the Security Council, so that the major issues relating to peace and security can be treated substantively and constructively. We believe that it is necessary to counteract the tendency to bypass this forum in dealing with fundamental problems of peace which are of interest to the entire international community. These problems affect all and to all falls the responsibility for their solution.
It was precisely on the basis of this conception of the United Nations that on 29 May I proposed, through the Secretary-General, on behalf of the Brazilian Government, the inclusion of the item "Zone of peace and co-operation of the south Atlantic" in the agenda for this session. This initiative results from the statement of President Jose Sarney before this General Assembly in September of 1985, when he said:
"Brazil will make every effort within its power to ensure that the south Atlantic is preserved as an area of peace, shielded from the arms race, the presence of nuclear arms and any form of confrontation originating in other regions."
We are appreciative of the acknowledgment by the General Assembly *>f the pertinence of this item by including it in its current agenda. The initiative on the zone of peace and co-operation of the south Atlantic projects the need for an important collective effort, on behalf of which Brazil seeks to be merely a spokesman.
 What is involved is the guaranteeing of peace, security and development in a vast area of the globe, comprising countries of two continents united in their common determination to overcome obstacles standing in the way of the attainment of the progress and well-being of their peoples.
On the one hand, the objective is to avert the serious threats to regional an<d( world security whether represented by the situation in southern Africa or by the transfer to the south Atlantic of East-West tensions and confrontations, accompanied by the geographic proliferation of nuclear arms and the resulting intensification of the nuclear arms race. On the other hand, there is the aim to promote broad possibilities of co-operation to benefit the economic and social development of the peoples of the region.
The declaration of the south Atlantic as a zone of peace and co-operation would be a concrete measure in a vast program which the community of nations has itself defined as being of the highest priority in this forum: the conversion of irrational impulses towards confrontation into constructive work of international peaceful co-operation. It would constitute, moreover, the logical, complementary sequence of previous efforts of the Latin American and African countries, embodied in the Treaty of Tlatelolco, the Declaration on the denuclearization of Africa and the Lome Declaration and Program of Action relating to security, disarmament and development in Africa. Such a declaration would be a meaningful contribution to the promotion of universal peace based on equal rights and justice for all, which are supreme objectives of the United Nations.
Brazilian foreign policy is not based on illusions, nor does it engage in rhetorical effusions. On the contrary, it translates permanent and legitimate concepts, aspirations and interests. We are a new country but not an immature country. We are a country with its own identity, which we value and respect, as we respect and value the identities of other nations. Our statements are clear, frank and direct expressions of the deeply rooted values of Brazilian society. When we speak of peace we do not consider that we are talking for the sake of talking. We do not hesitate to be insistent, even repetitious. I shall therefore allow myself to reaffirm here words spoken in this very forum by an illustrious predecessor of mine in the post of Foreign Minister, Joao Augusto de Araujo Castro:
"We live within a system made up of reciprocal causes and effects. Just as peace is indivisible - because peace involves an element of independence and its consolidation requires the co-operation of sovereign unities - so the economic and social development of mankind, which is the condition and expression of peace, should be indivisible."
From this rostrum, at the last regular session of the General Assembly, President Sarney said:
"The instrument that worked our transition from authoritarianism to democracy was our capacity to reconcile and understand, without violence or traumas." (A/40/PV.4, p. 4-5)»
To explain that peaceful transition, certain authors who are not Brazilian assert that Brazilians are a "cordial" people, averse to violent solutions as though by historical predestination. This is an inaccurate over-simplification the merits of which I do not wish to discuss.It is true that we are naturally inclined towards conciliation, based on tolerance and a staunch respect for differences. But if in moments of crisis there arises amongst us a favorable consensus towards understanding and negotiation, it is simply because we are keenly aware that the paths of violence, in addition to being ethically condemnable, are irrational and of short duration.
It is sad for the human species that at times it is "more difficult to make peace than to make war", as Clemenceau said. This is the challenge which both sustains and stimulates the arduous work of the United Nations. In the course of its 41 years of existence, this Organization has striven, despite all obstacles, to carry out the essential task of building and preserving world peace, promoting dialog, understanding and harmony among peoples.
On behalf of the Brazilian people and Government, I reiterate my country's commitment to this noble cause from which we cannot turn away.

===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿ It is with a renewed feeling of confidence in the United Nations and a keen perception of its vital role in the strengthening of peace and co-operation amongst peoples that for the third time I come to this podium.
Nearly all the nations of the world are represented here, protagonists in the universal and egalitarian communion that this General Assembly propitiates every year. Here the nations, large and small, raise free and sovereign voices in a discussion of important items on the international agenda.
Brazil has the privilege of opening this debate, which allows me to be the first to compliment you. Sir, upon your election to the presidency of this General Assembly and to convey to you our best wishes for your complete success in that capacity. I would like also to express my appreciation to Mr. Choudhury, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh, for the able way in which he presided over the work of the General Assembly at its forty-first session. I bear responsibility for carrying out the foreign policy of a Brazil reborn into the practice of democracy, strengthened in its commitment to the interests and aspirations of its people and open to candid dialogue at the international level.
I speak on behalf of a country which is absolutely loyal to its diplomatic traditions, one that is building its future with determination, without being intimidated by the obstacles raised by the reality of the modern world. This reality, unfortunately, is independent of the will and aspirations of most of the peoples of the world and is not always in tune with the lofty purposes of this Organization.
The so-called crisis of multilateralism undermines the attempt at juridical regulation of international life and saps the foundations of co-operation among States.
The world will no longer tolerate structures based on the supremacy of the few and the submission of the many. Attempts to impose oligarchic schemes on the organization of international society meet with increasing discredit. There is no place any more for rigid and exclusive formulas, Manichean dualisms, or theories that arbitrarily divide up world power - theories often inspired by geometrical figures. The world will come upon better days only when the international order is made effectively democratic and, to achieve that goal, the United Nations has an essential role to play.
No nation or group of nations has the right to impose its own conceptions and solutions on the increasingly complex picture of international relations. No one nation should seek to isolate itself or fail to take into consideration the universal aspirations of the community of nations.
I view with satisfaction the fact that the two super-Powers - by means of direct dialogue between their leaders. President Ronald Reagan and General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev - are seeking more fertile understanding and mutual confidence which, we trust, will result to the benefit of all countries. Along the same optimistic lines, it should also be recorded here that there was a recent important meeting between the leaders of the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic - Chancellor Helmut Kohl and President Erich Honaker - an historic event that may well lead to positive developments for a mature and constructive relationship.
In multilateral diplomacy there ate perceptible signs of encouraging vitality. One of those signs was the decision to create a zone of peace and co-operation in the South Atlantic - a decision of undeniable significance for the fulfilment of the principles and purposes of this Organization. There is still hope for a peaceful settlement of the conflict that for over a decade now has been raging in Central America.
The United Nations represents the awareness of mankind that only by dialogue and persuasion can differences between States be resolved amicably. In unanimously adopting its resolution 598 (1987) on the conflict between Iran and Iraq, the Security Council showed its capacity to act in a constructive way to arrive at the peaceful and negotiated settlement of disputes. This action to restore peace, in accordance with the terms of the Charter, leads us to believe that in other cases it will be possible to have recourse to the authority of the Security Council, in the same conciliatory spirit. I am persuaded that the Council's diplomatic potential should be used to the fullest extent.
It was in the light of this conviction that Brazil decided to present its candidature for one of the seats allocated to Latin America on the Security  Council. Brazil believes that it is in a position to make a constructive contribution during the coming biennium in reactivating the Council's role and in settling problems that affect or can affect international peace and security.
Having been honoured with the unanimous endorsement of the Latin American Group, we hope to be equally worthy of a vote of confidence from this General Assembly.
The latest signs of a break in the clouds that darken the international political situation are in direct contrast to the indefinitely prolonged economic crisis. The magnitude of the challenges facing the developing nations and the total lack of progress in restructuring the international economic order are the two sides of the coin of the same deeply disturbing panorama.
There is no raising of consciousness about the drama and concerns of the nations of the third world and their right to a destiny of achievement and progress which is under constant threat. I am from a developing country that will never surrender this right and is not only convinced of the justice and legitimacy of its claims but also of the viability of its objectives in the economic and social fields.
An additional cause for concern in the international community is the persistence of political crises that have been aggravated by the resort to force in violation of the United Nations Charter. Only last year I remarked to this Assembly that, where force is present nowadays, stalemates are more frequent than either victories or defeats. The use of force or the threat of the use of force is not only illegal but is proving itself to be ineffective as well. This holds true in the Gulf region, where the machinery of violence is out of control. It is also true in southern Africa, with the persistence of the tense climate provoked by the apartheid regime, the unjustifiable delay in bringing about the independence of Namibia and the acts of hostility and aggression perpetrated by South Africa against its neighbours. Only the intolerance, short-sightedness and unreasonableness of the racist policies of South Africa can explain the continuing existence of this situation, which is an offence against human dignity and violates the principles governing relations between States.
On the other hand, it is becoming more and more urgent to give new impetus to attempts to achieve a lasting, comprehensive and just peace in the Middle East. Brazil believes that the need to convene an international peace conference, under the auspices of the United Nations and with the participation of all interested parties, is becoming increasingly pressing. In this context, I reiterate our concern over the suffering inflicted upon the people of Lebanon, a country whose integrity should be respected.
We are hopeful that understandings arrived at between the parties involved, with the participation of the United Nations, will quickly lead to the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan and the cessation of all forms of outside interference, so that the Afghan people may exercise their sovereign right to self-determination.
We also view with concern the continuing impasse in the case of the Malvinas. Brazil, which recognizes the sovereign rights of Argentina, hopes that the parties involved will heed the appeal repeatedly addressed to them by the General Assembly to attempt to reach through dialogue a negotiated settlement of all aspects of the dispute. 
I am pleased to note that the proposals on the subject of the South Atlantic made from this rostrum in 1985 by Mr. Jose Sarney, the President of my country, were successfully made a reality in the initiative culminating in the General Assembly's approval of resolution 41/11, of 27 October 1986. The establishment of a zone of peace and co-operation of the South Atlantic signified the international community's recognition of the determination of the South American and African countries of the region to maintain their independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and to promote co-operation for economic and social development in conditions of peace and freedom.
For that decision to be implemented properly, other States must co-operate in good faith. This is indispensable. The militarily more significant States are called upon in particular scrupulously to respect the peaceful statute governing the region, and to avoid extending into the region rivalries and conflicts that are foreign to it. I cannot fail to point out that serious focuses of tension continue to exist there and that they are detrimental to the full realization of the objectives and principles of the decision adopted by the General Assembly.
From the rostrum of this peace forum I wish also to register the satisfaction with which Brazil views the possibility of the conclusion in the near future of the first agreement in history on nuclear disarmament. If, as we all wish, the United States and the Soviet Union come to a successful understanding on medium-range atomic weapons, we shall have the first real disarmament measure, in contrast with previous agreements, which amounted to nothing more than a palliative management of the arms race.
It is obvious that the more heavily armed countries bear the primary responsibility for the disarmament process. But it is equally indisputable that other States have the right to participate in the decision-making process on problems that, although caused by some, affect all, without exception. We therefore consider it indispensable for the negotiations between the super-Powers to be linked with the efforts made in multilateral disarmament forums, especially the Conference on Disarmament, which Is entrusted with a specific mandate.
I stressed in my statement at the Seventh United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the developing world has been plunged into a deep crisis, and the efforts we are making to resume economic growth are confronted with an adverse International reality, with structures that accentuate the differences instead of reducing them. I also affirmed then that the attempt to shape the new by using the models of the past impeded the resumption of growth and development on a world-wide basis and the formation of a more just and more equitable international system.
The understanding arrived at on the problem of the foreign debt, as set forth in General Assembly resolution 41/202, is an indication of the promising headway which has been made, progress which should now be consolidated. I repeat here the firm and clear position of my country; we acknowledge our International financial. We will settle our foreign debt under fair and reasonable terms and conditions. No one can claim that Brazil has not Itself made every effort to overcome its difficulties. Brazil cannot, however, jeopardize its development.
In their efforts to seize Increased economic opportunities, the developing countries encounter the severest restrictions imposed by their industrialized 	fields of finance, trade in goods and services, and, especially, the absorption of state-of-the-art technologies. 
This is a tendency that undermines the heroic struggles of developing countries to assure their peoples a dignified and prosperous future. It is a tendency that dashes those nations' expectations of more just and equitable participation in the international economy - and more than their expectations: their irrefutable right.
Brazil has no alternative but to grow. We must meet the crucial needs of a vast population which, in many strata, has known nothing but poverty and suffering. Development is not an option for us; it is an imperative. 
The efforts undertaken by the developing countries to create a new international economic order will produce results only if they are accompanied by effective action to offset the distortions that exist in the policy of transfer of scientific and technological knowledge. In this regard a vigorous endeavour can be noted on the part of some developed countries to seek to create a new international division of labour, but a division that would be more inequitable and prejudicial to our interests since it would thwart our legitimate right to have access to the latest scientific advances and mastery of state-of-the-art technologies. As President Sarney stated on 4 September, when he announced Brazil's mastery of the technology for enriching uranium, Brazil cannot forgo broad and unrestricted access to the entire range of available scientific knowledge and its practical applications.
In this connection I wish to reiterate my country's commitment to use nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes. This commitment not only is beyond dispute but also is supported by the positive effects which Brazil's technological advances in this field, together with those of its sister nations, are producing, to the enhancement of increased co-operation and mutual trust in Latin America. The initiatives of collaboration which are being implemented between Brazil and Argentina In particular, will assure the  mastering of the nuclear cycle without the development of atomic weapons in our continent. This common purpose was highlighted in the exchange of correspondence between Presidents Jose Sarney and Raul Alfonsin when the announcement of Brazil's mastery of the technology for enriching uranium was made public.
The fact that Latin America is showing its ability to find practical and creative answers to its own problems is most encouraging. In this regard I should like to cite the example of the dynamic action which the Contadora Group has been 'taking, with the political backing of the Support Group of which Brazil is a member, in its quest for a genuinely Latin American solution to the conflict in Central America.
On behalf of my Government I wish to praise the important understandings arrived at on 7 August last in Guatemala. On that occasion the Heads of State of the five Central American nations gave a clear and historic demonstration of political will to resolve the conflict. Brazil deems the accord signed then to be one which offers a unique opportunity to guarantee peace in the region. To that end it has lent its active and interested contribution to the understandings which resulted in the decision, adopted on 22 August in Caracas, to set up an international commission for the purposes of verification and surveillance.
In Brazil's judgement the results of the recent steps taken in the quest for a peaceful solution to the Central American crisis indicate that the countries of the region are themselves in a position to find ways to put an end to the conflict which concerns and affects all of Latin America. To accomplish this it is essential that all other countries with ties or interests in the region avoid displaying any attitude that might render such solutions non-viable. The same ability of Latin America to find its own solutions to the problems of the continent is corroborated by the creation of the Permanent Mechanism for Consultation and Political Co-ordination, instituted as a result of the fruitful experience acquired over more than two years of successive contacts among the eight countries which make up the Contadora and Support Groups.
The decision of those countries, arrived at last month in the city of Sao Paulo, to begin to hold periodic meetings at the presidential level is an indication that the process of regional co-ordination begun in Rio de Janeiro has rapidly matured. In fact the Group of Bight is an integral part of a process of broader regional understanding, another of whose multiple facets is to be found in the renewed efforts towards the integration of Latin America, which Brazil, as well as other countries of the region, has been fostering in various forums such as the Latin American Association for Integration, the Latin American Economic System, the Latin American Energy Organization and the Cartagena Consensus.
I wish to reaffirm before this world forum the importance my country attributes to the agreements for integration and economic co-operation concluded with Argentina and Uruguay at the beginning of last year. These are instruments of truly historical significance which attest to our fraternal determination to grow together, to strengthen our democratic institutions and to contribute to the success of the greater undertaking, which is today closer to realization than it was yesterday: the Integration of Latin America as a whole.
My words here today have expressed greater optimism and hope than I voiced in this forum last year. This attitude can be explained in the light of some positive aspects of the current International panorama. Along with this optimism and hope, however, I cannot disguise my disappointment and even indignation at the imbalances and inequities which persist on the international economic scene· Recent progress in the political field is not being accompanied by advances in the struggle against misery and poverty. On the contrary, the insensitivity and unyielding attitude of the developed countries are increasingly evident on issues of trade, finance and the transfer of technology 
My country is currently experiencing a time of crucial importance for the definition of its political and institutional directions. We are about to approve a new constitution within the framework of perfecting our democratic way of life. Brazil is ready to continue along the road to peace and construction. This is the road that will lead to progress and prosperity for our people, in growing harmony and closer co-operation with all friendly nations.


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿
Mr. President, a tradition dating back to the early days of this Organization confers upon me the privilege of being the first speaker, at the opening of our debate, to convey to you, my colleague and friend Dante Caputo, my warm and friendly congratulations on your election as President of the forty-third session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. I am certain that you will do honour to that high office with the same qualities that have marked your steady leadership of Argentine diplomacy.
I should also like to express my appreciation of and respect for Ambassador Nita Barrow, distinguished representative of Barbados, whose merits enriched our choice for the direction of our work.
I once again pay a tribute to the outstanding diplomatic talent of the Secretary-General, Ambassador Javier Perez de Cuellar. His untiring efforts in building peace and strengthening the United Nations make him worthy of the appreciation of the whole international community.
When I addressed this Assembly for the first time three years ago there prevailed in international affairs grave forebodings and repeated violations of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. The language of confrontation between the super-Powers was becoming sharper owing to the use of advanced military technologies capable of spreading the risk of nuclear war to outer space. The persistence of localized tension and disputes frustrated the efforts to attain of the ideals of peace and security.
As I return here today I find that the world situation has improved somewhat. The practice of East-West detente, which seemed condemned to oblivion, has been reborn. The United States and the Soviet Union have finally reached a concrete agreement on disarmament. Their leaders are to be commended for this historic feat.
Some regional conflicts, the protagonists worn out by the tragic toll of death and destruction, now see the dawning of a peaceful solution. In previous speeches I have condemned the recalcitrant attitude of South Africa in blocking the process of independence for Namibia, the violence which seemed to have taken hold for good in the Gulf region and the transgression of the principles of self-determination and non-interference in Afghanistan. Today it is comforting to change my words of warning and criticism to bear witness to the promising outlook for peace efforts aimed at putting an end to those conflicts.
In looking at the clearer skies on the world political horizon, I reaffirm my reverence for the United Nations and my belief in the effectiveness of its instruments. If the world is better today than it was yesterday, we must give credit for that to the decisive contribution of the United Nations. We still have before us, however, unfinished and challenging tasks to accomplish in obedience to the provisions of the Charter, Obstructions remain to eradicating apartheid, solving the Middle East crisis, putting an end to the suffering of the people of Lebanon and bringing peace to Central America. It is my hope that at the next session of the General Assembly we may note further progress in our quest for peace and harmony among peoples. 
As the representative of a nation which has always sought the establishment of a just and democratic world order based on the participation of all, I must stress that the task of transforming the world will be complete only after the strengthening and consolidation of co-operation for economic and social development. In this respect, unlike the remarks I have just made on the world political situation, my words today will not differ in substance or in tone from those of my previous statements. Because of the lack of progress in international economic relations, Brazil once again brings to the Assembly a message of apprehension, of disappointment, and renews to the developed world its proposals and claims.
Reaffirming its historical adherence to the highest ideals of international life and faithful to the will and the nature of its people, Brazil has inscribed in its new Constitution, which is about to be promulgated, the fundamental principles of its foreign policy; national independence; priority for human rights; the self-determination of peoples; non-interference; equality among States; the peaceful settlement of disputes; the defence of peace; repudiation of terrorism and racism; and co-operation among peoples for the progress of mankind. The representatives of the Brazilian people, when expressing in the Constitution the central demands and concerns of their own society, were perfectly attuned to the aspirations of the international community. They also embodied in their new charter the greatest aspiration of our continent - the integration of Latin America. 
The world, unfortunately, has come to realize how absurd is the unilateral ethos underlying the illusion that power - military, political, economic or technological power - could generate a just or even a merely stable international order. Strength cannot give birth to law, much less to peace and justice. This is what the Charter of the United Nations - and in particular its preamble - tells us.
Nevertheless there persists a disturbing tendency on the part of certain countries to place their national law above international law, both in political and in economic matters. To plead internal laws, or alleged national interests, in order to avoid compliance with obligations under international law violates the essential principle of pacta sunt servanda, which is a basic rule of civilized coexistence among nations.
The adventure of unilateralism cannot be replaced by self-contained bilateralism or selective multilateralism. Negotiations on matters of interest to the whole world community require the participation of all countries, large or small. Talks on peace and economic development, in particular, cannot be made into an empty exercise whereby power pays homage to law.
Regrettably, the atmosphere of dialogue which now brings the super-Powers closer together has not resulted in an effective readiness to widen the field of multilateral understanding. The elaboration of power schemes geared to redefining and freezing a vertically structured world order deserves nothing but condemnation.
The difficulties encountered during the third special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament illustrate the concern I have just voiced. The impossibility of obtaining a document based on consensus, only a few months after the first treaty on nuclear disarmament in history was signed, clearly indicates the magnitude of the obstacle hindering the participation of the international community as a whole in deliberations concerning its own survival. The decision made by President José Sarney to take part in that session, along with other Heads of State or Government, attests to the firmness of Brazil's stand in favour of the cause of disarmament and of its open and effective discussion in the relevant bodies.
So strong is our people's repudiation of weapons of mass destruction and so firm our purpose to develop nuclear technology exclusively for peaceful ends that the following precept is embodied in the new Brazilian Constitution; all nuclear activities in Brazilian territory will be permitted only for peaceful purposes and subject to approval by Congress.
This same spirit, already enshrined in the Treaty of Tlatelolco, prevails in the understandings between Argentina and Brazil in this field. The loyal and fruitful co-operation between the two countries belies the myth of a nuclear race in Latin America.
The constructive purpose inspiring Brazil's foreign policy led to the convening of the first meeting of States of the Zone of Peace and Co-operation of the South Atlantic, which was held in Rio de Janeiro last July. Part of a region which is assuming its own identity, founded on deeply shared interests and perceptions, the South Atlantic countries were able to explore further the many paths of open dialogue among equals offered by the Declaration of the South Atlantic as a Zone of Peace and Co-operation.
Our views coincided on important issues. We support the efforts for peace-building in southern Africa. We are concerned that, in spite of repeated appeals from this Assembly, negotiations have not yet begun on all aspects relating to the future of the Malvinas Islands. We believe it necessary that concrete measures be adopted, in particular by the militarily significant States, in order to ensure the non-introduction of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction and the reduction of foreign military presence in the Zone of Peace and Co-operation. 
Ample possibilities exist for joint action in favour of development. We found significant points of common interest in the preservation of the environment, in the need to avoid the dumping of toxic wastes and in the implementation of the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. I have no doubt that the conclusions of the Rio de Janeiro meeting will receive widespread support from States Members of the United Nations.
The signing of the Geneva agreements and the beginning of the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan have rekindled hopes for a future of peace and development for that country. We commend the Secretary-General and his Special Representative, Mr. Diego Cordovez, for the United Nations participation in this process. We would only have wished that the entering into force of the mechanism for verification and control of the agreements, with the good offices of the United Nations, had been implemented only after due process.
The cease-fire between Iran and Iraq, welcomed by Brazil, brought the prospect of peace and economic reconstruction to the Gulf region. May I stress the extraordinary relevance of the United Nations in this initiative, as from the joint action of all members of the Security Council - over which Brazil had the honour to preside at that time - in consultation with the Governments of Iran and Iraq and with the constant, timely and balanced mediation of the Secretary-General.
In southern Africa, progress in the negotiations between Angola, South Africa and Cuba, with the mediation of the United States, augurs well for a peaceful and just solution to the question of Namibia under resolution 435 (1978), adopted 10 years ago by the Security Council. We hope that this will be the first step towards normalizing the situation in the southern part of the African continent through the elimination of all sources of tension and conflict. Brazil has underlined the need for strict respect for the territorial integrity of its South Atlantic neighbour, Angola, and for an immediate end to the illegal occupation of Namibia by South Africa. 
We regret that the odious practice of apartheid continues on its absurd course. The people and Government of Brazil long for the day when Namibia joins the community of independent nations. Peace and security can be assured in that region, so close to us, only when the odious institutionalized racism is eradicated.
In the Middle East repeated scenes of violence, which have shocked world public opinion, confirm that the self-determination of the Palestinian people in their own territory is an essential condition for solving the crisis. The Brazilian Government reiterates the need for respect for the rights of the Palestinian people, for Israel's complete withdrawal from the territories occupied since 1967 and for all States of the region to be able to exist in peace within internationally recognized borders. With those goals in mind, we continue to support the holding of an international conference on the situation in the Middle East, with the participation of all interested parties, including the Palestine Liberation Organization, the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people.
The apparent standstill of peace progress in Central America is viewed with concern by Brazil. It cannot be denied that the Esquipulas Agreement contributed to alleviating tension and that new hopes emerged with the Agreement. But the recurrence of incidents in areas of tension and the paralysis, which we hope is temporary, in the process of dialogue and understanding create a feeling of uncertainty as regards the future of Central America. As a member of the Contadora Support Group, Brazil hopes that a less tense international atmosphere may come to make it easier for the countries of the region to attain their objectives of peace and development.
Although there is progress on the political scene and signs of a future world free from war and truly committed to achieving lasting peace, the international economic, situation still troubles our spirits and challenges our minds. 
In the great majority of developing countries Members of this Organization, the dire facts continue to cry out for creative decisions which might break the stalemate that has been keeping those countries on the verge of collapse. We must no longer delude one another with rhetorical phrases and concepts. It is high time we openly admitted that a strong uneasiness is corroding the foundations of international economic co-operation.
Almost half a century has elapsed since we declared ourselves United Nations and, united, undertook to follow a common set of ideals among which was the fight against misery and hunger. One commitment was to halt the degradation of the most cherished values of our civilizations, irrespective of origins or beliefs. What has happened to us? Have we become less united than we were then?
We have only to look at this Assembly, as we meet for the forty-third consecutive year, to see that we are nations sharing universal principles and ideals. Whereas the hostilities of the Second World War had plunged us into the most hidden depths of terror and desolation, the seeds sown in San Francisco bore fruit in the Americas, in Asia, in Africa and in the Middle East - throughout the world. They are here, united, the nations which 50 years ago found themselves on opposing sides of the battlefield. They are here in this very place, united, the nations which in the following years achieved their independence, which was to a great extent the fruit of the same seeds of democracy sown in San Francisco.
Are we less united than before? No. We are more united then before, but not as united as we wish to be in the future.
It is therefore sad to note that we American, Asian, African brothers still suffer from the same horrors and the same desolation that so badly afflicted our forbears. While we have done away with wars, we have not yet been able to banish hunger, which is spreading endemically in pockets throughout the continents. We are all the more ashamed to see that hunger is present in and close to the most plentiful societies man has ever known.
Something is terribly wrong. The real growth of production in developing countries fell from an annual average rate of 5.5 per cent in the 1970s to an average of less than 3 per cent in the 1980s. The share of developing countries in the developed market economies shrank from 28 per cent in 1980 to 19 per cent in 1987, whereas that of the developed countries grew from 63 per cent to 71 per cent in the same period. In real terms the participation of developing countries in world exports suffered a decrease of approximately 25 per cent between 1963 and 1986. And something is terribly wrong when one notes that, due to the burden of external debt, the developing countries have to transfer abroad a great amount of the resources they so badly need for their economic development.
Brazil has, in the past few months, managed to reach with its private and government creditors a global agreement on the rescheduling of its external debt. We ate therefore keenly aware of the burdens weighing down on our economy. That is why we are convinced that only if and when the developed countries adopt appropriate policies shall we be able to reduce interest rates and improve the outlook for trade in debtor nations. Unfortunately, the erratic policy on international interest rates in recent years has thwarted the economic development of a whole generation. This policy has turned international trade into a complementary source of the reserves needed simply to service the external debt, with obvious adverse effects on expanding or even maintaining our economies' capacity to import.
This sad state of affairs has been made all the worse by a battery of constraints imposed vertically - from top to bottom. Proposals clothed in euphemistic language, such as "voluntary export restraints", cannot disguise the old formulas of protectionism and the spoliation or trade partners, formulas which are always at the root of the most serious recessions to shake the international economy this century.
It is our hope that the present multilateral negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade will make it possible for international trade to enter into a new cycle of expansion, on a more just and balanced basis. We cannot accept that the concept of trade without frontiers should be invoked to deny third-world countries the special, differentiated treatment they should receive. Nor can we accept that the developed countries should ignore the commitments they solemnly made when the Uruguay Round was launched and demand concessions from developing countries in exchange for revoking protectionist measures.
Moreover, it must also be acknowledged that legislative initiatives in some of the main trading countries are in essence clearly hostile, not only to international trade, but even to the scientific and technological capacity of the developing countries. My country, for example, is now under the threat of trade retaliation, simply because we - in accordance with international law and with the letter and spirit of agreements to which we are parties - have encouraged, in our own territory, research into and development of pharmaceutical products. We were taken aback to see the most ¿¡table and predictable rules of international trade and international law being violated unilaterally.
Therefore, conditions seem ripe for the General Assembly, responding to the appeal the President made in his inaugural statement, to relaunch on an effective, realistic and constructive basis, without resorting to rhetoric or recrimination, the North-South dialogue, without forgetting the great frustrations this endeavour has entailed so far.
The General Assembly is meeting at a good moment to change the course of history; to steer it in safer directions; to intensify the progress made in the fields of peace, the settlement of disputes and disarmament; and to reappraise and reinvigorate the already weakened international economic co-operation.
This year we celebrate the fortieth anniversary of the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is tragic that we are still unable to settle together the problems affecting, in vast areas of the world, the most elementary rights of mankind: the rights to life, health, shelter, food and work; in sum, those rights which assure the development and well-being of peoples.
Whereas in the task of building peace the day of hope is dawning upon the world, the struggle for development remains in frustrating darkness. It has been said that development is the new name for peace. If that is true, the Assembly cannot fail to measure up to the challenges of our times and to heed the urgent calls for justice and dignity. 


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿

Mr. President, allow me to congratulate Your Excellency on your election. Your experience assures us that you will lead our work along a firm and constructive path. I extend my congratulations to your illustrious predecessor.
May I once again express the appreciation of Brazil for the Secretary-General Mr. Perez de Cuellar. At the outset of this statement I wish to pay a tribute to and express my respect for the people of Colombia and for President Virgilio Barco for giving the world an example of civic courage and patient heroism, governing as he is a region fraught with turmoil, where lawlessness and fanaticism combine to destroy the country in the hallucinating anti-life of drugs.
In 1985, soon after taking office, I stood at this podium. Brazil was then emerging from a long night. It was recovering from tragedy and facing great uncertainties. On the international scene discord prevailed. Four years later I see a different political landscape: conflicts have been reduced and dialogue resumed. There is hope. The war between Iran and Iraq has come to an end. Foreign troops have withdrawn from Afghanistan. Positive developments have taken Place in Central America and southern Africa. Namibia is well on the way to independence. There are genuine prospects for internal reconciliation and understanding in Angola. Direct contact has been resumed between Argentina and the United Kingdom. The interests of peace, security and development have been reinforced in the South Atlantic. The two super-Powers have come to agreement on the actual reduction of nuclear arsenals.
But we are still far from a world free from anguish, tension and fear. There still remain problems clamouring for solution. In the Middle East the fury of fanaticism continues to claim the lives of innocent peoples and to tear asunder States such as Lebanon, which was once exemplary for its balance between different religious groups, m South Africa the apartheid regime still persists, an affront to the conscience of civilized peoples, in certain areas, to a greater or lesser degree, human rights are being disregarded. In East Timor appeals go unheeded.

But the spirit of peace has made progress as the supreme value of coexistence among nations. Other great values of modern man - democracy and human rights - have gained strength. As we look back over these last four years there is one thing of which we can be certain: degradation is moving ahead in the
contemporary world. The establishment or re-establishment of free institutions is a universal aspiration.
The march is on to reinstate or establish democratic freedoms. From my own Painful  experience I bear witness to the struggle in the transition to It has the significance of life and a bitter fight, mitigated by the fascination of Playing , part in great changes. My term of office will soon come to an end. What can offer as an end result is to have achieved in five years 50 years of progress towards democracy. We are enjoying a period of unprecedented freedom. Our institutions have been restored and a State based on the rule of law has been established. We have built a truly democratic society, with a high degree of organization and participation, in an open system which enables the people to express their will. We are the third largest democracy in the world, with 82 million voters. We held elections in 1985 and 1986. In 1987 we convened a National Constituent Assembly. We drafted a new Constitution. We held elections in 1988, and on 15 November this year we will elect my successor. All this is taking place in a peaceful and orderly climate, always harmonizing the exuberance of aspirations that have at last been freed. We have had to contend with 10,000 strikes, they were settled in a spirit of conciliation. We have been operating within an economic crisis. 

It is not only through Brazil that the winds of freedom have swept. In South America, that vast new world, there will not be a single country which is not under democratic rule by the end of the year. authoritarianism has been definitely discredited.  
The greatest wave of democratisation the world has known since the end of the war has swept through Latin America. A burning question, however haunts the conscience of our people: will the democratic values that we built be capable of dealing with the problems of suffering, misery, poverty, inequality, exploitation and violence that are part of our daily lives? Are the democracies of the wealthy countries joining us in solidarity with our cause, or are they concerned only with their own well-being, relegating us to marginal existence? 
I am convinced that democracy is the road to follow. It was the banner that led our people to sweep away authoritarian regimes, strongmen, tyrants and dictators. But it did not do so merely to replace them with hunger, disease, backwardness, foreign debt, recession and unemployment. 
Latin America shows signs of negative growth. It is not that we have grown less than other countries: it is simply that we have moved backwards. Suffice it to say that in 1988 the region's gross domestic product was at the same level as in 1978. The net transfer of resources abroad in 1988 amounted to $29 billion. Brazil alone, in the past five years, transferred approximately $56 billion abroad. This is Marshall plan in reverse. 
The greatest wave of degradation the world has seen since the end of the second world war has swept through Latin America. A burning question. however, haunts the conscience of our peoples, are the democratic values that we have built be capable of dealing with the problems of suffering, misery, poverty, inequality, and violence that are part of our everyday life. Are the democracies the wealthy countries coming in solidarity with us or are they concerned only about their well-being relegating us to a marginal existence?
I am convinced that democracy is the road to follow. It is the banner through which our peoples to sweep away authoritarian regimes, strongmen, tyrants and dictators, ant it did not do so merely to replace them with hunger, disease.
backwardness, foreign debt, recession and unemployment. Latin America shows signs of negative growth, it means that it has grown less than other continents and that we simply we have moved backwards.
The 1980s have seen a sustained expansion of the industrialized economies. It was to be expected that this expansion would stimulate economic growth in the developing countries. Nevertheless, the rise in international interest rates for reasons beyond our control, the drastic reduction in the prices of raw materials, commercial protectionism, the volatility of exchange rates, the globalisation of financial markets, and the net capital outflows have been responsible for the frustration of that expectation.
The United Nations planned in its development strategy for the 1980s that the gap between the rich and the poor would be reduced. But what happened? The number of least developed countries increased from 30 to 42.
Once again I ask: if the democracy we have established throughout our continent fails to meet the legitimate aspirations of our societies, how can we prevent its values from being challenged? It will serve no purpose to invoke the imperfect realization of such values.
The greatest enemies of democracy on our continent have been low standards of living and inflation, which corrode our economies. Lacking in resources and oppressed by a perverse international economic situation, the leaders of Latin America have no means available to meet the most legitimate and fundamental
aspirations of their societies. Guerrilla movements are proliferating in several countries. Spontaneous manifestations of revolt are springing up. Violence is building up and pent-up forces of rebellion may at any time emerge and spread uncontrollably.
We are no longer dealing with ideological motivations. What is at stake in Latin America is no longer the dichotomy between the capitalist and the socialist systems. In Latin America, the persistence of poverty and the worn-out models of development make ideologies outdated. This climate does not seem to be inspired by any doctrines or fed by revolutionary designs. It is a rebellion growing out of  the lack of prospects and the frustration of the deprived and disenchanted masses. Its origins are lost in remote historical times. The choice today is not between militarism and populism, but between recession and growth.
A great many things are being said about the interdependence of today's world. For Latin America, however, interdependence has shown only its negative side, interdependence is invoked when we are confronted with the perpetuation of an international order that in reality relegates us to a dependency in which the Poorest are paradoxically coined to finance the richest and in which transfers of knowledge take place only on a horizontal plane. That is certainly not the kind of interdependence to which we aspire.

The European Common Market needed the shock of war in order to materialize. In our case, we are determined to take advantage of the shock of democracy in order to advance towards Bolivar's dream of long ago: the building of Latin American political brotherhood, Latin America, the victim of violent colonial greed, has become the most genuine melting-pot of races and cultures, extending on an unprecedented scale the miscegenation of ethnic groups and the blending of religions and customs. For Brazil, the fate of our neighbours is our own fate.
For us in Latin America and the Caribbean, the option for social progress is an ethical and economic imperative. We cannot continue to waste enormous Quantities of human talent because they are denied access to nourishment and education. According to the United Nations Children's Fund, there are in the world today 145 million abandoned minors between the ages of 12 and 16, and perhaps 100 million of that number live in the streets, tempted into larceny, prostitution, drugs and mugging.
Need we point out that these starving and unprotected adolescents in the third world are the present-day version of the poverty-stricken youth we encounter in the most biting pages of Dickens, Victor Hugo or Dostoevski?
There is an urgent need to create conditions through which the developing countries can return to their natural status as recipients of capital, reversing as quickly as possible the trend that has made them exporters of financial resources under the cruel burden of foreign debt.
The discipline and co-operation established by the international monetary and commercial institutions set up in the post-war period have given way to the dominance of the powerful countries' national autonomy in the formulation of their macroeconomic policies. Severe imbalances and asymmetries have developed. The impoverished situation of the developing economies have grown worse. Brazil, for example, is paying more to those institutions than it receives from them.
Another major problem is the trend towards an oligopoly of knowledge. Human knowledge is a cumulative process, anywhere, any time. Knowledge is universal. To restrain its potential for changing the well-being of the world, thereby restricting it to the domain of trade, of economic advantage, of cultural colonization, is to reduce mankind to material objectives that deny man himself. Science and technology, today or tomorrow, must be placed at the service of everyone, not only of a few nations.
Yet another disturbing development is the exploitation of the vulnerability imposed upon us by our foreign debt. The developing countries are being pressured to conform to a model of adjustment which is not often followed by the industrialized countries. Budgets are being balanced at enormous social cost and at the price of State bankruptcy, wages are being depressed below subsistence levels, scant attention is being paid to the legitimate aspirations of infant industries and to balance-of-payments requirements, the public sector has kindled even in those areas in which the need for action is greatest, such as education and health. No attention is being paid to the fact that the primary need of the debtor countries is to grow and that only through accelerated growth can they introduce the necessary economic reforms. fulfil their commitments and contribute, as they have in the past, to global progress.
There is an urgent need to understand that growth is impossible when about one third of domestic savings is exported to foreign countries every year. It will be impossible to make any adjust as long as we are required to solve an insoluble equation. It is time to recognize that up to now the remedy for the problem of foreign debt has contributed chiefly to the financial health of the creditors. For the debtors it has been a prescription for stagnation and impoverishment. I repeat: the time has come to adopt a strategy based on the assumption of renewed growth in the debtor countries. Such a strategy will require a sharp reduction in the stock of the debt and in the gross and net transfers of resources abroad, the only way to retain the savings necessary to finance development.
We view with deep concern the slow pace and the indifference with which this problem is being handled and the way its solution is being postponed.
There are two major questions to which we must also give our priority attentions environmental protection and the fight against drug traffic and drug abuse. These subjects wi11 figure more and more prominently on our global agenda.
The first question relates to the survival of mankind, to the death of life on this planet. The second relates to a life of death, to anti-life, to the destruction of the human person, chiefly in its purest form: youth.
In the question of the environment we have another dimension of the interdependence of nations. As inhabitants of the same small planet, we are all condemned to solidarity.
The environmental question in its planetary aspects - climate change, depletion of the ozone layer - cannot and must not be discussed from a narrow Perspective, as if it were a problem between North and South in which the less developed countries, by their irresponsible behaviour, were affecting the ecological balance of the world.
The truth is quite different. The industrialized countries bear the greatest responsibility for the pollution of the environment. The developing countries cannot accept as a basis for a new mode of international relations a concept of environmentally sustainable development which assigns to them only the task of ensuring the ecological balance of the planet, if this concept is to be valid, it will be essential to extend it to the industrialized countries so as to make it possible to determine whether the production and consumption patterns they follow can be sustained from the environmental point of view, it will be essential to establish close co-operation among all countries in efforts aimed at the research and development of new technologies that will be more efficient in the utilization of natural resources and will cause less pollution of the environment, moreover, firm commitments for the transfer of technology at cost will have to be established. The importance we attach to the problem of the environment and the Brazilian readiness to deal with it objectively and openly are clearly reflected in our readiness to host the United Nations conference on environment and development in 1992.
Brazil is more keenly aware than any other country of its exuberant, rich and extraordinary natural world, its forests, its fauna and flora. We will not give up our right to preserve this rich heritage. We preserved it in the past, when the large colonizing companies formed in the rich countries invaded the wild areas of Africa, Asia and America, brutally despoiling them. Brazil rejected them. It forbade them to enter. During the 1960s, the Hudson Institute conceived the idea of a vast lake which would flood Amazonia. Brazil rejected the idea. If the world today is able to turn its attention towards Amazonia, it is only because Brazilians were able to preserve it up to the present day and will continue to preserve it for the future. We are prepared, as we have always been, for cooperation. But we will never be prepared to accept restrictions upon our sovereignty.
With the programme known as "Our Nature", we have already been able in a single yea, to reduce the fire-clearing of forests by about 40 per cent, we have banned the export of timber, we have eliminated the incentives for projects which have proved to be predatory, and we have created the Institute of the Environment, in which dozens of organizations have joined in a broad project for ecological Protection. Approximately 8 million hectares of Brazilian territory are now subject to a regime of permanent conservation. Approximately 10 per cent of the national territory is reserved for the total indigenous population of 200,000. At the same time, Brazil is viewing with great concern the problem of drug trafficking and illicit drug production and consumption. We took an important step forward in 1988 with the adoption of the Vienna Convention. The constantly growing dimensions of the problem make it urgent for the United Nations General Assembly to turn its attention to the adoption of effective measures of cooperation.
Brazil will make every effort to contribute, along with the consumer, producer and transit countries, to the eradication once and for all of this serious threat to our societies, we are pursuing a vigorous preventive policy in this field. With our -Northern Basin" programme in the Amazon, we have been occupying and patrolling our extensive frontiers in order to help the local population and to prevent the entry of drug traffickers escaping from other countries. We are maintaining control over the trade in precursors. We are waging, unremittingly, a war on drugs. The picture I have painted leads us to contemplate the qualitative transformation of our world.
The ideological confrontation which has governed international events throughout this century is showing clear signs of abating. Irreconcilable opposition is being replaced by understanding. Ideologies are losing-their emotional content as the advances of science and technology disclose growing prospects for human well-being. It would be Utopian to imagine a world totally free from conflict, but I do not think it nonsensical to think of a rational world in which co-operation and understanding replace confrontation and dish money, a world in which it will finally be possible to build peace on the solid basis of a universal community of interests, a world in which the democratisation of international relations will lead to the overcoming of power politics.
The fundamental difference between the United Nations and its predecessor, the League of Nations, is precisely the awareness of the right to development. That is the ideal that constantly inspires the Economic and Social Council and the Organization as a whole. The League of Nations sought to establish international order, which was no small task, but the United Nations aspires to something more: it seeks also international justice.
Henry Adams declared that so-called practical politics consists in ignoring facts. I am afraid that comment is applicable to the mentality currently prevailing. We need the boldness to advance new concepts, the pioneering spirit to develop new approaches, the courage to carry out new institutional experiments. Let us hope that the decade of the 1990s and the United Nations will be able to think about the problems assailing mankind on the eve of the year 2000.
Our century has not grown old in vain. There are some who attempt to characterize it as an end of history. According to them, the world - and the rich world in particular - is destined to live through a long period of historical inertia made up of prosaic pleasures and mediocre satisfactions. The price of eliminating violence would apparently be cultural lethargy and the political laziness of an age without convulsions but also without ideals. That view amounts to a denial of human experience.  New countries such as our have the feeling of standing on the threshold of an age of great changes. The historical process is now in full bloom. We envisage a mankind free from antagonisms, threats and fear, opening up frontiers for a new kind of man who can achieve the goal of creation, conceived in the image of God. 
Two years ago, Brazil had the honour to be elected by this assembly, after almost two decades of absence, to membership of the Security Council. These have been for us two years of intensive participation in the Council's work. That experience prompts some reflections. If the United Nations, acting through the Security Council, is to be able to perform the prominent role expected of it in the field of international peace and security, some changes must be made in the structure and procedures of the Council itself. How can we solve important problems relating, for example, to the establishment and financing of peace-keeping operations without re-examining the very adequacy of the composition of the Council?
That is a problem that deserves to be examined not only from the traditional standpoint of establishing a proper relationship between the number of non-permanent members and the increase that has taken place in the number of states members of the UN, but also - and especially - in the light of the changes in power relationships that have taken place since the organisation was created. The time has come for changes. We would consider an additional category of permanent members that would not have the veto privilege. 
New circumstances on the intentional scene - in particular the easing of Political and ideological confrontation - unquestionably open up possibilities for  a more efficient utilization of the United Nations. But that must not mean a return, pure and simple, to an excessive predominance of the super-Powers over the Organization. The United Nations certainly cannot do without consensus between the super-Powers as the basis for effective action. In many cases, however, that consensus will not be enough. Contributions by other Member States may be necessary, and even indispensable, if the Organization is to be able to act effectively and responsibly as a truly international institution.
The time has come to make development and justice the foundations of world peace and stability. This Organization was created as the result of the struggle against totalitarianism, and represents the most advanced level of achievement in terms of democratic relations among States. We must therefore take advantage of the opportunities afforded by ideological demobilization in order to dedicate ourselves with renewed vigour to the great causes of international co-operation, we must dare. -Dare if you dare,- said the Portuguese poet Pernando Peszoa. I propose that the united Nations commit itself to a process of broad and total dialogue on the major problems of these closing years of the century in order that we may enter the twenty-first century with an awareness of the challenges that face us and of our potential. Prom disarmament to the environment, from the banning of chemical weapons to the transfer of technology, from democracy as an instrument of stability and development to civil rights and political freedoms, from economic reforms to international trade, from the regionalization of the world economy to the new faces of interdependence, from the conquest of outer space to the eradication of poverty, we are faced with challenges that invite discussion. We must go to the source of our problems, understand them in all their complexity, face their consequences without vacillation, take the necessary decisions and eliminate the factors of de-stabilization and inequality.
Let us act before it is too late, before sacrifices and frustrations crystallize into rebellion, before the satisfied people of the world in their complacency become insensitive to the just demands of those who have little or nothing, before room for negotiation is reduced by mutual fear and intransigent confrontation.
No country or group of countries, no matter how powerful, can claim to be in a position to solve the crisis alone, with an open mind, without mental reservations, resentments or ulterior motives, let us set to work, perhaps there will never again be a moment in history in which ideological demobilization will offer such favourable conditions. Let us be capable of transforming reality through the creative power of ideas. We call upon everyone, and especially the more powerful, to join in that task. It is not too late to salvage the dream of peace and justice dreamt by past generations.
At the opening of this forty-fourth session of the General Assembly, I wish to leave members with a message of optimism and determination, the same message which inspires Brazilians, who have taken a hand in their own destiny through the democracy they have succeeded in building.
It is Brazil's strength of belief that has enabled it to consolidate a new democracy in our America, triumphing over many challenges. It. is For the same reason that Brazilians express their views here, through the voice of their President, to dream the dream of peace and justice, exorcizing fear and raising altars to hope.
As a politician and an intellectual, I have never regarded poetry as an uninvited guest at the assembly's plenary meetings. It is with poetry that I take my leave, with the verses of Luiz de Camones, the universal poet of the Portuguese language: 
"After the storm, tempestuous and drear,
And shadow of night and shrieking winds that blow
Comes on the morning hour, serene and clear,
With hope of harbouring safely from the woe."


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿Mr. President, please accept my congratulations on your election. Your talents will ensure that the Assembly’s work is conducted in a fair and efficient manner. 
I wish also to convey to your predecessor our appreciation of the important tasks he accomplished. 
May I also assure the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Peres de Cuellar, that Brazil has been following, and supports, the diplomatic activity he has undertaken in the discharge of his functions. We recognize in him a dynamic Secretary-General dedicated to the lofty purposes of the United Nations. 
A few days ago, Liechtenstein was admitted as a new Member State. On behalf of Brazil I extend my welcome to Liechtenstein and wish it every success at the United Nations. 
I am addressing the General Assembly for the first time. I note with emotion that the general debate is opening precisely at a time when many and profound changes in Brazil and throughout the world are bringing about a revision of concepts and misconceptions that for decades have asphyxiated the community of nations. I wish to convey to the Assembly the views of the people of Brazil and their new Government on the prospects for peace, freedom and progress throughout the world, and on the role to be played by this Organization in the years ahead. 
I am convinced that the dawn of the new era we are striving to create will certainly shine forth from this privileged forum of reflection and analysis. The brilliance of that dawn will depend on our individual and collective endeavours towards world peace, the prosperity of nations and the growing solidarity among the peoples of the world. 
In the last 12 months a number of events have transformed the outlook of international relations, especially at the East-West level. Peoples who had been subjected to authoritarian regimes resolutely and definitively chose to follow the path of democracy. The end of the cold war represented the liquidation of a bitter legacy of disappointment, confrontation and risk to the very survival of humanity. The relaxation of international tensions has shed light upon the understanding of our common destiny, emphasising the global nature of the relationship among peoples and between mankind and the environment. 
New and promising trends have almost led us into euphoria and complacency. But the vulnerability of the international order, the destabilising effect of certain regional crises and the seriousness of economic problems would warrant caution and reserve. 
The crisis that has befallen Kuwait presents an unexpected and serious threat to collective pace. The Brazilian Government deems it essential that the mandatory resolutions adopted by the Security Council be immediately complied with.
These resolutions were adopted in response were adopted in response to the clamour of international public opinion. Their legal basis is found in the Charter. All parties involved must therefore abide by them, not as a sign of weakness but as an inescapable legal and political obligation. This seems to be the only just and peaceful means to restore tranquility to the region and the world at large. It is our belief that all States are profoundly committed to peace and to the agile and effective use of diplomatic means to avoid conflict. 
By immediately and fully complying with the resolutions, Member States have in turn unequivocally indicated that a breach of international legal order is intolerable in times when even conventional weapons have awesome destructive force and the international economy presents a network of complementary interests. They have also expressed their firm support for United Nations efforts in the region as a whole, where many a people deserving, as all others, of peace, security and prosperity have for so long been vexed by crises. Brazil is particularly concerned with the fate of the long-suffering Lebanese people, torn by internal strife, their sovereign capacity to decide their own destiny thwarted by the presence of foreign troops. 
I reaffirm the determination of my Government fully to comply with Security Council resolution 661 (1990) within its domestic jurisdiction.
The decisions of the Council affect the economic interests of Member States quite differently; and Brazil, which, as is generally known, had been struggling with difficulties prior to the crisis, ranks among the countries outside the region that have been most adversely affected. 
Closely attuned to the more positive trends of contemporary history, Brazil is undergoing a process of deep transformation which sets it irreversibly on the path towards full democracy, economic liberalisation and social justice. Elected by my fellow citizens in the freest elections ever held in our history, I have taken upon myself crucial personal and political responsibilities before 150 million Brazilians. The mandate conferred upon me by the people is that of swiftly promoting modernisation and fully integrating the country into the world economy in order to render it more competitive and so that a its people may reach the levels of well-being to which their talents and industriousness entitle them. 
It is my commitment to rehabilitate both the State and society, to guarantee fully functioning democratic institutions, to restructure and revitalise the economy, to defeat inflation, to unleash the creative forces of the private sector, and to fight the misery which still torments a portion of my people. 
It is also my duty to protect the most vulnerable segments of society. This explains why I have given top priority to children and the young. Children, it has been repeatedly stated, embody the future, and this is particularly true in a country like Brazil, with a predominantly young population, which anxiously seeks modernisation. 
We are aware that our country faces dramatic problems in this respect. We make no secret of these problems nor of our resolve to solve them. The comprehensive initiatives we have launched on behalf of children indicate how seriously committed we are to converting Brazil’s potential into a lasting reality. 
I therefore welcome with enthusiasm the initiative for convening the World Summit for Children, with which Brazil associates itself and in which I intend to participate personally in an intensive and constructive manner. 
As a result of important ongoing changes, deep-seated pessimism is vanishing and opposing views are in the process of being reconciled. Authoritarianism is doomed. Political and psychological attitudes based upon steady progress towards freedom, democracy and improved dialogue among nations are asserting themselves. 
At this point no Government can avoid or be excluded from the debate on the prospects for a future world order. In Latin /america we have reached, not without difficulty, an advanced stage of democratic evolution and respect for human rights, which constitute for us a source of pride and renewed encouragement. 
In our region, as in others, men, women and above all the young have new energies and hopes. Once again Latin America was proved itself worthy of the dreams of emancipation of its peoples and is reconciled with its true democratic calling. 
In Africa remnants of the colonial past are crumbling at the same time that the last bastion of segregation and racism is finally beginning to break apart. Together with my fellow Brazilians I salute the independence of Namibia, a process which my country consistently supported, and we wish the young State the realisation of its enormous potential. I also welcome the release of Nelson Mandela, which was enthusiastically applauded in Brazil, and I wish him every success in his courageous struggle. 
The international community’s agenda has become global in scope. The United Nations is faced with the task of establishing a new framework for peace and prosperity. it is no longer possible to conceive of a world chronically split into feuding halves. Neither ideology nor poverty can be allowed to come between human beings.
The trend towards globalisation holds true for every quadrant of the world, East and West, North and South. The yearning for freedom, dignity and better living conditions knows no boundaries. New opportunities must not be missed lest we run the risk of replacing the obsolete East-West confrontation with the aggravation of the North-South crisis and of adding new mistakes that may jeopardise the future of international society.
The Brazilian Government is prepared to discuss the basic outline of a new international structure that can ensure peace and further co-operation. It would not suffice merely to preserve the current global political and economic arrangements and even less to repeat the past, recent or remote. The highly antiquated concept of power, as the capacity for destruction and as an expression of economic hegemony, should be finally abandoned. It is necessary to dismantle its practical apparatus. Thus, first, military alliances must undergo profound transformation in order to reflect and interdependent world we now live in. Secondly, partial negotiation on disarmament should be expand in order to assume a general and complete scope, above all in the fields of nuclear and chemical weapons, in response to the expectations of the international community. Lastly, regional tensions must be thoroughly addressed in diplomatic and political terms in order that they may be eliminated as hotbeds of global instability. 
Above all it is imperative to articulate a new concepts of world power as a revolutionary capacity for invention, production and construction for the benefit of all nations and all peoples. 
Peace is multifaceted and should translate at the international level the trends towards democracy, participation and representation. Democratisation of the world order is a prerequisite for a peace that is both just and sound, free from any kind of threat. Peace must mean more than the abolition of conflicts, of threats and of the hegemonic preponderance of the most developed or most powerful. Thus, the major international institutions must reflect the new realities and be capable of accommodating the rapid and fruitful increase in contacts among States and the formation of multiple groupings. 
This comprehensive concept of peace is illustrated by the new pace set for the process of dialogue and integration in South America. Day by day the understanding within Amazonian, Andean and Southern Cone groups of nations gains in substance. Outstanding among these efforts is the determination displayed by the Governments of Brazil and Argentinian in establishing a common market before December 1994. The process of integration under way in the Southern Cone involves, in addition to Brazil and Argentina, the fraternal countries of Paraguay, Uruguay and Chile.
In Latin America a pioneering initiative of diplomatic co-operation, the Group of Rio, grows stronger and has now attained political maturity. Our region is thus in a position to engage in a dialogue with the centres of the world economy, the United States, Western Europe and Japan, in order to explore new opportunities for economic exchange and co-operation. In that regard the economic initiative recently launched by the United States Government met with a positive reaction on the part of many Latin American countries. It will certainly be consolidated in the next few months. 
In the South Atlantic the sons of peace and co-operation established by a resolution of the General Assembly gains in substance and, with the relaxation of international tensions, will encompass new elements of global interest, such as the protection and preservation of the marine environment. In this field our sons of peace and of co-operation may play an innovative role on a global scale, provided more committed financial and technological support is available. 
Brazil ratified the Treaty of Tlatelolco and has reiterated in international forums its respect for its purposes and those of related International agreements. Recently Brazil and Argentian publicly announced that an intense exchange of views is taking place among interested parties on the implementation of the Treaty of Tlatelolco. That pioneering Latin American initiative in the field of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons proceeded all other efforts, whether regional or universal in scope, devoted to the same objective. I believe, however, that the time has come to go on e step further. Brazil today discards the idea of any experiments that might involve nuclear explosions, even if only for peaceful purposes. We trust other nations will consider the possibility of following the same path. 
All changes that seek to consolidate freedom and democracy to strengthen true peace and international security, to cast away old myths and to reconcile efficiency with justice are of interest to Brazil. Not every new development on the international scene, however, is forward looking. The structure of power have, in essence, not yet been altered. In fact one may even fear a reinforcement of the international stratification, both economic and political. This could include a biased discrimination hindering access to scientific and technological knowledge. 
Efforts towards disarmament are still incipient and their diplomatic handling has never been so remote from multilateral forums. Military incidents in different parts of the world demonstrate that many regional security problems have not yet been addressed. Racialist and xenophobic outbursts are unfortunately recurring in some quarters. 
Nevertheless, we have not abandoned optimism. History shall not be rewritten. We think that, faced with the global challenges of modern life, humanity will march - despite present difficulties and obstacles - towards new, peaceful and productive forms of co-existence. The global structure shall allow for new strides in the pursuit of human happiness. We are not condemned to the twin threats of violence and political confrontation. 
A promising agenda is being announced which includes, not only the reactivation of economic development and international co-operation, but also issues involving the observance of all human - political, economic and social - as well as concerted efforts to protect the environment on a global scale and the fight against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs. As East-West tensions disappear, the question of establishing new guidelines for the international economic order asserts itself with renewed vigour. 
There persist the perverse practices and mechanism of protectionism and managed trade. Such partial openings as may occur are based on the rigid observance of the principle of reciprocity, to the detriment of more fragile economies. It is unsettling that efforts on behalf of economic and trade liberalisation should share the stage with the present neo-protectionist wave. As it opens up its economy to the world, and in the understanding that an open world economy will be established, Brazil is participating in the current Uruguay Round and is confident that these negotiations, conducted within the framework of the  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, may correct the persistent disorder and atrophy affecting international trade. 
The use of expert subsidies and other domestic support measures on the part of developed nations has reached excessive levels, strongly affecting developing nations otherwise capable of increasing the world’s supply of agricultural or agro-industrial products. It is deplorable tat the protectionist arsenal currently in use by the developed world should under the increase in the level of world food production, while hunger still afflicts a large portion of mankind. 
We look forward, with great hope, to balanced results in all areas currently under negotiation at the Uruguay Round, which may strengthen multilateralism and nullify restrictionist trends. We do not want the freezing of North-South inequalities or the continued stifling of free competition by artificial means. 
In the context of well-known economic difficulties faced by the major economic Powers, both domestically and in their relations with each other, there looms the risk that the megablocs will not be guided by global interests, by the logic of economic openness and a sense of the whole. On the contrary, there is a risk that they will degenerate into veritable “trade fortresses”. Twin challenges have come to further cloud that outlook. The first concerns the orderly absorption of East European countries into the world market in such a way that this far-reaching and positive development does not disrupt traditional North-South trade and investment flows nor add further cause of disarray to the already precarious state of the economies of the developing countries. The second challenge derives from the persistent and radical economic inequality among nations, a fact that is in itself one of the major obstacles to the full development of social and economic forces on a world scale. The issue of economic development and international co-operation must be placed at the top of the multilateral agenda. 
In Brazil a comprehensive and coherent programme of social and economic reform is being developed which, in order to be swiftly implemented, calls for a prompt inflow of foreign funds, granted on favourable and mutually beneficial terms. Such measures as have been adopted are already reversing and economic situations the prospects of which were distressing, and are paving the way for the immediate restoration of international co-operation with our country, Brazil. 
We trust this effort will meet with a positive response from our most significant partners in the developed world. We wish to make the best of the present moment, in which the new supersedes the old in so many ways. Brazil wishes to play in full its role in the conception of a global framework of peace and co-operation. 
In this regard, by adopting the Declaration on International Economic Co-operation last May, this Assembly came to recognise, through the unanimous voice of its Member States, that the economic revitalisation of the developing countries is the major challenge of the present decade. 
Brazil is seeking economic efficiency and desires that the economy of every developing country become productive. Such a goal may be reached if the world economy is better organised. This is a responsibility shared by all countries. The persistence of hunger, the deprivation of minimum amenities and the extreme economic hardship in many areas ultimately affect the whole by way of environmental devastation, systematic violation of human rights, and the production and illegal trafficking in drugs. The conscience and the way of life of every society are thus disastrously affected. 
The last decade, though propitious for public liberties and political pluralism, was at the same time cruel and parsimonious towards economic and social development. Development, however, is crucial for the consolidation of democratic institutions. The titanic efforts of many of the peoples of the developing world came to naught by virtue of the enormous and continuing transfer abroad of assets essential to economic growth and investment. 
Finding a permanent solution to the problem of foreign debt is a task of urgent and overriding concern for the future of the developing countries, and especially Latin America. The economic recovery of our peoples is an unavoidable imperative that cannot be sacrificed and that will not be sacrificed. Economic stabilisation and modernisation initiatives in developing countries and, especially, their fuller integration into the world economy, would be threatened if the foreign debt problem were to retain its present features. It seems indispensable that a serious, frank and creative dialogue should bring about solutions at the international level making for the resumption of the process of economic growth and the development of our peoples. 
The second major issue of the new international agenda concerns the environment. 
I wish to extend from this rostrum an invitation to the world to come to Brazil in 1992 for the great United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, perhaps the most important international meeting to be held in this century, by virtue of the issue it addresses, which is of vital interest to mankind, and in the light of the expected number of participants, including some at the non-governmental level. I invite all Heads of State and Government to attend that event. Brazil welcomes you with open arms. 
That meeting will lead to a more precise definition of the generic concern for the environment, and it will also allow agreements to be concluded on the basis of a sense of shared responsibility on the part of all international actors. For this to occur, it is incumbent upon Governments to take up their responsibilities and to revise their objectives. Brazil stands ready to do its part and is already doing its part, confident that other countries will do the same. 
We are energetically tackling Brazil’s environmental problems. Despite serious economic difficulties, grave social problems and the huge expanse of our territory, the Government and society of Brazil are already making efforts in the realm of the environment that compare favourably to those of other countries. As environmental monitoring develops in Brazil, we are proceeding to establish a zoning system for the country, notably in the Amazon, so as to delimit scientifically the large areas that must be fully preserved, as well as those that will serve economic development in different degrees and under rigorous discipline. 
Like all other developing countries, Brazil needs easier access to technologies that will permit the elimination of damages to the environment and that are environmentally safe. Such technologies should be used for the benefit of all countries. There is an urgent need for financial conditions to be established at the international level which will allow such technologies to be applied in competitive terms. 
The countries that throughout history have contributed most to the pollution of the environment have the greatest share of responsibility in this respect. By facilitating the availability of technologies and resources, these countries will play a crucial role in reversing the situation of environmental calamity 
unjustly inherited by the present generation and in offering appropriate solutions. The benefit should not be monopolised or concentrated among the few but should rather be spread out as much as possible. In a spirit of fairness we foresee that the more developed countries will commit greater resources to the correction of environmental problems. Such correction must not, even indirectly, widen the gap between rich and poor countries. A higher level of international solidarity is called for as regards the user of modern, low-cost technologies. 
Aware of the fact that access to technology, as well as to its production and use, is a new and accessory economic paradigm, Brazil cannot but express its strong concern with the barriers that still persist to free exchange in such a decisive.
What is at stake is nothing less than our chances for integration into dynamic core of the world economy. Those countries that are subordinate in the field of technology will also be subordinate in the new international division of labour arising from technological development. International barriers portray the grim policies that virtually aside countries of late industrialisation. 
The concern of Brazil is understandable not only of economy of its technological capacity — which is among the most advanced in the developing world — but also because we live under democratic normalcy, with truly functioning institutions and a Government which is uncompromisingly faithful to the rule of law and to its international commitments. 
I could not fail to refer to the importance that the issue of human rights is gaining on our common agenda. In view of the current expansion of democratic ideals, international consideration of this matter will gain in scope and incisiveness. 
Brazil firmly supports this trend. We believe, in fact, that the world is on the threshold of a qualitative leap in this area. Affronts to human rights must be denounced and fought with the same vigour wherever they may occur. One of my paramount concerns in this field is preserving the life and customs of the indigenous communities of Brazil. To this end, my Government has taken drastic measures during the first six months of its mandate in an attitude of absolute respect for an unyielding protection of the rights of the Brazilian Indian. A great deal remains to be done and will indeed be done. 
By its efforts, the international community can be of precious help in creating world-wide conditions which would guarantee the observance of human rights in their broadest sense. It is today incumbent upon all countries to take up new obligations in ensuring the individual greater freedom of movement across borders in eliminating every vestige of discrimination and protecting the rights of foreigners. Human rights must be increasingly understood in their entirety, without artificial or specious distinctions among their various modalities. 
Every feature of the new world structure points to the growth of the United Nations. Important institutional changes in this Organisation may be foreseen, even before its fiftieth anniversary, to translate into terms of multilateral diplomacy the international realities emerging everywhere. 
The world did not stop in 1945, and a new phase in history has been in the making in the past 12 months. The United Nations, in particular, is giving evidence of increased diplomatic energy. However, the renewed tendency on the part of the permanent members of the Security Council to act as a bloc in certain instances does not seem to be in itself enough to steer us towards an institutional redefinition of the Organisation and of the Council itself.
For the United Nations, as the foremost, if not the only, forum of universal scope, to be able to respond to current challenges, it will prove necessary to return to the original political intentions of the Charter, which have so often been misinterpreted, even in recent times. Those intentions struck a clear balance between the prerogatives of the permanent members of the Security Council and the preservation of the sovereign equality of Member States. The latter is a fundamental principle which should be followed as part of the negotiation process in all organs of the United Nations, including the Security Council. 
The new multilateralism must be truly innovative and true to the principle of equitable representation, lest it become a sterile formula or a disguise for a deeper political crisis. The last few weeks have not only clearly , directly an dramatically illustrated the system of international relations, but also exposed its capability and vulnerability. Never before have politics and diplomacy been so necessary on the multilateral scene.
As we build new political and economic structures, increasing claims for justice and participation in the international order are to be added to our quest for efficiency. Our common endeavour in this Hall is, after all, the search for a modernity applicable to all nations, one in which we all identify a human face. What we wish for, from the depth of our hearts, is a world of peace, co-operation, prosperity, justice - a world built upon the basic principles of international law, a world in which we may discern on the horizon the better future that our peoples so dearly hope for, deserve and are sure to achieve. 
May God be with us.  





 


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿Mr. President, may I congratulate you upon your election, which does justice to the tradition of international cooperation supported by Saudi Arabia and is an eloquent acknowledgement of your own talents.I have great pleasure in welcoming the representatives of the new States that have now become Members of this Organization: the Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia.The admission as Members of the two Republics that form the Korean peninsula is emblematic of an auspicious moment for world peace.The presence in these halls of the representatives of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Lithuania, whose tenacious struggle for independence commanded universal recognition, brings a special kind of joy to the community of nations.I also wish to pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, for the balanced and dedicated manner in which he has been exercising, for some 10 years now, the highest-ranking functions of the Secretariat of our Organization. We are privileged to live at a time of universal affirmation of the rights and freedoms of the individual, of pluralism, of respect for the will of the majority, of protection of minorities, of free enterprise.These achievements come in an age that is weary of conflict and arbitrariness. These achievements highlight an essential point, namely that collective Interests always prevail, sooner or later, over the wishes of groups that cling to privilege.Our aim is to open up a whole new historical cycle in which there should be no place for totalitarian coercion over peoples or countries, in which democracy, freedom, development and peace can be truly universal values. I address the General Assembly of the United Nations as the representative of 150 million Brazilians, as the elected leader of one of the largest democracies in the world. I come here to join in the celebration of glad tidings. I come here to share in the celebration of joy, but also to share concerns. I come here to celebrate, but also to draw attention to serious problems.We face the challenge of reshaping the world, of building a peace that will not be the offspring of the constant threat of war. The ideological and strategic motivations for global confrontation are fortunately on the wane and exhausted. Sources of tension subsist, however, that still have to be extinguished.The roads towards prosperity and the distribution of its fruits are known to all of us. In spite of that, parochial interests widen the gap that makes our objectives fade in the distance and that has to be bridged in our undertaking. It is as though we were simultaneously heading for common rejoicing in freedom and for separation in inequality. Liberal ideas have won. We should now labour to ensure that they will prevail in a consistent, widespread and, above all, innovative manner.Such observations are made from the viewpoint of a country that has opted for a liberal project clearly oriented towards social concerns, for social liberalism. That is the viewpoint of a society that for 18 months now has been striving to realize those ideas.Liberalism places the emphasis on the freedoms of the individual, which are invariably more fully exercised once the material conditions that a great majority of our citizens still lack are assured. The time has come for liberalism to take on, at the international level, the sensitivity to social problems that it has already incorporated at the domestic level. Liberalism highly values the freedom inherent in the market, but it cannot turn away from the mechanisms needed to curb distortions and prevent the non-observance of its most elementary rules, as is the case with existing discriminatory and protectionist policies.This means that the international community will have to devote priority attention, at the political level, to development problems. This means supplementing the functioning of market mechanisms with measures intended to correct serious imbalances, the persistence of which would put good relations at risk.Just as nobody can feel secure facing the possibility of nuclear war, nobody can consider himself to be secure and at peace in a planet where the poor and forsaken are dramatically expanding in number and in extent.I shall not repeat here statistical data and indicators, many of which were drawn up within this Hall and which demonstrate with alarming clarity that developing countries are worse off today than they were 10 years ago.We are approaching a global consensus on the values of democracy and we must carry through its ethical premises. Concern for the individual lies at the very heart of the democratic conscience. Through political participation and responsibility it is individuals who frame the destiny of their collectivity. It is towards individuals that the actions of democratic governments must be oriented, for the aims of such governments are only accomplished if they can ensure each and every citizen the effective means of well-being and justice.The democratic conscience cannot but be universal in scope, since it is based on the overriding principle of equality of rights and opportunities for all. There cannot be relative democracy, under any pretext whatsoever. Thus, it is incongruous that three-quarters of mankind should live in pitiful and often inhuman situations of poverty. If political oppression affronts our democratic values, so does economic exclusion. This is all the more true as the victims of hunger and misery are often children and adolescents, so that the indignation of the present spills over into a future of hopelessness.Last year, here in New York, the World Summit for Children revealed a broad consensus that the issue must be addressed at the highest level and with the utmost determination. It is necessary, however, that the international community give concrete shape and follow-up to that commitment.In my country, the Government seeks to mobilize all levels of society to make children our first national priority. At the same time, various measures have been taken, such as the assignment of a special cabinet-level portfolio for children, to coordinate efforts in that area and to launch an ongoing programme to build several hundred integrated facilities, making it possible for destitute children to leave the streets and receive education, food, medical care, and cultural and sports opportunities. With the scarce resources at our disposal, we are earnestly attempting to do our best.The international community faces three major challenges: the economic challenge of development, the political challenge of peace and the ethical challenge of ensuring a life of dignity for all. These are challenges that cannot be met separately but that must rather be faced jointly and simultaneously. These are challenges that must be met democratically, withthe participation of all. These are challenges that, in the end, test our ability to elevate solidarity to the highest plane of international relations.It is development that ensures the consolidation of democracy and represents the fundamental premise of peace. Where inequality holds sway, quarrels and confrontation are bound to take root. In a world where universality of values is increasingly pursued, little progress is being made on the path to universal patterns and paces of development.We have a responsibility to build a truly democratic and balanced international society. In a democracy, a citizen abides by the law because he feels legitimately represented in its elaboration. The same principle should hold for norms affecting relations among States: it is participation and not coercion that provides the basic stimulus to lawful behaviour. For that reason, the General Assembly, as the world parliament, where citizens of every country are effectively represented, is the forum where we ought to work together for a better, more just, more prosperous and more peaceful world.The definitive establishment of peace demands decision-making processes that are more open, that ensure wider participation and that are binding on States in a broader and deeper way. The natural course towards meeting the great challenges that lie at the heart of our agenda is cooperation by means of universally applicable rules genuinely agreed upon and followed by States. It is through pluralism born of tolerance, consensus born of understanding, the synthesis born of differing opinions freely expressed that the pillars of genuine cooperation can be built. The General Assembly cannot accept having its legitimate prerogatives diminished, since it symbolises to an increasing extent the triumph of democracy the world over, which in turn opens up the prospect of victory for an international system that is also democratic. The war in the Gulf has shown us the United Nations effectively at work. We count on its ability to influence the course of events and to overcome hotbeds of tension in the international scene.Peace in the world is contingent upon peace in the Middle East. Our friends in Lebanon are already joining together to rebuild the country on the basis of a loftier goal - a united, free, prosperous and peaceful Lebanon.Now the time has come for the Arabs and the Israelis. The grand design of a region where all may live in peace within internationally recognised boundaries will be realised through respect for the rights of the Palestinian people and a change of attitude towards Israel.Brazil strongly supports the initiative of convening a peace conference on the Middle East, with the participation of all interested parties, aimed at the full implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations. We hope that all parties will display the necessary flexibility to remove obstacles, both physical and emotional, to the establishment of a just and lasting peace in the region. In this context we believe that the application of labels that have exacerbated mistrust among the parties should be reconsidered.Alongside political and economic challenges, the United Nations cannot avoid facing the ethical challenge to which I have alluded. It is necessary to design new approaches and more creative and consensual instruments for action in priority areas of the environment and development, human rights, world population questions and the situation of women and children.In the years leading up to the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations we must set down guidelines for international relations in the twenty-first century.The 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development will be the first among the major universal gatherings to take place in the next few years. The Conference has an Inescapable obligation to future generations, inasmuch as it is they who will stand to benefit most from our work, the main objective of which is to improve the quality of life for all people.Lasting solutions to global problems require the commitment of the international community as a whole, each country according to its responsibility relative to the origin of those problems and to their management, as well as to its economic and technological capacity to overcome them. The months leading up to the Conference will require intensive consultations. Brazil intends to explore opportunities for dialogue to the fullest and hopes to find its interlocutors to be open and determined.Perhaps the most striking characteristic of such a Conference on Environment and Development is that it should allow for as broad a debate as possible, as profound a discussion as the political will of the participants will allow. It is with those objectives in mind, and without constraints or preconceptions, that we believe the issues of the Conference must be tackled and its crowning decisions adopted.At the Conference we shall discuss the economic policies of developed and developing countries alike that are best suited to eradicating poverty and correcting unsustainable patterns of production and consumption. The transfer of environmentally sound technology requires an innovative approach to intellectual property rights that will allow for a regime that effectively favours access by the developing countries to the progress made by the industrialized world in that field.The Conference should not act the stage for grievances and recrimination;it should, on the contrary, provide the framework for mature and feasible proposals. In effect, it amounts to finding a proper response to the common interest of ensuring the survival of mankind and of the planet itself.Just as the question of development has yielded to other issues on the international agenda, I am concerned that the issue of the environment may also yield to other aspects of the day-to-day life of the world.It is understandable that the dramatic developments of the past two years have attracted considerable attention. But it should be pointed out that the political task of peace building does not take place in a vacuum. It depends on economic development, which, in turn, is dependent on environmentally sustainable economic models.We cannot abide having an environmentally sound planet and a socially unjust world. Hence, the convergence of the political, economic and ethical dimensions on the question of the environment, which ultimately brings together the challenges of peace, development and the improvement of the quality of life of mankind as a whole. Hence, the importance of our commitment to come together at the highest level at the Rio Conference in 1992. I again invite all Heads of State and Government from all regions of the world to be present in Rio de Janeiro. Their participation will ensure that the decisions we adopt enjoy the needed political support. Brazil awaits you all with open arms.My country is striving to ensure its rightful place on the International scene. We are aware of the fact that to that end we must rely above all on our own efforts. It is our obligation to manage our domestic affairs, to solve our problems among ourselves and to persevere on the right path.There is no other path to progress, harmony and social well-being. There is no other path to the role to which we aspire in International decision-making processes. Me ask nothing of the world that we are not prepared to give. We propose nothing to the world that we are not in a position to do ourselves.Brazil is too complex a nation to be treated according to standard prescriptions. There are no magic formulas and no economic miracles. We join the concert of nations with an open mind, with a vision of the future and with generosity, and we expect the same attitude in return.We are perfectly aware that respectability is beholden to responsibility. In the course of our national history we have cultivated consistency and responsibility in our international relations, in conformity with the rules and principles of relations among nations. The world is witness to this tradition.Last year I announced in this very forum my Government's decision to abstain from any nuclear explosions - including for peaceful purposes, as if it were possible to explode atomic bombs for peaceful purposes.On 18 July 1991 in Guadalajara, Mexico, Brazil and Argentina signed the Agreement on the Exclusively Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy. The Agreement has great historic significance for our countries and constitutes proof that it is possible to ensure nuclear security through nuclear cooperation.The Safeguards Agreement that Brazil and Argentina will sign with the International Atomic Energy Agency will provide all pertinent information for verification of our commitment to the exclusively peaceful uses of nuclear energy and will also preserve the technological advances that we have arduously attained in the realm of the nuclear energy cycle.Less than one month ago we also signed, together with Argentina and Chile, the Mendoza Commitment, on the basis of which we formally and collectively renounced all chemical and bacteriological weapons. He are aware of the example we have just set for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, and we hope that a similar agreement at the global level will be finalised in the near future. It is Brazil's understanding that the aforementioned instruments afford renewed and sufficient assurances regarding the exclusively peaceful objectives of our national nuclear energy programme and regarding our repudiation of weapons of mass destruction.International flows of sensitive technology goods, services and know-how are today a vital issue. We should look for formulas that would serve to reconcile two basic interests: avoiding the possibility that such technologies are used in weapons of mass destruction; and ensuring that access to such technologies remains open. This is an essential prerequisite for building and modernising the technological capacity of countries like Brazil.It is easy to welcome change and to exult in the prospects for building a new world. It is painful, however, to speak of the many obstacles that still stand in the way of hope. Among these obstacles we find the acute problem of external indebtedness that drains the developing countries of scarce capital, arbitrary constraints on the transfer of technology and disregard for marketprinciples under the protectionist policies pursued, first and foremost, by the industrialised countries.The paths leading to an international framework that ensures peace and fosters development are complex and have yet to be defined. There is consensus on the objectives and perhaps on the means, but resistance to real change remains enormous. The great strides that have been made in the ideological and strategic realms must be matched by no less courageous strides towards building confidence and cooperation.In the political sphere, democracy should open up the way for new decision-making procedures in the international field. Security must be an effectively collective endeavour, enforced by law and not by the spectre of arms.If in the economic sphere we have shed the facile and simplistic dreams of radical reform of the international economy, and if we know that great transformations begin with hard work aimed at internal reform, we cannot all the same forgo realistic and sensible proposals for international cooperation. He are committed to fighting for the success of the Uruguay Round in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), as we believe that the philosophy of free and open trade should rest on a solid and balanced foundation.In the realm of values, there is a consensus that our first duty is to struggle for the full exercise of human rights on the political, economic and social levels. That is the great objective that international solidarity should attain.Brazil is pursuing no other policy than to warn, to caution, to propose and, above all, to collaborate. The growing imbalance between developed and developing countries poses a tangible threat to international stability and security. This threat will only increase if there is no effective support for the consolidation of democracy and development. There is a need to create, at the world level, a sturdily built, consensual programme of action, organised around the question of development, to guide and spur negotiations on specific items pertaining to relations among nations at all stages of economic progress.On the American continent, the enterprise for the Americas initiative, currently known as the Bush Plan, is a first indication of willingness to reach understanding. Along the lines of this same drive towards the actual integration of the continent, Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay have signed the Treaty for the Constitution of the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUL), which already dovetails with the Enterprise for the Americas through the Rose Garden Agreement, signed in Washington earlier this year.In order to realise the hopes thus raised among the peoples of the region, both initiatives must incorporate as a priority goal the search for a solution to the serious social problems that still confront us. This political, economic and ethical imperative cannot be regarded as constituting a claim by any particular country or group of countries. It is an ensign to be flown by all States, by all governments.We are drawing nigh to the universal and ultimate triumph of the revolution of democracy and freedom. What remains is to carry it through with the revolution of social justice and solidarity. May God be with us.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
Let me congratulate you. Sir, and the Republic 
of Bulgaria upon your election as President of the General Assembly at its 
forty-seventh session. Your experience as a respected political leader and 
jurist augurs well for the success of our deliberations. 
I wish to acknowledge the work of Ambassador Samir Shihabi of Saudi 
Arabia and his inspired and constructive presidency of the General Assembly at 
its forty-sixth session. 
I present my compliments to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, 
whose election was supported by Brazil from the beginning. His experience and 
statesmanship, which I had the occasion to witness at the United Nations 
Conference on Environment and Development, will certainly stand him in good 
stead in the exercise of his high office. 
Brazil welcomes the representatives of the new States Members of the 
United Nations: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, 
Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, San Marino, Slovenia, Tajikistan, 
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. My country wishes to explore the possibilities 
of cooperation with the new Member States. 
The opening of the general debate requires that we should call forth 
national and regional aspirations without losing sight of our concern for the 
universal. It requires that we should seek to fulfil our individual 
identities in a harmonious whole, that should we be both effective and just. 
Historical change should not be viewed as the chaotic workings of nature, 
which, like a storm, are beyond control. Nor does it bear comparison to a 
theatrical play whose plot and outcome are known to the author and the 
performers in advance but which the audience discovers only as the play 
unfolds. The most pertinent metaphor for understanding the lessons of history 
would be that of a labyrinth. Conceived of as a labyrinth, history unfolds 
unpredictably. This, however, does not deny the rational creativity of man 
and of peoples. Rational creativity lies in identifying by trial and error 
the blind alleys in the maze of collective experience, while trusting that 
there are exit points and struggling to reach them. 
Today the role of reason in the search for a way out lies in resorting to 
historical experience to promote those values which may ensure better and 
higher ways of life in an organized society: freedom, democracy, human 
rights, sustainable development, justice and peace. In times of change it is 
important to stop and think about the values and concepts that lie at the 
foundation of international relations. 
The process I have described gives rise both to hopes and to concerns. 
It reflects the interaction of centripetal forces that tend towards the 
universal and of centrifugal forces that call attention to diversity. On the 
one hand, societies are embracing standards and practices that are well on the 
way to becoming universal, as witnessed by the strengthening of democracy and 
human rights, of sustainable development and of free enterprise and market 
integration. 
On the other hand, we witness the rebirth of nationalism and ethnic 
strife, religious fervour taken to extremes and forms of discrimination which 
multiply tension and threaten world peace. 
The United Nations, and in particular the General Assembly, should serve 
as the natural point of convergence for the various trends that shape the 
complexity of our time. That complexity requires building a new international 
order based on the democratic participation of all States, as stressed by the 
Secretary-General in his report on the work of the Organization. 
In conformity with its commitment to dialogue and cooperation, Brazil 
wishes to make its contribution to the common task of ensuring the equitable 
fulfilment of the historical aspirations of mankind. Brazil takes pride in 
its diplomatic tradition. With 10 neighbours and nearly 17,000 kilometres of 
borders, all of which were peacefully negotiated, Brazil's destiny is civil 
and fruitful coexistence with all countries. 
The democracy we enjoy today at the domestic level is an assurance of 
unity and stability. It teaches us to accept the diversity and divergence 
inherent in a pluralistic society. It permits us to face crises and 
vicissitudes within the rule of law and the strict boundaries of 
constitutional order. At the same time, democracy encourages us to uphold its 
principles and methods in our relations with other nations. In a democracy 
the rules of the game relate to the sharing and limitation of power. 
Government must belong to the many, so that it can resist imposition by the 
few. Power must be constrained by law, so as to avoid the arbitrary 
discretion of those who wield it. 
The acknowledgement of these rules aims at the qualitative transformation 
of life in society the passage from the realm of violence to the realm of 
non-violence achievable by the taming of power through law. This is what 
confers on the law an irrevocable ethical content. In the realm of public 
international law, this ethical content finds its expression in the peaceful 
settlement of disputes, since its procedures for choosing among available 
options for action seek precisely to dispel the fears that derive from the 
rule of violence. It is in that spirit of democratic civility that Brazil 
intends to participate in the process of reorganizing the international system. 
The unprecedented historical crossroads at which we find ourselves calls 
for a new agenda, an agenda embodying an awareness of the present and a vision 
of the future. The drafting of this agenda must take into account all the 
dimensions of value. All values have to be susceptible of fulfilment and are 
inexhaustible. To subsist, they must be translated into normative and social 
reality. However, the fulfilment of values in history does not exhaust their 
content. For example, we can and may always obtain more freedom and more 
justice. 
The foreign policy of Brazil stresses these twin dimensions in its 
response to the new international situation and stresses them through a 
creative adaptation and vision of the future. These concepts, we think, are 
appropriate as we consider the items on the agenda of the General Assembly. 
The starting-point for a rethinking of the international system lies in 
the acknowledgement that peace, security and disarmament are inseparable. 
The suggestions put forward by Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali in his 
document "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277) lend new contours and an enlarged 
scope to discussions on the role of the United Nations. All Member States 
should participate in an in-depth consideration of the provocative and 
creative suggestions put forward by the Secretary-General. Brazil will 
contribute actively to their consideration at the present session of the 
General Assembly. 
The "Agenda for Peace" comprises timely issues, such as preventive 
diplomacy, peace-making and post-conflict peace-building. Such innovative 
concepts are, by their very nature, still fluid. They open up new 
perspectives which remain to be explored, albeit cautiously, as befits an 
encounter between unknown realities and bold and imaginative ideas. 
The dream of a better world cannot, however, be excluded from the 
debate. Though realism is the starting-point of all political action, it 
should not be taken as its final objective. Justice is the ultimate value 
that should, in the final analysis, permeate the concept of order. 
Peace-building is a continuous task and an evolving process. In addition 
to the concepts related to the means of tackling conflict situations, we 
should also seek to define the logical corollary of preventive peace-building, 
namely the forestalling of crises deriving from economic and social factors. 
To that end, we must strengthen the role of the United Nations, not only in 
restoring peace and security, but also in fostering economic and social 
progress. 
Other elements should therefore be added to those put forward in the 
"Agenda for Peace", such as the promotion of a more just international economic 
environment, full respect for human rights and the rule of law, general and 
complete disarmament, and the democratization of international relations based 
on sovereign equality and the non-use of force. 
It is essential to avoid the temptation of a selective application of the 
provisions of the Charter. The instruments for the maintenance of 
international peace and security must not serve to consolidate imbalances 
based on power relations, which are not more legitimate because they are 
real. The fundamental attribute of legitimacy consists in the 
all-encompassing perspective of humanity. 
It is of paramount importance to uphold the provision of the Charter 
whereby the maintenance of international peace and security is the collective 
responsibility of all Member States. 
In carrying out its primary responsibility for the maintenance of 
international peace and security, the Security Council acts on behalf of all 
Member States of the United Nations. Now that the Council is being called 
upon to play an increasingly decisive role, there is a clear need for an 
in-depth discussion of the representative nature of its composition, the scope 
of its competence and the powers of its members. 
We should consider, with prudence no less than with foresight, such 
readjustments as would permit the Council to discharge its functions in a more 
representative manner. Brazil is prepared to contribute constructively to 
this effort, taking fully into account the institutional balance among the 
organs of the United Nations provided for in the San Francisco Charter. 
The contribution of Brazil to United Nations peace-keeping operations 
reflects our commitment to implementing the principle of collective 
responsibility. 
The issue of disarmament has been momentarily overshadowed by that of 
security in the wake of the unstable situations which followed the collapse of 
global confrontation. The progressive reduction of arms stockpiles, 
especially of weapons of mass destruction, remains, however, fundamental. 
Much has indeed been accomplished in the field of disarmament, yet much 
remains to be done. 
Brazil and Argentina have jointly entered into an agreement with the 
International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of safeguards. With 
Argentina and Chile, we launched an initiative to ensure the full entry into 
force of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America 
the Treaty of Tlatelolco. The entry into force of the Treaty of Tlatelolco 
will make Latin America the first nuclear-weapon-free zone in the world. This 
represents a balanced agreement on non-proliferation with equality of rights 
and obligations. We have banned chemical and biological weapons from our 
territory through the Mendoza Agreement, which we concluded with our 
neighbouring States. We have thus advanced the application of the convention 
on chemical weapons, which sets down uniform rules of disarmament and 
verification binding on all signatories. We hope similarly universal and 
non-discriminatory disarmament conventions will be concluded in the future. 
Regarding the zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic, we 
welcome the opportunity to work with our partners on both sides of the ocean 
in a process of dialogue and joint endeavour aimed in particular at the 
protection of the marine environment. 
Security and disarmament are only means to achieve the highest goal to 
which mankind truly aspires the goal of peace. Peace, not as the mere 
absence of war, but as an affirmative value, peace as a state of satisfaction 
in which relations among States can be ruled by law and disputes settled by 
peaceful means. 
Peace must be linked to cooperation, of which justice is an integral 
part, for common interests are rooted in a balanced relation among States. 
It is widely acknowledged that there is a close link between the 
democratic system of government and the inclination of States towards peace, 
and conversely, a link between authoritarian regimes and a greater propensity 
to conflict. The values inherent in democracy pluralism, majority rule, 
tolerance, consensus, the rule of law extend naturally to the external 
affairs of the State. The strengthening of democracy on a planetary scale 
represents therefore a decisive contribution to the building of a more 
peaceful international system. 
An unquestionable value in the domestic order, democracy also projects 
itself as an organizing principle of the international order, through the 
strengthening of multilateral diplomacy and the search for a broad 
participation in the international decision-making process. 
Brazil is convinced that relations among States must be governed 
predominantly by incentives to cooperation and not by disincentives. That 
amounts to promoting a positive and not a negative agenda for international 
relations, an agenda that must be negotiated in a democratic manner. 
The improvement of international cooperation to ensure adequate and 
effective treatment of world-wide issues, such as those of humanitarian, 
developmental or environmental character, is to bf: pursued within the basic 
principles of international law, foremost among which is respect for State 
sovereignty. 
Fortunately, a new perception has evolved in the field of human rights 
that focuses on the need for special protection for the most vulnerable groups 
in each country. Cultural, religious and ethnic minorities, women, children, 
refugees and immigrants are social groups frequently exposed to intolerance 
and to the abuse of their most basic rights. We must strive to bridge the gap between what is achievable and what is 
desirable. Respect for human rights must be universal in scope, just as the 
1948 Declaration is universal and just as the provisions of the basic 
covenants and conventions on this matter are universal. In short, human 
rights must not be violated under any pretext whatsoever. 
The full enjoyment of individual rights requires material conditions of 
social and economic organization grounded in the idea of justice. The holding 
in 1993 of the World Conference on Human Rights, as well as the proposed world 
summit on social development, will provide opportunities to strengthen the 
protection and the promotion of human dignity. 
The Government of Brazil is doing everything in its power to protect and 
promote human rights. We maintain an open dialogue with international 
organizations governmental and non-governmental and we have acceded to the 
main legal instruments on this matter. To be assured of success in our 
endeavours, we further need constructive international cooperation to address 
better the perverse consequences of extreme poverty and to equip democratic 
States with conditions to reinforce their preventive and corrective actions in 
these areas, where serious violations of individual rights still occur. 
One of the most urgent tasks of the United Nations will be to promote in 
all countries a strong campaign against all forms of discrimination. It is 
high time we reaffirmed the classic concept of tolerance as an essential 
constituent element of life in an enlightened society. Equality can be 
genuine only when there is respect for diversity, where there is respect for 
heterogeneity. Policies of racial segregation, by any name, will always be 
hateful. The idea that a nation or a social group is somehow superior because 
it is ethnically homogeneous is flatly wrong. 
The world has not lived through the horrors of a world war, the anguish 
of 45 years of the cold war and the hardship of conflicts that have offended 
the conscience of mankind to witness now the resurgence of the spectre of 
xenophobia, of exclusive nationalism, or of ethnic, cultural or religious 
intolerance. We cannot allow the concept of nationhood to serve as a cloak 
for the practices of oppression. Brazil, as a multiracial country proud of 
its roots, rejects outright attitudes that are inimical to the human race. 
Just as our societies cannot coexist with the marginalization of parts of 
their population, so the new international society we seek to build cannot 
coexist with the marginalization of entire peoples. 
The interdependence of the world economy paradoxically highlights the 
shortcomings of global cooperation. The gap between the North and the South 
is widening before our eyes. This situation cannot persist. We must work 
together to foster economic growth in all countries. There will be no peace 
or security so long as such disparities continue to distort the international 
system. 
In an increasingly open and interdependent international community, the 
leverage from international trade is extraordinary. We must therefore prevent 
protectionist pressures linked to short-term parochial interests from 
undercutting the negotiating effort of the Uruguay Round, inspired by free 
competition and the multiplication of benefits. The difficulties and 
sluggishness inherent in the process of multilateral-trade liberalization 
should not prompt us to opt indiscriminately for self-contained regional 
blocks. We see, and would like others to see, regional-trade liberalization 
as a form of creating additional opportunities for international trade as a 
whole, without inflicting losses on third parties. This is how we view the 
Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), the regional basis for our competitive 
integration in the international economy. 
Brazil is a global trader. We trade with all regions of the world and we 
are modernizing our economy through trade liberalization and openness towards 
the world economy. Negotiations with foreign creditors have produced positive 
results. Science and technology today represent the crucial variable of 
economic success. Promoting their dissemination and ensuring greater 
transparency and equity in the access to knowledge is fundamental for 
development. That is the spirit that guides the Brazilian initiative now 
under consideration in the United Nations Disarmament Commission, aiming at 
the definition of non-discriminatory and universally acceptable principles to 
regulate international transfers of sensitive technologies for peaceful 
purposes. 
Last June Brazil hosted the United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development, which was the largest diplomatic event in the history of the 
Organization and set new patterns of international understanding and 
cooperation. We worked creatively to face the challenges of the present and 
boldly in the preparations for the future. The Rio Conference was not aimed 
at simply reorganizing this or that aspect of economic activity or of life in 
society. It was aimed, rather, at reshaping the very notion of development, 
to conceive it on a more rational, more just and more generous foundation 
that of sustainable development. 
The Rio Declaration, Agenda 21, the Declaration on Forests, the climate 
Convention and the biodiversity Convention outline a legal framework and a 
political project of paramount importance for international cooperation. The 
significance of these instruments will be even more evident over time. 
Adherence to the principles that have been agreed upon and prompt ratification 
of the two Conventions will usher in a new era of international cooperation. 
The Rio Conference set up a new paradigm, a new social contract, on the 
basis of the fundamental concept of sustainable development. It established 
as a primary concern the need to ensure the most rational balance between 
legitimate development goals, on the one side, and the preservation of the 
health of our planet and the well-being of future generations, on the other. 
Sustainable development is the contemporary expression of progress. It is the 
basis for a new international environment and development order. 
In welcoming the Heads of State and Government who honoured us with their 
presence. President Fernando Collor stated that 
"The world has decided to assemble here to address no more, no less than 
the life itself on the surface of the planet." 
The Conference concluded that we cannot allow the persistence of social 
imbalances in the current international system marked by inhuman situations of 
poverty and by the coexistence of want and waste. As stated by the Brazilian 
Head of State, as President of the Conference, 
"We cannot have an environmentally sound planet in a socially unjust 
world". 
The Rio Conference therefore fostered an awareness of the fact that 
development must be sustainable. Sustainability requires due attention not 
only to environmental but also to economic and social factors. 
That and all the other achievements of the Conference were made possible 
thanks only to the unprecedented engagement of the community of nations at the 
highest level, allowing for the consideration of problems of universal 
interest through the equal participation of all countries. Let me stress this 
point: The Rio Conference was exemplary in that it brought to a higher level 
the practice of democracy in international relations, thus strengthening 
multilateral diplomacy. At the Conference, all countries - large and small, 
rich and poor gave proof that they were and are capable of linking their own 
specific interests with larger, more general interests. 
This is the "spirit of Rio", which we hope will guide the United Nations 
in other areas as well: mutual confidence among States, a willingness to act 
decisively with a view to achieving common goals, and the grandeur of joint 
endeavours in devising forms of enhanced cooperation in line with norms 
defined democratically and on the basis of consensus. 
This session of the General Assembly is called upon to address the task 
of taking the first steps in implementing the conclusions of the Conference 
and in honouring the commitments entered into at Rio. We therefore attribute 
great importance to the establishment of the Commission on Sustainable 
Development. Sustainable development requires new and additional financial 
resources on an adequate and predictable basis, as reflected in chapter 33 of 
Agenda 21. We expect that, at the present session, the developed countries 
will announce initial plans to give effect to the goals of the Conference. 
Equally crucial is the availability of technology to developing 
countries, so as to ensure the feasibility of established programmes. Action 
or follow-up measures are also necessary in other areas; among these I stress 
the development of small island States and the convening of a negotiating 
committee on desertification. 
Brazil wishes to make an additional contribution to the accomplishments 
of the Rio Conference by offering to host an international centre for studies 
on sustainable development. We count on public and private support for this 
initiative, which was welcomed in a resolution adopted at the Conference and 
for the implementation of which we have already laid the groundwork. As an 
academic institution, the centre will provide an international research and 
exchange forum for the application of decisions adopted at Rio. 
When I spoke about the dichotomy between the real and the ideal necessary 
for the construction of a new order, I referred to the great opportunities for 
cooperation among nations to solve problems in the areas of peace and 
security, democracy, human rights, development and environment. The world 
expects the work of the Organization to be concentrated on those priority 
areas. 
The capacity for joint action by the United Nations must spring from the 
voice of each and every Member State. That action becomes all the more 
legitimate as the basic decision-making process grows more representative and 
more democratic. 
Brazil views the ongoing work on the restructuring and revitalization of 
the economic and social sectors of the United Nations as eminently relevant. 
It should lead to greater efficiency, together with a wider scope for 
international cooperation for development. 
An agenda for peace cannot overlook the agenda for development. Ultimate 
success in this enterprise requires a realistic willingness to endow the 
United Nations with the necessary instruments and the prospective vision to 
make this universal forum the core of collective efforts for the improvement 
of relations among peoples and countries. 
In Brazil, as elsewhere in Latin America and other regions, bold and 
necessary reforms have been set in motion to eliminate obstacles to 
development, to economic competitiveness, to technological progress and to the 
free exercise of innovation and entrepreneurship based on the market. 
Brazil joins other nations with an open mind, aware of the need for 
creative adaptation to new realities and convinced that new challenges require 
a vision of the future endowed with generosity. 

===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
It is with great pleasure
that I congratulate you, Sir, and the Republic of Guyana, on
your election as President of the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session. In so doing, I wish to reaffirm the
traditional ties of friendship between Brazil and Guyana. I
am certain that you will contribute to making this session of
the General Assembly a landmark in the path towards
progress and democracy among nations.
I would also like to express to Mr. Stoyan Ganev,
respected jurist from the Republic of Bulgaria and President
of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, our
recognition for the work he accomplished.
The strong and innovative leadership provided by
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali will continue to be
a factor in furthering the work of our Organization.
At the opening of the debate at this forty-eighth session
of the General Assembly, we are, once again, being swept
by the winds of change. A fresh breeze, bringing us the
message that understanding and peace may finally prevail
over selfish interest, is blowing from the Near East, cradle
of some of the most valuable moral lessons on which our
planetary civilization is built.
Man’s adventure on Earth, driven by reason and by
dreams, has unfolded within the tension between self-interest
and solidarity. In the dialectic interaction between solidarity
and self-interest which has shaped and continues to shape
the destinies of mankind, solidarity has just attained a great
victory, allowing us greater optimism about the future and
about the possibility of the materialization of the perpetual
peace of which Immanuel Kant spoke. Indeed, following the
high hopes ushered in by the end of the cold war, we were
forced to postpone any exclamations of joy as we witnessed
the much-heralded new order transform itself into growing
disorder, marked by the re-emergence of conflicts rooted in
particularisms, which were supposed to be among the closed
chapters of history.
We have noticed that the inherent preoccupations of the
cold war have shifted from an East-West axis to a North-
South orientation. New concepts have been used to justify
discriminatory acts with repercussions for the countries of
the South. Some of these concepts were presented under the
cloak of humanitarian or moral values, such as the so-called
"right of intervention" and "good governance"; others are
renewed versions of old practices, such as eco-protectionism.
At the same time, the countries of the North tightened their
controls on the entry of dispossessed people from the South,
many of whom came from former colonies. Thus, peace of
mind was to be preserved along with the exclusive privileges
of post-industrial society. At the same time, just when they
were enjoying new heights of freedom, some of the peoples
formerly subjected to authoritarian rule were carried away in
nationalistic exaltation, the consequences of which continue
to parade before spectators who are as shocked as they are
powerless.
It was as "glad tidings", in an almost Biblical sense,
that the world welcomed the news that peace and
understanding were possible in a region marked up to now
by pain and conflict. The handshake between Mr. Yitzhak
Rabin and Mr. Yasser Arafat is emblematic of the close of
this century, a symbol indicating that history is not over, as
some have suggested, but rather that it is just beginning,
after a long, dark and turbulent pre-history, in which the
mark of Cain has always prevailed over the profound desire
for lasting peace felt by all peoples.
In this same spirit, I reiterate the solidarity of Brazil
with the Russian people, who continue to face the challenges
of the process of democratic transition, which we are
confident will succeed in their country.
It is therefore with renewed faith in the ability of
mankind to find solutions to the problems it continuously
creates for itself that we begin our work at this forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly.
Exactly thirty years ago, another Minister of External
Relations of Brazil, a career diplomat like myself,
Ambassador João Augusto de Araujo Castro, pointed out that
the task of the United Nations could be summed up in what
he called the "3 D’s": Disarmament, Development,
Decolonization. Today, with the virtual elimination of the
last remnants of colonialism, I could paraphrase him by
stating that the international agenda is once again structured
around three "D’s": Democracy, Development, Disarmament,
with their ramifications in the areas of human rights, the
environment and international security.
The changes we have witnessed have not been limited
to the international sphere. Ethical advancements have also
been made in the domestic sphere of countries, where ethics
have prevailed over the petty interplay of interests which
usually makes up day-to-day politics and which leads so
many young people to disbelief and to turn away from the
ideal of citizenship, without which man cannot fully realize
his calling as a social being. I believe that I can proudly
assert that my country, Brazil, despite the inherent problems
of underdevelopment, has placed itself at the forefront of this
"ethicalization" of political relations, which goes far beyond
the almost bureaucratic concept of "good governance".
We can still hear the echoes - and the world’s most
important opinion makers did not fail to register them - of
the resounding popular campaign which, in perfect harmony
with the legislative and judiciary branches of the Brazilian
Government, led to the impeachment of a president.
Through an exclusively internal process, which emerged and
developed within the Brazilian people and their legitimate
representatives, a rarely seen lesson in citizenship was given,
by the use of a legal instrument which, though present in
other countries, had never been implemented to its ultimate
consequences as it was in Brazil. In this process the
Brazilian people counted on the support of a press which,
with courage and boldness, put to good use the freedom it
was once again enjoying after two decades of authoritarian
rule.
It is with justifiable pride that I am able to state, before
this world assembly, that Brazil has etched a mark - and not
a minor one - in the evolution of political institutions. I am
certain that the peaceful and strictly legal and constitutional
manner in which this transition took place in Brazil will be
a necessary reference in books that may come to be written
about the history of democracy in our time. I would like to
stress that the process which led to this feat - and a feat
indeed it was - was set in motion and ran its course neither
as the product of any form of external pressure, nor in
response to any action inspired by standards of governance
imposed from outside, but solely and exclusively as the
result of the deepest sense of citizenship shared by
Brazilians of every social class.
Since taking office, President Itamar Franco has
imposed upon himself and upon the Government he leads
absolute respect for the Constitution and for the laws of the
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 3
country and, above all, for the unchanging principles of law
and ethics. Among the constitutional rights of the human
being and of the citizen are those laid down in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, which our Constitution
incorporates and expands upon. Ensuring respect for those
rights - in protecting indigenous populations, in safeguarding
children and families, in guaranteeing political freedom and
access to justice - has been the determined policy of the
current Government, and is the challenge we face after a
long period in which economic growth and social
development did not tread convergent paths.
Within an atmosphere of freedom in which the project
of building an open democratic and pluralistic society is
moving forward, we are seeking to solve our macroeconomic
problems while steering clear of the authoritarian temptation
of recourse to technocratic formulas based on closed
decision-making structures. Although it may seem, on
occasion, more efficient, technocracy tends too frequently to
impose excessive sacrifices on the poorest and most
vulnerable sectors of the population. The road we are following -
that the Government of President Itamar Franco is following
- is another, perhaps more complex and arduous one, but
certainly one that is more democratic and more capable of
leading to consensual and sustainable results.
The Brazilian Government and society are both aware
that the difficult issues we are confronted with in the area of
human rights are deeply intertwined with the social
imbalances inherited from decades of insensitivity rooted in
authoritarian rule. Democracy, human rights and
development make up another indissoluble triad. None of
those terms can be brought to complete fruition in the
absence of the other two; that is why the Brazilian
Government attaches such importance to the resumption of
growth and the expansion of employment along with a fairer
distribution of income, the only solid and sustainable basis
with which to ensure social development and the full
realization of human rights. That is also the reason for the
importance attached to programmes, such as the programme
to combat hunger, which have emerged in our society and
which can count on the full and resolute support of the
Government.
We know only too well, however, that problems in the
area of human rights - to which recent incidents that shocked
Brazilian society and the world bear witness - cannot wait
for development to be consolidated and for welfare to reach
all of society. At the same time as we seek to solve them
radically - that is, by attacking their social and economic roots -
we must also attend to the more immediate aspects. To this
end, the Government is determined to act, at different levels,
under the inspiration and the guidance of the President, who
is personally committed to this task.
Transparency in the decisions and actions of the
Government constitutes an important aspect of Brazilian
politics. Such transparency manifests itself in, among other
actions, the fluid and cooperative dialogue maintained with
segments and organizations of society dedicated to the
struggle for the observance of human rights in the country.
This open and constructive spirit is not restricted, by the
way, within our own borders: we seek and maintain
cooperation on issues related to human rights with other
countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations, with which we are devising new methods of
action for safeguarding the rule of law and in favour of the
adequate protection of human rights on the basis of mutual
respect.
We do not disregard the fact that impunity may turn out
to be the Achilles’ heel of any policy aimed at the full
implementation of human rights and the elimination of
violence. For this reason, the President has personally
determined measures - whose implementation he has been
following - for every case in which the human rights of
children, of indigenous populations, of women or of any
citizen have been violated. ln this endeavour, he has the
support of Brazilian society, which will not tolerate impunity
as it did not tolerate corruption and the breach of ethical
standards in politics.
With specific reference to indigenous populations, we
are currently proceeding with the necessary strengthening of
the Government’s presence in the Amazon region in order to
protect simultaneously the population and the environment,
both of which are frequently exposed to predatory activities;
these result from an encounter of civilizations that began
five centuries ago and extends up to today.
Here again, the dialectics of solidarity and self-interest
are at work; the increased effectiveness of actions
undertaken by the Brazilian Government in the Amazon
region, in conformity with the full and irrevocable exercise
of our sovereignty, is fundamental if we are to ensure the
protection and defence of all the region’s inhabitants and, in
particular, those of the Brazilian indigenous protected areas,
which amount to the impressive total of over 800,000 square
kilometres.
The special importance we attach to human rights in the
domestic sphere is also reflected in our diplomatic action, as
was evidenced at the World Conference held in Vienna last
June. The nomination of Brazil to chair the drafting
committee of the Conference was both an honour and a
challenge; we offered our collaboration with satisfaction with
a view to the Vienna consensus being expressed at the
highest and most democratic level. The Vienna Declaration
and Programme of Action constitute a significant advance in
the promotion and protection of human rights, including by
refining concepts now unquestionably acknowledged as
universal. By reaffirming the interdependence of all human
rights, all of which require equal protection, the Declaration
recognizes that individual rights become little more than
legal fiction if the bearers of such rights and the States
which must guarantee them lack the material resources with
which to ensure them.
The promotion and the defence of the democratic
regime inside each country are not sufficient: a vigorous
effort of democratization of international relations is
essential, in conformity with two notable phenomena of
current times: the wide consensus on the advantages of
representative democracy and the growing linkage between
the domestic and the international spheres. This twofold
perception leads us of necessity to the recognition that the
democratic ideal is applicable with equal validity to relations
between nations.
We note with satisfaction the establishment of a virtual
consensus on the need to update the composition of the
Security Council. It is our understanding that the growing
role of the Council in matters which affect the fundamental
interests of Member States corresponds to the need to ensure
a more representative composition, and so enhance the
Council’s legitimacy and its efficiency. The reform of the
Council must be achieved in such a way as not to aggravate
further the imbalance between developed and developing
countries in the decision-making process of the United
Nations. The General Assembly, as the definitive
democratic organ within the United Nations system, must
play a decisive role in shaping that process.
The democratization of relations between nations
demands that the international order protect them and
guarantee their rights against illicit acts and abuses of power.
There can be no democratic society if the rule of law is not
strictly observed and if the less powerful are not sheltered
from arbitrary acts by those who wield force and power. In
today’s world, it is no longer admissible to say, in the words
of Pascal’s well-known aphorism, that "as it was not
possible to make the righteous mighty, the mighty were
made righteous".
The material progress of peoples is to a large extent the
product of their own, irreplaceable efforts. It is beyond
doubt, however, that such progress is contingent upon the
prevalence of a favourable external environment. It is
therefore imperative that international society, acting in
solidarity, encourage the creation of conditions for progress,
not for the preservation of privilege.
Apart from its intrinsic importance, the development of
all nations is the only factor that can genuinely reduce the
imbalances that are so patently expressed, for instance, in the
growing flow of migrants and refugees. In a global society,
social justice becomes an indispensable condition for
preventing crises, for alleviating tension, for consolidating
democracy and for promoting human rights.
If we are to undertake a wide-ranging exercise of
preventive diplomacy we must realize that only socially and
environmentally sustainable economic development provides
an effective means to accomplish our goals.
In the pursuit of development the United Nations has a
fundamental role to play. We must make sure that the
Organization will act urgently to impart renewed life to its
commitment to development and, therefore, also its
capacities in the economic and social field. Imbued with
this hope, Brazil has supported and continues to support
vigorously the initiative of an agenda for development. We
are confident that the Secretary-General will present us with
a proposal that will be no less innovative, bold and rich in
ideas than was "An Agenda for Peace".
Similarly, great store is set by the work of the
Commission on Sustainable Development. Brazil expects
the Commission to be an effective tool for putting into effect
the commitments undertaken in Rio de Janeiro in 1992.
In the same vein we give our wholehearted support to
the holding of the World Summit for Social Development,
a most timely initiative of the Government of Chile, a
country to which we are linked by close ties of South
American brotherhood and partnership in the Rio Group.
We should not however be misguided by illusions.
Only a dynamic insertion in the cross-currents of trade and
technology will allow developing countries to reap their fair
share of the fruits of progress. To that end we advocate a
strengthened multilateral trading system that can guarantee
both an adequate reward for our effort at trade liberalization
and a normative framework to discourage protectionism and
unilateral measures. Today that entails the need for a
prompt and balanced conclusion of the Uruguay Round,
without discrimination or impositions. The significance of
the Uruguay Round projects far beyond its strictly
commercial aspects. Its successful outcome will be
instrumental in framing an international order that is open
and propitious for cooperation, thus preventing a splintering
of economic relations into self-contained blocs.
The vigorous involvement of the community of nations
in the pursuit of development must be consonant with the
principle of State sovereignty. Brazil views the sovereign
nation-State as the basis for the legal and political
international order. It must not be weakened lest we
undermine the very basis of international representation and
of the multilateral system. Attempts to play down the
principle of national sovereignty - which incidentally are
hardly ever targeted at the more powerful States - would be
a step backwards in the effort towards more democratic
international relations. At a moment when we are building
the future multilateral system we should not allow
differences in power among nations to replace the sovereign
equality of States. The warning sounded by Ruy Barbosa,
the distinguished Brazilian jurist and statesman, at the
Second Peace Conference of the Hague in 1907, remains
fully valid. In discussing the composition of the Permanent
Court of Arbitration he stressed that if certain proposals
were to prevail, then:
"The great Powers would no longer be more formidable
only as a result of the strength of their armies or of
their fleets. They would also enjoy a superior legal
status in the international judicial forum, thus claiming
a privileged situation in the very institution to which
the administration of justice among nations is to be
entrusted."
The international order we seek to build rests also on
a third pillar, that of disarmament. Brazil, along with its
neighbours and partners in Latin America, particularly
Argentina, has been making an important contribution to
advancing disarmament and international security.
The revision of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, the
establishment and work of the Brazil-Argentina Agency for
Accounting and Control of Nuclear Material (ABACC) and
the Quadripartite Agreement on International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) Safeguards, which have just been approved
by the Brazilian Chamber of Deputies, thus meeting an
important requirement for ratification, provide the
international community with the guarantees of our
commitment to the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
We reaffirm our support for the non-proliferation, in all
its forms, of weapons of mass destruction. In relation to
chemical weapons, we, with Chile and Argentina, have
already signed the Mendoza Declaration in which we
solemnly renounced the possession and production of such
weapons. We were equally active participants in the process
that led to the adoption of the Convention on the Prohibition
of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of
Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, signed in Paris
early this year.
We are gratified by the current observance, although on
a somewhat fragile basis, of a moratorium on nuclear tests.
We hope that the climate resulting from this moratorium will
bring forth the early conclusion, through multilateral
negotiations, of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty.
Brazil, as is well known, has been participating in a
clearly positive and transparent way in the process of
establishing the United Nations Register of Conventional
Arms.
Brazil’s experience in the field of peace-building and
confidence-building is noteworthy. Brazil shares almost
17,000 kilometres of land borders with 10 different
neighbouring countries. No other nation has had
uninterrupted relations of peace and cooperation for so long
and with so many neighbouring States. Very few countries
spend as little on arms - as a percentage of national product -
as Brazil.
At the same time Brazil does not renounce its right to
maintain, in good harmony with its neighbours and partners,
an adequate and legitimate defence capacity. Nor does it
renounce its right to have access to technology necessary for
the well-being of the Brazilian people.
By undertaking firm and unambiguous commitments in
the field of non-proliferation and disarmament, Brazil
believes it is entitled to expect from its more developed
partners unimpeded access to high technology, if necessary
on a commercial basis.
Recent history gives proof that, despite persistent and
serious shortcomings, United Nations peace-keeping
operations are important for overcoming situations of
conflict, some of which are quite old, complex and delicate.
The need for an improved conceptual framework for peace-
keeping operations must be kept under constant review by
the General Assembly. It is expected that the United
Nations will contribute with sober effectiveness to
maintaining peace and security wherever they may be
threatened. Brazil currently participates with a significant
contingent of military observers in United Nations peace-
keeping efforts. We intend to expand our presence in this
field and we are actively examining ways and means to do
this.
Within that context it is essential to rectify the serious
political and strategic mistake of envisaging the South as an
area of international instability. Quite the contrary, various
regions such as Latin America provide examples of stable
relations of cooperation based on mutual trust, as illustrated
by the vigorous processes of Latin American integration
which, far beyond their mercantile aspects, are the material
expression of a political project aimed at international
cooperation and solidarity. Such processes, including that of
the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR), are in
stark contrast with the trends of fragmentation seen in other
parts of the world.
Yet another clear demonstration of the potential for
cooperation is taking shape in the Community of Portuguese-
Speaking Countries. Far more than a means of expression,
"lusiphonia" is the hallmark of a frame of mind, a form of
being, a way of life predicated on tolerance and open
relations among different peoples.
The Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South
Atlantic reinforces our links to sister nations in Africa. The
enhancement of political and economic relations within the
Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic is a
goal towards which we are determined to work, having
regard, among other issues, to the constitution of a vast area
free of the nuclear threat. We furthermore expect to have
the pleasure of celebrating the full admission to the South
Atlantic community of a democratic and united South Africa,
free forever from the scourge of racism.
The historic speech delivered by Mr. Nelson Mandela
just a few days ago from this same rostrum warrants the
expectation and confirms the idea that in spite of remaining
obstacles the process of democratization in South Africa is
now irreversible.
We are forced to admit that serious areas of tension
continue to exist in the world. By virtue of our historical
ties of friendship, cooperation and cultural kinship with
Angola, the situation in that country is of particular concern
to us. The international community, through the United
Nations, has a fundamental role to play in the defence of
democracy in Angola and in the utter rejection of the use of
force as a means of achieving political gains. Peace must
prevail in Angola in full compliance with the Bicesse
Accords and all the relevant resolutions of the Security
Council.
We remain gravely concerned about the situation of
human rights and democracy in Haiti. The prospect for a
prompt solution to the crisis in that country is high on our
agenda. We look forward to the return of President Jean-
Bertrand Aristide on 30 October.
The restoration of peace in the former Yugoslavia is a
priority for the international community in order to bring to
an end the suffering of the populations involved in that
conflict. A willingness to achieve agreements acceptable to
all parties must prevail in Geneva, as in the capitals of the
former federation. That willingness alone can enable the
United Nations to play its irreplaceable role in bringing
peace to that region.
Our example, and our response to these challenges, will
frame the future order to which we all aspire: an order that
is democratic, stable, disarmed and committed to the
material and spiritual development of all nations.
The humanistic vision that inspires us was forcefully
expressed by a Brazilian poet and diplomat,
João Cabral de Melo Neto, in these words:
"Learn this: that man is the best measure always,
And more: that life, not death, is the measure of man."


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====
It is with great pleasure
that I present my compliments to you, Mr. Amara Essy,
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Côte
d’Ivoire, and congratulate you on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its current session.
I would also like to extend my recognition to
Ambassador Samuel Insanally, who, as President of the
Assembly at its forty-eighth session, dignified not only his
own country, Guyana, but all the countries of the Amazon
and South American region as well. I also greet the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to whom
I convey my gratitude for the tireless efforts he has been
undertaking at the head of this Organization.
The close of this century is marked by the force of
transformation. In the last few years there has been
prodigious change. This has been of such a radical nature
that we could, like Hamlet, say that "The time is out of
joint" (Shakespeare, Hamlet, Act I, scene v). The process
has been so fascinating that some have deluded
themselves with the fantasy that the future is already
under control. That is not the case. Transformation does
not have a fixed, inexorable course. We must not allow
ourselves to be enticed by hasty interpretations or by
mere appearances. It is our responsibility to give
meaning to change and to guide trends in accordance with
the greater interests of the world community.
1


It will be five years next November since the Berlin
Wall crumbled. That period is sufficient for evaluating the
distances that have been covered and, above all, for
charting a course that will lead us to a safe harbour. The
cold war took place under the sign of denial, a situation
reflected even in the language that marked the period. The
expressions that identified and explained almost 40 years of
tense relationships denoted confrontation, exclusion or, at
best, uncomfortable coexistence of opposites. The
catchphrases of the day were "iron curtain", "containment"
and "balance of terror".
Today we are in the midst of transition. Taking stock
of these last few years, we can say that the results, though
tenuous and imperfect, are positive. The cause of peace
has made significant headway. Nuclear war has ceased to
be an impending threat. Conflicts which many of us judged
insoluble either have been or are in the process of being
settled through dialogue and negotiation. In southern
Africa and in the Middle East, steps of historic significance
have been taken toward a more just and a more peaceful
world. In Central America and in South-East Asia,
progress is tangible. Throughout the greater part of our
planet, the logic of confrontation is giving way to the logic
of cooperation.
It is that very logic that we wish to see firmly
established in our own region. Peace and fraternity are
Latin America’s vocation. We have been striving to bring
the sister Republic of Cuba fully into the inter-American
and international fold by means of a policy of outstretched
hands, of dialogue and of rapprochement. Political,
economic and commercial isolation, apart from being
unjustifiable, only contributes to aggravating the hardship
endured by the Cuban people at a time when we perceive
positive indications of democratic reform and of
reconciliation. Here too the stasis of confrontation must
give way to the dynamics of dialogue, putting to rest this
remnant of the cold war.
Given a set of entirely different characteristics, we are
equally interested in promoting a lasting solution to the
Haitian crisis, the return to office of President Jean-
Bertrand Aristide, and national reconciliation. The
diplomatic efforts of the international community, which we
firmly support, must have as their point of reference the
prompt removal of the de facto authorities by peaceful
means - the only means to avoid even greater suffering for
the Haitian people. We consider it disturbing that the
principles of non-intervention and self-determination are the
object of interpretations that are incompatible with the
charters of the United Nations and of the Organization of
American States. The gravity of the Haitian crisis and
the urgency of the need to solve it do not make us unable
to see the inherent risks of a situation that evokes traumas
and scars that are still very vivid in the memory of Latin
America. Once the legitimate Government is re-
established, it will be the responsibility of the
international community to provide Haiti with assistance
in the daunting task of national reconstruction.
We are still far from universal peace. Conflicts of
enormous cruelty shock the world and are the cause of
unspeakable suffering for millions of human beings.
Rwanda and Bosnia and Herzegovina are emblematic
tragedies of our times. The scenes of horror shown by
the media attest to the difficulty of finding effective
solutions to the imbalances which challenge all peoples.
The intensification of migratory flows toward developed
countries has been accompanied by an exacerbation of
xenophobia and racial discrimination.
Critical situations continue to challenge the
international community’s ability to ensure peace and
harmony. In Angola, a country so closely linked to
Brazil by historic and cultural ties, we witness with pain
and indignation the prolongation of a conflict that is the
longest and most devastating civil war today. We are
encouraged by the prospects that the negotiations under
way in Lusaka between the Government of Angola and
UNITA may be promptly concluded. In paying a tribute
to President José Eduardo dos Santos for his political
conduct, we urge UNITA to demonstrate a real
commitment to stability and peace in the country, and we
call upon all those with an influence on the Angolan
crisis to do likewise.
We welcome the progress achieved in Mozambique.
The process of national reconciliation will culminate in
the general elections to be held next October, when the
people of Mozambique will be able to choose, in free and
fair elections, the government that will lead the country
in this new era of its history. President Joaquim Chissano
has played a central role in this process. Brazil takes
pride in the fact that Brazilian troops are participating,
through the United Nations Operation in Mozambique
(ONUMOZ), in the reconstruction of Mozambique.
In the case of East Timor, we have also noted
positive signals in the negotiating process promoted by
the Secretary-General, to whom we pay a tribute.
Democracy and the values associated with it are the
greatest conquest of our time. We are experiencing an
2


ethical revolution. The concern with human rights gains
universality alongside a growing awareness of the
imperative of public probity. The international context has
ceased to be the exclusive domain of the raison d’état and
has acquired a more human dimension directed to the
welfare of the individual.
In the economic and commercial sphere, recent
developments are also positive. After eight years of
difficult negotiations within the Uruguay Round of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), we
adopted the Marrakesh agreements. The World Trade
Organization (WTO) will open up new and promising
outlooks for the economic relationship among nations.
Unilateralism and protectionism, derived from parochial
interests, will lose any semblance of legitimacy.
The effective progress achieved cannot obscure the
fact that there are challenges that continue to demand firm
resolve from the international community.
The fundamental rights of individuals, despite having
been incorporated into the realm of universally recognized
values, still demand the firm and decided support of all
those who believe in them.
The social conditions of the majority of the world’s
population continue to deteriorate. In the last 20 years, the
gap has widened between rich and poor nations, between
the millions of people who are adequately fed and educated
and have a surplus for leisure and the billions who are
struggling for survival. The pressures for migration toward
the developed North and the many conflicts of the
impoverished South are two sides of the same coin. Youth,
in particular, continues to be a victim of deprivation and of
a lack of prospects in most of the world.
The globalization of the economy and the
strengthening of free trade have yet to demonstrate in
practice their undeniable potential as factors of growth and
well-being. Lingering protectionism, now draped in new
colours, resists the assault of economic rationality. The
positive impact of the Marrakesh agreements is under
substantial threat from new conditionalities that will have
a restrictive effect on the flows of international trade.
Issues that are in themselves legitimate, such as the
protection of the environment and universally accepted
labour standards, cannot and should not serve as pretexts
for even greater barriers to the access of goods produced in
poor countries to the markets of wealthier nations. The
cost of readjustment of the most prosperous economies
cannot be shunted onto the shoulders of those who
possess little or nothing.
The mastery of technology is a major watershed
between industrialized and developing countries. The
difficulties in access to advanced technologies are an
obstacle to overcoming the disadvantages of developing
countries, reducing their competitiveness and creating
barriers to the transformation of productive processes.
The new international division of labour cannot re-enact
past formulas that have proved to be inefficient. The
competitive integration of developing countries into the
world economy must build upon dynamic comparative
advantages, not static ones, with an increasing integration
of knowledge into the productive process. Alongside the
indispensable internal efforts of each country, such a
qualitative leap requires an international environment
based on cooperation.
In order to consolidate peace and ensure that the
progress already achieved shall be irreversible, we must
be able to develop a vision for our future, an attainable
and forward-looking Utopia. Brazil is convinced that a
truly new order must be based on a pluralistic and
democratic perspective on international relations.
We do not contend unrealistically that States and
other international players will refrain from affirming
their specific and often conflicting interests. The fact is
that we all stand to gain, and our interests will be better
served, once the basic aspirations of the great majority
have been reasonably satisfied.
Interdependence must be understood in an integrated
way, and not merely as the expression of a market-
economy phenomenon. It presupposes the political ability
to act in coordination with others toward the fulfilment of
objectives shared by all mankind. In an interdependent
world the improvement of living conditions in a poor
country may have an impact on the creation of jobs in a
developed nation. The integration of those that are
excluded and the promotion of participation by all in
world affairs is not only a moral obligation, but, first and
foremost, a demonstration of lucid judgement.
The fundamental commitment to development is the
cornerstone of the order to which Brazil aspires. This
concept has the advantage of encompassing the essential
needs of all nations, large and small, rich and poor.
Development reinforces freedom, invests the dignity of
man with a concrete dimension, stresses efficiency,
3


promotes stability and enhances democracy. Development
builds peace.
The promotion of development stands to benefit from
the lessons of the past. We must formulate a concept of
development that recognizes each country as the main actor
in creating its own prosperity, while incorporating the
various features of its international dimension in the fields
of trade, investment and flows of technology.
A renewed international effort in favour of
development will be successful only under an active and
mutually advantageous partnership between the countries of
the North and those of the South. Advancement of the
interests of the richer nations requires their involvement in
efforts to overcome the backwardness of the less
prosperous. To hold the opposite view would be
tantamount to believing that a fire in our neighbour’s house
cannot reach over the fence into our own. In short, it is an
absurdity the price of which even the wealthiest cannot
afford.
The nations of the world have a fundamental role to
play in the construction of an open and equitable
international system.
We must undertake a profound reformulation of the
United Nations performance in promoting development. No
other task under the United Nations mandate will more
adequately support and promote peace and establish a just
and stable order.
We must avoid the crystallization of an undesirable
division of labour between the United Nations on the one
hand and the Bretton Woods institutions on the other.
Peace and development constitute an indivisible whole and
must support each other. This great forum cannot be kept
outside decisions on matters arising from objectives
inscribed in its very Charter.
These concerns have been at the root of the launching
of the Agenda for Development, in which Brazilian
diplomacy has been deeply involved.
Several United Nations Conferences, some having
already taken place, others yet to come, are significantly
contributing to shedding light upon the need for a
comprehensive and coordinated consideration of the
development issue. In one way or another, development
was a central concern, or will continue to be so, in Rio de
Janeiro at the Conference on Environment and
Development, in Vienna at the Conference on Human
Rights, and in Cairo at the Conference on Population and
Development, and it will continue to be so in the
forthcoming meetings in Copenhagen on Social
Development, and in Beijing, on Women. Awareness of
the fact that the decisions reached at these encounters will
produce effective results only if all these issues are
examined in an integrated fashion is becoming
increasingly firm and universal.
With a view to fostering a debate on all such issues
in a wider conceptual framework, the Brazilian
Government proposes the convening of a United Nations
conference on development, possibly in 1996, which
would seek to synthesize the initiatives and programmes
designed to promote human dignity and well-being.
Democracy should be the rule for political relations
within and among States. To bring democracy into
politics and international relations is a goal which can be
turned into reality. The strengthening of the role of the
General Assembly and the expansion of the Security
Council, with the participation of developing countries in
all member categories are important and necessary steps
on the road to democratization and greater legitimacy.
Like other Member States, we favour a reform of the
Security Council that will increase its effectiveness. We
understand that such effectiveness will be ensured only by
a composition truly representative of the world
community. At the beginning of this month the Heads of
State and Government of the 14 nations from Latin
America and the Caribbean which form the Group of Rio
met in Rio de Janeiro and stated that
"in accordance with their legal tradition and their
contribution to the cause of peace, the Latin
American and Caribbean region must be included in
any expansion of the Security Council".
Brazil has participated actively in the debate on the
expansion of the Security Council. We have clearly
stated our readiness to assume all responsibilities required
of countries eligible to occupy permanent seats.
Elected to the Security Council for the current
period, Brazil has lived up to its responsibilities. We
have based our positions on respect for principles such as
non-intervention, as well as on the sovereignty and
territorial integrity of States; we have consistently
favoured peaceful and negotiated solutions to conflicts, as
well as consensus; we have stood by the rule of law in
safeguarding the international public order; we have risen
4


in defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms; and
we have increasingly participated in peace-keeping
operations in several regions of the globe.
As part of Latin America, we are proud of sharing its
long history of peace. Latin America is the least armed
region of the world and the only one to have become, by
virtue of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, definitively free from
nuclear weapons. Cuba’s adherence to the Treaty,
announced in a letter from President Fidel Castro to
President Itamar Franco - in response to a Brazilian
initiative - has brought this process to a conclusion.
Latin America has been a factor of international
stability in a turbulent world. Our legal tradition, built
through decades of efforts to regulate inter-American
relations, represents a relevant contribution to the
international community. As pioneers in the promotion of
disarmament, we feel entitled to seek equivalent gestures
from the entire international community, and in particular
from the nuclear-weapon States. In this context, we
attribute special significance to the prompt adoption,
through multilaterally negotiated commitments, of effective
measures to reduce, and not merely control, their arsenals,
including sensitive nuclear material such as plutonium. It
is likewise imperative that negotiations on a comprehensive
test-ban treaty be successfully concluded, leading to
signature.
Brazil is ready to join in the construction of a new
international agenda based on universal participation and
cooperation for peace and development.
This readiness derives from our own identity. We are
a pluralist and open society, having emerged from the
meeting of different cultures and ways of life, which in turn
produced a new culture and way of life, founded on
tolerance and understanding. We enjoy peacefully defined
borders with 10 neighbouring countries, and an absence of
conflicts for more than 120 years.
Forged through dialogue, conciliation and peaceful
reform, Brazilian society is experiencing a moment of
intense democratic affirmation under the leadership of
President Itamar Franco. In a few days we shall be holding
the largest elections in our country’s history. Nearly 100
million voters will cast their ballots, in an atmosphere of
absolute freedom, to choose their representatives in the
executive and legislative branches at the State and federal
levels from as many as 35,000 candidates.
Ours is one of the most diversified economies in the
southern hemisphere. As we head toward economic
stability, with a strong currency, conditions become
favourable for the resumption of a sustained process of
economic growth which will undoubtedly place Brazil
once again among the most dynamic economies in the
world.
We have made important advances in increasing the
exposure of our economy to world trade. As of next
January, we will have brought into force a common
external tariff, along with Argentina, Paraguay and
Uruguay, and will have consolidated a Customs Union
capable of generating growth and prosperity, one of the
first customs unions among developing countries. The
interest expressed by other South American countries in
joining MERCOSUR - Common Market of the South -
provides ample proof that the vision of a South American
free trade area is gradually materializing. These
accomplishments represent a telling example of the
enterprising capacity of Latin American nations, and
constitute a fundamental step toward a harmonious and
integrated South America.
Our efforts in developing political and economic
cooperation go well beyond Latin America. In line with
the universal inspiration of our diplomacy, we have set
out to reinforce the ties that associate us to friendly
nations in all regions of the globe, as well as to expand
into new and important political and commercial
partnerships. Such actions range from the intensification
of traditional relations within our hemisphere and with
industrialized countries to new and creative formulas for
cooperating with countries in Africa, Asia and the Middle
East. In all cases, we have tried to raise the dialogue to
increasingly higher levels and, in many instances, have
succeeded in establishing dynamic and privileged
relationships.
The ties between Brazil and African nations have
been strengthened through the action taken to give
structure to the community of Portuguese-speaking
countries. This new and important forum will unite our
brothers and sisters on different continents and lead to
even greater understanding and cooperation.
Beginning in the South Atlantic which we share, we
intend to expand the horizons of cooperation between
America and Africa, with the added strength, in the
political and moral spheres, brought about by the election
of Nelson Mandela in the new South Africa.
5


The zone of peace and cooperation of the South
Atlantic will transform this area into a zone free of nuclear
weapons, constituting an example of solidarity and
brotherhood between two continents. With this objective in
mind, the 24 countries that make up this forum have just
met in Brasilia, with very encouraging results for friendship
between Africa and South America.
Brazil desires for itself what it desires for each and
every other nation. We know that there can be no
happiness and prosperity in the midst of strife and
misfortune. Together with the family of nations, Brazil,
which does not countenance any form of hegemony, seeks
to move forward in a spirit of confidence toward the
creation of a world order responsive to the aspirations for
democracy, stability, disarmament and respect for the
sovereignty of States and a world order committed to
development.


===== Session 50 - 1995 =====

It gives me
great pleasure to make use of our common language to
congratulate you, Sir, on your election. We are honoured
to see a Portuguese statesman, a friend of Brazil, and a
representative of our commonwealth of Portuguese-
speaking countries presiding over this session of the
General Assembly, a session that is bound to become a
milestone in the history of the United Nations. My
Government is confident that, under your skilled
guidance, our deliberations will forge the kind of
understanding and commitment capable of asserting the
credibility and pre-eminence of our Organization in world
affairs.
Let me also express our heartfelt appreciation to
another friend of Brazil, Minister Amara Essy of Côte
d’Ivoire, for his outstanding work at the helm of the
forty-ninth session of the General Assembly.
(spoke in English)
I wish to congratulate the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and the Secretariat for their
continued dedication to the United Nations and for their
relentless work in carrying out their duties to the
international community.
In opening this debate today, Brazil wishes to renew
its unwavering commitment to the principles and purposes
embodied in the Charter of the United Nations. These
principles and purposes set a mandate for peace and


development, and are as relevant today as they were 50
years ago. They coincide entirely with the aspirations of
Brazilian society. Our Constitution reflects them as the
supreme values of our political and social life in
democracy.
I am proud to address the Assembly as the
representative of a country that has widened its
commitments to democracy and human rights, to
sustainable development with economic stability, to peace
and disarmament — a country at peace with itself,
constantly striving to extend its presence in the world by
strengthening traditional partnerships and fostering new
ones. We expect from our partners an attitude of
cooperation commensurate with Brazil’s growing
participation in world markets and with its contribution to
international peace and security.
Democracy in Brazil continues to show extraordinary
vitality under the leadership of President Fernando Henrique
Cardoso. Our institutional framework is being strengthened,
and progress in the social sphere is generating a renewed
sense of citizenship among Brazilians.
While strictly enforcing existing mechanisms,
President Cardoso is proposing legislation that will ensure
the full observance of human rights. Both at home and
abroad, Brazil’s human rights policies are based on
transparency and full cooperation with civil society.
Together with strong governmental action to tackle the
country’s social problems, measures to promote and protect
human rights will greatly contribute to redress the unjust
distribution of wealth that unfortunately still prevails in
Brazil.
Long-needed structural reforms and privatization are
being carried out, paving the way for the consolidation of
economic stability and sustained economic growth.
Brazil has achieved a high degree of economic
openness, thus accelerating its integration into the
international economy and creating more favourable
conditions for increased participation in international trade,
technology transfers and productive capital flows. Inflation
has been reduced to the lowest level in a quarter of a
century, allowing the country to pursue policies that benefit
the poor and the underprivileged.
We are also engaged in a broad and dynamic process
of open economic integration with our neighbours, adding
economic substance to the political harmony that we enjoy
in our region. MERCOSUR — a customs union bringing
together Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay — is
a highly successful political and economic reality, a
partner ready for business and cooperation with all
countries and regions.
Brazil has taken significant steps to further
strengthen its commitments to disarmament and to the
non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
President Cardoso publicly stated that Brazil has forgone
the development, acquisition and export of long-range
military missiles. Congress is about to approve the
Chemical Weapons Convention, and comprehensive
legislation on export controls of dual-use technology is
being finalized. Having decided unilaterally to abide by
the Missile Technology Control Regime’s guidelines, the
Brazilian Government is currently discussing its
participation in the regime.
Brazil’s commitment to peace and understanding was
clearly illustrated by its recent role, alongside the other
three Guarantor countries of the Rio de Janeiro Protocol,
in bringing together two friendly nations in our region —
Ecuador and Peru.
Brazilian forces are actively participating in various
United Nations peace-keeping efforts, particularly in
Angola, a country that shares with Brazil a common
heritage and is finally on the verge of healing the wounds
inflicted by years of internal strife. We are also proud of
the role played by our Government and our forces in the
peaceful transition to an elected government in
Mozambique.
After too many years of difficulties, Brazilians have
recovered their pride. The country has entered a cycle of
long-term growth and greater long-term opportunities, an
era of optimism and confidence. It is in this spirit that
Brazilian diplomacy is prepared to approach the world
and to work within the United Nations.
As I reflect upon the events that have taken place
over this past year, I am tempted to say that
“it was the best of times; it was the worst of times”.
It has been a time for legitimate hope, but also a
time of fear and horror; a time for accomplishments, but
also a time of frustration; a time for confidence in a
brighter future for mankind, but also a time of regret for
the fact that peace, freedom, justice and well-being are
still unattained in many places in the world; a time in
which risks and opportunities coexist side by side.
2


Current patterns in international affairs converge on
the twin concepts that inspired the revolution of the 1990s:
democracy and economic freedom with social justice. This
is the main thrust that will shape the coming century and
ensure liberty and prosperity for all.
The very concept of power has changed. A country’s
sovereignty and its capacity to satisfy the needs of its
people depend increasingly on good social indicators,
political stability, economic competitiveness, and scientific
and technological progress, not on military strength. It is
now widely understood that the fulfilment of national pride
lies in democracy, development, trade and economic wealth,
rather than in the quest for hegemony or territorial gains.
A new era of freedom is at hand. Countries are
peacefully seeking their place in their regions and in the
world, helping in the creation of wealth through trade and
cooperation. Emerging economies have become a
significant force around the world, benefiting from
globalization, greater economic freedom and the continued
growth of international trade. Economic integration has led
to stronger regional ties.
Reconstruction and enhanced participation in
international affairs are seen in many parts of the world,
just as others continue to prosper and grow in peace. New
or renewed partnerships have emerged in the five
continents.
The Middle East is finally following the path of
dialogue and understanding, through a peace process that
we firmly support and encourage. Angola and Mozambique
are the new promises of southern Africa, furthering regional
peace and conciliation as the South Africans have done.
Latin America, and in particular the Southern Cone
countries, has continued to show vitality both at the
political level, with democracy fully at work, and at the
economic level, with freedom and openness leading to the
resumption of growth and the expansion of trade.
The United Nations has kept its role in the
maintenance of international peace and security. A broader
agenda for the remainder of this century is under
consideration. Positive initiatives are under way to ensure
that the Organization is capable of more effectively
promoting peace and development. Reform of the system is
also due to make it more responsive to the challenges that
lie ahead.
The promotion of civil liberties and the quest for
equal rights among women and men, minorities and
majorities, weak and strong are shaping the debate,
guiding action and strengthening citizenship all over the
world.
These are indeed times of positive change. But even
as one celebrates these positive trends, one is painfully
aware of the manifold threats posed by the persistence of
poverty and violence in many areas of the world. The
images of the former Yugoslavia are living proof of past
failures and present challenges and misperceptions. They
remind us of how much needs to be done to fulfil the
promises embodied in the United Nations Charter.
Extreme poverty and unemployment emerge as
perhaps the most pervasive of the international issues,
affecting developed and developing countries alike,
corroding the social fabric while fostering extremism on
the part of individuals and engendering short-sighted
solutions on the part of governments.
Terrorism, drug trafficking, organized crime,
xenophobia and racism, ethnic cleansing, religious
fanaticism and intolerance, and persistent violations of
basic human rights continue to afflict millions of human
beings. Misguided economic policies, financial
speculation and the volatility of capital flows threaten
markets on a global scale. Emerging economies, striving
to consolidate stability and the resumption of growth
while dealing with variables such as interest rates and
commodity prices, have become increasingly vulnerable.
Disarmament continues to be an elusive goal. The
promises heralded by the end of the cold war seem to
have vanished in a cloud of vague excuses. The so-called
peace dividends have yet to materialize. The world is
theoretically less threatening and dangerous.
Competitiveness, technological capability, economic
strength and social indicators have become the standards
of national power. Yet, more positive moves in
disarmament and non-proliferation have been offset by
anachronistic economic practices and irresponsible
military endeavours.
Some countries continue to seek military strength
and strategic power. Even as commitment to
non-proliferation and support for nuclear disarmament
gain ground in Latin America, Africa and parts of Asia,
nuclear tests painfully remind us of the threats and
horrors that haunted the collective imagination during the
cold-war years. Besides endangering the environment they
3


encourage the resumption of a purposeless arms race in
various parts of the world.
Nuclear testing undermines efforts towards
disarmament and jeopardizes the conclusion of a
comprehensive nuclear-test ban. Instead of helping the
international community strengthen collective security
mechanisms, certain countries persist in testing and
improving their nuclear arsenals. We deplore it.
So where does the United Nations stand in the current
international scene? How can it deal with the conflicting
and ambivalent forces operating in the world today? Where
does its responsibility begin and where does it end? What
can we do to realize the vision of our founding fathers?
These are some of the questions that come to mind as we
prepare to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of our
Organization.
It is certainly true that the Organization may have
seemed at times to be overwhelmed by the challenges
before it. But it is also true that the shortcomings over these
past 50 years would have been greater had it not been for
the United Nations, a universal conscience, an instrument
for peace and understanding, as no other instrument has
ever been, with a moral authority that the peoples of the
world have learned to recognize and support.
In 1941 when the United Nations was but a distant
dream overcast by war, Franklin Delano Roosevelt defined
the four freedoms upon which a true community of nations
should be built. They were — and I find it useful to recall
Roosevelt’s own inspiring words — the freedom of speech
and expression; the freedom of every person to worship
God in his own way; the freedom from want, which
“translated into world terms, means economic
understandings which will secure to every nation a
healthy peace time life for its inhabitants”;
and the freedom from fear, which
“translated into world terms, means a world-wide
reduction of armaments to such a point and in such a
thorough fashion that no nation will be in a position
to commit an act of physical aggression against any
neighbor”.
Providing mankind with these four freedoms was the
challenge that ultimately gave birth to the United Nations.
Yet, these four freedoms are still largely unattained. They
remain an inspiration and a goal.
In the past 50 years, the nations of the world have
used this podium to voice their hopes and concerns and
to express their feelings about a true international
partnership based on peace and prosperity. The United
Nations has undoubtedly represented a call for consensus,
a moral and ethic force, a promoter of political will and
action, a substitute for confrontation and dispute.
The time has come for us to carefully assess the
achievements and shortcomings of the United Nations in
order to set the course for the next half-century. The time
has come for us to create the conditions for the United
Nations of the twenty-first century.
In the aftermath of the Second World War the idea
of an international body such as the United Nations may
have seemed utopian, especially in the light of the failure
of the League of Nations and of the tragedies and crimes
that resulted from the pursuit of power politics, the kind
of politics that led the world into war and its horrors.
While avoiding utopianism, the United Nations was
designed to provide actual instruments of diplomatic
interaction capable of replacing power politics by ethical
values and of promoting conflict prevention and conflict
resolution through negotiation and dialogue.
With a pledge to peace and security on the one hand
and to development on the other, the United Nations
helped to write important chapters of contemporary
history, such as the building of a new pattern of
relationship between developed and developing countries,
the search for development, disarmament, the protection
of human rights and human dignity, decolonization, the
struggle against apartheid and the condemnation of
tyranny and oppression.
In this process important organizations such as the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), and decisive forums such as the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development
(UNCED), and the several other United Nations
conferences dedicated to global issues, have played a
paramount role. In these forums we have enhanced
commitments in the areas of cooperation for development,
the law of the sea, the rights of children, the environment
and sustainable development, human rights, population,
social development and the rights of women.
We have certainly accomplished one part of our
dreams. So why not set our eyes on further
accomplishments? We look at the recent past and find the
4


United Nations at the centre of the most important
international events. Even when its action has been
constrained by circumstances, the United Nations always
displayed moral strength. We look at the present and we
see a United Nations limited by its structure, struggling
very hard to take advantage of its own experience to adapt
to changing world realities in order to remain the foremost
international force.
And so Brazil confidently looks to the future. Peace
and development in the years to come will depend largely
on our capacity to renew and reform the United Nations. In
institutions, as in human beings, reassessment and reform
are a sign of vitality, of maturity, of responsibility. As
Brazil has already pointed out a normative gap has opened
up between some of the provisions of the Charter and the
realities of today’s world.
The fact is that most of the structures of the United
Nations remain those crafted 50 years ago. Back then, the
world was entering a new phase of power politics and
confrontation that no longer applies. The membership of the
United Nations was less than one third of what it is today.
The concept of development was not at the core of an
international agenda. Significant players in the developed
and in the developing world had yet to achieve the
influential role they have today.
New realities demand innovative solutions. Greater
expectations require stronger commitments. Nothing is more
emblematic of the need to bring the United Nations into
line with the realities of the post-cold-war world than the
reform of the Security Council. As a catalyst for other
much-needed reforms within the United Nations system,
reform of the Security Council is an imperative that should
no longer be put off.
In order to carry out its mandate in the field of
international peace and security on behalf of all Member
States, the Security Council must have unquestionable
legitimacy. As is well known, legitimacy ultimately rests on
representativeness.
Reform cannot entail a wholesale or indiscriminate
enlargement of the Security Council, much less an
insufficient one predicated on the convenience of a limited
number of States. Above all, it will be essential to ensure
a more equitable representation of developed and
developing countries with both the capacity to act and an
effective presence on a global scale.
The emergence of new economic powers and of a
number of developing countries with global projection has
significantly altered the dynamics of world politics. These
players have come to the forefront of the international
scene and should be present in the core group of
permanent members, so that the Council’s composition
becomes more balanced and better reflects the diversity of
world views.
A qualitative increase in the number of permanent
members of the Security Council, together with an
enlargement of the non-permanent membership, would
correspond to the necessity of making it more
authoritative and efficient in carrying out its increased
responsibilities in the post-cold-war era.
Reform is not about the individual prestige of any
country but about the prestige of the Security Council
itself. Brazil, for its part, is ready to assume its
responsibilities in this endeavour.
The same attention that is being given to improving
the United Nations performance in the area of peace and
security must be given to efforts in the area of
strengthening international cooperation for development.
Poverty and unemployment both in industrialized and in
developing nations, economic instability and misguided
economic policies affecting individual countries, as well
as the persistence or the rise of various forms of
protectionism, are factors that adversely affect sustained
growth worldwide. These are issues that must be accorded
high priority.
Unemployment cannot be used as a pretext that will
ultimately lead to protectionism directed mainly against
the developing countries. There is no use in trying to
alleviate unemployment by accusing other people, by
creating new forms of disguised protectionism, by putting
a new strain on international relations. We must
strengthen the role of the World Trade Organization as
the mainstay of an open and non-discriminatory
multilateral trade system. We must promote a broader
coordination of macroeconomic policies and foster
regional economic integration, and provide better and
more effective cooperation in the areas of health,
sanitation, education, the administration of justice and
other areas of great social impact. We must widen the
decision-making circles in order to include countries
whose contribution to these objectives can be
instrumental.
5


The United Nations should be able to ensure
implementation of the commitments reached at the highest
level at the United Nations Conference on the Environment
and Development, for much needs to be done to fulfil the
promises that were made in Rio de Janeiro regarding
international cooperation for sustainable development. The
same kind of follow-up should apply to the commitments
reached at subsequent international conferences on global
issues.
These are the main goals to be achieved by a reform
of the United Nations institutions that directly or indirectly
deal with the issue of sustainable development. We firmly
believe that a broad vision of reform of the United Nations
institutions will lead to an improved, more efficient and
revitalized Organization. For, as once stated in this very
forum by a distinguished Brazilian statesman, Oswaldo
Aranha, who presided over the first special session of the
General Assembly, in 1947:
“Above all, it is within our power to make the United
Nations the sum total of justice, security and peace, or
through our lack of wisdom to allow it to be
transformed into one more sword to be wielded
blindly by force and instinct.” (Official Records of the
General Assembly, First Special Session, 68th plenary
meeting, pp. 3 and 4)
The United Nations will stand as the greatest symbol
of the twentieth century as long as it is able to keep its
vitality and effectively promote peace and development.
Brazil is also committed to peace and democracy and
believes that if all peoples of the world are free to express
their ideas and to build their own destinies, democracy will
be strengthened and will continue to serve the purpose of
development and social justice. Brazil is also committed to,
and knows that development depends on, an international
environment of peace, cooperation and economic freedom.
As our Heads of State and Government prepare to
gather in New York in October to celebrate the
accomplishments of our Organization, let us hasten to
create the necessary conditions for them to build for the
future with the same impetus and boldness that inspired the
international community 50 years ago. Let us make sure
that through our unfaltering commitment and our timely
action the United Nations will emerge stronger from the
fiftieth session of the General Assembly.


===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
﻿Please accept my
congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session. The Brazilian
delegation is confident that, under your leadership, this
body will find new strength in the pursuit of the
principles and purposes of our Charter.
I also wish to pay tribute to my dear friend, Mr.
Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the dedication with which
he conducted the historic fiftieth session. We are grateful
for his steadfast commitment to ensuring that our work
was consistent with the high expectations of the fiftieth
anniversary celebrations.
My delegation extends a word of gratitude and
recognition to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali,
for the perseverance he has shown in carrying out his
tasks.
For the first time, Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde,
Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal and Sao Tome and
Principe come to the General Assembly as members of
the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, a body
dedicated to cooperation and political coordination. The
member States of the Community intend to consult and to
work closely together at the United Nations with a view
to better promoting their common interests and fostering
their linguistic, cultural and historical identity.
The countries of the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR) — Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and
Uruguay — have also come to the General Assembly


with an enhanced sense of unity. MERCOSUR gives living
and concrete expression to economic integration and open
regionalism and represents one of the creative forces at
work in the Americas. It is a new and striking feature of
our continent’s identity and a reflection of democracy and
the commitment to economic reform in our region.
With the customs union firmly in place, Chile has now
joined MERCOSUR as an associated State by means of a
free-trade agreement with far-reaching political and
diplomatic implications. Bolivia will also shortly associate
itself with MERCOSUR. We look forward to other
countries’ of the region joining as well to further bolster the
dynamic and open nature of MERCOSUR.
Now firmly rooted in the process of expanding and
acting as an important partner of a growing number of
countries and regional groups, MERCOSUR is a positive
response by South American countries to the challenges and
opportunities of today’s world. Such achievements as
MERCOSUR and the Community of Portuguese-speaking
Countries enhance their credentials and help to make the
presence of those countries in the world an instrument for
economic development and social progress.
My country comes to this General Assembly proud to
present itself before the international community with a
stronger presence in the world. Brazil owes this to the
consolidation of its democracy, to economic stabilization
and liberalization and to the resumption of economic
growth with a deeper sense of social justice. It owes this as
well to its participation in regional integration and in the
globalization of the world economy. We are in tune with
the two main forces that are shaping the world today:
political and economic freedom, on the one hand, and
cooperation through integration and trade on the other.
I am pleased to say that, through decisive action rather
than words, we have made genuine strides in enlarging our
dialogue and cooperation with friendly nations worldwide,
developed and developing alike. We have strengthened
traditional partnerships and established new ones, especially
in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. We are aware that, if
the Brazilian people are to consolidate these achievements,
we will need to persevere in the policies that have brought
us this far. We know that these policies have yet to meet
many challenges Brazil faces in the social, economic and
cultural fields. But they are an important beginning.
We are convinced that Brazil’s growing interaction
with its region and the world, the consolidation of its
international partnerships and a fruitful dialogue and
cooperation with its many friends are necessary conditions
for our country to continue to pursue its policies at the
domestic level.
Brazil is one of the world’s largest democracies, a
dynamic and diversified developing economy, an
attractive opportunity for productive foreign investment
and a market of huge potential — in a word, a country
capable of enjoying fruitful ties with all nations on the
basis of mutual respect and reciprocity. By its very
nature, Brazil can act as a bridge between the many
different worlds that make up its own internal reality.
Our aspirations to enlarging the scope of our
participation in the international decision-making bodies
will always reflect a careful assessment of our own
merits, of our specific weight and of the contribution that
we can make to the community of Nations. We seek to be
a force for peace and integration.
The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations
understandably raised the expectations of the international
community — expectations that we would not dwell only
on the past and on the many achievements of the
Organization, but also look to the future in search of
ways for it to come to grips with new realities and
problems.
We can confidently say that the celebration of the
fiftieth anniversary produced good results. As world
public opinion was focused on the United Nations, leaders
and Governments were compelled to reflect on the
Organization and to make room for it in their political
agendas.
The historic meaning of the San Francisco Charter
was recalled, as was the importance of the United Nations
as a forum for political debate and as a sounding board
for conflicting interests in the post-cold-war era.
Our collective reflection clearly revealed that,
without the United Nations, the world would only have
been more violent, more unstable and insecure, more
unjust and cruel — especially to the weak, who are prey
to power politics and arbitrary decisions.
We celebrated great advances in international law
and in the political and ethical commitments to the issues
that concern humanity — issues such as sustainable
development, protection of the environment, respect for
human rights, disarmament, non-proliferation and the fight
against poverty, terrorism, organized crime and drug
2


trafficking. We have thus given a positive account in the
first 50 years of the United Nations.
We cannot say with the same confidence that the
fiftieth anniversary has ushered in a renewed commitment
to the United Nations and its future. Our efforts have fallen
well short of the expectations of the international
community. They have been disappointing even in the light
of the predictions of some of the most cautious analysts. A
stalemate persists — an uncomfortable stalemate that leads
to a feeling of uncertainty and frustration, of insecurity
about the future of the United Nations, and thus of
apprehension.
In the wake of momentous changes on the
international scene, the United Nations has embarked upon
a new phase in its history without the means and the
effectiveness to act as the highest political forum of
mankind and to fulfil the mandate conferred upon it by the
international community — a mandate that remains as valid
today as it was half a century ago.
Back in 1961, President John F. Kennedy referred to
the United Nations as “our last, best hope”. In the face of
the threat of nuclear war and in the midst of various
conflicts, those words expressed the confidence of the
international community in an Organization founded on the
universal principles of peace, understanding and prosperity
for all peoples.
At that time President Kennedy renewed a pledge to
the United Nations, offering:
“our pledge of support — to prevent it from becoming
merely a forum for invective, to strengthen its shield
of the new and the weak and to enlarge the area in
which its writ may run.”
Thirty-five years after these inspired words, the United
Nations finds itself at a crossroads. The world has changed,
the correlation of forces has changed, and so have the
hopes and expectations of countries with regard to the
United Nations and its capacity to manage, prevent and
settle conflicts. Yet various confrontations still cause
suffering, instability and misery throughout the world.
This is happening just as the Organization faces the
worst financial and motivational crisis in its history. There
is a widespread feeling of dissatisfaction — sometimes
veiled and sometimes explicit — with an Organization that
still embodies the loftiest ideals ever conceived by the
human spirit in the search for peace and understanding
among peoples.
Brazil is committed to the United Nations Charter
and to the Organization’s political, legal and diplomatic
legacy of the past 50 years. That commitment is part of
the diplomatic history of my country and of the principles
that have always governed our actions in this body and in
our relations with all peoples, particularly with our 10
neighbours, with whom we have lived in peace for well
over a century.
Compelled by that commitment, we sound a word of
caution to those who, like ourselves, wish to see the
United Nations as a source of leadership in international
relations, as an instrument for promoting an international
society based on freedom, the rule of law and the rights
of the citizen.
With the political and ideological constraints of the
cold war behind us, the world is now organized around
much more concrete and pragmatic variables, such as
international trade, investment flows and the transfer of
technology. The emphasis on political and ideological
coalitions has given way to an emphasis on economic
coalitions. Pressured by public opinion, Governments are
today concerned with social well-being, the quality of life,
economic and social indicators and unemployment.
The focal point of the political debate is shifting
irrevocably from strategy and ideology to economics and
integration. That is why the world is following the path
of large-scale regional economic agreements. North-South
and East-West — the main axes of international politics
in the last 50 years — have given way to groups of
countries dedicated to the goals of economic integration
and the coordination of macroeconomic, financial and
trade policies.
North, South, East and West are no longer the
cardinal points on the international political compass. The
World Trade Organization and its body of universal rules
and regulations for fostering free trade, the European
Union, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council
(APEC), the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA), the Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD), the Group of 7, the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), the
South African Development Community (SADC), and the
Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) have
become, in their respective areas of action, the catalysts
3


for development, cooperation, understanding and, indeed,
for peace.
The peace that the founders of the United Nations
envisioned may come about as a result of the response by
the various regions and groups of countries to the
challenges, opportunities and risks of a new world, which
today is called the world of globalization. It is a world that
generates prosperity and a healthy competition among
countries and regions; but it is also a world that swells the
ranks of the destitute and the outcast among and within
countries, a world that breeds conflict and increases
inequality, a world that demands reason, reflection and
constructive action.
Through peace, cooperation, respect for human rights
and development, the United Nations has a major role to
play in preventing the divisions of the cold war from
finding new expression in a widening gap in well-being.
The Organization must evolve in order to successfully
play that role as it has so often done in the past. It must
adapt its structure and methods of work in order to
optimize its human, material and financial resources. It
must make use of the great political, strategic, and moral
power it is able to muster. It must implement and follow up
on its decisions, on the rules with which it updates and
consolidates international law and on the commitments it
has won from the international community.
Much remains to be done in the wake of the great
conferences that have shaped the international agenda in the
present decade. The conferences on the rights of the child,
the environment and development, human rights, population
and development, social development, women and human
settlements have sealed commitments that must be
honoured, decisions that must be implemented and follow-
up work that must be carried out.
The United Nations must ensure that its agenda
becomes more appealing and results-oriented, in order to
earn the esteem of the public and to retain its primacy in
international relations. We must correct the tendency to
convene meetings whose only purpose is to produce other
meetings or to adopt resolutions of a rhetorical nature. We
must rid the United Nations of its image as a lethargic body
incapable of rising to the challenges of our times.
Brazil is convinced that United Nations reform
remains within reach, that it is still possible to ensure that
the United Nations will play a paramount role in this new
phase of its existence. We believe in reform as a means to
ensure that the United Nations becomes a viable and
logical alternative to unilateralism and power politics. We
believe in reform as a means to empower the United
Nations to act in a radically changed world. We believe
in reform as a means to restore the United Nations as a
unique forum for political and diplomatic action and
debate.
One year after our Heads of State and Government
drew attention to the seriousness of the financial situation
of the United Nations, a solution to the problem remains
elusive.
To stifle the United Nations little by little by
depriving it of the means to perform its functions is no
way to secure greater administrative efficiency. Should
this scenario persist, then the capacity of the United
Nations to adapt to the dynamics of the contemporary
world could be seriously jeopardized. We could very well
witness a situation where other bodies come to occupy the
space left by the United Nations, bodies with their own
goals and agendas, which may or may not reflect the
prevailing sentiments of the international community and
the interests of world peace, security and stability. That is
why we need perseverance, courage and, above all, the
political will to advance the discussion on issues which
reflect a true commitment to the United Nations, issues
which relate to the very relevance of the Organization in
international relations on the eve in the twenty-first
century.
One of these issues is the reform of the Security
Council. There is a virtual consensus that the Security
Council should be enlarged to allow for greater
participation by countries with the capacity to act on a
global scale and the willingness to bear the
responsibilities that would entail. We must now set a
course for this process. Its outcome is essential for
strengthening the United Nations.
Brazil has made several commitments in the field of
nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction and their delivery systems. We are now
committed to having the southern hemisphere recognized
as an area free of nuclear weapons. It is our firm belief
that this is a right to which the peoples of the southern
hemisphere are entitled, and an obligation on the part of
those throughout the world who possess nuclear weapons
or the means to develop them.
A further commitment to disarmament in all fields
that I now wish to convey to the General Assembly is the
4


decision by the Brazilian Government to declare a
moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-mines. The
experience of the Brazilian contingent serving in the United
Nations Angola Verification Mission has underlined for us
the importance of a universal moratorium of this kind and
the need to rid the world of the scourge of land mines,
which pose a threat to the daily lives of millions of human
beings. We would like to see all countries that export land-
mines or that have the capability to do so join in this
decision.
The international community has placed its hopes in
a Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). These
hopes are fully justified. We have a historic opportunity to
put an end to an outdated practice which has increasingly
drawn repudiation and condemnation from international
public opinion. We are taking an important step towards
general and complete nuclear disarmament and stating
unequivocally that there is no room in today’s world for
nuclear weapons or regional arms races.
Brazil is committed to the non-proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction and to the elimination of
nuclear arsenals. It has consistently expressed its
disapproval of nuclear tests. Brazil strove for approval of
the CTBT at the Conference on Disarmament and
considered the blocking of consensus in Geneva a grave
setback. It was inconceivable to Brazil that we could have
let the moment pass, that we could have run the risk of
seeing the CTBT meet the same fate as so many other
initiatives which were allowed to lapse into oblivion.
This is why Brazil was one of the first sponsors of the
Australian initiative to seize the historic opportunity of
submitting the CTBT for approval by the General
Assembly. This decision reflected the commitment to
bequeath to present and future generations a safer and
nuclear-weapons-free world. This is why Brazil will
immediately sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty. We call upon all nuclear- and non-nuclear-weapon
States to do the same.
The peoples of the world expect action and leadership
from the United Nations. They expect that the United
Nations will continue to be an essential benchmark of
international politics over the next 50 years and that it will
always be not the last, but our best hope.











===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿On behalf of the Brazilian
delegation, I would like to congratulate you, my dear
colleague, Hennadiy Udovenko, the Foreign Minister of
Ukraine, on your election as President of the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session. Brazil has a significant
and active community of Ukrainian origin. We Brazilians
are thus very glad to see this session headed by a
distinguished son of the Ukraine, a country that is close to
us.
I want to express my recognition to the Permanent
Representative of Malaysia, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for
the way he conducted the work of the fifty-first session.
Ambassador Razali's dynamic presidency paved the way,
through extensive consultation, for an imaginative and
comprehensive proposal to advance Security Council
reform.
I also pay tribute to our new Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi Annan, chosen to oversee the political and
administrative challenges of modernization. He has been the
focus of justifiable expectation on the part of the
international community at a difficult moment in the life of
our Organization.
We welcome the Secretary-General's proposals for
reform and institutional strengthening as a sign of renewed
vitality within the United Nations. These proposals and
Ambassador Razali's contribution will certainly warrant
close attention in the General Assembly and in parallel
consultation. We will help to consolidate a new spirit that
should inspire our Organization. This new spirit is called
leadership - that driving force of history altering the
course of events within countries and in the international
scenario, opening new horizons, giving hope to the peoples
of the world, seeing movement where some can only
stand still.
Ambassador Razali and Secretary-General Kofi
Annan have, in a way, revived the leadership of the
creators of the United Nations. They have shown the
same idealism in establishing goals and pragmatism in
carrying them out. It was also the leadership of men such
as Dag Hammarskjöld and Brazilian statesman Oswaldo
Aranha, twice President of this Assembly, that often led
the United Nations to a decisive role as a factor of change
in international relations.
This kind of leadership has given the world a forum
without parallel in history, a stage for negotiation and a
political force in favour of international peace and
security. Although the United Nations has not always
been able to prevent or to deter conflict, it has certainly
reduced its occurrence and avoided some of its more
serious consequences. For this reason, the United Nations
has been a mandatory reference, a sign of hope and a
moral force for world public opinion.
We are witnessing today the rebirth of this
leadership, feeling its effects through a remarkable change
in the heart and soul of our Organization. There is greater
optimism. There is greater motivation among delegates
and staff. There is greater expectation on the part of many
Governments. A new atmosphere of hope embraces the
United Nations. This is something we must nurture and
promote - something we must filter to the public in
order to renew the trust of the international community in
our Organization.
The agenda of the fifty-second session is vast and
reveals the continuing complexity and the numerous
conflicts of interests that animate international relations in
our times. A new international dynamic combines three
positive impulses: first, modernization and political and
economic opening in most countries; secondly, economic
integration in regional contexts, with multiple political
and security benefits; and thirdly, the internationalization
of the economy on a global scale.
These impulses tend to generate, foster and
consolidate international peace and security. They are
based on confidence and understanding and should allow
us to prosper and achieve the desired material and
spiritual results. Economic integration is increasingly the
great bulwark of international peace and cooperation. It
must be given emphasis and further promoted.
4


Precisely because of its many political and economic
benefits, integration is a defining trait of South America's
reality, a direct consequence of democracy and economic
freedom. The Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR), a new and powerful impetus for
development in the region, is an example of the importance
of integration. With democracy firmly rooted and a
dynamic process of integration, South America has a
reduced potential for conflict. It has the lowest rates of
military spending in the world and is following an
economic course based on strict government budget
controls. Our priorities are stability and development. Arms
purchases are compatible with the defense needs of Latin
American countries. They are aimed at replacing obsolete
or exhausted equipment. Recently announced measures in
the strategic-military domain will not affect these
fundamental parameters.
The concrete interests that bring together the countries
of South America - trade, investment and the
reinforcement of our international standing through
MERCOSUR - are an unyielding factor of unity and
cohesion. There is no threat of military destabilization in
Latin America. There is no danger of an arms race in the
absence of political, economic and strategic conditions for
such. A regional initiative towards self-imposed limitations
on conventional arms purchases is therefore unjustified. It
would be tantamount to disarming those already disarmed.
Our preoccupation, on the other hand, should be the
fight against the arms trade that sustains organized crime
and drug trafficking. This is the real and grave problem
perpetuating a major source of instability that has,
unfortunately, also affected our region severely. Only
determined and coordinated action on the part of the
international community, especially through tighter controls
on the production and selling of weapons in private hands,
can curb or even suppress this trade; which feeds crime
cartels and leads to violence, fear and desperation. Brazil
strongly urges all countries, and particularly those in the
Western Hemisphere, to intensify cooperation in the fight
against arms trafficking.
We have taken great strides in areas of concern and
growing visibility. Disarmament and, most specifically,
efforts towards the elimination of anti-personnel landmines
have increasingly held the attention of the international
community. Today, we can speak of significant
accomplishments, such as the signing of the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the willingness of an
overwhelming majority to make firm commitments,
expressed at the Oslo Conference on anti-personnel
landmines.
In these two instances, Brazil has sought to add its
own efforts to those of the international community. This
was the main thrust of President Fernando Henrique
Cardoso's decision to submit the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to congressional
approval. Brazil can and should make an additional
contribution to nuclear disarmament. We want to take a
constructive part in discussions within the framework
created by the indefinite extension of the NPT, the most
universal of disarmament treaties. This is also the
guideline for our participation in the Oslo conference and
in the Ottawa process. Brazil stands firmly behind the
interdiction of landmines in all types of conflict.
The international community should do everything
in its power to help poor countries devastated by war.
They suffer the perverse and prolonged effects of
landmines irresponsibly planted in their territories. The
interdiction of anti-personnel landmines and their removal
must become an effective commitment on the part of the
international community. This a question of ethics, a
question of observing the most elementary principles of
humanitarian law. We hope that the international
convention agreed upon in Oslo and the important
commitments it enshrines find universal acceptance.
These positive tendencies might lead to the
impression that the United Nations is less in demand
today than 10, 20 or 50 years ago. This is a false
impression. We are still subject to the effects of
disintegrating factors. Some are, unfortunately,
by-products of new global trends, such as marginalization
within and among nations, transnational crime and
conflicts of interest that find expression through violence
and the threat or use of force.
The persistent and overbearing nature of terrorism
continues to be one of the most serious threats to
international peace and development. It breeds despair and
suffering. In the Middle East, terrorism and intolerance
jeopardize a peace process that was once full of promise
for the peoples of the region. In other countries, some of
them in Latin America, terrorist acts reveal the existence
of groups that still insist on employing tactics
incompatible with the values of civilization and human
dignity. We must not falter in condemning those who, in
disregard of all moral values, resort to cowardly violence
in seeking to advance their own obscure purposes. Brazil
is emphatic in repelling these practices and exhorts the
5


international community to spare no effort in the fight
against terrorism, whatever its form or the alleged reasoning
behind it.
In addition, conflicts that had apparently been
surmounted by a spirit of understanding and constructive
action on the part of the United Nations still show signs of
resistance that demand a strong reaction from the
international community. Angola is a case in point. Hope
and promise cannot be constantly undermined by the factors
that have wrought so much destruction and suffering upon
a valiant people to whom we Brazilians feel so closely
linked. Angola is now a decisive test for the United
Nations. We cannot accept even the slightest possibility of
regression. Brazil, currently holding the presidency of the
Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries, calls upon
the international community, and in particular the members
of the Security Council, to exercise close scrutiny over the
Angolan peace process. We must do everything to ensure
that the people of Angola once again find the road of
development in a context of democracy and pluralism.
The United Nations has an irreplaceable role in a
world that still combines forces of integration and
cooperation with forces of disintegration and aggression.
But we have allowed the United Nations to lose its strength
as an instrument of universal peace and understanding and
as a promoter of cooperation and development. We have
done this through inaction, through a lack of consensus,
through obstructionism and through excessive politicization
of issues. We must react to this situation. We must once
again find the cardinal notion of leadership.
The past few years have shown that reform of the
United Nations can no longer be put off. We cannot lose
sight of major institutional issues or waste further precious
energy. The report of the Secretary-General entitled
"Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform"
is thus timely and opportune. The Brazilian Government
welcomes it with satisfaction and enthusiasm. The strength
of our Organization derives from its universality and from
the all-encompassing nature of its mandate. The United
Nations must not be held to the performance of tasks better
suited to other international organizations or specialized
agencies.
We cannot be made prisoners of inertia, nor must we
condemn our debates to irrelevancy. The General Assembly
must urgently move towards an agenda focused on what is
essential to ensuring a relevant role for the United Nations
in international affairs. For the United Nations to make a
difference and provide leadership in today's complex world,
it must recover the original meaning of the Charter by
concentrating on its essential mission: maintaining
international peace and security, promoting justice and
international law, strengthening cooperation for
development, protecting human rights and providing
humanitarian assistance.
Member States must create political conditions for
effective action by the United Nations and make the
commitment to setting priorities and eliminating the
superfluous. Only then will our Organization as a
whole - not just the Secretariat - be able to devote
itself to those fundamental tasks. The Secretary-General
has assumed a leadership role by putting forth ideas that
must be objectively discussed by all Member States.
Brazil is committed to working constructively with Mr.
Kofi Annan on his proposals to strengthen our
Organization.
Brazil has taken an active part in the debate on
reform of the Security Council. We have adopted an
open-minded and constructive approach because we
believe this to be a central element in the reform of the
Organization. Brazil has upheld a concept of reform that
would strengthen the Council and the United Nations as
a whole. It is not geared to the individual interests of any
one country. We want the Council to be representative of
contemporary international realities, as it was in its early
years.
The Council must be enlarged both in its permanent
membership, to take account of the industrialized and the
developing worlds, and in its non-permanent membership,
to allow for more frequent participation by interested
States. We repudiate all discrimination in the conception
or assignment of new seats. We must not create a third or
fourth category of member. This would weaken and
depreciate the participation of the developing world, and
of Latin America in particular, in the reform process and
in an enlarged Council.
We have always said that in identifying new
permanent members we must exercise realism and
pragmatism by means of a democratic selection process
that leads to universally recognized representation without
renouncing regional support. Brazil has expressed,
through President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, its
willingness to accept the responsibilities of permanent
membership in the Security Council, if called upon by the
international community to do so. In such a case, Brazil
would be determined to carry out the role of permanent
member as the representative of Latin America and the
6


Caribbean. We want our region to be present in the
Security Council on a permanent basis and, through ample
coordination and consultation, to have an even stronger
collective voice.
The Brazilian Government notes with satisfaction that
we are moving, if not towards consensus, at least in the
direction of a significant majority in favour of certain basic
notions about how to reform the Security Council,
particularly enlargement of its permanent membership to
take account of the developing world. The proposal by
Ambassador Razali, presently under discussion in the
Working Group, constitutes a firm basis for a negotiating
process leading to a decision by the General Assembly.
Ambassador Razali has helped us regain the ideal of
Council reform as a means of strengthening the entire
Organization. Our priority is now to define the most
suitable format for an enlarged Security Council. This must
be the prime focus of attention.
The international community needs a strong, efficient
and ever-present United Nations. We will continue to rely
on the political body with the universality and moral
strength that, in the history of humankind, only the United
Nations has been able to muster. We must display in this
session the determination to create the conditions for the
United Nations to be an effective instrument for promoting
international peace and security. The same spirit of
leadership that we have seen in the Secretary-General and
in Ambassador Razali has driven many delegations. A new
willingness to make a constructive contribution to the
Security Council reform process and to other reforms is
clearly felt by Member States. There is a new thrust to
negotiations. There is leadership, as well as carefully
crafted proposals. We must take advantage of this unique
opportunity in the history of the United Nations. We must
not let the moment pass. Reform has become more than a
key concept; it has become the order of the day for the
United Nations in 1997.
Let us do it with that "fierce urgency of now" felt by
Martin Luther King, a symbol of political leadership and of
the forces of change in our century. "This is no time", said
King in his most famous speech,
"to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the
tranquillizing drug of gradualism. Now is the time...".
Let us do it, then.






===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
Mr. President, your election
to preside over the fifty-third session of the United
Nations General Assembly is especially gratifying for us
Brazilians. Brazil and Uruguay came into being as sister
nations, and our bonds are becoming ever stronger. With
each passing day, our destinies are more and more linked
together. The opportunity I have of working closely with
my friend, Didier Opertti, allows me to say with
conviction that at this session the Assembly will have a
formidable President. In the exercise of this important
task, you will benefit from the example set by your
predecessor. At the helm of the fifty-second session,
Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko was able to guide and motivate
delegations and to provide valuable impulse to the
proposals for reform put forward by the Secretary-
General.
Because of his dedication to the task of modernizing
our Organization and, above all, because of his decisive
role in situations that pose a real threat to international
peace and security, the Secretary-General deserves our
applause. The diplomatic talent and serene daring revealed
by Mr. Kofi Annan confirm that we have in him a leader
who is up to the challenges and opportunities before us.
It was an honour for us to have welcomed him in Brazil
this past July.
The defining trait of this particular moment is the
troubling instability that besets global financial markets.
Since the last quarter of 1997, when we first felt the
shock waves of what was then called the “Asian crisis”,
the world economy has been suffering the effects of a
phenomenon whose reach, depth and permanence are still
not clear. But the international community cannot wait,
with arms crossed, for the course of events to shed light
on our quandary.
It is both legitimate and necessary that Governments
act to try to prevent problems that may arise. In an era
marked by the rapid integration of national economies,
such action by Governments will increasingly have to be
made through coordination in the international sphere.
Although there is still no consensus as to the
dimension of the crisis we face, nor on the prognosis for
its duration, there seems to be a growing convergence of
points of view regarding the impact of the high volatility
of capital movements. The events of the past few months
5


have revealed a serious lag between growing financial
interdependence and the modest effectiveness of existing
international mechanisms for dialogue and coordination.
Since the beginning of his Administration, President
Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil has been calling the
attention of other world leaders to the task of making the
global financial system more stable and predictable. In
repeated messages to G-7 members, beginning in 1995, he
offered concrete proposals: to increase cooperation among
monetary authorities; to expand coordination of
macroeconomic policies among countries that can have
considerable impact on world finance; to upgrade
international monitoring capacity over domestic
macroeconomic policy; and to expand mechanisms aimed
at stabilizing currencies under speculative attack. There
have been, of course, considerable advances along some of
these lines, but the measures adopted still fall far short of
what is needed. Until now, political will has not
corresponded to the magnitude and gravity of the situation.
The crisis will not resolve itself. We must join together to
face it.
In this, as in other fields of international life, we must
avoid at all costs an attitude that, back in the seventies,
Brazilian Foreign Minister Azeredo da Silveira described as
“the postponement syndrome”.
Experience teaches us that inaction can have a high
cost. It also teaches that answers given by various countries
to crisis situations, if guided by irrational or spur-of-the-
moment reactions, can turn these situations into even
greater problems, prolonging their effects over time and
aggravating people’s suffering.
One can imagine extreme scenarios of a return to
closed economic models, to the search for elusive self-
sufficiency and isolation, to notions of national security
based on distrust of others and on the insecurity of others.
Such scenarios must not become reality. We cannot allow
it.
Progress in international relations depends
fundamentally on the perception of the international arena
not as a source of potential threat, but as an environment in
which risks can be reduced and difficulties overcome by a
pooling of wills and resources.
Ours is not a world in which nations should be left to
their own devices. The cost of such a course is invariably
higher than the energy or resources saved by attempts to
distance oneself from the problems of others. The
willingness to deal collectively with problems will
motivate individual countries to believe in the benefit of
seeking international consideration of matters in their
direct interest. The world cannot depend only on the
willingness, capacity and interest of a select number of
countries to mobilize and lead international efforts in this
or that direction.
We can no longer accept situations, such as the
present financial crisis, in which, despite the undeniably
international nature of the phenomenon, Governments and
societies simply do not fully trust any of the existing
organizations or mechanisms as a source of support,
guidance or even interpretation of the problem at hand.
We must give serious consideration to the fact that
growing interdependence renders indispensable effective
governance at the international level.
We have before us an essentially political challenge.
This does not mean simply modernizing decision-making
procedures or administrative structures, but also giving to
multilateral treatment of issues the priority it so often
receives in our speeches and statements.
A large gap still remains between the recognition
that the central problems facing humanity must be dealt
with at the international level and the resistance of
Governments and societies to act in accordance with that
recognition. This is most evident in the allocation of
resources and in the adoption of policies capable of
generating external repercussions.
In that same vein, if the link between the national
and the international is ever greater, peace and
development are also increasingly related. A world racked
by economic instability or despair cannot be a safe
environment, free of the threat of war, conflict and
violence. But the reverse is also true: material and social
progress presupposes minimal conditions of security and
peaceful coexistence among and within countries. We
must advance on both fronts by working to establish a
climate of confidence in the political-strategic realm and
in the essential context of the global economy.
Brazil’s relative weight and the history of our
international behaviour are some of our country’s most
important credentials. These credentials are strengthened
today by the maturity of our democracy and by the
vigorous modernization of the Brazilian economy.
Under the leadership of President Cardoso, we have
renewed our permanent willingness to play a more active
6


role in building a world order conducive to peace and
development. This spirit guides Brazil’s international action,
particularly within the United Nations.
I wish to point out that, in the Security Council and
other United Nations bodies, our delegation, led by
Ambassador Celso Amorim, has faithfully reflected this
central guideline of Brazilian foreign policy.
In 1998, we have completed our participation in the
international non-proliferation regime. We have ratified the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) and
acceded to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT), which was approved by Brazil’s National
Congress this past July. Three days ago in Washington, I
had the satisfaction of personally depositing the instrument
of accession to the NPT, in tandem with our Ambassadors
in London and Moscow.
These decisions lend formal and symbolic support to
the commitment to use nuclear energy for exclusively
peaceful purposes. This commitment is enshrined in the
Brazilian Constitution and is strengthened by the bilateral
and regional pacts we have signed. The existing agreements
and the cooperation between Brazil and Argentina, as well
as the Treaty of Tlatelolco, are exemplary achievements in
this field.
Brazil thus feels particularly motivated to call upon
nuclear-armed States, and upon those with the capability of
producing such weapons, to take decisive steps towards
disarmament. We also expect that Governments which have
still not become party to the NPT, the CTBT and other
relevant instruments and mechanisms will do so at an early
date.
As an expression of the determination which motivates
us to work for this cause, Brazil, together with seven other
friendly countries, signed the “Declaration on a Nuclear
Weapon Free World: the Need for a New Agenda” on 9
June of this year. During the current session of the General
Assembly, together with our partners in the Declaration, we
intend to present a draft resolution aimed at boosting and
guiding efforts towards the complete and definitive
elimination of nuclear weapons.
There is no longer room or justification for postponing
action in the nuclear field or in the broader fight to
eliminate all weapons of mass destruction. The cost of a
failure to do so could be truly catastrophic, and the risks
are evident to all.
The Brazilian Government, as the coordinator of the
guarantor countries of the Rio de Janeiro Protocol, has
been making a sustained effort to assist Ecuador and Peru
in reaching at the earliest possible date a solid and final
agreement on the border differences that have kept them
apart for decades. Our diplomatic services — together
with those of Argentina, Chile and the United States —
stand ready to continue making the best possible
contribution.
Recent developments confirm the prognosis that the
peace process is on its way to a conclusion and reflect the
political will and the high level of engagement with
which Ecuador and Peru have been working towards that
end.
The fact that South America is a region in which
countries essentially live in a harmonious, peaceful and
increasingly integrated manner is for Brazil a vital and
defining trait that our peoples are determined to preserve.
The same applies to the permanence of democratic
regimes as a common thread of the nations in our
continent. It is a higher value to which we are collectively
committed in the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR), the Rio Group and the Organization of
American States (OAS).
The advent and consolidation of democracy was the
determining factor in the extraordinary work of
integration in which South American nations are engaged.
This is an accomplishment of our societies that the
Governments of the region must always be prepared to
defend as one. This is a basic tenet of Brazilian foreign
policy.
Brazil attaches the utmost importance to the
advancement of human rights. As we celebrate the fiftieth
anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, we should recognize the persistent gap between
principles and generally accepted rules of international
law, on the one hand, and the prevalent realities of the
world, on the other.
The Brazilian Government is engaged in the fight to
overcome the distance between norms and facts in our
country. We are prepared to draw from the international
environment elements that may help us realize an
aspiration shared by all Brazilians. This was the main
thrust of President Cardoso’s submission to the National
Congress of the decision to recognize the mandatory
jurisdiction of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.
7


President Cardoso is also committed to the fight
against the drug trade. His presence at the special session
of the General Assembly this past June was clear proof of
this commitment.
Our participation in the effort to build a lasting peace
extends beyond the Americas. The Brazilian military and
police have taken part in United Nations forces in many
parts of the world, particularly in Portuguese-speaking
countries in Africa, to which we are bound by history and
culture.
Brazil has followed developments in Angola with
concern. The United Nations must firmly insist that UNITA
fulfil the commitments undertaken in the Lusaka Protocol.
An unravelling of the situation could jeopardize the
progress achieved in the peace process and would be tragic
indeed. Angolans have been subjected to untold suffering
for decades. The international community must do
everything within its reach so that Angola may finally
dedicate itself to reconstruction and development.
The Brazilian Government, along with the other
members of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking
Countries, is engaged in seeking a peaceful solution to the
grave internal crisis faced by Guinea-Bissau. The
Community, in close coordination with countries in the
region, has contributed to spurring significant progress. We
will continue to pursue favourable conditions for the urgent
and complete normalization of life in that sister nation.
As for East Timor — to which we are also bound by
history and a common language — Brazil welcomes the
new spirit that presides over this delicate and complex
issue, especially in the context of the tripartite negotiations
between the Portuguese and Indonesian Governments, under
the auspices of the Secretary-General.
The Brazilian Government has maintained a positive
dialogue with the parties involved and is determined to
assist, to the limit of its possibilities, in finding an adequate
equation for all concerned, with progressive participation by
the Timorese themselves.
Since the advent of economic stability in 1994, Brazil
has shown renewed dynamism with the strengthening of our
domestic market and the outlook for development with
social justice.
But present-day Brazil does not see its development as
isolated or self-contained. We realize that the destiny of our
economy is increasingly linked to that of the economies of
our neighbours and partners, in the framework of an
integration process that has decidedly contributed to
progress in the region and to the well-being of our
societies, particularly within MERCOSUR.
The fruits of this process serve not only the goal of
economic development but also, and most importantly, the
cause of social justice, which remains the foremost task
of our region.
We welcome the results of the most recent edition of
the United Nations Human Development Report. The
numbers show that, in spite of all that remains to be done,
our country has made extraordinary social progress over
the past two decades in the areas of health, education, the
fight against poverty and the reduction of disparities
among the various regions of the country. Even though
we still face daunting challenges, Brazilians are leading
a better life, as our presence among those nations of
greater human development indicates.
Consistent with its domestic policies and its regional
role, Brazil will continue to fight for a more balanced
allocation of the benefits of economic interdependence,
without distortions such as those resulting from
protectionist policies of developed countries.
Such policies affect in a particularly cruel manner
the developing countries and serve to reinforce the
arguments of those who preach domestically a return to
closed economic models. In the current context of global
economic turbulence, we must demand that the developed
countries establish greater coherence between free-trade
rhetoric and their unfair trade practices.
President Cardoso has stated that we must abandon
the path of globalization with exclusion — in the
decision-making process as well as in the distribution of
benefits — and seek globalization with solidarity in both
of those dimensions.
Reforming and strengthening the United Nations is
an essential part of building a world of greater solidarity.
The Brazilian Government recognizes the significant
progress that has already been made in terms of structural
and functional modernization of the Organization. We
agree with the Secretary-General when he says that
reform must not be seen as an event, but as a process; but
we cannot but stress that an important part of that process
has yet to be undertaken.
8


For Brazil, reforming the United Nations necessarily
implies updating the functioning and composition of the
Security Council, which still mirrors a period of history that
is now long gone. That does not mean — and I have stated
this before in this forum — that the particular interests of
this or that country should be taken into account. What it
does mean is that fundamental deficiencies in terms of
legitimacy, representativeness and effectiveness must be
redressed. We will continue to defend expansion in both
categories of members, with the presence, in both, of
developing countries.
It is inconceivable that, on the eve of the new
millennium, reform of the Organization could exclude the
restructuring of the Security Council.
The basis of global solidarity is the establishment of
trust between societies. There is no other way if we are to
establish a peaceful, stable and constructive international
environment. Our so-called global village is still far from
becoming a truly integrated community, in which people
can consider themselves as participants in the same
historical process.
Of the many merits of international organizations, one
of the most important is that they offer a framework of
interaction that favours the development of a true sense of
universal communion. In dealing with common problems,
Governments learn in practice just how much they need to
work more and more closely together. In international
forums, we are constantly weaving a web of relations based
on a stronger identity and trust between our nations and
their leaders. Countries must trust one another, but they
must also have a reason to trust in the legitimacy and
efficiency of multilateral organizations and procedures in
order to tackle their most important problems.
The dynamics of international life demand a constant
updating of the instruments at the disposal of the
community of nations to allow it to act collectively in the
face of its greatest challenges.
We must have the courage to recognize that never
before have the risks and the cost of procrastination been so
high. We must, above all, have the will to make the
decisions that can ultimately restore our faith in ourselves,
in our capacity to state that history does goes on, and that
we are pointing it in the direction of a more just and better
world.














===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
Brazil
congratulates you, Sir, on your election as President of
the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Your
personal record in defence of democracy and human
rights, which was forged in the struggle of the people of
Namibia for liberty and self-determination, offers an
inspiring example for our work.
4


As a sister nation of Uruguay, we take pride in the
work done by your predecessor, my friend, Minister Didier
Opertti. I would like to express the appreciation and
gratitude of the Brazilian Government for his decisive role
in presiding over the fifty-third session.
Secretary-General Kofi Annan is equally deserving of
special recognition. In these times of far-reaching and
uncharted challenges before the international community,
his sense of proportion and the strength of his serene
leadership have been valuable aids in the search for realistic
and innovative solutions. We appreciate and support his
endeavours in the cause of peace, development and justice.
The Brazilian Government warmly greets the
admission of Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga, which have just
joined the United Nations family.
Year after year, for over half a century, we have
gathered here to discuss and debate the issues of our time.
Year after year, the representatives of the Member countries
of the United Nations have come to this rostrum to set forth
their vision of global affairs and to provide analysis and to
propose solutions.
As the requirements of our societies become ever
greater over time, there grows a sense of an ever-widening
gulf between our words and our deeds, a distance that
serves only to feed the scepticism of some and the
pessimism of others.
Whenever an unfolding crisis and its human tragedy
break through international indifference and become
newsworthy, it is to the United Nations that the public
opinion of our countries looks for meaningful answers.
Unfortunately, however, the international community
feels compelled to act in a coordinated fashion, mobilizing
the necessary resources and political will, only when long-
festering problems threaten to get out of hand, making a
satisfactory solution all the more difficult.
The upshot is a sense of frustration and impatience
towards the United Nations. This may be because the
necessary initiatives are in the end adopted outside the
United Nations framework, as was the case in Kosovo. Or
it may be because the measures agreed are not up to the
concrete needs, as we have seen in East Timor. Or it may
even be because the United Nations finds itself once again
confronted, as in Angola, with well-known conflicts of
catastrophic proportions that the international community
has failed to address in a timely manner.
Why is it that certain predicaments generate intense
mobilization of ways and means, but not others? Why
does human suffering in some parts of the globe fuel
greater indignation than when it takes place elsewhere?
The plight of Angola and that of East Timor offer two
glaring examples of what amounts to a clear pattern of
one-sided and unequal attention.
In Angola, UNITA’s refusal to abide by the Lusaka
Protocol and hardened positions threaten to rekindle in all
its intensity the same civil war that over a quarter of a
century has caused incalculable suffering to millions in
that country, particularly the defenceless and the deprived.
In Angola, which has special bonds with Brazil, the
international community is squarely faced — despite the
limited international press coverage — with an immense
political challenge and a humanitarian disaster of
shocking proportions. Urgent and priority action is called
for. The Security Council can no longer allow its
resolutions to be blatantly ignored, as has been the case.
No less urgent — and in this case the United
Nations is now actively engaged — is the task of helping
guarantee the right of the East Timorese people to decide
their own future as an independent nation, a decision
unmistakably voiced in a free ballot. Brazilian society,
which shares linguistic, cultural and historic ties with the
Timorese, joined in their rejoicing when the vote returned
a resounding verdict for independence. There was
consternation in Brazil at the violence against our brothers
in East Timor and at the loss of innocent lives that
followed.
Brazil cannot accept, nor can Brazilian citizens
understand, that the self-determination of the Timorese
people is not fully assured. We therefore believe that the
multinational force authorized by the Security Council —
a force in which Brazil was determined to participate
from the very outset — will put a stop to the atrocities
committed since the popular ballot and will be able to
re-establish the necessary conditions for a peaceful
transition to independence.
Over the past decade, Latin America, long viewed as
a land of backwardness and dictatorships, has fashioned
a new international image for itself through the
transformations it has undergone. The return to
democracy in our countries has had a decisive role in this,
as did our important achievements in fostering respect for
human rights — although much remains to be done. The
adoption of consistent economic policies, in turn, has
5


made it possible to overcome the endless dilemmas that had
ensnared us, and to put an end to the inflationary spiral that
had brought so much uncertainty and injustice to our
citizens.
Let there be no doubt that the difficulties that we
experienced, on and off, throughout 1999 will not cause us
to lose faith and relinquish our achievements. For a few
days, or maybe weeks, at the beginning of the year, Brazil
was dubbed by some “the sick man of Latin America”. It
was thought that we might slip back into the trap of high
inflation, that we would experience deep recession, that we
would once again resort to the panacea of stoking short-
term growth and return to the old boom-and-bust cycles of
the past.
Yet we have arrived at the end of the century with an
inflation rate under 8 per cent. We fully expect to embark
on a course of sustained annual growth of more than 4 per
cent and are set to bring to completion a large-scale
modernization programme by means of important reforms
in tax, fiscal and social security matters. President Fernando
Henrique Cardoso will not flinch in his determination to lay
the groundwork for our country to become modern,
economically fit and dynamic, as well as socially more just
and politically mature.
With the advent of democracy, Brazil and Argentina
have developed the solid friendship that binds our peoples,
and have over a short space of time built a lasting
monument to integration. Our bilateral agreements in the
field of nuclear cooperation are exemplary and a stabilizing
force in the region and worldwide. The Southern Cone
Common Market (MERCOSUR) — which our two
countries joined Paraguay and Uruguay in establishing and
with which the democracies of Bolivia and Chile have
associated themselves — has fundamentally altered the
economic face of the hemisphere and indeed of the world.
Our integration process is not directed against anyone, but,
on the contrary, seeks to strengthen our historical ties both
within and beyond the Americas. Both individually and
within the framework of MERCOSUR our countries have
become a powerful force in the drive to set the international
trade system on a more open, balanced course, one that no
longer aids and abets protectionist privileges at the expense,
more often than not, of developing countries.
Democracy has made it possible for the countries of
Latin America to provide mutual assistance — without
undue and unsolicited foreign interference and in a spirit of
collaboration — whenever there is a jointly perceived threat
to the institutional stability of one of them. Thanks to
democracy, the countries of our region have successfully
solved disputes that for long disturbed the harmony of the
more peaceful and stable of continents. At the end of last
year, Ecuador and Peru, with the diplomatic support of
Brazil, Argentina, Chile and the United States, signed in
Brasilia the agreements that put an end to their long-
running boundary dispute. Thus, despite all manner of
difficulties, Latin America is transforming itself into a
tightly knit entity that is politically, economically and
socially integrated.
It is in this spirit of integration, and in the abiding
awareness that we belong to one family, that Brazil feels
closely attuned to the various efforts at renewal under
way in the region. The elections scheduled for next
October in Argentina will no doubt confirm the political
vitality of this great neighbour of ours and guarantee the
necessary economic conditions for stability and
reinvigorated growth. These same favourable expectations,
we are sure, will be fulfilled at the elections to be held in
Chile and in Uruguay this year, and in Mexico next year.
Their outcome will most certainly underline the
democratic character of Latin America.
The political and economic achievements of Bolivia
since the 1980s in overcoming obstacles that 20 years ago
seemed insurmountable are a further indication of how
much our region has changed for the better. Peru as well
has gained international recognition through its
resounding successes in reversing the adverse economic
trends of past decades and in the war against terrorism
and drug trafficking. This capacity to overcome obstacles
is equally noticeable in Ecuador, where, with the support
of international financial institutions, political forces
will — through democratic and constitutional channels —
undertake the needed reforms to overcome the present
crisis. Paraguay, in turn, successfully dealt with a delicate
political crisis at the beginning of this year and is moving
steadily along the road of democratic institution-building
and economic development. Brazil, as always, will
continue to decisively support Paraguay in that endeavour.
Guyana provides a further demonstration, not only
of our commitment to upholding and fostering democratic
values, but equally of the integrationist spirit that inspires
us. It is our hope that Suriname will join in the efforts
and achievements of the region in bringing about these
positive changes. The transformations that Venezuela is
undergoing have drawn great international attention. This
process of change must be respected, for it clearly and
legitimately reflects the Venezuelan people’s desire for
renewal. The expression of this aspiration through
6


institutional channels is the best guarantee that the changes
under way will stay on the track of respect for the norms,
rights and duties that define democracy.
Brazil is also confident that the Government of
President Andrés Pastrana, in Colombia, will persevere in
its endeavours to bring peace to this kindred nation. Undue
foreign interference would only aggravate an already
complex situation, which it is up to the Colombians
themselves to overcome.
It is on the success of our neighbours, in which we
trust, that hinges the success of the Brazilian people and its
Government in solving their own problems and in
overcoming their own challenges, which are neither few nor
small.
Organized crime and drug trafficking today pose a
major challenge to democratic societies. They clearly
represent a serious threat to the security of national
institutions and to citizens directly, who pay with their own
lives the intolerable price for this scourge of our times. The
spiralling stockpile of and trade in small arms is closely
linked to organized crime and drug trafficking. As its
citizens find their lives daily at risk because of contraband
firearms, Brazil gives the utmost priority to tackling this
question. At the regional level we approved the important
Inter-American Convention on Transparency in
Conventional Weapons Acquisitions. We would like this
Assembly to endorse the proposal to hold an international
conference on illicit arms trafficking in all its aspects.
Similarly, Brazil attaches considerable importance to the
work being done on a draft convention against transnational
organized crime.
In turn, the continued existence of weapons of mass
destruction remains a threat to the security and even the
survival of humankind.
All actions contrary to the aims of the
non-proliferation regime should be firmly condemned by
the international community. At the same time, it behooves
the nuclear-armed States, as well as the threshold States, to
move towards the complete and irreversible elimination of
nuclear armaments. For this reason, Brazil, Egypt, Ireland,
Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and Sweden will once
again submit, at this session, a draft resolution on a new
agenda for nuclear disarmament. The draft resolution,
which seeks to pave the way for a constructive dialogue on
this issue, is grounded on a realistic and balanced appraisal
of the nature of the nuclear disarmament process.
Our countries’ democratic institutions and the
international organizations, particularly the United
Nations, face fundamental challenges today. Our countries
are confronted daily with economic difficulties and acute
social grievances, such as poverty and extremes of
inequality, which heighten impatience: impatience with
economies unable to grow at a rate compatible with faster
improvement of the well-being of societies; impatience in
the face of vulnerability to crises and to turbulence in
international markets; and impatience with political
processes that sometimes appear slow to respond to the
legitimate and pressing demands of citizens. It is vital,
however, that this collective impatience be voiced and
guided through democratic channels.
Brazil’s commitment to democratic institutions and
to the primacy of law also applies to international
relations. At the outset of his second term of office, to
which he was elected last October by an absolute majority
of Brazilian voters, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso
made it clear that:
“The rule of law is the only admissible
foundation for the international order. Should
unilateralism and the use of force come to be
accepted as organizing principles of international
relations, in the long term it will be more rational to
side with the instruments of power politics rather
than to strive for order and to abide by law. If we
are to see a truly new world order emerge, one of its
cornerstones must be the acceptance that multilateral
institutions — not least the Security Council — are
the source of legality and legitimacy for those
actions that guarantee peace and the peaceful
resolution of disputes”.
Our societies await, again with increasing
impatience, seeing multilateral organizations, and in
particular the United Nations, show themselves to be up
to the challenge of playing a meaningful — in fact,
crucial — role in establishing an international order
attuned to the shared aspirations and values of humankind
as a whole.
The road ahead calls for renewal and change. If the
Governments of the world desire a strong and effective
United Nations, they must not only change how they
think and act with respect to this Organization, but they
must also think and act to bring about change in the
Organization. This is what is at stake. This is the
challenge before us.

===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
Brazil applauds your
election, Sir, to preside over the fifty-fifth session of
the General Assembly of the United Nations. Your
personal political experience and Finland's historic
contribution to the promotion of peace, human rights
and social development are valuable credentials that
you bring to the honoured task of chairing our work.
On behalf of the Brazilian Government, I pay
tribute to your predecessor, Foreign Minister Theo-Ben
Gurirab. His diplomatic skills and commitments to the
highest ideals of the United Nations insured him a
decisive role at the helm of the fifty-fourth session.
I wish to make a very special reference to our
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan. His moral authority
has served as a beacon as we strive to fulfil the
principles and goals of the United Nations. His report,
“We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the
twenty-first century”, is a contribution of fundamental
importance to the cause of peace and justice, and to a
stronger United Nations. It will serve as a permanent
source of inspiration as we ponder the crucial decisions
the Organization is called upon to make.
Brazil had the satisfaction to co-sponsor the
resolution bringing Tuvalu into the United Nations
family. We salute Tuvalu as our newest member.
For the sixth consecutive time it is my honour to
take part in the opening of the general debate. On all
previous occasions, I took stock both of the positive
and negative aspects of the current state of world
affairs, the facts that afford us satisfaction and those
that are cause for frustration and even indignation. This
is our daily challenge and the motivating force behind
our work.
We meet here for the last time this century. We all
know that the twentieth century has been marred by a
fundamental contradiction. We have seen a growing
abundance of intellectual and material resources that
should have brought about a greater convergence of
opportunities and expectations as well as of living
standards throughout the world. Yet, what we also saw
was a failure to harness the necessary political will to
translate those extraordinary possibilities into a reality
of progress shared by all. This applies not only to the
international community as a whole but is equally valid
for the great majority of nations represented here,
among which is Brazil itself.
No doubt, we have much to gain in identifying
those aspects of our relations with the international
environment that are a hindrance to national
development. Yet it is equally illuminating to seek
within our own countries examples of success and
failure that help explain the world we live in.
Globalization is asymmetrical in part because it flows
from national societies that are themselves socially
unbalanced and seem to have lost some of their urge to
bring about social justice.
Freedom — the greatest of values — continues to
advance on all fronts and in all continents. That is a
crucial development. There is cause for concern,
however, that the core values of equality and fraternity
are dangerously being put aside. It is imperative that
these two other essential elements return to the top of
our agenda. They must retake their rightful place at the
centre of our policy decisions before it is too late —
before some are misled into believing that the
inevitable price for preserving freedom is the
perpetuation of the divide between the rich and the
poor, between those who are included and those who
suffer exclusion, between the “globalized” and those
left behind.
If democracy and freedom are to put down firm
roots within our countries, we must foster a genuine
sense of solidarity that translates into effective action.
Only thus will we build an international order that is
conducive to the preservation of peace and can
function as an engine of sustained growth. It is
unacceptable that major global issues and campaigns
for transnational solidarity be manipulated and
exploited in order to disguise what amounts to the
protection of narrow interests. Unfortunately, this is
what is happening in the field of international trade.
First, the inconsistency between free trade
rhetoric and the continued use of protectionist policies
of various types by developed countries. As I stated at
the World Trade Organization conference in Seattle, the
name of this game is discrimination. And
discrimination, especially when waged against the
weakest, is the absolute negation of solidarity. We must
5

reverse these grave distortions in international trade,
and especially as concerns agricultural products.
It is inadmissible that the most prosperous
nations, whose economies are strongly based in the
manufacturing and service industries, should be legally
entitled to restrict access to their markets for
agricultural goods, while they call for the free flow of
those goods in which they benefit from an enormous
competitive advantage. It is even more intolerable that
these countries be allowed, as is presently the case, to
subsidize the production and export of agricultural
commodities to the tune of dozens of billions of
dollars. These policies cause enormous harm to
exporting nations that are more efficient and
competitive in this field, but lack the financial means
to offer equally generous fiscal incentives to their
farmers.
Secondly, not satisfied with the persistence of this
highly discriminatory situation — where what is said
often deviates from what is done — there are those in
the developed countries who give voice to sectional
interests and defend a new offensive against the
exports of developing nations. This is what the new
language of protectionism, camouflaged as
humanitarian internationalism, would seem to suggest.
It unfurls the seductive banner of labour and
environmental standards, which, if adopted, would
further restrict the access of products from developing
countries to the markets of rich countries.
This rhetoric and its appeal to certain segments of
public opinion might suggest that the exports of
developing countries pose a threat to the economic
well-being and the way of life of the more developed
societies. We all know this is not true. After all, these
exports represent less than a third of world trade and
are made up mostly of raw materials.
The main objective of those who wish to
introduce labour conditionalities into trade rules has
little to do with improving the quality of life of
workers in poor countries. Their fundamental aim is to
protect backward sectors of their own economies that
strictly speaking are no longer capable of competing
effectively in a free trade environment.
Sanctions and commercial barriers are inadequate
tools to enhance labour standards and to protect the
environment in developing countries. Our countries
and our own societies, more than any other, are
interested in achieving those very same objectives,
which is why we need more — not less — exports and
economic growth.
This is a message that developing countries must
make ring out in a clear and powerful voice. We must
instil in developed societies an understanding that they
are not alone in the world. Above all, they must not
presume to unilaterally write the rules of international
trade solely according to their interests and points of
view, as if the other 5 billion human beings did not
have equally legitimate aspirations to progress, justice
and well-being.
Nations must come increasingly to comprehend
and respect differing realities and objectives among
themselves. At the same time, they must recognize
their commonalties and affinities; explore and enlarge
areas of convergence and opportunities for cooperation;
and overcome suspicions, rivalries and disputes.
Nowadays it is above all through regional
integration that this learning process takes place. For
most countries, it opens the door to a more intensive
and meaningful participation in global affairs.
In the Americas, and more specifically in Latin
America, we have set ourselves firmly on this course.
The countries of the region are increasingly integrated
among themselves and into the world. These are the
two inseparable faces of the same forward movement.
A few days ago in Brasilia, on the initiative of
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a meeting of
Presidents of South America took place for the first
time in our history. This gathering sought to bring
together the leaders of South America around the
common challenges that grow out of our shared
geography and physical proximity. It is only natural
that this first meeting should have occurred in Brazil,
which shares borders with nine of its 11 South
American neighbours, and has lived in harmony with
all for over a century in a spirit of peace, friendship
and growing determination to move ahead on the road
to full integration.
The Presidents took important and concrete steps
in this direction that will bear lasting fruit. In the
political realm, they agreed to underscore the
commitment of the countries of South America to
democracy and decided that participation in future
South American gatherings would hinge on the
preservation of the rule of law and full respect for
democratic values and procedures. They also agreed to
6

hold consultations among their Governments in the
event of a threat to democracy in our region.
In trade matters, they resolved to begin
negotiations on a free-trade zone between
MERCOSUR and the Andean Community, to be
established before January 2002 and to be expanded
into an economic zone covering all of South America,
including Chile, Guyana and Suriname. To this end the
Presidents decided to coordinate the planning and
funding of projects for integrating the region's
infrastructure, in particular in the priority areas of
energy, transport and telecommunications. By working
together in this way we will more quickly set up the
physical links that will enhance South American unity.
Drug trafficking and organized crime are issues
that affect, in different forms, all regions of the world.
The Presidents highlighted the role of the Organization
of American States in the fight against drugs in the
hemisphere and the setting up last year of the
multilateral evaluation mechanism to assess the
performance of our countries in this effort. They also
decided to establish systematic consultations among
national agencies and to set up a South American anti-
laundering task force.
The meeting of Presidents of South America was
an event unique in the almost two centuries of
independent nationhood for most of the subcontinent.
As well as having historic significance and long-term
impact, this summit will also generate results in the
immediate future.
None is more significant than the commitment to
democratic values. President Fernando Henrique
Cardoso was very much to the point when he said:
“the South America of today is synonymous with
democracy ... In this dawning of democracy, we
will not tolerate abuses. And we will increasingly
demand the right not only to vote, but to defend
freedom, access to information and the judicial
guarantees that make elections an effective
exercise in democracy”.
The United Nations has seen important
achievements over this last year. Let me recall a few.
The goal of creating a more just, tolerant society was
reaffirmed during the follow-up world conferences on
women — Beijing +5 — and on social development —
Copenhagen +5. At the Non-Proliferation Treaty
review conference, modest but nevertheless significant
progress was made towards freeing the world from the
scourge of nuclear arms. As one of the New Agenda
countries, Brazil is proud of its contribution to the
success of the conference, whose results will be a
litmus test for future advances in the nuclear
disarmament field.
Efforts to establish an International Criminal
Court have moved ahead, and Brazil signed the Rome
Statute. Those that commit crimes against humanity
must not, under any circumstances, go unpunished.
In the Brahimi report (A/55/305), a valuable
framework has been laid out on how to strengthen the
work of United Nations peacekeeping operations and,
as a result, on how to overcome recent failures. The
courageous Rwanda and Srebrenica reports offer us a
precise diagnosis of what needs to be done.
In Timor, under the leadership of a model
international official, Sergio Vieira de Mello, a new
State is taking form and coming to life. We express our
strongest condemnation of the attack on innocent
workers at the United Nations office in Atambua, West
Timor, who were helping to achieve this very goal.
In contrast with these achievements, the
frustrations are well known. Peacekeeping operations
in Sierra Leone and in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo have still to show results; the conflict in Angola
goes relentlessly on as a result of UNITA's inexcusable
failure to comply with international directives and law;
and there is growing awareness of the devastating
dimensions of the AIDS epidemic in Africa and in the
rest of the world.
Less than a week ago, in a historic meeting in this
very Hall, world leaders took stock of the work and
achievements of multilateralism. The outcome was a
clearer reaffirmation of our determined and
unequivocal commitment to reinvigorate the United
Nations. We reinforced our convictions about the
crucial role of this Organization in ensuring that justice
is done and that international peace takes root.
Brazil has always been convinced of this.
In the absence of the United Nations, human
rights would be more vulnerable; the distance between
antagonists would be wider; the difficulties in
eradicating poverty would be greater; the growth of
tolerance would be slower and democratic practices
would face even stronger opposition.
7

It may be that the Millennium Summit only gave
expression to what we already knew. The historic
legacy of this Summit should, then, be our renewed
willingness to act.
We all know that it is by mobilizing political will
that we can make a difference. The United Nations is
the model political forum of the international
community and its central goal is to provide the ways
and means to bring to life our dearest ideals, values and
aspirations.
In this hall there has often been a divorce
between words and deeds, between objectives and the
tools to achieve them, as if they hailed from different
universes, distant and isolated from each other.
It is only through political dialogue, and
consultation among States made possible by
multilateralism that a degree of rationality and
predictability can be brought to the workings of global
forces.
To foster multilateralism is to strengthen the
United Nations and the modern understanding of the
individual as the central beneficiary of international
action. Only thus can we look forward to progressive
and just governance in this integrated world.
It is our obligation to fulfil our common
commitments, so vigorously underscored during the
Millennium Summit. We must do so with determination
and a sense of urgency.

===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿I greet you,
Mr. President, and pay tribute to the Republic of Korea,
which offers the world an example of dedication to the
cause of peace and development.
I reaffirm my admiration for Secretary-General
Kofi Annan, who, together with the United Nations,
was rightfully honoured with the Nobel Peace Prize.
More than ever, we need his clear vision and courage
in seeking to build a peaceful and democratic
international order that is based on solidarity. Only
fanatics fail to acknowledge the great mission
undertaken by the United Nations and by Kofi Annan.
In a tradition that extends back to the beginnings
of this Organization, the month of September in New
York is dedicated to a celebration of dialogue: the
opening of the general debate of this General
Assembly. It was not so this year. In New York as well
as in Washington, the month of September was marked
by the very denial of this dialogue and understanding
between peoples: the senseless violence resulting from
an odious and treacherous attack against the United
States of America and against all peace- and freedom-
loving peoples.
It was an infamous act of aggression against a
city that, perhaps more than any other, is a symbol of
cosmopolitanism; a city that has welcomed immigrants
from all parts, such as the Dutch Jews of Portuguese
ancestry who, in the seventeenth century, left Brazil for
what was then New Amsterdam.
New York has grown, prospered and reached
maturity guided by pluralistic values. It became great,
and was admired, not only because of its Jewish and
Anglo-Saxon heritage, but also because of its Arab,
Latin, African, Caribbean and Asian presence. The
attacks of 11 September 2001 were an act of aggression
against all of those traditions — an act of aggression
against humanity.
As the first head of State to speak in the general
debate at this session of the General Assembly, I wish
to be very clear. As I had occasion to say on the very
morning of those horrendous attacks, and as I have said
during my conversations with President George W.
Bush, Brazil extends its full solidarity and support to
the people of the United States in its response to
terrorism.
To our understanding, the American hemisphere
as a whole was attacked. That is why we suggested
convening the consultative organ of the Inter-American
Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance. Terrorism negates all
that the United Nations stands for. It destroys the very
principles of civilized behaviour. It fosters fear, and
threatens the security and peace of all countries.
The victims of any act of terrorism will not be
forgotten; nor will the perpetrators of such acts go
unpunished, whether they are individuals, groups or the
States that give them support. The march of folly will
be vigorously resisted by the solid alliance of all free
peoples.
The Charter of the United Nations acknowledges
the right of Member States to act in self-defence. That
is not in doubt. But let us keep in mind that the struggle
against terrorism cannot rely exclusively on the
5

effectiveness of self-defence measures or on the use of
military force by individual countries.
In 1945, the United Nations committed itself to
the task of laying the foundations for peace and the
protection of future generations against the scourge of
war. War always takes a heavy human toll — a cost in
lives cut short and lives overtaken by fear and flight.
That underscores the responsibility of terrorists for
what is happening today. Brazil hopes that,
notwithstanding these circumstances, humanitarian
assistance efforts in Afghanistan will not be frustrated.
Furthermore, we will, to the best of our abilities,
welcome refugees wishing to settle in our country.
Certain things may be obvious, but they warrant
repeating. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan said, the
struggle against terrorism is not, and must never
become, a clash between civilizations, much less
between religions. Not one of the civilizations that
have enriched and humanized our planet has not
known, within its own historical experience, episodes
of violence and terror.
Around the world, problems related to crime,
drug abuse, drug-trafficking and money-laundering are
evils related to terrorism that must be eradicated. From
this rostrum, I would like to call for a worldwide public
awareness campaign to make drug users in all countries
realize that they are helping — even if inadvertently —
to finance terrorism.
If we are to stem the flow of resources to the
terrorist networks spreading death and destruction, it is
crucial that drug use in our societies be drastically
curtailed. Furthermore, we must not allow differences
in national tax regimes in various countries to be used
as an instrument to foster capital flight, to the
detriment of economic development, or to help finance
organized crime, including terrorist actions. If the
existence of tax havens is inseparable from these
problems, then tax havens should not exist. We must
put an end to such safe harbours for corruption and
terror, with regard to which some Governments have,
to date, been complacent.
It is only natural that, since 11 September, issues
of international security should have been given high
priority. Yet terrorism must not be allowed to stifle the
debate on cooperation and other issues of global
interest. The road to the future requires the forces of
globalization to be harnessed in the pursuit of lasting
peace — a peace sustained not by fear, but rather by
the willing acceptance by all countries of a just
international order.
On this theme, I have sought to mobilize
numerous world leaders. Brazil wishes to do its part to
ensure that the world does not squander the
opportunities that are contained in the present crisis.
Let us focus on our fundamental imperative of
promoting development. The process of globalization
is tainted by an undeniable sense of unease. I am not
referring to the ideological disquiet of those who
oppose globalization on principle or who reject the
very notion of universal values which inspire freedom
and the respect for human rights. Rather, I have in
mind the fact that globalization has not lived up to its
promises. There is a governance deficit in the
international sphere, and it results from a democratic
deficit. Globalization will be sustainable only if
enriched by a sense of justice. Our aim should be
“globalization in solidarity”, rather than the
asymmetrical globalization of today.
In the field of trade, it is high time that
multilateral negotiations were translated into greater
access for goods from developing countries to the more
prosperous markets. The ministers meeting in Doha
have a heavy responsibility: to ensure that the new
round of multilateral trade negotiations is a
development round. To this end, it is crucial for
priority to be given to those issues most conducive to
the dismantling of protectionist practices and barriers
in developed countries.
Brazil has taken the lead in negotiations to ensure
greater market access and better humanitarian
conditions in the fight against disease. We will seek to
strike a balance between the requirements of patent
rights and the imperative of providing care to those
most in need. We favour market practices and the
protection of intellectual property, but not at the cost of
human lives. This is a point that must be carefully
defined: life must prevail over material interests.
The Bretton Woods institutions must be revamped
if they are to respond to the challenges of the twenty-
first century. The International Monetary Fund must be
allotted greater resources so as to allow it to function
as a lender of last resort. The World Bank and regional
banks must be given a more active part in fostering
economic growth and development.
The volatility of international capital flows must
be contained and the financial system made more
6

predictable and less crisis-prone, as proposed by the
G-20.
Similarly, although measures such as the Tobin
tax present practical difficulties, it should be possible
to look into better and less compulsory alternatives. I
submit that these issues should be given special
attention at the United Nations International
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held
next year in Monterrey.
We must also envisage practical forms of
cooperation to alleviate the tragedy of AIDS, above all
in Africa. How long will the world remain indifferent
to the plight of those who might yet be saved from
disease, deprivation and exclusion?
The twentieth century came to an end amid a
growing sense of global citizenship and universally
shared values. Brazil is determined to forge ahead in
this direction.
The International Criminal Court will be a
historic victory for the cause of human rights. The
protection of the environment and sustainable
development are equally pressing challenges of our
time. The process of climate change has been
scientifically ascertained as a fact, but it is not
unstoppable. What the future holds depends on what
we do today, in particular as concerns the Kyoto
Protocol.
(spoke in English)
I have just been informed of the successful
outcome of the Marrakesh meeting. Brazil warmly
welcomes this development, which is a fundamental
step towards controlling, and eventually reversing, the
warming of the atmosphere. I will submit to the
Congress a proposal for the prompt ratification of the
Kyoto Protocol.
(spoke in Portuguese)
Recent events in this city and elsewhere have
clearly demonstrated the grave threat posed by
weapons of mass destruction. No matter the nature of
the menace — be it bacteriological, such as anthrax;
chemical; or nuclear — there is no alternative to
disarmament and non-proliferation.
It is an ethical imperative that science and
technology must not be turned into a weapon in the
hands of the irresponsible. This requires the active and
legitimate involvement of the United Nations in the
control, destruction and eradication of these arsenals.
Just as it supported the creation of the State of
Israel, Brazil today calls for concrete measures towards
the setting up of a Palestinian state that is democratic,
united and economically viable.
The right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination and respect for the existence of Israel as
a sovereign, free and secure State are essential if the
Middle East is to rebuild its future in peace.
This is a moral debt owed by the United Nations.
It is a task that must not be postponed.
It is equally urgent that a lasting solution be
found to the conflict in Angola, which deserves the
opportunity to get back on the road to development.
This is the same future that Brazil wishes for East
Timor, which we hope will soon take its rightful place
in the Assembly as a sovereign state.
A strong and flexible United Nations is required
if the world is to respond to increasingly complex
problems. The United Nations will only be
strengthened if the General Assembly becomes more
active and more respected, and if the Security Council
becomes more representative. Its composition should
no longer be a reflection of arrangements among the
victors of a conflict that took place over 50 years ago,
and for whose triumph Brazilian soldiers gave their
blood in the glorious campaigns in Italy.
Brazil joins those who appeal for more
democracy in international relations in calling for the
enlargement of the Security Council. Common sense
requires the inclusion, in the category of permanent
members, of those developing countries with the
necessary credentials to exercise the responsibilities
that today’s world imposes upon them.
By the same token, Brazil believes that an
enlargement of the G-7/G-8 is called for in view of the
transformations the world is presently undergoing. It is
no longer admissible to restrict to such a limited group
of countries the discussion of issues pertaining to
globalization and its inevitable impact on the political
and economic life of emerging countries.
An international order that is more just and based
on solidarity will come about only through a concerted
effort on the part of the community of nations. This is
7

too precious a goal to be left to the vagaries of market
forces or to the whims of power politics.
We do not aspire to a world government, but we
cannot sidestep the obligation to ensure that
international relations are not left rudderless, but
reflect the legitimate aspirations of the majority. The
nefarious shadow of terrorism points to what can be
expected if we do not enhance mutual understanding
among peoples.
This Organization was created under the sign of
dialogue — a dialogue among sovereign States that are
free nations, whose peoples actively participate in
national decision-making.
With their help, we can ensure that the twenty-
first century will not be a time of fear, but rather of the
flourishing of a freer humanity, at peace with itself, and
rationally oriented towards the building of an
international order that is acceptable to all peoples and
that provides a guiding framework for States at the
global level.
This is the challenge of the twenty-first century.
Let us face it inspired by the grand vision of the
founding fathers of this Organization, who dreamed of
a pluralistic world, founded on peace, solidarity,
tolerance and reason, which is the ultimate source of
the rule of law.



===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
I congratulate you, Sir, on
your election to the presidency of the General
Assembly. I thank your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-
soo, for the leadership he displayed at a particularly
critical moment for the Organization.
To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, I reaffirm
Brazil’s confidence in his statesmanship.
I have the pleasure of greeting the entry of East
Timor into the fold of the United Nations, just as we
welcomed it last July in Brasilia into our Community
of Portuguese-Speaking Countries. A free Timor is a
remarkable United Nations success story.
Brazil also welcomes Switzerland, as it has now
become a full member of this global political forum.
I come to this Hall as the representative of a
country that has faith in the United Nations and that
views multilateralism as the guiding principle of
relations among States. This is a conviction we hold
dear at all times, good and bad. We are at a particularly

difficult juncture for the Organization. This moment
calls for measures sustained by the principles and
values on which the United Nations was founded.
Brazil has defended them since the first international
conferences of the twentieth century.
We have never let ourselves be tempted by the
argument of power. Rather, we have been guided by the
power of argument. This has been the foreign policy of
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso. Throughout the
eight years of the two terms of office to which he has
been democratically elected, certain fundamental
guidelines have been recurrent: fostering democratic
decision-making; overcoming the governance deficit in
international relations; designing a new financial
architecture and providing effective solutions for
volatility in capital flows; defending a multilateral
trade regime that is both fair and balanced — hence,
the importance of the World Trade Organization and of
the Doha mandate; correcting the distortions resulting
from economic globalization that is not accompanied
by a corresponding process of political and institutional
globalization; and affirming the value of human rights
and sustainable development. These are challenges that
we cannot face alone.
For this reason, President Fernando Henrique
Cardoso has sought to strengthen the Common Market
of the South, together with South American integration,
as instruments for peace, cooperation and greater
competitiveness among our countries. Similarly,
President Cardoso has promoted the development of
partnerships in all continents, pursuing well-balanced
negotiations for the establishment of free trade areas, in
particular with the European Union, as well as with the
countries taking part in the Free Trade Area of the
Americas process.
We are committed to seeing the entry into force
of the Kyoto Protocol and the establishment of the
International Criminal Court; to furthering the social
development agenda; and to moving forward on
nuclear and conventional disarmament. The Brazilian
vision of the world under the leadership of President
Fernando Henrique Cardoso expresses goals not just of
Government, but also of the entire country and society.
That is why the electoral process now under way will
further strengthen democracy in Brazil and highlight
the country’s international credentials.
Our commitment to the United Nations and to
multilateralism will not waver “in times of storm and
blustery winds”, to quote Camões, the great poet of the
Portuguese language. The greater the challenges, such
as those facing us at this difficult juncture, the greater
the need for answers grounded in legitimacy —
legitimacy born of participation and consensus.
Cooperation must be our modus operandi.
In the multilateral sphere, leadership is crucial to
the tasks before us. We are clearly aware of that, yet
the form and content of each task must be defined
through dialogue. Only through dialogue will a
coalition of truly united nations be built — nations
united by the power of persuasion. The tangled
interests that form a global web of interdependence can
be managed only through authority rooted in
multilateral institutions and in respect for international
law. The commitment to negotiated settlements, under
the aegis of multilateralism, must be upheld.
At the time of the 11 September terrorist attacks,
this Organization immediately showed its solidarity
with the United States of America by adopting
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security
Council. At the regional level, the Inter-American
Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance was invoked on a
Brazilian initiative as an expression of our firm
repudiation and condemnation of all barbaric acts of
terrorism and of our solidarity with the United States.
These responses have taken the form of renewed
collaboration in security, intelligence, police and
judicial cooperation issues.
Lasting solutions to terrorism, international drug-
trafficking and organized crime require careful and
persistent efforts to set up partnerships and cooperative
arrangements consistent with the United Nations
multilateral system.
Many countries and regions have been burdened
with the costs of globalization, while at the same time
being deprived of its benefits. The very same free flow
of capital that can foster investment is responsible for
speculative attacks against national currencies and
balance of payment crises, with negative impact on the
continuity of public policies and on the alleviation of
social ills.
Protectionism and all forms of barriers to trade,
both tariff and non-tariff, continue to suffocate
developing economies and to nullify the
competitiveness of their exports. Liberalization of the
agricultural sector has been nothing more than a
promise repeatedly put off to an uncertain future.
5
A/57/PV.2
The globalization to which we aspire requires
reform of economic and financial institutions. It must
not be limited to the triumph of the market.
A modern understanding of development must
encompass the protection of human rights, be they civil
and political or economic, social and cultural. In this
respect, the appointment of Sergio Vieira de Mello as
the new United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights is a great honour for all Brazilians. He
succeeds Mary Robinson, whose important
achievements deserve recognition.
The United Nations was created to maintain
peace and security. However, armed conflicts and
pockets of irrational violence persist today.
The situation in the Middle East underscores how
distant we still are from the international order
imagined by the founders of the United Nations
Charter.
Brazil supports the creation of a democratic,
secure and economically viable Palestinian State, as
well as the right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination. Brazil defends the right of the State of
Israel to exist within recognized borders and of its
people to live in security. These are essential
prerequisites for lasting peace in the Middle East. Only
by mutually and comprehensively acknowledging the
conflicting legitimacies in the region, as well as by
building on existing agreements, can we staunch the
indiscriminate destructiveness of violence and forge a
way forward.
The use of force at the international level is
admissible only once all diplomatic alternatives have
been exhausted. Force must be exercised only in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and
in a manner consistent with the determinations of the
Security Council. Otherwise, the credibility of the
Organization will be undermined in a way that will not
only be illegitimate, but that will also give rise to
situations of precarious and short-lived stability.
In the specific case of Iraq, Brazil believes that it
is incumbent upon the Security Council to determine
the measures necessary to ensure full compliance with
relevant resolutions. The Security Council’s exercise of
its responsibilities is the way to reduce tensions and to
avoid risking the unpredictable consequences resulting
from wider instability.
In Angola the international community must
support recent positive developments that open the way
to the rebuilding of the country and the consolidation
of peace and democracy.
Strengthening the system of collective security
remains a challenge. The Security Council needs
reform in order to enhance its legitimacy and lay the
foundations for more solid international cooperation in
building a just and stable international order. A central
feature of this reform should be the expansion of the
number of members, both in the permanent and non-
permanent categories.
Brazil has already made it known — and I
reaffirm it here — that it is ready to contribute to the
work of the Security Council and to assume all its
responsibilities.
For Brazil, the United Nations is the public space
for the creation of power, which, according to Hannah
Arendt, can result only from the human capacity to act
in concert. The United Nations is the crucial hinge in
creating a global governance focused on more
equitable distribution of the dividends of peace and
progress.
Therein lies our vision for the future, a vision of
solidarity among peoples and nations, a vision made
legitimate by renewed and inclusive understanding of
power.
We are inspired by the observation of
Guicciardini, the politically more successful Florentine
contemporary of Machiavelli: “Among men, hope is
normally more powerful than fear”.

===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
﻿Let my first
words before this world parliament be of confidence in
the human capacity to overcome challenges and to
move towards higher forms of partnership, both within
and among nations. On behalf of the Brazilian people, I
reaffirm our belief in the United Nations. Its role in
promoting peace and social justice remains
irreplaceable.
I pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for
the leadership that he has shown in defence of a world
united through respect for international law and
solidarity among nations.
The Assembly convenes under the impact of the
brutal attack on the United Nations Mission in
Baghdad, which took the life of its head officer, the
High Commissioner for Human Rights, our compatriot
Sergio Vieira de Mello. Sergio's renowned competence
was nurtured by the only weapons in which he
believed: dialogue, persuasion and, above all, concern
for those who are most vulnerable. On behalf of the
United Nations, he showed a tolerant, peace-loving and
courageous humanism that mirrors Brazil's libertarian
soul. Sergio's sacrifice, and that of his colleagues, must
not be in vain. We can best honour his memory by
redoubling our efforts to protect human dignity
wherever it is threatened.
I warmly greet Mr. Julian Hunte, who was elected
President of the Assembly at a particularly grave
moment in the history of the United Nations. The
international community faces enormous political,
economic and social challenges requiring an
accelerated pace of reform. Only thus will our
collective decisions and actions be truly respected and
effective.
In my nine months as President of Brazil, I have
conferred with leaders of all continents, and I have
sensed in them a deep concern to defend and strengthen
multilateral institutions. The improvement of the
multilateral system is a necessary counterpart to
democratic practice within nations. Every nation that
practices democracy must strive to ensure that in
international affairs, decision-making is equally open,
transparent, legitimate and representative. The
tragedies that have befallen Iraq and the Middle East
can be overcome only within a multilateral
framework   one in which the United Nations is given
a central role.
In Iraq, the prevailing climate of insecurity and
growing tension makes national reconstruction an even
more complex task. That impasse can be overcome
only under the leadership of the United Nations  
leadership not only in re-establishing acceptable
security conditions, but also in guiding the political
process towards the restoration of Iraqi sovereignty as
soon as possible. We must not shy away from our
collective responsibilities. A war can perhaps be won
single-handedly, but peace   lasting peace   cannot
be secured without the support of all.
Two years later, the images of the barbaric attack
on 11 September still haunt us. There is a
commendable willingness today to adopt more
effective measures to deal with terrorism, with
weapons of mass destruction and with organized crime.
Unfortunately, there are also worrisome signs of an
attempt to discredit the Organization and even to divest
the United Nations of its political authority. Let there
be no ambiguity on this subject: no matter how
invaluable its humanitarian work, the United Nations
6

was conceived to do more than simply to clear away
the rubble of conflicts that it was unable to prevent.
Our central task is to preserve people from the scourge
of war, to negotiate settlements inspired by the
principles and objectives of the San Francisco Charter.
Let us not place greater trust on military might than on
the institutions we created with the light of reason and
the vision of history.
Reform of the United Nations has become an
urgent task, given the present risks to the international
political order.
The Security Council must be fully empowered to
deal with crises and threats to peace. It must therefore
be equipped with the tools for effective action. Above
all, its decisions must seen as legitimate by the
community of nations as a whole. Its composition, in
particular as concerns permanent membership, cannot
remain unaltered almost 60 years later. It can no longer
ignore the changing world. More specifically, it must
take into account the emergence on the international
scene of developing countries. They have become
important actors that often exercise a critical role in
ensuring the pacific settlement of disputes.
Brazil believes that it has a useful contribution to
make. It seeks not to advance an exclusive conception
of international security, but rather to give expression
to the perceptions and aspirations of a region that today
is a hallmark of peaceful coexistence among its
members and that is a force for international stability.
Given the support we received in South America and
beyond, Brazil is encouraged to continue advocating
for a Security Council that better reflects contemporary
reality.
We also favour an Economic and Social Council
capable of bringing about a fair and just economic
order. It is crucial that the Economic and Social
Council regain the role bestowed upon it by the
founding fathers of the Organization. We wish to see
the Economic and Social Council cooperate actively
with the Security Council in preventing conflicts and in
nation building.
The General Assembly, in turn, must be
strengthened politically so as to focus on priority issues
and avoid duplication of effort. The General Assembly
has fulfilled a historically important role by convening
major conferences and other meetings on human rights,
the environment, population, women's rights, racial
discrimination, AIDS and social development.
However, the General Assembly should not hesitate to
assume its responsibilities for maintaining international
peace and security. Our Organization has shown that
there are legal and political alternatives to a veto-
induced paralysis and to actions lacking multilateral
endorsement.
Peace, security, development and social justice
are indivisible. Brazil has endeavoured to practice with
utmost consistency the principles for which it stands.
The new relationship we are forging with our South
American neighbours is founded on mutual respect,
friendship and cooperation.
We are moving beyond our shared history and
geography to create a unique sense of kinship and
partnership. In this context, our relationship with
Argentina remains crucial.
South America and Latin America are
increasingly seen as a region of peace, democracy and
development that aspires to become a new outpost for
growth in a stagnating world economy.
We are deepening the already significant ties with
traditional partners in North America and Europe,
but we also seek to widen and diversify our
international presence. Our relations with China and
the Russian Federation have revealed unexpected
complementarities.
We are proud to be the country with the second
largest population of African descent in the world. In
November, I will be travelling to five countries in
Southern Africa to foster economic, political, social
and cultural cooperation. With the same goal in mind,
we will also host a summit meeting between South
American countries and the member States of the
League of Arab States. With India and South Africa we
have established a trilateral forum for political
consultations and joint projects.
The protectionism practised by rich countries
unfairly penalizes efficient producers in developing
countries. Today this is the greatest obstacle to
launching a new era of economic and social progress.
Brazil and its partners in the G-22 maintained during
the World Trade Organization summit meeting at
Cancun that the crucial goal of effectively opening
markets is achievable through pragmatic and mutually
reinforcing negotiations that bring about an effective
opening of markets. I reaffirm our willingness to travel
along a path that converges towards solutions that
7

benefit all countries, taking into account the interests
of developing countries.
We are entirely in favour of free trade as long as
we can all compete on a level playing field.
Liberalization should not require countries to abandon
the prerogative of formulating industrial, technological,
social and environmental policy. In Brazil we are
engaged in setting up a new framework that balances
economic stability and social inclusion. From that
standpoint, trade negotiations are not an end in
themselves, but rather a means to foster development
and overcome poverty. International trade should be a
tool not only for creating wealth, but also for its
distribution.
I reaffirm before this truly universal Assembly
the appeal I launched at the Davos and Porto Alegre
forums and at the Enlarged Summit of the G-8 at
Evian. We must wage   both politically and
materially   the only war from which we will all
emerge victorious: the war against hunger and extreme
poverty.
The eradication of hunger in the world is a moral
and political imperative. And we all know that it is
possible. What is truly required is political will.
I do not wish to dwell on indications of
barbarism. I would rather acknowledge ethical and
social progress, no matter how modest. Yet we cannot
dismiss the statistics that expose the terrible scourge of
extreme poverty and hunger in the world. Hunger today
touches a fourth of the world's population, including
300 million children. Daily, 24,000 people fall victim
to malnutrition-related diseases.
Nothing is more absurd or intolerable than the
pervasiveness of hunger in the twenty-first century, this
golden age of science and technology.
With each passing day, human intelligence
enlarges the horizons of the possible and achieves
prodigious feats. Yet, hunger persists and, what is
worse, it is spreading throughout various regions of the
planet.
The more we seem to approach the divine through
our creative abilities, the more humanity betrays its
aspirations through our inability to respect and protect
our fellow creatures. The more we celebrate God by
generating riches, the more we hurt our ideals by not
minimally sharing them.
What is the use of all our science and technology,
of all the abundance and luxury that it has generated, if
we do not put it to use, guaranteeing the most sacred of
rights: the right to life?
I recall the penetrating warning, made by Pope
Paul VI 36 years ago, but which is still surprisingly
relevant: The starving people of the world
dramatically address their plea to the wealthy'.
Hunger is an emergency, and it should be dealt
with as such. The eradication of hunger is a
civilizational challenge that requires that we seek a
shortcut to the future. Will we act to eliminate hunger
or will we forsake our credibility through omission?
We no longer have the right to allege that we were not
home when they knocked at our door asking for
solidarity. We have no right to say to the famished who
have waited for so long: come back next century. The
true path to peace is to fight hunger and extreme
poverty to the end, in a campaign of solidarity that
unites the planet rather than deepening the divisions
and the hatred that inflame people and sow terror.
Despite the failure of systems that favour the
generation of wealth without reducing extreme poverty,
many people still persist in their short-sightedness and
greed.
Since my inauguration as President of Brazil on 1
January, significant progress has been made on the
economic front. Stability is back and the groundwork
for a renewed cycle of sustained growth has been laid.
We will continue to work hard to balance public
accounts and to reduce external vulnerability. We will
spare no effort to increase exports, raise the savings
rate, attract foreign investment and start growing again.
Yet at the same time we must strive to cope with
the need for food, jobs, education and health services
for millions of Brazilians living below the poverty line.
We are committed to bringing about major social
reform in the country.
Hunger is the most dramatic and urgent
expression of a structural imbalance requiring
correction through integrated policies that foster full
citizenship. That is why I launched the zero hunger'
programme in Brazil. It seeks to eradicate hunger and
its root causes in the shortest possible time by
promoting major solidarity and wide-ranging
programmes bringing together Government, civil
society and the private sector. The results of those
8

emergency and structural measures are already
benefiting 4 million individuals who were previously
denied the right to a daily meal. The goal of this
programme is to guarantee that no Brazilians will go
hungry.
The United Nations adopted the highly acclaimed
Millennium Development Goals. The Food and
Agriculture Organization has at its disposal outstanding
technical and social expertise. But we need to make a
qualitative leap in the global endeavour to fight hunger.
That is why I proposed setting up a global fund to fight
hunger and suggested means to make it operational.
Other proposals have been put forward as well, some
already integrated into existing United Nations
programmes.
What has been lacking until now is the
indispensable political will of us all, especially of those
countries in a position to contribute most. Creating new
funds is of no use if no resources are committed to
them. The Millennium Development Goals are very
worthy, but if we remain passive, if our collective
behaviour remains unchanged, those Goals may never
materialize, and the ensuing frustration will be
immense.
Now more than ever, good intentions must give
rise to concrete gestures. We must put commitments
into practice. We must practice what we preach   with
audacity, good sense and our feet firmly on the ground,
yet boldly, and with new methods, solutions and
intense social participation.
For this reason, I am submitting a proposal for
consideration by the General Assembly to establish a
world committee within the United Nations itself to
fight hunger. It would be made up of heads of State or
Government from all continents with the purpose of
unifying and operationalizing proposals. We hope to
attract donations from developed and developing
countries according to their capacities, as well as from
large private enterprises and non-governmental
organizations.
My life experience and political history have
taught me to believe above all in the power of
dialogue. I will never forget Gandhi's invaluable lesson
that when out of violence something good appears to
result, this good is at best short-lived, while the evil
that it produces is enduring. Democratic dialogue is the
most efficient of all tools for change. With the same
determination that goes into my endeavours and those
of my partners to make Brazilian society more just and
humane, I will invest in the establishment of
international partnerships that foster equitable
development and a more peace-loving, tolerant and
unified world.
This century, so full of technological and material
promise, must not be allowed to slide into political and
spiritual decline. It is our obligation to mould, under
the reinvigorated leadership of the United Nations, an
international climate of peace and conciliation. True
peace will bloom from democracy, from respect for
international law, from the dismantling of deadly
weapons arsenals and, above all, from the final
eradication of hunger in the world.
We cannot afford to frustrate such high hopes.
The greatest and noblest challenge facing humanity is
precisely that of becoming more humane. It is time to
call peace by its true name: social justice. I am
convinced that together we shall be able to grasp this
historic opportunity to bring about justice.






===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
Through
Foreign Minister Jean Ping of Gabon, I greet the
representatives of all peoples gathered here today. I
fraternally salute Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who
5

has been guiding the work of the United Nations with
wisdom and devotion.
For the second time, I address this universal
Assembly on behalf of Brazil. I have a lifelong
commitment to those silenced by inequality, hunger
and hopelessness. In the powerful words of Franz
Fanon, the colonial past bestowed on them a common
legacy: “If you so desire, take it: the freedom to starve
to death”.
Today, we are 191 nation-States. In the past, 125
of us were subjected to the oppression of a few Powers
that originally occupied less than 2 per cent of the
globe. The end of colonialism confirmed, in the
political arena the right of peoples to self-
determination. The Assembly is the highest expression
of an international order based on the independence of
nations.
However, such a political transformation has not
taken place in the economic and social fields, and
history shows that that will not happen spontaneously.
In 1820, the per capita income of the richest nation in
the world was five times greater than that of the
poorest one. Today, that disparity has reached a ratio of
80-to-1.
The former subjects have become perpetual
debtors in the international economic system.
Protectionist barriers and other obstacles to balanced
trade — aggravated by the concentration of
investments, knowledge and technology — have
followed colonial domination. A powerful, all-
encompassing and invisible wheel runs the system
from afar. It often revokes democratic decisions, causes
the sovereignty of States to shrivel and imposes itself
on elected Governments. It demands that legitimate
national development projects be renounced. The
perverse logic of draining the needy to irrigate the
affluent still stands. In recent decades, an ill-inclusive
and asymmetric globalization has deepened the
devastating legacy of poverty and social regression,
which is now bursting into the agenda of the twenty-
first century. Today, in 54 countries, per capita income
is lower than what it was 10 years ago; in 34 countries,
life expectancy has decreased; and in 14 countries, a
greater number of children are starving to death.
In Africa, where colonialism resisted until the
twilight of the twentieth century, 200 million people
are caught in an existence marked by hunger, disease
and neglect, to which the world has become oblivious,
numbed by the routine of the distant suffering of
others. Lack of basic sanitation has killed more
children in the past decade than all military conflicts
since the end of the Second World War.
Love cannot spring from cruelty. Peace will never
rise from poverty and hunger. The hatred and
senselessness that are spreading throughout the world
feed on despair and on the absolute lack of hope for
many people.
This year alone, more than 1,700 people have
died as a consequence of terrorist attacks around the
world — in Madrid, Baghdad and Jakarta. Those
tragedies must be added to so many others in India, the
Middle East and the United States, as well as to, more
recently, the barbaric slaughter of children in Beslan.
Mankind is losing the fight for peace. Only the
enlightened values of humanism, applied with clarity
of mind and determination, will be able to counter
barbarism.
This situation imposes a new sense of collective
and individual responsibility on the peoples and the
leaders of the world. If peace is our goal, it is our task
to build it. If we wish to eliminate violence, we must
address its deep-rooted origins with the same resolve
employed against the agents of hatred. The path to
lasting peace must encompass a new international
political and economic order, one that extends real
opportunities for economic and social development to
all countries. It therefore requires reform of the global
development model, as well as international
institutions that are effectively democratic and based
on multilateralism and on an acknowledgement of the
rights and aspirations of all peoples.
The tortured look in the eyes of the outcast
should do more to stir our conscience than the no less
dramatic statistics on social inequality. Their gaze calls
to us for a future of hope. Just as our destinies are now
intertwined, every conflict has global effects. When the
sky is shown to us from between iron bars, let us not
mistake the cage for freedom.
We have the scientific knowledge and the scale of
production necessary for resolving global economic
and social challenges. Today, nature and progress can
be reconciled by means of development models that are
ethically and environmentally sustainable. Nature is
not a museum of untouchable relics, but neither should
it be further degraded by human and environmental
exploitation in a search for wealth at any price.
6

A generation is remembered not only for what it
accomplishes, but also for what it fails to accomplish.
If our resources are so much greater than our
achievements, how will we explain to future
generations why we did so little when so much was
within our reach? A neglectful civilization is
condemned to wither like a body without a soul.
The exhortations from the great New Deal leader
Franklin Delano Roosevelt still resonate with
inescapable pertinence. What is needed today is “bold,
persistent experimentation”. “The only thing we need
to fear is fear itself.” Such boldness stems not from
instinct, but rather from political courage; not from
irresponsible wilfulness, but rather from a daring
ability to reform. What sets civilization apart from
barbarism is a political architecture that promotes
peaceful change and advances social and economic life
by means of democratic consensus. If we fail against
hunger and poverty, what else will be able to bring us
together?
I believe the time has come to state clearly that
for us to once again grow in a fair way, an important
shift in the financial flows from international
multilateral organizations is necessary. Such
organizations were created to provide solutions, but, by
adopting excessive rigour, they themselves have
sometimes become part of the problem. They must
adjust their focus on development, thus restoring their
original objectives. The International Monetary Fund
should be able to provide the guarantees and
the liquidity that are necessary for productive
investments — especially in infrastructure, housing
and sanitation — and which can also restore poor
countries’ capacity to pay.
Brazilian foreign policy, in all its dimensions, is
focused on joining other nations in efforts aimed at the
establishment of a world of justice and peace.
Yesterday, in a historic meeting, more than 60 world
leaders gathered to give new impetus to international
action against hunger and poverty. I firmly believe that
the process launched yesterday will bring the fight
against world poverty to a new level. As we advance in
this new alliance, we shall have better means to attain
the Millennium Development Goals, especially with
regard to the eradication of hunger.
It was in this same spirit of contributing to the
reduction of poverty that Brazil, India and South Africa
established, last year, the India-Brazil-South Africa
(IBSA) Fund. Our first project, in Guinea-Bissau, will
be launched tomorrow.
HIV/AIDS and its nefarious connection to hunger
and poverty is also a priority. Our international
cooperation programme with other developing
countries in fighting HIV/AIDS is now operating in six
developing countries and will soon be extended to
another three.
I am fully aware of the serious security problems
that pose a threat to international stability. There seems
to be no prospect for improvement in the critical
situation in the Middle East. In that and other conflicts,
the international community cannot allow violence —
whether sponsored by States or by other actors — to
prevail over democratic dialogue. The Palestinian
people are still far from achieving the self-
determination to which they are entitled.
We know that the underlying causes of insecurity
are complex. The necessary fight against terrorism
cannot be conceived strictly in military terms. We must
develop strategies that encompass both solidarity and
firmness, but with strict respect for international law.
On that basis, Brazil and other Latin American
countries have responded to the call of the United
Nations and are engaged in the stabilization efforts in
Haiti. If we seek new paradigms in international
relations, we cannot shirk our responsibility to address
the concrete situations that emerge.
The promotion of equitable development is
crucial to addressing the centuries-old causes of
Haitian instability. In our region, despite grave social
and economic problems, a culture of peace prevails.
Our continent is experiencing a period of democratic
coming of age, with a vibrant civil society. We have
learned that development and social justice must be
sought with determination and an openness to dialogue.
The bouts of instability in our region have been dealt
with while strictly respecting our institutions.
Whenever requested, and within its means and
capabilities, Brazil has made its contribution to help
friendly countries overcome crises that threatened their
constitutional order and stability. We do not believe in
interfering in the domestic affairs of other countries,
but neither can we condone omission and indifference
in the face of situations that affect our neighbours.
Brazil is committed to the establishment of a
South America that is politically stable, prosperous and
united, on the basis of strengthening the South
7

American Common Market (MERCOSUR) and its
strategic relationship with Argentina. The possibility
that a community of South American States could
emerge is no longer a distant dream, thanks to decisive
initiatives in the areas of structural, economic,
commercial, social and cultural integration.
Brazil is at work in multilateral negotiations with
a view to reaching just and equitable agreements. At
the last meeting of the World Trade Organization, we
took a fundamental step towards the elimination of
abusive restrictions that hamper developing countries.
Coordination among countries from Africa, Asia and
Latin America in the Group of 20 was decisive for
keeping the Doha Round on the right track of trade
liberalization with social justice. If successful, the
Doha Round could lift more than 500 million people
out of poverty. It is essential to carry on building a new
world economic and commercial geography that, while
maintaining the vital ties to developed countries,
allows for the establishment of solid bridges among the
countries of the South, which have remained isolated
from one another for too long.
Brazil is committed to the success of the
international climate change regime. We are
developing renewable sources of energy. That is why
we shall continue to actively strive for the entry into
force of the Kyoto Protocol.
South America contains approximately 50 per
cent of the world’s biodiversity. We stand for
combating bio-piracy as well as for the negotiation of
an international regime for sharing the benefits derived
from the use of genetic resources and traditional
knowledge.
I reiterate what I stated at this very rostrum last
year: only an international order based on
multilateralism can promote peace and the sustainable
development of nations. Such an order must be based
on a constructive dialogue among different cultures
and world visions. No organ is better suited than the
United Nations to ensure the world’s convergence
around common goals. The Security Council is the
only source of legitimate action in the field of
international peace and security, but its composition
must reflect today’s reality — not perpetuate the post-
World-War-II era or the Cold War era. Reform
proposals that simply dress the current structure in new
clothes and do not provide for an increase in the
number of permanent members are manifestly
insufficient. The difficulties inherent to any reform
process must not cause us to lose sight of its urgency.
There will be neither security nor stability in the
world until a more just and democratic order is
established. The community of nations must give a
clear and urgent response to this challenge. We can
find such a response in the wise words of the Prophet
Isaiah: the fruit of righteousness will be peace.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
I should like
to extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir,
Ambassador Jan Eliasson of Sweden, on your
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly
at its sixtieth session. I should also like to express
fraternal greetings to Secretary-General Kofi Annan,
whose wisdom and commitment to multilateralism
have made an immense contribution to progress here at
the United Nations. Minister Jean Ping of Gabon
deserves special recognition for the competent and
dedicated manner in which he presided over the
General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session.
This is a rare and historic opportunity to promote
change; let us not waste it. Peace, development,
democracy and respect for human rights are objectives
that unite us. Reform must be our motto.
The final document adopted yesterday at the
summit (resolution 60/1) has unquestionably fallen
short of our expectations. However, it provides us with
guidelines that will enable us to carry out our work.
The General Assembly must be strengthened.
More than ever, we need a forum with universal
representation, in which the crucial issues of today’s
world can be democratically debated. The General
Assembly must provide leadership and political
guidance to the Organization as a whole. In supporting
the authority of the General Assembly by enabling it to
act more speedily and be more productive, we are
supporting the very essence of the United Nations.
The Economic and Social Council must again
become a dynamic and influential organ. It must help
us to come together on issues related to trade, finance
and development in an environment free from
prejudice and dogma. The Economic and Social
Council should be a privileged, deliberative forum in
our quest for reconciliation between the objectives of
sustainable economic growth and the reduction of the
inequalities caused by asymmetric globalization.
President Lula suggested this year, at the summit of the
Group of Eight (G-8) at Gleneagles, that we could start
raising the profile of the Economic and Social Council
by organizing a high-level segment, with the
participation of the Finance Minister of the country
holding the G-8 presidency. The Economic and Social
Council must also help to promote peace and stability
in partnership with the Security Council, as provided
for in Article 65 of the Charter.
The establishment of a Peacebuilding
Commission will bridge an important institutional gap.
It will be a link between security and development.
Currently, there is no such link.
The structures and mechanisms of the
Organization in the human rights field must be
improved and reinforced. We support the creation of a
Human Rights Council, based on the principles of
universality, dialogue and non-selectivity. The
elaboration of an annual global report on human rights
by the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, covering all
countries and situations, will help to increase the
credibility of the United Nations human rights system.
The Secretary-General has called for better
coordination in our work to protect victims of grave
and systematic violations of human rights.
International cooperation in the field of human rights
and humanitarian assistance must be guided by the
principle of collective responsibility. We have
maintained on several occasions — in our region and
elsewhere — that the principle of non-intervention in
the domestic affairs of States must be associated with
the idea of “non-indifference”.
We have been called upon to deal with new
concepts, such as human security and the responsibility
to protect. We agree that they merit a proper place in
our system. But it is an illusion to believe that we can
combat the dysfunctional politics at the root of grave
human rights violations by military means alone, or
even by economic sanctions, without fully utilizing
diplomacy and persuasion.
Human security is mainly the result of just and
equitable societies that promote and protect human
rights, strengthen democracy and respect the rule of
law, while creating opportunities for economic
development and social justice. The United Nations
6

was not created to disseminate the notion that order
should be imposed by force. That extreme expedient
can be considered only when all other efforts have
been exhausted and peaceful solutions have proved not
to be viable. A judgement as to the existence of such
exceptional circumstances must always be a
multilateral one.
The Charter foresees two situations in which the
use of force is permissible: to restore or maintain
international peace and security, and in the case of the
right to self-defence. Mixing those two concepts would
blur the meaning of the very tenets of this
Organization.
Security Council reform is the centrepiece of the
reform process in which we are engaged. The vast
majority of Member States recognize the need to make
the Security Council more representative and
democratic.
At this historic juncture, no Security Council
reform effort will be meaningful unless it contemplates
an increase in the number of permanent and non-
permanent seats, with developing countries from
Africa, Latin America and Asia included in both
categories. We cannot accept the perpetuation of
imbalances that run contrary to the very spirit of
multilateralism.
Above all, a more efficient Council must be
capable of ensuring that its decisions are implemented.
It is not reasonable to expect the Council to continue to
expand its agenda and responsibilities without
addressing its democracy deficit.
Two years ago, President Luiz Inácio Lula da
Silva declared before the Assembly that every nation
that is committed to democracy at the domestic level
must strive for more transparent, legitimate and
representative decision-making processes in its
external relations. In the same spirit, Secretary-General
Kofi Annan pointed out the contradictions to be
overcome, stating:
“We are the ones who go around the world
lecturing everybody about democracy. I think it is
about time we apply it to ourselves, and then
show that there is effective representation”.
We are still far from accomplishing the goals of
the Millennium Declaration. This week’s summit has
stressed the importance of a renewed commitment to
development assistance and contributed to promoting
universal acceptance of the target of 0.7 per cent of
gross national product devoted to official development
assistance. At the same time, we must continue to work
on innovative and additional sources of financing. I
note with satisfaction that since the Summit of World
Leaders for Action against Hunger and Poverty,
convened last year by President Lula, we have
achieved significant progress. A growing number of
Governments and non-governmental organizations
have joined in the effort to eradicate hunger and
poverty. This is the only war in which we are engaged.
This is the only war we can all win.
This year we witnessed yet again brutal acts of
terrorism. Innocent civilians, women and children are
today victims of groups who stand as adversaries to the
values we share. As a country whose identity cannot be
dissociated from the notions of tolerance and diversity,
Brazil rejects in the strongest terms those abhorrent
acts, which go against the very notion of humanity. We
will continue to lend our support to increased
international cooperation in the fight against terrorism
and in the struggle to eliminate its deep-rooted causes.
Such efforts must be undertaken with due respect
for international law and human rights. The fight
against terrorism cannot be viewed in terms of police
repression alone. Nor can such repression result in
absurd and indiscriminate killing like terrorism itself.
Despite the fact that there is no automatic linkage
between poverty and terrorism, communities can be
exposed to extreme attitudes by fanatical groups as a
result of grave social and economic problems,
especially when associated with the absence of civil
and political liberties. I wish to express Brazil’s
readiness to work intensively with a view to the prompt
conclusion of a comprehensive convention against
terrorism.
We recognize the risks of the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction. At the same time, we
cannot disregard the importance of reducing and
dismantling existing arsenals of all such weapons. We
regret that the seventh Review Conference of the
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons did not produce tangible results.
Together with non-proliferation efforts, we must
continue to work tirelessly towards nuclear
disarmament.
In addition to the challenges I have just referred
to, we are faced with two crises of global scope: the
7

pandemic explosion of HIV/AIDS and the serious
threats posed by climate change. Brazil will continue to
promote the implementation of existing multilateral
instruments to fight those scourges.
Brazil is committed to reinforcing the strategic
alliance with its main partner in our region —
Argentina — and to the promotion of a prosperous,
integrated and politically stable South America,
building upon our experience in the Southern Cone
Common Market (MERCOSUR). We will tirelessly
strive for MERCOSUR’s advancement in the economic
and political fields. The South American Community
of Nations, which was founded last year in Cuzco,
Peru, can be seen as a driving force for integration in
Latin America and the Caribbean as a whole.
Our efforts in establishing partnerships with other
developing countries go beyond our immediate region.
The India-Brazil-South Africa Dialogue Forum (IBSA)
has brought together three large democracies from
Africa, Asia and Latin America that are keen on
deepening the economic, political and cultural ties
between them and between their regions. Together with
other partners, we have joined in setting up the Group
of Twenty (G-20), which places developing countries
at the centre of agricultural trade negotiations of the
World Trade Organization’s Doha round. Thanks to the
role played by the G-20, it has been possible to
combine trade liberalization with social justice in the
context of the multilateral trading system.
Strengthening our ties with Africa has been a
long-standing aspiration of Brazil’s. No previous
Government has pursued that objective with the
resolve demonstrated by President Lula. Trade and
cooperation between Brazil and Africa have grown
significantly. Political dialogue has intensified. We
have been contributing to the consolidation of peace
and democracy in countries such as Guinea-Bissau and
Sao Tome and Principe. We have helped to fight
hunger, develop agriculture and combat the scourge of
HIV/AIDS in various brother countries of Africa.
The same sense of solidarity inspires us to
participate in United Nations peace efforts in Haiti.
The Brazilian and Latin American presence in Haiti is
unprecedented, in terms of both troops and political
commitment. We are motivated by three main
objectives: establishing a safe environment, promoting
dialogue among the various political actors with a view
to a genuine democratic transition and securing
effective international support for institutional, social
and economic reconstruction. Haiti is likely to be the
first test case for the Peacebuilding Commission.
Brazil and the Arab world are renewing their ties
of friendship, inspired by strong historical and cultural
affinities. Apart from bilateral initiatives, Brazil has
been strengthening its relations with regional
groupings such as the Gulf Cooperation Council and
the Arab League. In May 2005, an unprecedented
summit of South American and Arab States took place
in Brasilia. That pioneering initiative brought together
two regions of the developing world in a concrete
demonstration of harmony of civilizations.
On several trips to the Middle East, I had the
opportunity to talk to variety of people, including
leaders from Israel and Palestine. They are aware of
Brazil’s willingness to support the work of the Quartet
as a partner for peace. The practice of tolerance and
respect for others, as well as the harmonious co-
existence of different communities in our country,
constitute our comparative advantage. I believe that
conviction is shared by eminent persons and political
leaders from both Israel and Palestine.
At the beginning of this new chapter in the life of
the United Nations, Brazil remains committed to the
ideals that led to the creation of the only Organization
of universal scope, the only body that can guarantee a
future of peace and prosperity — not for the few, but
for all.

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
When I first 
addressed the Assembly from this rostrum, in 2003, I 
stressed the need for urgent and relentless action to 
fight the scourge of hunger and poverty in the world. 
This is what we are doing in Brazil: we have combined 
economic stability with social inclusion policies; the 
standard of living of Brazilians has improved; 
employment and income have grown; the purchasing 
power of the minimum wage has increased. Our 
resources are scarce, but even so we have achieved 
surprising results. 
 The family stipend at the core of our zero-hunger 
programme assures a basic income to over 11 million 
Brazilian families. Well-fed people can enhance their 
dignity, their health and their learning capacity. Putting 
resources into social programmes is not expenditure; it 
is investment. 
 If we in Brazil have done so much with so little, 
imagine what could have been done on a global scale if 
the fight against hunger and poverty had been a real 
priority for the international community. Where there is 
hunger, there is no hope; there is only desolation and 
pain. Hunger nurtures violence and fanaticism. A world 
where people starve will never be safe. 
 The sheer size of the task will not daunt us, 
especially if we are not alone. All here know that some 
840 million human beings — nearly one out of seven 
on the planet — do not have enough to eat. 
 An additional $50 billion each year are needed to 
reach the Millennium Development Goals on time. The 
international community can afford it. On the positive 
side, think, just for instance, of the hundreds of billions 
of dollars invested to move forward with the full 
integration of Eastern European countries into the 
European Union. Then, on the other hand, think of the 
cost of wars and other conflicts. Everyone here is 
aware that the second Gulf war has probably cost 
hundreds of billions of dollars to date. With much less 
  
 
06-52731 6 
 
we could change the sad reality of a large portion of 
the world’s population. We could alleviate the plight of 
those people and lift them out of destitution. We could 
save millions of lives. 
 However strong they are today, rich countries 
should have no illusions: nobody is safe in a world of 
injustice. War will never bring security; it can only 
generate horrors, bitterness, intolerance and 
fundamentalism and create damage associated with 
hegemonism. The poor must be given reasons to live, 
not to kill or die. Humanity’s greatness lies not in 
bellicosity, but in humanism, and there can be no true 
humanism without respect for the other. 
 There are, in fact, those who are different from 
us, but who are no less dignified, no less precious and 
no less entitled to the right to happiness, because we 
are all creatures of the same creator. 
 There can be security only in a world where all 
have the right to economic and social development. 
The true path to peace is shared development. If we do 
not want war to go global, justice must go global. 
 That is why, with the serene conviction of a man 
who has dedicated his life to fighting peacefully for the 
rights of working people, I say to the Assembly: the 
search for a new, fairer and more democratic world 
order is not only in the interests of poor or emerging 
nations; it is also — and perhaps to an even greater 
extent — in the interests of rich countries, so long as 
they have eyes to see and ears to hear, so long as they 
do not make the mistake of ignoring the haunting cry 
of the excluded. 
 We have seen some progress in the past few 
years. At the Summit of World Leaders in 2004, we 
launched the Action against Hunger and Poverty 
initiative. Together, we were able to achieve strong 
international engagement around that issue. Our 
collective efforts have begun to bear fruit. We are 
establishing innovative mechanisms, such as a 
solidarity levy on international air tickets. 
 Hunger and disease walk hand in hand. 
Therefore, we have joined with other Governments in 
establishing an International Drug Purchase Facility to 
combat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. That initiative 
will provide new sources of funding and facilitate 
access to medication at lower costs. We cannot shirk 
our responsibilities in this area. 
 That is why I salute the leaders of vision who are 
engaged in this war: the war against the debasement of 
human beings and against hopelessness. That is the 
only war in which final victory will mean a triumph for 
all of humanity. 
 The fight against hunger and poverty is based on 
the creation of a world order that gives priority to 
social and economic development. There will be 
permanent solutions to destitution only when poorer 
countries can make progress through their own efforts. 
 Once international trade is free and fair, it will be 
a valuable tool for wealth creation, income distribution 
and job creation. It is essential that we break the bonds 
of protectionism. Subsidies granted by richer countries, 
particularly in the area of agriculture, are oppressive 
shackles that limit progress and doom poor countries to 
backwardness. Time and again, I must repeat that, 
while trade-distorting support in developed countries 
amount to the outrageous sum of $1 billion a day, 900 
million people get by on less than $1 a day in poor and 
developing countries. That situation is politically and 
morally untenable. 
 The only thing worse than inaction stemming 
from ignorance is neglect born of accommodation. The 
old geography of international trade must be 
profoundly reshaped. Brazil, together with its partners 
in the Group of Twenty (G-20), is engaged in that task. 
The creation of the G-20 has changed the dynamics of 
negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO): 
until recently, developing countries played only 
peripheral roles in the most important negotiations. 
 Eliminating the barriers that prevent poor 
countries from developing is an ethical duty of the 
international community. It is also the best way to 
ensure prosperity and security for all. 
 Today, for the first time in the history of the 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade/WTO system, 
the word “development” appears in the title of a round 
of trade negotiations. However, the Doha Development 
Agenda, which will decide the future of the world trade 
system, is now in crisis. 
 If they are successful, the WTO negotiations will 
help to pull many people out of extreme poverty. 
Farmers who cannot compete against multi-billion-
dollar subsidies will at last have a chance to prosper. 
Poor African countries will finally be able to export 
their products. If the round fails, however, the fallout 
 
 
7 06-52731 
 
will extend far beyond trade. The credibility of the 
WTO system itself will be jeopardized, with negative 
political and social repercussions. Scourges such as 
organized crime, drug trafficking and terrorism will 
find fertile ground in which to proliferate. 
 I have called on world leaders to shoulder their 
responsibilities. The importance attached to this issue 
at the most recent summit of the Group of Eight has 
not yet produced practical results. Our generation has a 
unique opportunity to show the world that selfish 
interests will not prevail over the common good. 
History will not forgive us if we miss that opportunity. 
Fair trade, based on a solid consensus and on a 
transparent WTO that is aware of the needs of 
developing countries, is one of the pillars of the world 
order that we uphold. 
 In the field of international peace and security, 
another such pillar is the United Nations. Brazil is a 
staunch supporter of international organizations as 
forums for cooperation and dialogue. There is no more 
effective way to bring States together, to keep the 
peace, to protect human rights, to promote sustainable 
development and to work out negotiated solutions to 
common problems. 
 Conflicts such as that in the Middle East continue 
to challenge the authority of the United Nations. The 
recent crisis in Lebanon exposed the Organization to a 
dangerous erosion of credibility. The effectiveness of 
the United Nations is being seriously questioned. 
Unable to act when it is needed, the Security Council is 
accused of being lethargic. 
 World public opinion is impatient in the face of 
such incomprehensible difficulties. The deaths of 
innocent civilians — including women and children — 
have shocked all of us. In Brazil, millions of Arabs and 
Jews live together in harmony. Thus, Brazil’s interest 
in the Middle East stems from a profound objective 
social reality in our own country. 
 Apart from the countries directly involved, 
Middle Eastern issues have always been addressed 
exclusively by the major Powers. So far, they have 
found no solution. Thus, we might ask: is it not time to 
convene a broad-based conference under United 
Nations auspices, with the participation of countries of 
the region and others that could make a contribution on 
the basis of their successful experiences in living 
peacefully despite differences? 
 Brazil believes in dialogue. For that reason, we 
held a summit of South American and Arab countries in 
2005. We also have good relations with Israel, whose 
birth as a State came about when a Brazilian, Oswaldo 
Aranha, was the President of the General Assembly. 
Conflicts among nations are not resolved only with 
money and weapons; ideas, values and feelings also 
have their place, particularly when they are based on 
real-life experiences. 
 More than ever before, the authority of the United 
Nations needs to be strengthened. We have already 
made significant progress through the administrative 
reform process and the establishment of both the 
Human Rights Council and the Peacebuilding 
Commission. But the task will remain irreparably 
incomplete without changes in the Security Council, 
the body responsible for overseeing issues related to 
peace. 
 Together with the other members of the Group of 
Four on Security Council reform, Brazil believes that 
any expansion of the Council must envisage the 
admission of developing countries as permanent 
members. That would make the Council more 
democratic, legitimate and representative. The great 
majority of Member States agree with that view and 
recognize the urgency of this matter. 
 We cannot deal with new problems using 
outdated structures. Sooner or later, we must open the 
way to democratizing international decision-making 
bodies. As the Secretary-General has said, we travel 
around the world preaching democracy to others; we 
must now apply democracy to ourselves and show that 
there is genuine representation in the political bodies 
of the United Nations. 
 South America is a priority for Brazilian foreign 
policy. Our region is our home. We are expanding the 
Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR) and 
strengthening the South American Community of 
Nations. The future of Brazil is linked to that of its 
neighbours. A strong and united South America will 
contribute to the integration of Latin America and the 
Caribbean. 
 We also feel connected to the African continent 
by historical and cultural ties. As the country with the 
second-largest black population in the world, we are 
committed to sharing Africa’s challenges and its 
destiny. But regional matters are only part of the global 
problems we face. 
  
 
06-52731 8 
 
 The fight against hunger and poverty, the 
breakdown of the Doha round and the stalemate in the 
Middle East are interconnected issues. The appropriate 
handling of these matters requires trust in negotiated 
solutions at the multilateral level. 
 This trust has now been shaken. This is extremely 
serious. The world order that it is our task to build 
must be based on justice and respect for international 
law. That is the only way to achieve peace, 
development and genuine democratic coexistence 
within the community of nations. 
 There is no lack of resources. What is missing is 
the political will to use them where they can make a 
difference. They can then turn despair into joy and find 
a reason to live. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
I congratulate 
the Secretary-General on his assumption of such a high 
office within the international system. I welcome his 
decision to encourage high-level debate on the 
extremely grave issue of climate change. It is most 
appropriate that that discussion take place here at the 
United Nations.  
 Let us not delude ourselves. If the groundwork of 
global development is not rebuilt, the risks of 
unprecedented environmental and human catastrophe 
will grow. We must overcome the apparently pragmatic 
and sophisticated notion   which is actually 
anachronistic, predatory and senseless   that profits 
and wealth can grow forever, at any cost. There are 
prices that humanity cannot afford to pay at the risk of 
destroying the material and spiritual foundations of our 
collective existence   at the risk of self-destruction. 
The preservation of life must prevail over mindless 
greed. 
 The world will not correct its irresponsible 
relationship with nature, however, until we change the 
way development relates to social justice. If we want to 
salvage our common heritage, a new and more 
balanced distribution of wealth is needed, both 
internationally and within each country. Social equity 
is our best weapon against the planet’s degradation. 
Each one of us must do our part. It is unacceptable that 
the cost of the irresponsibility of a privileged few be 
shouldered by the dispossessed of the Earth. 
 The most highly industrialized countries can and 
must set the example. Full compliance with their 
commitments under the Kyoto Protocol is 
indispensable. That is not enough, however. We need to 
set more ambitious goals for 2012 onwards and we 
must take strong action to ensure universal accession to 
the Protocol. Developing countries must also help in 
combating climate change. We need clear national 
strategies to hold Governments accountable to their 
peoples. 
 Brazil will soon launch its own national plan to 
combat climate change. The Amazon forest is one of 
the areas most vulnerable to global warming, but the 
threats cover all continents. They range from greater 
desertification to the outright disappearance of 
territories or even of entire countries lost to rising sea 
levels. Brazil has undertaken major efforts to minimize 
the impact of climate change. Suffice it to say that, in 
recent years, we have halved the rate of deforestation 
in the Amazon region. 
 Results like that should come as no surprise. 
Brazil will under no circumstance abdicate either its 
sovereignty or its responsibilities in the Amazon. Our 
recent achievements derive from an increasing 
presence of the Brazilian State in the region, fostering 
sustainable development with economic, social, 
educational and cultural benefits for its more than 
20 million inhabitants. 
 I am convinced that our experience can enrich 
similar endeavours in other countries. In Nairobi, 
Brazil proposed the adoption of economic and financial 
incentives to reduce deforestation on a global scale. We 
must also increase South-South cooperation while 
promoting innovative modalities of joint action with 
developed countries. That is how we can materialize 
the principle of shared but differentiated 
responsibilities. 
 It is very important to adopt an integrated 
political approach to the environmental agenda as a 
whole. Brazil hosted the United Nations Conference on 
Environment and Development   the Earth Summit. 
We need to review what has been achieved since then, 
and set a new course of action. I therefore propose that 
we hold a new Conference, in 2012, the “Rio +20” 
Conference to be hosted by Brazil. 
 We will not overcome the terrible impacts of 
climate change until humanity changes its patterns of 
energy production and consumption. The world 
urgently needs to develop a new energy matrix in 
which bio-fuels will play a vital role. Bio-fuels 
significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. With its 
increased and more efficient use of ethanol, Brazil has 
kept 644 million tons of carbon dioxide from being 
emitted into the atmosphere over the past 30 years. 
 Bio-fuels can be much more than a clean-energy 
alternative. Ethanol and bio-diesel can open up 
excellent opportunities for over 100 poor and 
developing countries in Latin America, Asia and, 
especially, Africa. They can enhance energy autonomy, 
without costly investments. They can create jobs and 
income and promote family farming. They can help 
balance trade deficits by reducing imports and 
generating surplus exportable crops. 
 Brazil’s experience over three decades has shown 
that bio-fuel production does not affect food security. 
Sugarcane crops cover just 1 per cent of the country’s 
arable land, and yields continue to rise. People do not 
go hungry around the world for lack of food, but rather 
for lack of income, which afflicts almost 1 billion men, 
women and children. 
 It is entirely possible to combine bio-fuels with 
environmental protection and food production. We will 
ensure that bio-fuel production complies with all social 
and environmental guarantees. Our Government has 
decided to implement a complete agro-ecological 
zoning of the country in order to identify farmland best 
suited to producing bio-fuels. Brazilian bio-fuels will 
reach the world market with a seal of assurance for 
their social, labour and environmental quality. 
 In 2008, Brazil is set to host an international 
conference on bio-fuels that will lay the foundations 
for wide-ranging global cooperation. I hereby invite all 
countries to participate. 
 Sustainable development is not just an 
environmental issue; it is also a social challenge. We 
are making Brazil less unequal and more dynamic. The 
country is growing again, creating jobs and distributing 
income. This time, opportunities are being created for 
all. We are paying off a centuries-old social debt, while 
at the same time investing heavily in quality education, 
science and technology.  
 We have honoured our commitment to “zero 
hunger” by sweeping away that scourge from the lives 
of over 45 million people. We achieved the first 
Millennium Development Goal 10 years ahead of 
schedule, cutting extreme poverty in our country by 
more than half. Fighting hunger and poverty should be 
the concern of all peoples. A global society held back 
by growing income disparities is simply not viable. 
There will be no lasting peace if we do not 
progressively reduce inequality. 
 In 2004, we launched the global Action against 
Hunger and Poverty. Early results are encouraging, 
particularly the creation of the International Drug 
Purchase Facility (UNITAID). UNITAID has already 
achieved 45-per-cent price cuts in drugs used against 
AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis for the poorest 
countries of Africa. The time has come for us to give it 
a new push. We cannot allow ideas that so mobilized 
our countries to fade because of bureaucratic inertia. 
 However, the final defeat of poverty demands 
more than international solidarity. It depends above all 
on new economic relations that no longer penalize poor 
countries. The Doha Round of the World Trade 
Organization should promote a true pact for 
development by adopting fair and balanced rules for 
international trade. Farm subsidies that make the rich 
richer and the poor poorer are no longer acceptable. We 
cannot accept agricultural protectionism that 
perpetuates dependency and underdevelopment. Brazil 
will spare no effort for a successful conclusion of those 
negotiations, which must, above all, benefit the poorest 
countries. 
 Building a new international order is no 
rhetorical turn of phrase; it is a matter of common 
sense. Brazil is proud of its contribution to South 
American integration, particularly through the 
Common Market of the South. We are working to bring 
together peoples and regions. We seek to enhance 
political dialogue and economic links with the Arab 
world, Africa and Asia, and we do so without 
sacrificing our traditional partners. Brazil has set up an 
innovative cooperation mechanism with India and 
South Africa. Together we are working on specific 
projects to help in various countries, including Haiti 
and Guinea-Bissau. 
 We all agree on the need for increased 
participation by developing countries in the major 
international decision-making bodies, in particular the 
Security Council. The time has come to move from 
words to action. We appreciate recent proposals by 
President Sarkozy to reform the Security Council, with 
the inclusion of developing nations. A review of 
decision-making processes within international 
financial institutions is also required. 
 The United Nations is our best tool to deal with 
today’s international challenges. It is through 
multilateral diplomacy that we find the way to 
fostering peace and development. Brazil’s role 
alongside other Latin America and Caribbean nations 
in the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti 
highlights our efforts to strengthen multilateral 
institutions. In Haiti, we are showing that peace and 
stability are built with democracy and social 
development. 
 Walking into this building, representatives to the 
United Nations can admire a work of art that Brazil 
presented to the United Nations 50 years ago. I am 
referring to the murals that portray war and peace 
painted by a great Brazilian artist, Cândido Portinari. 
The suffering so expressively portrayed in the mural 
depicting war brings to mind the United Nations 
crucial responsibility in containing the risk of armed 
conflict. The second mural reminds us that peace is 
much more than the absence of war. It evokes well-
being, health and harmonious coexistence with nature. 
It calls for social justice, freedom and overcoming the 
scourges of hunger and poverty. It is not by mere 
chance that those who enter the building face the mural 
portraying war, while those who leave see the mural 
depicting peace. The artist’s message is simple but 
powerful: transforming suffering into hope, and war 
into peace, is the essence of the United Nations 
mission. Brazil will continue to work to realize those 
high expectations. 


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
It is my great 
pleasure to greet my dear friend Mr. Miguel d’Escoto 
Brockmann, President of the General Assembly. I wish 
you much success in your mission. 
 The present session of the General Assembly is 
being held at a particularly serious time. An often 
predicted economic and financial crisis is now today’s 
harsh reality. Because of the responsibility of 
speculators, entire peoples are suffering anguish in the 
wake of successive financial disasters that threaten the 
world’s economy. Indispensable interventions by State 
authorities have defied market fundamentalists and 
shown that this is a time for political decisions. Only 
decisive action by Governments — particularly those 
of countries at the epicentre of the crisis — will be able 
to rein in the disorder that has spread through the 
world’s financial sector, with perverse effects on the 
daily lives of millions of people. The lack of rules 
favours adventurers and opportunists, to the detriment 
of real companies and workers.  
 The great Brazilian economist Celso Furtado said 
that we must not always allow speculators’ profits to be 
privatized while their losses are invariably socialized. 
We must not allow the burden of the boundless greed 
of a few to be shouldered by all. The economy is too 
serious a matter to be left in the hands of speculators. 
Ethics must also apply to the economy. 
 A crisis of such magnitude will not be overcome 
through palliative measures. Mechanisms for both 
prevention and control are needed to ensure full 
transparency for international finance. Today’s 
supranational economic institutions have neither the 
authority nor the workable instruments that they need 
to control the anarchy of speculation. We must rebuild 
them on entirely new foundations. 
 The global nature of this crisis means that the 
solutions we adopt must also be global and must be 
decided upon in legitimate and trusted multilateral 
forums, without coercion. The United Nations, as the 
world’s largest multilateral arena, must call for a 
vigorous response to the weighty threats that we all 
face. 
 Yet there are other, equally serious matters facing 
the world today. One of them is the food crisis, which 
afflicts more than a billion human beings. The energy 
crisis is also growing worse every day, as will the risks 
to world trade if we fail to achieve an agreement at the 
 
 
7 08-51570 
 
Doha Round; another is the unrestrained degradation of 
the environment, which lies behind so many natural 
calamities whose victims are overwhelmingly the poor. 
 The fall of the Berlin Wall was expected to open 
up possibilities for building a world of peace, free from 
the stigmas of the cold war. However, it is sad to see 
other walls going up so quickly.  
 Many of those who preach the free circulation of 
commodities and capital continue to fight the free 
movement of men and women, using nationalistic and 
even racist arguments that evoke unpleasant memories 
and fears of times that we thought were behind us.  
 A supposedly “populist nationalism”, which some 
forces seek to identify and criticize in the South, is 
being unabashedly promoted in the developed 
countries. The financial, food, energy, environmental 
and migration crises, to say nothing of threats to peace 
in several regions of the world, reveal that the 
multilateral system must be overhauled to meet the 
challenges of the twenty-first century. 
 Gradually, countries are moving beyond old 
conformist alignments with traditional centres. That 
new attitude, however, does not imply a 
confrontational stance. Simply by using direct dialogue 
without intermediation by major powers, developing 
countries have stepped into new roles in designing a 
multipolar world, with examples such as India, Brazil 
and South Africa (IBSA), the G-20, the summits 
between South America and Africa and between South 
America and the Arab countries and the BRIC 
countries — Brazil, Russian Federation, India and 
China. 
 A new political, economic and trade geography is 
being built in today’s world. While navigators in the 
past would look to the North Star, today we are trying 
to find our way by looking at multiple dimensions of 
our planet. Now we often find our North Star in the 
South. On my continent, the Union of South American 
Nations (UNASUR) was created last May, as the first 
treaty — after 200 years of independence — that 
brings together all South American countries. This new 
political union will coordinate the region’s countries in 
terms of infrastructure, energy, social policies, 
complementary production mechanisms, finance and 
defence. 
 Meeting in Santiago, Chile, just over a week ago, 
the Presidents of South America demonstrated 
UNASUR’s ability to respond quickly and effectively 
to complex situations, such as the one in our sister 
nation, Bolivia. We supported its legitimately-elected 
Government, its democratic institutions and its 
territorial integrity and we issued a call for dialogue as 
a path to peace and prosperity for the people of 
Bolivia. 
 Next December, in the state of Bahia, Brazil will 
host the first summit of all of the countries of Latin 
America and the Caribbean on integration and 
development. This will be a high-level meeting under 
no umbrella, based on Latin America’s and the 
Caribbean’s own perspectives. All these efforts in the 
multilateral sphere are complemented by my country’s 
solidarity initiatives with poorer nations, particularly in 
Africa. 
 I also wish to emphasize our commitment to 
Haiti, where we command troops of the United Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti and are helping to restore 
peace. I reiterate my appeal for the solidarity of 
developed countries with Haiti, since implementation 
has fallen far short of the many promises. 
 The strength of values must prevail over the 
value of strength. Only legitimate and effective 
instruments can assure collective security. The United 
Nations has spent 15 years discussing the reform of its 
Security Council. Today’s structure has been frozen for 
six decades and does not match the challenges of 
today’s world. Its distorted form of representation 
stands between us and the multilateral world to which 
we aspire. Therefore, I am much encouraged by the 
General Assembly’s decision to launch negotiations in 
the near future on the reform of the Security Council. 
 It is multilateralism that must also guide us 
toward solutions to the complex problems of global 
warming, based on the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities. Brazil has not shirked its 
responsibilities. Our energy matrix is increasingly 
clean. Today’s food and energy crises are deeply 
intertwined. The inflation of food prices is affected not 
only by climatic factors and speculation in agricultural 
commodities; it is also driven by rising oil prices 
which affect the prices of fertilizers and transportation. 
Attempts to tie high food prices to the distribution of 
biofuels do not stand up to an objective analysis of 
reality. 
 Brazil’s experience demonstrates — and this 
could be the case for countries similar to ours — that 
  
 
08-51570 8 
 
sugar-cane ethanol and biodiesel production reduce our 
dependency on fossil fuels, create jobs, regenerate 
degraded land and are fully compatible with expanding 
food production. We wish to intensify all aspects of 
that discussion at the world conference on energy and 
biofuels which we will be holding in November 2008, 
in the city of Sao Paulo. 
 My obsession with the hunger problem explains 
my ongoing efforts, along with other world leaders, to 
reach a positive conclusion to the Doha Round. We are 
still pushing for an agreement to reduce scandalous 
farm subsidies in rich countries. A successful Doha 
Round will have a very positive impact on food 
production, particularly in developing and poor 
countries. 
 Four years ago, along with several world leaders, 
I launched the Action Against Hunger and Poverty here 
in New York. Our proposal, then and now, is to adopt 
innovative funding mechanisms. The International 
Drug Purchase Facility is one early result of that 
initiative, helping to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and 
malaria in several African countries. But it is not 
enough. We still have a long way to go if we want 
humanity to actually achieve the Millennium 
Development Goals. 
 In December 2008, we will commemorate the 
sixtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, paying a tribute that will go far beyond 
mere formalities. That document expresses inalienable 
commitments that challenge us all. As Governments, 
we must do more than support the Declaration with 
rhetoric. We are called upon to fight for the values 
proclaimed six decades ago and to make them a reality 
in each country and around the world. 
 Today’s Brazil is very different from what it was 
in 2003, when I became President of my country and 
stood for the first time before the General Assembly. 
Our Government and society have taken decisive steps 
to transform the lives of Brazilians, creating nearly 10 
million formal jobs, distributing income and wealth, 
improving public services, lifting 9 million people out 
of extreme poverty, and bringing another 20 million 
into the middle class. All this has occurred in an 
environment of strong growth, economic stability, 
lower external vulnerability and, above all, a stronger 
democracy with the intense participation of our people. 
 In the year when we commemorate the 
one-hundredth birthday of the great Brazilian Josué de 
Castro — the first Director-General of the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and a 
pioneer in the studies concerning the problem of 
hunger in the world — it is worthwhile to reread his 
warning: “It is no longer possible to sit back and let a 
region go hungry without the entire world suffering the 
consequences.” 
 I am proud to state that Brazil is overcoming 
hunger and poverty. I reiterate the optimism that I 
expressed here five years ago. We are much greater 
than the crises that threaten us. We have the heart, the 
right-mindedness and the will to overcome any 
adversity. More than ever, that is the spirit of 
Brazilians. 

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====
The General 
Assembly has been and must continue to be the great 
forum for general debate concerning humankind’s 
major problems. 
 I wish to discuss three crucial issues which I 
believe to be interconnected. Three perils that haunt 
our planet are the ongoing economic crisis, the lack of 
stable, democratic world governance and the threat 
posed by climate change to all of our lives. 
 Exactly one year ago, at the outset of the 
economic crisis that overtook the world economy, I 
said from this rostrum that history would never forgive 
us for the serious blunder of dealing only with the 
impact of the crisis rather than its causes. More than a 
crisis of big banks, this is a crisis of big dogmas. An 
economic, political and social outlook held to be 
unquestionable has simply fallen apart. A senseless 
way of thinking and acting which dominated the world 
for decades has proven itself bankrupt. 
 I refer to the absurd doctrine that markets could 
regulate themselves with no need for so-called 
intrusive State intervention. And I refer to the thesis of 
absolute freedom for financial capital, with no rules or 
transparency, beyond the control of people and 
institutions. It was an iniquitous defence of a minimal, 
crippled, weakened state, unable to promote 
development or to fight poverty and inequities. 
 It included the demonization of social policies, an 
obsession with precarious labour relations and an 
irresponsible commoditization of public services. The 
real cause of the crises is that most of the sovereignty 
of peoples and nations and their democratic 
governments had been confiscated by autonomous 
networks of wealth and power. 
 I said then that the time had come for political 
decisions. I said that leaders, rather than arrogant 
technocrats must take responsibility for bringing 
worldwide disorder under control. Controlling the 
crisis and changing the course of the world’s economy 
could not be left to the usual few. 
 Developed countries and the multilateral agencies 
that they run had been unable to foresee the 
approaching catastrophe, much less prevent it. The 
impact of the crisis spread around the world, striking, 
above all, countries that for years, and at great 
sacrifice, had been rebuilding their economies. 
 It is not fair that the price of runaway speculation 
be paid by those who had nothing to do with it, by 
workers and by poor or developing countries. Twelve 
months later, we can see some progress, but many 
doubts still persist. No one is yet clearly willing to 
confront serious distortions of the global economy in 
the multilateral arena. 
 The fact that we avoided a total collapse of the 
system has apparently given rise to an irresponsible 
acquiescence in certain sectors. Most of the underlying 
problems have been ignored. There is enormous 
resistance to the adoption of effective mechanisms to 
regulate financial markets. 
 Rich countries are putting off reform at 
multilateral agencies such as the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. We simply 
cannot understand the paralysis of the Doha Round, 
whose conclusion will, above all, benefit the poorest 
 
 
7 09-52179 
 
countries of our world. There are also worrisome signs 
of return to protectionist practices, while little has been 
done to fight tax havens. 
 Many countries, however, have not sat waiting. 
Brazil, fortunately one of the last countries to be hit by 
the crisis, is now one of the first to emerge from it. 
There is no magic in what we did. We simply kept our 
financial system from being contaminated by the virus 
of speculation. We had already cut back our external 
vulnerability as we turned from debtors into 
international creditors. Along with other countries, we 
decided to contribute resources for the IMF to lend 
money to the poorest countries, free of the 
unacceptable conditions imposed in the past. 
 Above all, however, both before and after the 
crisis broke out, we implemented countercyclical 
policies. We intensified our social programmes, 
particularly income-transfer programmes. We raised 
wages above inflation rates. We used fiscal measures to 
stimulate consumption and keep the economy moving. 
 We have now emerged from our brief recession. 
Our economy has regained its impetus and shows 
promise for 2010. Foreign trade is recovering vitality, 
the labour market is doing amazingly well and 
macroeconomic equilibrium has been preserved, at no 
cost to the victories of our people’s movements. What 
Brazil and other countries have shown is that, at times 
of crisis, we must still carry out bold social and 
development programmes. 
 Yet I hold no illusions that we might solve our 
problems alone, within our own borders. Because the 
global economy is interdependent, we are all obliged to 
intervene across national borders and must therefore 
establish once again the world economic order. 
 At meetings of the Group of 20 and many other 
meetings I have held with world leaders, I have 
insisted on the need to irrigate the world economy with 
a significant volume of credit. I have defended the 
regulation of financial markets, the widespread 
adoption of countercyclical policies, the end of 
protectionism and the fight against tax havens. 
 With the same determination, my country has 
proposed a true reform of the multilateral financial 
institutions. Poor and developing countries must 
increase their share of control in the IMF and the 
World Bank. Otherwise, there can be no real change, 
and the peril of new and greater crises will be 
inevitable. Only more representative and democratic 
international agencies will be able to deal with 
complex problems such as reorganizing the 
international monetary system. 
 Sixty-five years on, the world can no longer be 
run by the same rules and values that prevailed at the 
Bretton Woods Conference. Likewise, the United 
Nations and its Security Council can no longer be run 
under the same structures imposed after the Second 
World War. We are in a period of transition in 
international relations. We are moving towards a 
multilateral world. However, it is also a multipolar 
world, based on experiences in regional integration 
such as South America’s experience in creating the 
Union of South American Nations. 
 This multipolar world will not conflict with the 
United Nations. On the contrary, it could be an 
invigorating factor for the United Nations. It would 
create the platform for a United Nations with the 
political and moral authority to solve the conflicts in 
the Middle East, assuring the coexistence of a 
Palestinian State with the State of Israel; a United 
Nations that confronts terrorism without stigmatizing 
ethnic groups and religions, instead dealing with 
underlying causes and promoting dialogue among 
civilizations; a United Nations that can truly help 
countries such as Haiti that are trying to rebuild their 
economies and mend their social fabric after achieving 
political stability; a United Nations committed to the 
African renaissance that we are now seeing; a United 
Nations able to implement effective policies that 
preserve and expand human rights; a United Nations 
that can make real progress towards disarmament in 
true balance with non-proliferation; a United Nations 
that can truly lead in initiatives to protect the planet’s 
environment; a United Nations that can use its 
Economic and Social Council to forge decisions on 
confronting the economic crisis; and a United Nations 
that is representative enough to address threats to 
world peace through a reformed Security Council that 
is renewed and open to new permanent members. 
 We are not wishful thinkers. Yet it takes political 
will to confront and overcome situations that conspire 
against peace, development and democracy. Unless 
political will is present, throwbacks such as the 
embargo against Cuba will persist. 
 Unless there is political will, we will see more 
coups such as the one that toppled the constitutional 
  
 
09-52179 8 
 
President of Honduras, José Manuel Zelaya, who has 
been granted refuge in Brazil’s embassy in Tegucigalpa 
since Monday. The international community demands 
that Mr. Zelaya immediately return to the presidency of 
his country, and it must be alert to ensure the 
inviolability of Brazil’s diplomatic mission in the 
capital of Honduras. 
 Finally, unless political will prevails, threats to 
the world such as climate change will continue to grow. 
All countries must take action to turn back global 
warming. We are dismayed by the reluctance of 
developed countries to shoulder their share of the 
burden when it comes to fighting climate change. They 
cannot burden developing and poor countries with 
tasks that are theirs alone. 
 Brazil is doing its part. We will arrive in 
Copenhagen with precise alternatives and 
commitments. We have approved a national climate 
change plan that includes an 80 per cent cut in 
deforestation of the Amazon by 2020. We will reduce 
carbon dioxide emissions by 4.8 billion tons — more 
than the sum total of all the commitments of developed 
countries. In 2009, we can already boast the lowest 
deforestation rate in 20 years. 
 Brazil’s energy blend is in one of the cleanest in 
the world. Forty-five per cent of the energy that my 
country consumes is renewable. In the rest of the 
world, only 12 per cent is renewable, while no country 
in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development has a rate higher than 5 per cent. Eighty 
per cent of our electric power also comes from 
renewable sources. 
 All the gasoline sold for our passenger cars has 
25 per cent ethanol blended into it. More than 80 per 
cent of the cars produced in our country have flexible-
fuel engines that enable them to use any blend of 
gasoline and/or alcohol. Brazil’s ethanol and other 
biofuels are produced in ever-improving conditions 
under the ecological zoning plan that we have just sent 
to our National Congress. We have banned sugar cane 
plantations and alcohol plants in areas with native 
vegetation. That decision applies to the entire Amazon 
region as well as to other major biomes. Sugar cane 
production covers no more than 2 per cent of our 
tillable land. Unlike other biofuels, it does not affect 
food security, much less compromise the environment. 
Companies, farm workers and the Government have 
signed an important commitment to ensure decent 
working conditions on Brazil’s sugar cane plantations. 
 All those concerns are part of the energy policies 
of a country that is self-sufficient in oil and has just 
found major reserves that will put us in the forefront of 
fossil fuel production. Even so, Brazil will not relinquish 
its environmental agenda and simply turn into an oil 
giant. We plan to consolidate our role as a world Power 
in green energy. Meanwhile, developed countries must 
set emission-reduction goals that go far beyond those 
tabled to date, which represent a mere fraction of the 
reductions recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change. We are also deeply concerned that the 
funding announced to date for technological innovations 
needed to protect the environment in developing 
countries is totally insufficient. 
 The solutions to those and other impasses will 
arise only if the perils of climate change are confronted 
with the understanding that we share common but 
differentiated responsibilities. 
 The issues at the core of our concerns — the 
financial crisis, new global governance and climate 
change — have one strong common denominator: the 
need to build a new international order that is 
sustainable, multilateral and less asymmetric, free of 
hegemonies and ruled by democratic institutions. Such 
a new world is a political and moral imperative. We 
cannot just shovel away the rubble of failure; we must 
be midwives to the future. That is the only way to 
make amends for so much injustice and to prevent new 
collective tragedies.

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====
It is a great honour for me 
to come to this rostrum to speak on behalf of the 
people and Government of Brazil. I bring the greetings 
of President Lula.  
 Within days, over 130 million Brazilians will go 
to the polls and will write another important chapter in 
the history of our democracy. During President Lula’s 
two terms, Brazil has changed. Sustained economic 
growth, financial stability, social inclusion and the full 
exercise of democracy have converged and reinforced 
each another. Over 20 million Brazilians rose out of 
poverty, and many others out of extreme poverty. 
Nearly 30 million people joined the middle class. 
 Strong and transparent public policies reduced 
inequalities in income, access and opportunities. 
Millions of Brazilians rose to dignity and real 
citizenship. The strengthened domestic market 
protected us from the worst effects of the global crisis 
set in motion by the financial casino in the richest 
countries in the world. 
 Brazil is proud to have achieved almost all of the 
Millennium Development Goals and to be well on the 
way to meeting them all by 2015. The inability of any 
country to achieve those Goals must be seen as a 
failure of the entire international community. The 
promotion of development is a collective responsibility. 
Brazil has been working to assist other countries to 
replicate its successful experiences. In the past years 
Brazil’s actions on the international stage have been 
driven by a sense of solidarity. We are convinced that it 
is possible to have a humanistic foreign policy without 
losing sight of national interests. That policy is 
supported by South-South cooperation. The IBSA 
Facility for Poverty and Hunger Alleviation, created by 
India, Brazil and South Africa, finances projects in 
Haiti, Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde, Palestine, 
Cambodia, Burundi, Laos and Sierra Leone. Brazil has 
substantially increased its humanitarian aid and the 
number of its cooperation projects with poorer 
countries.  
 Africa occupies a very special place in Brazilian 
diplomacy. Since taking office, President Lula has been 
to Africa 11 times and visited over 20 countries in the 
continent. We have set up an agricultural research 
office in Ghana, a model cotton farm in Mali, a 
manufacturing plant for antiretroviral drugs in 
Mozambique and professional training centres in five 
African countries. Through trade and investment, we 
are helping the African continent to develop its 
enormous potential and reduce its dependency on a few 
centres of political and economic power. 
 Brazil is particularly concerned about Guinea-
Bissau. It is not by isolating or abandoning Guinea-
Bissau that the international community will help it 
address the challenges it still faces. We need intelligent 
modalities for cooperation, which can promote 
development and stability and encourage the necessary 
reforms, especially with regard to the armed forces. 
 This year, in which a significant number of 
African countries celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of 
their decolonization, Brazil renews its commitment to 
an independent, prosperous, just and democratic 
Africa. 
 There are few places where international 
solidarity is more needed than Haiti. We joined the 
United Nations in mourning the tragedy that took the 
lives of hundreds of thousands of Haitians. We 
ourselves lost great Brazilians, including Dr. Zilda 
Arns — a woman who dedicated her life to the poor, 
especially children — Mr. Luiz Carlos da Costa, 
Deputy Head of the United Nations Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti, and 18 of our peacekeepers. 
 We would like to express our compassion for the 
suffering of the Haitian people and, above all, our 
admiration for the stoicism and courage with which 
they have been facing adversity. The Haitian people 
know that they can count on Brazil to not only help 
them maintain order and defend democracy, but also 
assist in their development. We are keeping our 
promises and will keep a watchful eye on the situation 
to ensure that the commitments of the international 
community go beyond rhetorical statements. 
  
 
10-54827 6 
 
 In recent years, the Brazilian Government has 
invested heavily in South America’s integration and 
peace. We have strengthened our strategic partnership 
with Argentina. We have reinforced MERCOSUR, 
including through financial mechanisms unique among 
developing countries. 
 The establishment of the Union of South 
American Nations (UNASUR) aims at consolidating a 
genuine zone of peace and prosperity. UNASUR has 
already demonstrated its value in promoting 
understanding and the peaceful resolution of conflicts 
among and within countries in South America and has 
made foreign interference in our region even more 
unwarranted. By creating the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States, launched in Bahia, 
Brazil and confirmed in Cancún, Mexico, we have 
reaffirmed the region’s willingness to extend to Central 
America and the Caribbean the integrationist ideals 
that animate South Americans. 
 Brazil reiterates its condemnation, shared by all 
in Latin America and the Caribbean, of the illegitimate 
embargo against Cuba. Its sole result has been to 
hamper the efforts of millions of Cubans in their 
struggle for development. 
 We condemn anti-democratic moves, such as the 
coup d’état in Honduras. The return of former 
President Zelaya without threats to his freedom is 
indispensable for the full normalization of Honduras’ 
relations with the region as a whole. 
 When President Lula first spoke in this Hall, in 
2003, the world lived under the shadow of the invasion 
of Iraq. We hope we have learned the lessons of that 
episode. Blind faith in intelligence reports tailored to 
justify political goals must be rejected. We must ban 
once and for all the use of force that is inconsistent 
with international law. Furthermore, it is fundamental 
to value and promote dialogue and the peaceful 
resolution of disputes. 
 In order to achieve a truly secure world, the 
promise of the total elimination of nuclear weapons 
must be fulfilled. Unilateral reductions are welcome 
but insufficient, especially when they occur in tandem 
with the modernization of nuclear arsenals. 
 As President Lula has often stated, 
multilateralism is the international face of democracy. 
The United Nations must be the main center of 
decision-making in international politics.  
 The changes that have occurred in the world over 
the past few decades and the series of crises we have 
faced in food security, climate change, the economic 
and financial sphere and peace and security make it 
urgent to redefine the rules that govern international 
relations. 
 The financial crisis of 2008 accelerated change in 
global economic governance. The Group of Twenty 
(G-20) replaced the Group of Eight as the primary 
forum for deliberation on economic issues. The G-20 
was a step forward, but it must be adjusted to ensure, 
for instance, greater African participation. The 
relevance and legitimacy of the G-20 can be preserved 
only if it maintains frank and permanent dialogue with 
all the nations represented in this General Assembly. 
 At the height of the crisis, we succeeded in 
avoiding the worst-case scenario: a surge of 
uncontrolled protectionism, which would have thrown 
the world into a deep depression. But the developed 
countries have not demonstrated the necessary 
commitment to global economic stability. They 
continue to let themselves be guided by parochial 
interests. Nowhere is that more evident than in the 
Doha round of negotiations in the World Trade 
Organization. A balanced solution to that negotiating 
process, which has lasted for almost 10 years, would 
promote economic expansion and the development of 
the poorest countries, with the end of distorting 
subsidies and protectionist barriers. After all, poor 
countries are the greatest victims of the narrow and 
selfish view that still prevails in international trade. 
 Reforms have also been insufficient in the 
financial sector. Unjustified resistance is preventing the 
implementation of agreed-upon changes. Obstinacy in 
maintaining anachronistic privileges perpetuates and 
deepens the illegitimacy of institutions. 
 Another major challenge we face is achieving a 
global, comprehensive and ambitious agreement on 
climate change. In order to move forward on this 
matter, countries must stop hiding behind each other. 
Brazil, like other developing countries, has done its 
part. But in Copenhagen, several delegations, 
especially from the rich world, sought excuses to evade 
their moral and political obligations. They forgot that 
one cannot negotiate with Nature. 
 A positive outcome of the sixteenth Conference 
of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, with real progress in 
 
 
7 10-54827 
 
forests, financing for adaptation and mitigation and a 
reaffirmation of the Kyoto commitments, is 
indispensable. The Mexican presidency can count on 
Brazil’s engagement to achieve this objective. 
 In 2012, we will host, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 
the Rio+20 Conference. On behalf of the Brazilian 
Government, I invite all delegations to fulfill the 
promise of truly sustainable development. 
 The reform of global governance has not yet 
reached the field of international peace and security. In 
the economic and environmental areas, the wealthiest 
nations have already understood that they cannot do 
without the cooperation of the poor and emerging 
countries. When it comes to war and peace, however, 
the traditional players are reluctant to share power. 
 The Security Council must be reformed and 
expanded to allow for greater participation by 
developing countries, including as permanent 
members. We cannot continue with working methods 
that lack transparency and that allow the permanent 
members to discuss behind closed doors and for as 
long as they wish issues that concern all mankind. 
 Brazil has sought to live up to what is expected 
from all Security Council members, including non-
permanent ones — namely, that they contribute to 
peace. For this reason, we made a serious effort to find 
an instrument that could enable progress towards a 
solution of the Iranian nuclear question. In so doing, 
we relied on proposals that had been presented as a 
unique opportunity to build confidence between the 
parties. The Tehran Declaration of 17 May, signed by 
Brazil, Turkey and Iran, removed obstacles that, 
according to the very authors of those proposals, had 
previously prevented an agreement. 
 The Tehran Declaration does not exhaust the 
issue and was never intended to do so. We are 
convinced that, once back to the negotiating table, the 
parties will find ways to resolve other issues, such as 
20 per cent enrichment and the stock of enriched 
uranium accumulated since October 2009. In spite of 
the sanctions, we still hope that the logic of dialogue 
and understanding will prevail. The world cannot run 
the risk of a new conflict like the one in Iraq. We have 
been insisting, therefore, that the Iranian Government 
maintain an attitude of flexibility and openness towards 
negotiations, but it is necessary that all those 
concerned also demonstrate such willingness. 
 We are closely following developments in the 
peace process in the Middle East. We hope the direct 
talks between Palestinians and Israelis launched earlier 
this month will produce concrete results that lead to the 
creation of a Palestinian State within the pre-1967 
borders, a State that ensures for the Palestinian people 
a dignified life, co-existing side by side and in peace 
with the State of Israel. 
 However, it is not the format of the dialogue that 
will determine whether it will yield results. What 
matters is the willingness of the parties to reach a just 
and lasting peace. That will be easier with the 
involvement of all those concerned. Freezing the 
construction of settlements in the occupied territories, 
lifting the Gaza blockade and ending attacks against 
civilian populations are crucial elements in the process. 
 In his visit to Israel, Palestine and Jordan in 
March, President Lula spoke with government leaders 
and representatives of civil society about those issues. 
We frequently receive in Brasilia the leaders of various 
countries of the region, who seek support in resolving 
problems that have afflicted them for decades and have 
not been solved through the traditional means and 
actors. Brazil, which has about 10 million people of 
Arab descent and a sizeable Jewish community living 
together in harmony, will not shy away from making its 
contribution to the peace that we all yearn for. 
 Brazil’s commitment to the promotion of human 
rights is also unwavering. We favour a non-selective, 
objective and multilateral treatment of human rights, 
without politicization or bias, in which everyone — the 
rich and the poor, the powerful and the weak — is 
subject to the same scrutiny. In our view, the exercise 
of human rights is more effectively ensured by 
dialogue and cooperation than by arrogant attitudes 
derived from self-declared moral superiority. 
 During his eight years in office, President Lula 
has developed a foreign policy that is independent, free 
of any sort of submission, and respectful of Brazil’s 
neighbours and partners. It is an innovative foreign 
policy, which does not distance itself from the 
fundamental values of the Brazilian nation: peace, 
pluralism, tolerance and solidarity. 
 Just as Brazil has changed and will continue to 
change, the world is also changing. We must deepen 
and accelerate this process. With the technology and 
wealth at our disposal, there is no longer any 
justification for hunger, poverty and epidemics of 
  
 
10-54827 8 
 
preventable diseases. We can no longer live with 
discrimination, injustice and authoritarianism. We must 
face the challenges of nuclear disarmament, sustainable 
development and freer and fairer trade. Rest assured, 
Brazil will continue to fight to make these ideals a 
reality.

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====
For the very 
first time in the history of the United Nations, a female 
voice is opening the general debate. It is the voice of 
democracy and equality that reverberates from a forum 
that is committed to being the most representative in 
the world. It is with a sense of personal humility, but 
with justifiable pride as a woman, that I greet this 
historic moment.  
 I share this emotion with more than half of the 
human beings on this planet, who, like me, were born 
women and who, with a sense of purposeful 
determination, are now taking the place in the world 
they rightly deserve. I am certain that this will be the 
century of women. In the Portuguese language, words 
such as life, soul and hope are feminine nouns. Two 
other words in Portuguese that are especially dear to 
me are also feminine, namely, courage and sincerity. 
And it is in a spirit of courage and sincerity that I wish 
to address the General Assembly today.  
 The world is experiencing an extremely delicate 
period, one that at the same time offers us a major 
historic opportunity. We face an economic crisis that, if 
not overcome, could become a source of serious 
political and social disruption, an unprecedented 
upheaval capable of causing serious imbalances in 
relationships between people and nations. More than 
ever before, the fate of the world is in the hands of its 
rulers and leaders, with no exceptions. Either we 
combine our efforts and emerge victorious together, or 
we will all emerge defeated. It is now less important to 
know or decide who caused the situation we are 
facing — because, after all, that is clear enough by 
now. What does matter is that we start finding 
collective, speedy and genuine solutions. 
 The current crisis is too serious to be managed by 
a few countries. Their Governments and central banks 
still have the greatest responsibility in implementing 
the process. Yet, since all countries suffer the 
consequences, all are entitled to participate in their 
solutions. It is not because of a lack of financial 
resources that the leaders of developed countries have 
not yet found a solution to the crisis. Rather, if I may 
put it this way, it is due to a lack of political resources 
and, at times, of clear ideas. There is a part of the 
world that has not yet found a balance between 
appropriate fiscal adjustments and correct and precise 
fiscal stimuli conducive to demand and growth. They 
have been caught in a trap that does not distinguish 
between partisan interests and the legitimate interests 
of society. The challenge posed by the crisis entails 
replacing outdated theories that belong to an old world 
with new proposals crafted for a new world. 
 While many Governments are shrinking, 
unemployment, the bitterest face of the crisis, is 
growing. There are already 205 million unemployed 
people in the world, of whom 44 million are in Europe 
and 14 million in the United States. Tackling this 
scourge and preventing it from spreading to other 
regions of the planet is vitally important. We women 
know better than anyone that unemployment is not just 
a statistic; it affects our families, children and 
 
 
7 11-50692 
 
husbands. It takes away hope and leaves a trail of 
violence and pain. 
 It is quite telling that it is the President of an 
emerging country, a country experiencing almost full 
employment, who has come here today to speak in such 
stark terms of a tragedy that has mainly hit developed 
countries. 
 Like other emerging countries, Brazil has thus far 
been less affected by the global crisis. But we know 
that our ability to withstand the crisis is not unlimited. 
We are willing and able to help those countries that are 
already facing an acute crisis, while there is still time. 
A new kind of cooperation between emerging and 
developed countries is an historic opportunity to 
redefine, with solidarity and responsibility, the 
commitments that govern international relations. 
 The world of today faces a crisis that is at once of 
economics, governance and political coordination. 
There will not be a return to confidence and growth 
until we intensity coordination efforts among United 
Nations Member States and other multilateral 
institutions, including the Group of Twenty, the 
International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and 
other organs.  
 The United Nations and those organizations must 
act urgently to send clear signals of political cohesion 
and macroeconomic coordination. For example, fiscal 
and monetary policies should be submitted to mutual 
assessment in such a way as to ultimately prevent 
undesirable effects on other countries, thus avoiding 
defensive reactions that in turn lead to a vicious circle.  
 The solution to the debt problem should be 
combined with economic growth. There are obvious 
signs that several advanced economies are on the 
threshold of recession, which will significantly hamper 
resolution of their fiscal problems. 
 It is clear that the priority for the world economy 
at this moment should be to solve the problems of 
those countries that are facing a sovereign debt crisis 
and reversing the current recession scenario. The most 
developed countries must establish coordinated 
policies to stimulate economies that have been 
extremely weakened by the crisis. Countries with 
emerging economies can help in that effort. Countries 
with a high surplus should strengthen their domestic 
markets and, as appropriate, make their foreign 
exchange rate policies more flexible in such a way that 
contributes to the eventual rebalancing of global 
demand.  
 Deepening the regulation of the financial system 
and controlling that inexhaustible source of instability 
is a pressing need. Controls must be imposed on the 
foreign-exchange war by adopting floating foreign-
exchange regimes. The task at hand is about preventing 
the manipulation of foreign exchange that occurs not 
only through excessively expansionist monetary 
policies but also through an artificially fixed foreign 
exchange.  
 Without a doubt, the reform of multilateral 
financial institutions should continue, thus increasing 
the participation of emerging countries, which, as 
driving forces, are responsible for the growth of the 
world’s economy. We should fight protectionism and 
all forms of commercial manipulation. They do 
increase competitiveness, but in a spurious, fraudulent 
fashion. 
 Brazil is doing its homework. With sacrifices, but 
at the same time with a sense of insightfulness, we 
have kept Government spending under strict control, to 
the point of generating a sizable surplus in Government 
accounts while ensuring that those steps will not 
compromise the success of our social policies or the 
pace of our investment and growth. We are also taking 
additional precautions to buttress our ability to 
withstand the crisis by strengthening our domestic 
market with income distribution and technological 
innovation policies. 
 For at least three years now, Brazil has reiterated — 
time and again, from this very podium — that we must 
all tackle the causes, and not only the consequences, of 
global instability. We have emphasized time and again 
the interrelations among development, peace and 
security. We have often underscored that development 
policies should be increasingly coupled with the 
Security Council’s strategies in the pursuit of 
sustainable peace.  
 That is how we have acted as part of our 
commitments to Haiti and to Guinea-Bissau. As a 
leading country in the United Nations Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti, Brazil has since 2004 undertaken 
humanitarian projects that integrate security and 
development. With deep respect for Haitian 
sovereignty, Brazil is proud to assist in the 
consolidation of democracy in that country. 
  
 
11-50692 8 
 
 We are in a position to provide a solidarity-based 
contribution to brotherly countries in the developing 
world in matters such as food security, agricultural 
technology, generation of clean and renewable energy 
and the fight against hunger and poverty. 
 Since late 2010, we have witnessed a series of 
grass-roots demonstrations that have come to be known 
as the Arab Spring. Brazil is the adopted homeland of 
many immigrants from that part of the world. 
Brazilians sympathize with the pursuit of an ideal that 
belongs to no culture in particular, because it is by 
definition universal: freedom. 
 The nations united here today must find a 
legitimate and effective way to aid those societies that 
cry out for reform — without, however, depriving their 
citizens of a lead role in the process. We strongly 
repudiate the brutal crack down episodes that victimize 
civilian populations. We remain convinced that for the 
international community, resort to force must always 
be the last alternative.  
 The quest for peace and security in the world 
cannot be limited to interventions in extreme situations 
only. We support the Secretary-General in his efforts to 
engage the United Nations in conflict prevention by 
tirelessly exercising diplomacy and promoting 
development. The world of today suffers from the 
painful consequences of interventions that have 
worsened existing conflicts. That has allowed terrorism 
to creep into areas where it previously did not exist, 
thus generating new cycles of violence and multiplying 
the number of civilian victims. 
 Much is said about the responsibility to protect, 
yet little is said about responsibility while protecting. 
These are concepts that we must develop and mature 
together. To that end, the role of the Security Council is 
critical, and the more legitimate its decisions are, the 
more appropriate that role will be. And the Council’s 
very legitimacy increasingly depends upon its reform.  
 With each passing year, a solution to the lack of 
representativeness in the Security Council becomes an 
ever more urgent need, which in turn erodes its 
efficacy. Former Assembly President Joseph Deiss 
reminded me of an impressive fact, namely, that the 
debate on the proposed reform of the Security Council 
is now entering its eighteenth year.  
 We can delay no longer. The world needs a 
Security Council that reflects contemporary realities, a 
Council that will incorporate new permanent and 
non-permanent members, especially those representing 
developing countries. 
 Brazil is ready to take on its responsibilities as a 
permanent member of the Council. We have lived in 
peace with our neighbours for more than 140 years and 
have fostered successful integration and cooperation 
processes with them. Our Constitution expressly states 
our commitment to abstain from the use of nuclear 
energy for non-peaceful purposes. I am proud to say 
that Brazil is a driver of peace, stability and prosperity 
in the region and even beyond it. 
 In the Human Rights Council, we have drawn 
inspiration from our own history of endeavour as a 
nation. We desire for other countries what we desire for 
ourselves. Authoritarianism, xenophobia, poverty, 
capital punishment and discrimination are all sources 
of human rights violations. We know that violations 
occur in every country, without exception. We must 
recognize this reality, and we must accept criticism. We 
will ultimately benefit from criticism, and we should 
pointedly criticize flagrant violations wherever they 
occur. 
 I welcome South Sudan to our family of nations. 
Brazil is ready to cooperate with the youngest Member 
of the United Nations and to contribute to its sovereign 
development.  
 I regret, however, that from this podium I am still 
unable to welcome Palestine into full membership of 
the Organization. Brazil has recognized the Palestinian 
State as defined by the 1967 borders, in accordance 
with United Nations resolutions. Like most countries in 
the Assembly, we believe that the time has come for 
Palestine to be represented as a full Member in this 
forum. 
 The recognition of the Palestinian people’s 
legitimate right to sovereignty and self-rule expands 
the possibilities and prospects for a lasting peace in the 
Middle East. Only a free and sovereign Palestine can 
respond to Israel’s legitimate desire for peace with its 
neighbours, security within its borders and political 
stability in its region. I come from a country where 
descendents of Arabs and Jews are compatriots and live 
together in harmony, which is as it should be. 
 Brazil advocates for a global, comprehensive and 
ambitious agreement within the framework of the 
United Nations to fight climate change. To achieve 
 
 
9 11-50692 
 
this, countries must shoulder their respective 
responsibilities. Brazil submitted a concrete, voluntary 
and significant proposal for reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions during the 2009 United Nations Climate 
Change Conference in Copenhagen. We hope to be able 
to make progress at the upcoming meeting in Durban 
by supporting developing countries in their efforts to 
reduce emissions, and at the same time ensuring that 
developed countries fulfil their obligations, beyond 
2012, on the basis of new targets under the Kyoto 
Protocol.  
 Brazil will have the honour of hosting the United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development — 
Rio+20 — in June of 2012. Along with Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, I reiterate our invitation to all 
heads of State and Government to join us at that 
Conference next year. 
 Brazil has learned that fighting poverty is the best 
development policy, and that a genuine human rights 
policy must ultimately be based on reducing 
inequalities and discrimination between and among 
regions, people and genders. Brazil has made political, 
economic and social progress without compromising 
any of its democratic freedoms. We have met almost all 
of the Millennium Development Goals before 2015. 
Forty million Brazilian men and women have come up 
out of poverty and been lifted into the middle class. I 
am fully confident that we will achieve our goal of 
eradicating extreme poverty in Brazil by the end of my 
term in office. 
 In my country, women have been vital to the task 
of overcoming social inequalities. Our income 
distribution programmes place mothers as the central 
figures in the scheme. It is they who manage the 
resources that allow families to invest in the health and 
education of their children. Yet my country, like every 
other nation, still has to do much more when it comes 
to valuing women and asserting their status. In that 
regard, I would like to congratulate the Secretary-
General for making women a priority during his tenure 
at the head of the United Nations. I particularly 
welcome the creation of UN-Women and the 
appointment of its Executive Director, Ms. Michelle 
Bachelet. 
 Besides speaking on behalf of my own beloved 
country, I feel that when I stand up here I am 
representing all the women of the world — the 
anonymous women, those who starve and cannot feed 
their children, those who are suffering from illnesses 
and cannot get treatment, those who are victims of 
violence or who are discriminated against at work, in 
society and in their family life, and those who labour at 
home to bring up future generations. I add my voice to 
those of the women who have dared to struggle, to take 
part in political and professional life, and who have 
thus gained the spheres of power that allow me to stand 
here today. 
 As a woman who was the victim of torture while 
in prison, I am all too aware of how important values 
such as democracy, justice, human rights and freedom 
are to all of us. It is my hope that these values will 
continue to inspire the work of this house of nations, 
where I am honoured to open the general debate of the 
sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly.

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿Once again, a woman’s
voice is opening the general debate of the General
Assembly. For many, we women are “half the sky”.
However, we wish to be half the Earth as well, with
equal rights and opportunities, free from all forms of
discrimination and violence, capable of building our
own emancipation and, with it, of contributing to the
full empowerment of all.
A year after my statement at this same rostrum
(see A/66/PV.11), I note that many of the problems that
already troubled us in September 2011 remain. Today,
I want to again consider a few of those issues, whose
solutions are becoming increasingly urgent.
The grave economic crisis that began in 2008
has taken on new and worrisome aspects. Opting for
orthodox fiscal policies has been exacerbating the
recession in developed economies, with repercussions
for us as emerging countries, including Brazil. The
main leaders of the developed world have not yet found
the path that combines appropriate fiscal adjustment
with measures to stimulate investment and demand,
which are indispensable to halt the recession and ensure
economic growth.
Monetary policies cannot be the only response to
the growing unemployment, the increase in poverty and
the dismay that affects the most vulnerable sectors of
the population throughout the world. The central banks
of developed countries continue to pursue expansionist
monetary policies, which causes an imbalance in
exchange rates. The resulting artificial appreciation
of emerging countries’ currencies causes them to lose
market space, which further exacerbates the global
recession.
We cannot accept the legitimate trade protection
initiatives of developing countries being unfairly
classified as protectionism. We must remember that
legitimate trade protection measures are in accordance
with the rules of the World Trade Organization. We
should fight protectionism and all forms of trade
manipulation, since they create greater competitiveness
in a spurious and fraudulent way.
There can be no effective response to the crisis
without strengthening cooperation efforts among
countries and multilateral bodies, such as the Group
of Twenty, the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank. Such cooperation must seek to reshape
the relationship between fiscal and monetary policies
in order to prevent the recession from worsening, to
control the currency war and to again stimulate global
demand.
We know from our own experience that the national
debt of States and bank and financial debts will not be
addressed in the context of a recession. On the contrary,
recession only exacerbates such problems. It is urgent
that we establish a comprehensive agreement for the
coordinated resumption of global economic growth in
order to prevent the despair caused by unemployment
and a lack of opportunities.
My country has been doing its part. In recent
years, we have pursued prudent economic policies,
accumulated significant foreign exchange reserves,
strongly reduced public debt and, with innovative social
policies, lifted 40 million Brazilians out of poverty,
thereby strengthening a large domestic market.
Like all countries, we were affected by the crisis.
However, despite the temporary slowing in our growth
rate, we have managed to maintain extremely high
employment levels and to continue to reduce social
inequality while significantly increasing workers’
income levels. We have overcome the incorrect view
according to which measures to stimulate growth
are incompatible with austerity plans. That is a false
dilemma. Fiscal responsibility is as necessary as
growth measures are indispensable, because fiscal
consolidation can be sustainable only in a context of
economic recovery.
History reveals that austerity, when exaggerated
and isolated from growth, is self-defeating. Brazil has chosen to face both of those challenges simultaneously.
While exerting strict control over public spending, we
have increased our investments in infrastructure and
education. While controlling inflation, we have acted
vigorously through policies aimed at social inclusion
and poverty eradication. Furthermore, while carrying
out structural reforms in the financial and welfare areas,
we have reduced the tax burden and the cost of energy,
and we have invested in infrastructure and knowledge
to generate science, technology and innovation.
There are moments in which we cannot choose
between one alternative or the other. Both must be
developed separately at the same time.
Just as in 2011, the Middle East and North Africa
continue to be at the center of the attention of the
international community. Important social movements,
with different political orientations, have swept
away despotic regimes and brought about transition
processes whose meaning and direction still cannot be
clearly discerned. However, it is not difficult to identify
in almost all those movements a cry of protest against
poverty, unemployment and the lack of opportunities
and civil rights imposed by authoritarian governments
on large sectors of those societies, especially young
people. Nor is it difficult to find in those events the
traces of historical grievances caused by decades of
colonial or neocolonial policies carried out in the name
of a supposedly civilizing agenda. Little by little, the
economic interests behind those policies became clear.
Today, we are witnessing with consternation
the unfolding of the dire situation in Syria. Brazil
condemns in the strongest terms the violence that
continues to claim lives in that country. Syria is
witnessing a large-scale humanitarian tragedy on its
territory and in that of its neighbors. The Government
in Damascus bears the largest share of responsibility
for the cycle of violence that has victimized a large
number of civilians, especially women, children and
young people. However, we are also aware of the
responsibilities of armed opposition groups, especially
those that increasingly rely on foreign military and
logistical support.
As President of a country that is home to millions
of people of Syrian descent, I call on the parties to
the conflict to lay down their weapons and join the
mediation efforts being undertaken by the joint United
Nations-Arab League special envoy. There is no
military solution to the Syrian crisis. Diplomacy and dialogue are not simply our best option; they are the
only option.
As President of a country where thousands and
thousands of Brazilian Muslims live, I declare here
today our vehement repudiation of the escalation
of Islamophobic prejudice in Western countries.
Brazil is one of the players in the generous Alliance
of Civilizations initiative originally launched by the
Turkish Government.
With the same vehemence, we repudiate the
terrorist acts that took the lives of American diplomats
in Libya.
With our eyes still set upon the Middle East, where
some of the most important challenges to international
peace and security lie, I wish to once more touch upon
the Israeli-Palestinian question. I reiterate my words
of 2011, when I expressed the Brazilian Government’s
support for the recognition of the Palestinian State as a
full Member of the United Nations. I added then, and
I repeat today, that only a free and sovereign Palestine
will be able to fulfil Israel’s legitimate desires for peace
with its neighbours, security in its borders and regional
political stability.
The international community has encountered
growing difficulty in dealing with the exacerbation of
regional conflicts. That is clear from the stalemates
within the Security Council. It is one of the gravest
problems that we face. The crisis that began in 2008
demonstrated the need for reform of the mechanisms
of global economic governance. In point of fact, to this
day we have still not fully implemented such reforms.
Increasingly intense regional wars and conflicts, the
tragic loss of human lives and the immense material
losses for the peoples involved all demonstrate the
utmost urgency of undertaking the institutional reform
of the United Nations, in particular of its Security
Council.
We cannot allow the Council to be replaced, as has
been the case, by coalitions that are formed without its
consent, beyond its control and without due regard for
international law. The use of force without authorization
by the Council is clearly illegal, yet it is beginning to
be regarded in some quarters as an acceptable option. It
is by no means acceptable. The ease with which some
resort to that kind of action results from the stalemates
that paralyse the Council. Because of that, the Council
must urgently be reformed.

Brazil will always fight to ensure that decisions
emanating from the United Nations prevail. But we want
legitimate actions, founded on international legality. In
this spirit, I have defended the need for “responsibility
while protecting” as a necessary complement to the
responsibility to protect.
Multilateralism is stronger today after the
United Nations Conference on Sustainable
Development — Rio+20. Together, during those days
in June, we held the largest and most participative
conference in the history of the United Nations.
We were able to take firm steps towards the historic
consolidation of a new paradigm: to grow, to include,
to protect and to preserve — that is, sustainable
development. I thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
and Ambassador Sha Zukang for their efforts and their
close collaboration with Brazil, before and throughout
the Conference.
The outcome document that we approved by
consensus in Rio (resolution 66/288, annex) not only
preserves the legacy of 1992 but also sets the starting
point for a sustainable development agenda for the
twenty-first century, with a focus on the eradication
of poverty, on the conscientious use of natural
resources and on sustainable patterns of production and
consumption.
The United Nations has before it a number of tasks
mandated by the Rio Conference. In particular, I would
like to make reference to the definition of the sustainable
development goals. Rio+20 shone a powerful light on
the future we want. We have an obligation to heed
the many warnings being sounded by science and
society. We must consider climate change one of the
main challenges to present and future generations.
The Brazilian Government is firmly committed to the
targets for controlling greenhouse gas emissions and
to the unrelenting fight against deforestation in the
Amazon rainforest.
In 2009, we voluntarily took on commitments and
adopted them as laws. Those targets are particularly
ambitious for a developing country, which must deal
with pressing demands of all types in order to promote
the well-being of its population. We hope that those
countries that bear a greater historical responsibility
for climate change and that have greater means with
which to deal with it will fulfil their obligations to the
international community.

Another United Nations initiative we commend is
the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020. Brazil
is engaged in efforts to protect lives and reduce road
accidents, one of the main causes of death among young
people of the world. To that end, our Government
is developing a wide-ranging awareness-raising
campaign together with the Fédération Internationale
de l’Automobile.
In a context of environmental challenges, economic
crises and threats to peace in different parts of the
world, Brazil continues committed to working with
its neighbours to build an environment of democracy,
peace, prosperity and social justice. We have made
great progress in integrating the Latin American
and Caribbean region as a priority for international
cooperation.
Our region is a good example for the world. The
rule of law that we have achieved by overcoming
authoritarian regimes is being preserved and
strengthened. Democracy is not a heritage immune
to attacks. In order to avoid setbacks, the Southern
Common Market and the Union of South American
Nations have been firm when they had to be, because we
consider integration and democracy to be inseparable
principles. I also reaffirm our commitment to keeping
our region free from weapons of mass destruction. In
that regard, I wish to recall the existence of immense
arsenals that, in addition to threatening all humankind,
aggravate tensions and hamper efforts towards peace.
The world clamours for food instead of weapons, for the
billions of men, women and children who suffer from
the cruelest punishment inf licted on humanity: hunger.
Finally, I wish to refer to a brother country, beloved
by all Latin Americans and Caribbeans — Cuba. Cuba
has made great progress in bringing its economic
model up to date. To continue on its path, it needs the
support of partners both near and far. Cooperation on
Cuba’s progress is, however, hampered by the economic
embargo that has plagued its population for decades.
The time has long since passed for us to put an end to
that anachronism, which is condemned by the immense
majority of Members of the United Nations.
This year, we watched the Olympic and Paralympic
Games brilliantly organized by the United Kingdom.
With the closing of the London Olympic Games, Brazil
has begun the countdown towards the Rio de Janeiro
Olympic Games in 2016, which will be preceded by the
2014 World Cup. Every two years, during the Summer and Winter Games, humanity seems to reawaken to
values that should inspire us permanently: tolerance,
respect for differences, equality, inclusion, friendship
and understanding. Those principles are also the
foundation of human rights and of this Organization. At
the opening of the sixty-seventh session of the General
Assembly, I propose to all the nations represented here
that they let the ideals of the Olympic flame shine upon
them.
Strengthening the United Nations is necessary
at this stage when multipolarity opens a historic new
perspective. We must work towards that end. We must
work to ensure that in the multipolarity that is coming
to prevail, cooperation predominates over conflict,
dialogue overcomes threats and negotiated solutions are
reached before and forestall interventions involving the
use of force. I reiterate that in this necessarily collective
effort, which presupposes the quest for consensus, the
United Nations has a key role to play, particularly as
the Organization and its various bodies become more
representative and more legitimate and therefore more
effective.



===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
I would first like to 
briefly express my pleasure at seeing the representative 
of Antigua and Barbuda, a country that is part of the 
Caribbean and is very dear to Brazil and our region, 
at the helm of the proceedings of this session of the 
General Assembly. You can count on the permanent 
support of my Government, Sir.

Before I begin my statement, I would also like 
to voice the Brazilian Government’s and people’s 
repudiation of the recent terrorist attack in Nairobi, and 
to convey our condolences to and express our solidarity 
with the families of the victims and the people and the 
Government of Kenya. Wherever terrorism may occur 
and wherever it originates, we will always condemn it 
unequivocally and resolve firmly to deal with it. We 
will never compromise with barbarity.

I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to 
an exceedingly important and serious matter. Recent 
revelations concerning the activities of a global network 
of electronic espionage have provoked indignation and 
disgust in public opinion worldwide. For Brazil the 
situation is particularly serious, since we have been a 
specific target of that intrusion. Citizens’ personal data 
has been indiscriminately targeted and intercepted. 
Business information, often of major economic and even 
strategic value, has been a focus of espionage activity. 
And communications of Brazilian diplomatic missions, 
including our Permanent Mission to the United Nations 
and the Office of the President of the Republic itself, 
have been subject to interception.

Such meddling in the lives and affairs of other 
countries is a breach of international law and as such 
is an affront to the principles that should govern 
relations between them, and between friendly nations 
in particular. A nation can never promote its own 
sovereignty in a way that damages the sovereignty of 
another. The right of one country’s citizens to security 
can never be ensured by violating the fundamental 
human and civil rights of those of another. It is even 
worse when private companies support such espionage 
activity. The argument that the illegal interception of 
information and data is allegedly intended to protect 
against terrorism is untenable.

Brazil knows how to protect itself. We repudiate 
and fight terrorist groups; we do not give them shelter. 
We are a democratic country surrounded by democratic, 
peaceful countries that respect international law. We 
have lived in peace with our neighbours for more than 
140 years. Like many other Latin Americans, I have 
fought arbitrary behaviour and censorship myself and 
therefore cannot possibly fail to uncompromisingly 
defend individuals’ right to privacy and the sovereignty 
of my country. 

Without the right to privacy there is no real 
freedom of speech and opinion and therefore no genuine 
democracy. Without respect for sovereignty there is 
no basis for normal relations among nations. What we 
have before us is a serious violation of human rights 
and civil liberties through the invasion and capture of 
confidential secret information pertaining to business 
activities and, above all, a case of disrespect for the 
national sovereignty of my country. We have registered 
our protest with the Government of the United States 
and we have demanded explanations, apologies and 
guarantees that such procedures will never be repeated.

Friendly Governments and societies that seek 
to build a truly strategic partnership, as in our case, 



cannot possibly allow recurring illegal actions to take 
place as if they constituted a normal, ordinary practice. 
They are unacceptable. Brazil will redouble its efforts 
to adopt legislation, technologies and mechanisms to 
protect us adequately from the illegal interception of 
communications and data. My Administration will 
do everything within its reach and powers to defend 
the human rights of all Brazilians and all the world’s 
citizens, as well as to protect the fruits of the ingenuity 
of Brazilian workers and companies.

The problem, however, goes beyond the bilateral 
relationship of two countries. It affects the international 
community itself and demands a response from it. 
Information and telecommunication technologies 
cannot become the new battlefield among States. 
The time is ripe to create the conditions to prevent 
cyberspace from being used as a weapon of war through 
espionage, sabotage and attacks against the systems and 
infrastructure of other countries. The United Nations 
must play a leading role in the effort to properly regulate 
the conduct of States with regard to those technologies. 
It should also consider the importance of the Internet 
and social networks as part of our efforts to build 
democracy worldwide.

For that reason, Brazil will present proposals for 
the establishment of a multilateral civil framework 
for the governance and use of the Internet, as well 
as measures to guarantee the effective protection 
of the data and information that traverse it. We must 
establish multilateral mechanisms for the worldwide 
web that are capable of ensuring key principles. The 
first is freedom of expression, individual privacy and 
respect for human rights; secondly, multilateral, open 
democratic governance, conducted with transparency 
while stimulating collective creativity and the broad 
participation of civil society, Governments and the 
private sector; thirdly, the principle of universality, 
which ensures social and human development along with 
the construction of inclusive and non-discriminatory 
societies; fourthly, cultural diversity, without the 
imposition of beliefs, customs or values; and fifthly, the 
neutrality of the web, which must be governed only by 
technical and ethical criteria, rendering unacceptable 
any restriction of it for political, commercial, religious 
or any other purposes. Harnessing the full potential of 
the Internet therefore requires responsible regulation 
that will simultaneously guarantee the freedom of 
expression, security and respect for human rights.

The choice of the post-2015 development agenda 
as the theme for this session of the General Assembly 
could not be more appropriate. The fight against 
poverty, hunger and inequality constitutes the greatest 
challenge of our time. For that reason, Brazil has 
adopted a socially inclusive economic model based 
on generating employment, strengthening small-
scale family agriculture, expanding credit, increasing 
the worth of salaries and developing a vast social 
protection network, particularly through our family 
stipend programme. In addition to those achievements, 
we have lifted 22 million Brazilians out of extreme 
poverty in only two years through out plan to free 
Brazil of extreme poverty. We have drastically reduced 
child mortality. A recent UNICEF report indicates 
that Brazil has achieved one of the most significant 
reductions in the child mortality in the world.

Children are a top priority for Brazil. That is 
reflected in our commitment to education. We are the 
country that has most increased public investment in 
education, according to the latest Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development report. We 
have also just approved legislation that earmarks 75 per 
cent of all petroleum revenue to education and 25 per 
cent to health services.

In the debate on the post-2015 development 
agenda we must focus on the results of the Rio de 
Janeiro United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development as key drivers. The major step taken in 
Rio de Janeiro was to place poverty at the very centre 
of the sustainable development agenda. Poverty is 
not a problem exclusive to developing countries, and 
environmental protection is not a goal to achieve only 
after poverty is overcome. The meaning of the post-
2015 agenda is the development of a world in which it is 
possible to grow, to include, to conserve and to protect. 
By promoting social mobility and overcoming extreme 
poverty, as we are doing, we have created an immense 
contingent of citizens with improved quality of life, 
increased access to information and greater awareness 
of their rights — citizens with new hopes, new desires 
and new demands.

The demonstrations last June in Brazil were an 
inseparable part of our process of building democracy 
and of social change. My Administration did not repress 
them; on the contrary, it listened to and understood the 
voices from the streets. We listened and understood 
because we ourselves came from the streets. We 
ourselves came of age and developed through the great 



struggles of Brazil. The street is our ground, our base. 
The protesters did not ask for a return to the past. 
Rather, they asked for further progress towards a future 
of greater rights, more participation and more social 
gains.

In Brazil, it was during this decade that we 
experienced the greatest reduction in social inequality 
in the past 50 years. It was during this decade that we 
created a system of social protection that has allowed 
us to nearly eradicate extreme poverty. We know all 
too well that democracy generates the desire for more 
democracy, that social inclusion creates demands for 
further social inclusion, and that quality of life awakens 
people’s yearning for even more quality of life. For us, 
all the progress achieved thus far is just a beginning. 
Our development strategy demands more, as desired by 
all Brazilians.

It is not enough to listen. We must act. We must 
transform this extraordinary energy into achievements 
for everyone. I have therefore launched five major 
pacts: a pact against corruption and for political 
reform; a pact for urban mobility, geared towards 
the improvement of public transportation and urban 
reform; a pact for education, our great passport to the 
future, which will be supported by royalties from oil 
revenues and the petroleum social fund; a health pact 
that provides for doctors to assist Brazilians in the 
poorest and most remote regions of the country; and 
a fiscal responsibility pact, to guarantee the economic 
viability of this new stage in our history.

Although the most acute phase of the crisis is behind 
us, the situation of the world economy remains fragile, 
with unacceptable levels of unemployment. According 
to statistics from the International Labor Organization, 
there are more than 200 million unemployed people 
throughout the world. That phenomenon affects 
populations of both developed and developing countries. 

This is the right time for us to strengthen the trends 
for growth in the world’s economy, which is showing 
signs of recovery. Emerging countries alone cannot 
ensure the resumption of global growth. More than ever 
before, it is necessary to engage in concerted action 
in order to reduce unemployment and re-establish 
momentum in international trade. We are all in the 
same boat.

My country is restoring growth despite the impact 
of the international crisis of the past few years. We 
have relied on three key elements: first, a commitment 
towards sound macroeconomic policies; secondly, 
continuing and upholding successful social inclusion 
policies; and thirdly, the adoption of measures aimed 
at increasing our productivity, and therefore our 
international competitiveness. We are committed to 
stability and inflation-control, to improving the quality 
of public spending and to upholding proper fiscal 
performance. 

We reiterate our support for a reform of the 
International Monetary Fund. The governance of 
the Fund should reflect the weight of emerging and 
developing countries in the world economy. Delaying 
such adaptive reform will further reduce the Fund’s 
legitimacy and effectiveness.

The year 2015 will mark the seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations and the tenth anniversary of the 
2005 World Summit. As such, it will be an occasion 
for us to carry out the urgent reform that we have been 
calling for since that first summit. We must avoid a 
collective defeat of coming to 2015 without a Security 
Council capable of fully exercising its responsibilities in 
today’s world. The limited representation in the Security 
Council, in view of the new challenges of the twenty-
first century, is a source of grave concern. Examples of 
that concern include the huge difficulty in providing a 
solution for the ongoing Syrian conflict and the state of 
paralysis in addressing the Israeli-Palestinian question. 
The recurrent polarization among permanent members 
on important issues has led to a dangerous inaction. The 
Council must be urgently endowed with voices that are 
both independent and constructive. Only by expanding 
the number of permanent and non-permanent members 
of the Security Council and by including developing 
countries in both categories will it be possible to 
solve and overcome the current representativeness and 
legitimacy deficits from which the Council suffers.

The general debate provides us with an opportunity 
to reiterate the fundamental principles that guide my 
country’s foreign policy and inform our stance on 
pressing issues on today’s international agenda. We 
guide ourselves and our actions through a defence of a 
multilateral world governed by international law, where 
the peaceful solution of conflicts holds sway and where 
the pursuit of a fair and solidarity-based order prevails 
both economically and socially.

The crisis in Syria has caused unrest and breeds a 
sense of anger. Two and a half years of lives lost and 
destruction have caused the greatest humanitarian 
disaster of the century.



Brazil’s population of Syrian descent is an important 
component of our nationality identity, Our country 
is thus deeply involved with the plight of the Syrian 
people. It is necessary to prevent the killing of innocent 
people — women, children and the elderly — and to 
silence weapons, whether they be conventional or 
chemical or whether they be used by the Government 
or by the rebels. There is no military way out. The 
only solution is through negotiation, dialogue and 
understanding.

Syria’s decision to accede to the Chemical Weapons 
Convention and enforce it immediately was an important 
development. As such, the measure is decisive for 
overcoming the conflict and helps build a world free of 
chemical weapons. I would like to stress that the use of 
such weapons is heinous and unacceptable under any 
circumstances. We therefore support the agreement 
reached between the United States and the Russian 
Federation to eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons. It 
is incumbent upon the Syrian Government to fulfil the 
agreement in its entirety and do so in good faith and 
in a spirit of cooperation. Under all circumstances and 
in any case, we repudiate unilateral interventions in 
violation of international law and without authorization 
by the Security Council. Unilateral intervention would 
only further worsen the lack of political stability in the 
region and would increase human suffering. 

Likewise, lasting peace between Israel and Palestine 
has taken on a new and pressing dimension given the 
sweeping changes that the Middle East is currently 
undergoing. The time has come to meet the legitimate 
Palestinian aspiration for an independent and sovereign 
State. The time has also come for us to bring about a 
broad international consensus for a two-State solution. 
The current talks between Israelis and Palestinians 
should yield practical and significant results in favour 
of an agreement.

The history of the twentieth century shows that 
abandoning the multilateral system is a prelude to 
war, with the ensuing trail of human destitution and 
devastation. The history of the twentieth century 
also shows that promoting the multilateral system 
bears fruit on the ethical, political and institutional 
fronts. May I therefore renew an appeal for a broad, 
vigorous convergence of political will that will uphold 
and reinvigorate the multilateral system, of which the 
United Nations is the main pillar.

When the United Nations was founded, the peoples 
of the world rallied around the hope that humankind 
would be able to overcome the wounds of the Second 
World War and the hope that, yes, it would be possible 
to build, from the rubble of destruction and massacre, 
a new world of liberty, solidarity and prosperity. We all 
have the responsibility not to let such a generous and 
fruitful hope die. 
























===== Session 69 - 2014 =====

It is a great 
satisfaction for Brazil, which has the honour and 
privilege of opening this debate, to have as the President 
of this session of the General Assembly a son of Africa. 
As Brazilians we are united by ties of history, culture 
and friendship with the African continent, whose 
legacy was and always will be decisive for my country’s 
national identity.

I open this general debate on the eve of elections 
in Brazil that will determine the President of the 
Republic, State governors and a significant portion of 
our Congress. Those elections represent the celebration 
of a democracy we achieved almost 30 years ago, after 
two decades of dictatorial rule. Through democracy we 
also advanced towards the country’s economic stability.

During the past 12 years in particular, we have 
consolidated those achievements by building an 
inclusive society based on equal opportunity. The great 
transformation to which we are committed has resulted 
in a modern economy and a more egalitarian society. At 
the same time it has required strong civic participation, 


respect for human rights and a sustainable vision of 
development. Lastly, it has also required an engagement 
on the world stage characterized by a multilateral 
approach, respect for international law, the quest for 
peace and a culture of solidarity.

A few days ago, the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations announced that 
Brazil is no longer on the World Hunger Map. That 
transformation is the result of economic policies that 
have generated 21 million jobs, raised the minimum 
wage and increased its purchasing power by 71 per cent 
in the past 12 years. Those policies have also reduced 
inequality. Since 2003, 36 million Brazilians have been 
lifted out of extreme poverty, 22 million of them during 
my Administration alone. Social policies and income- 
transfer programmes, coordinated within our plan for a 
Brazil without extreme poverty, have also contributed 
to those results. On the health-care front, we have been 
able to meet our target for reduced child mortality 
before the deadline set by the Millennium Development 
Goals.

We have also made access to basic primary and 
middle-school education universally available, and we 
are now pursuing the same goal for secondary education. 
We are equally committed to enhancing the quality of 
education by, inter alia, improving curriculums and 
raising the profile of teachers. Vocational education 
has made strides, with the creation of hundreds of new 
schools and the professional training and development 
of 8 million young people over the past four years. 
There has been an unprecedented expansion of higher 
education, with the establishment of new publicly 
funded universities and of scholarships and financial 
aid that has given 3 million students access to private 
universities. Affirmative-action policies have enabled 
poor, black and indigenous students to enrol in 
universities on a massive scale.

Finally, our efforts to tackle the challenges 
of building a knowledge-based society have led 
to the creation of a programme known as Science 
Without Borders, which has sent more than 100,000 
undergraduate and graduate students to the world’s 
best universities. Through a presidential initiative, our 
National Congress has enacted legislation allocating 
to education 75 per cent of the royalties earned from 
pre-salt oil exploration and 50 per cent of the social 
fund generated by pre-salt oil revenues, with 25 per 
cent of pre-salt oil exploration royalties going to health 
care. We will thus be able to transform finite resources 
such as oil and gas into permanent assets — education, 
science and technology, and innovation. That will be 
our passport to the future.

We have not neglected fiscal discipline and 
monetary stability, and we have striven to protect 
Brazil from external volatility. We were thus able to 
overcome the challenges arising from the major global 
economic crisis, triggered in 2008 by the collapse of 
Lehman Brothers, which subsequently developed into 
national sovereign debt crises affecting many countries. 
We resisted its worst consequences — unemployment, 
wage depreciation, erosion of social rights and 
stalled investment. We followed through with income 
distribution by stimulating growth and employment and 
maintaining our investment in infrastructure. Brazil 
jumped from the thirteenth- to the seventh-largest 
economy in the world. Our per capita income more than 
tripled, and inequality fell sharply. In 2002, more than 
half of Brazil’s population was poor or living below the 
poverty line; today three out of every four Brazilians 
are firmly in the middle-class and upper-income 
ranges. During the economic crisis, when hundreds of 
millions around the world were left unemployed, Brazil 
created 12 million new jobs. In addition, we became 
a primary destination for foreign investment, and we 
resumed our investment in infrastructure through 
strong partnerships with the private sector.

All of those gains have occurred within the context 
of a sound fiscal environment. We have reduced our 
net ratio of public debt to gross domestic product 
(GDP) from about 60 per cent to 35 per cent. Our gross 
external debt in relation to GDP fell from 42 per cent 
to 14 per cent. Our international reserves increased 
tenfold, making Brazil an international creditor. Our 
annual inflation rate has also remained within the 
maximum and minimum range fixed by our current 
national targets.

Although we have managed to fend off the most 
harmful consequences of the global crisis, we have 
nonetheless been acutely affected by it in the past 
few years, owing to the persistence all over the world 
of substantial economic difficulties that have had a 
negative effect on our growth. Here I would like to 
reiterate what I said at the opening of last year’s general 
debate (see A/68/PV.5). It is vital and urgent that we 
restore the momentum of the global economy, which 
should work to drive investment and international 
trade and reduce inequalities between countries, and 
not become a factor that ultimately slows economic 


development and income distribution in society as a 
whole.

Regarding international trade, there must be a 
unanimous commitment to an action plan leading to the 
conclusion of the Doha Round. It is also imperative that 
we end the disparity between the growing importance 
of developing countries to the global economy and their 
insufficient representation and participation in the 
decision-making processes of international financial 
institutions such as the International Monetary 
Fund and the World Bank. The delay in expanding 
developing countries’ voting rights in those institutions 
is unacceptable. The risk to those institutions is that 
could lose their legitimacy and effectiveness.

In July Brazil had the pleasure of hosting the 
sixth Summit of the BRICS countries, namely, Brazil, 
Russia, India, China and South Africa. We welcomed 
their leaders in a fraternal and fruitful meeting that 
pointed to important possibilities for the future. We 
signed agreements establishing a new development 
bank and a contingent reserve arrangement. The bank 
will cater to the infrastructure financing needs of the 
BRICS and other developing countries. The contingent 
reserve arrangement will protect them from financial 
volatility. Each instrument will have a capital injection 
of $100 billion.

The current generation of world leaders — our 
generation — is also being called on to deal with significant 
challenges to peace, collective security and the 
environment. We have been unable either to solve old 
disputes or to prevent new threats. It is impossible to 
eliminate the underlying causes of conflict through the 
use of force. That has been made clear by the persistence 
of the Palestine question, the systematic massacre of 
the Syrian people, the tragic national fragmentation of 
Iraq, the serious insecurity in Libya, the conflicts in the 
Sahel and the clashes in Ukraine. Instead of leading to 
peace, every military intervention has worsened those 
conflicts. We are witnessing the tragic proliferation 
of civilian victims and humanitarian disasters. We 
cannot allow such barbaric acts to increase and violate 
our ethical, moral and civilizational values. Nor can 
we remain indifferent to the spread of the Ebola virus 
in West Africa. We therefore support the Secretary-
General’s proposal to establish a United Nations 
Mission for Ebola Emergency Response. Brazil is 
solidly in favour of it.

The Security Council has had some difficulties 
in promoting peaceful solutions to those conflicts. 
To overcome such stalemates, a genuine reform of 
the Council will be required, a process that has been 
dragging on for quite some time. The coming seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations, in 2015, appears to 
be an occasion conducive to achieving the progress 
that the situation currently calls for. I am quite certain 
that we all understand the serious risks arising from 
paralysis and inaction in the Security Council. A more 
representative and legitimate Security Council would 
also be more effective.

I wish to underscore that we cannot possibly remain 
indifferent to the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, particularly 
after the recent dramatic events in Gaza. We condemn 
the disproportionate use of force that has strongly 
victimized the civilian population, especially women 
and children. The conflict must be properly resolved, 
not precariously managed, as has been the case up to 
now. Effective negotiations between the parties must 
ultimately lead to a two-State solution with Palestine 
and Israel living side by side in security within 
internationally recognized borders.

Amid so many conflict situations, Latin America 
and the Caribbean seek to face up to the main problem 
that has marked our region for centuries. I am talking 
about social inequality. Democratic roots have become 
stronger, and the demand for more just, inclusive and 
sustainable growth has grown ever stronger. Through 
the Union of South American Nations, the Common 
Market of the South, and the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States, integration efforts 
have made tremendous headway.

Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of 
our times. To overcome that challenge, we need a sense 
of urgency, political courage and a keen understanding 
that actors have to contribute according to the 
principles of equity and common but differentiated 
responsibilities. The recent Climate Summit, which was 
convened in a very timely manner by the Secretary-
General, further invigorated negotiations at the level of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change.

The Brazilian Government will strive to ensure 
that the outcome of the negotiations will lead to a 
balanced, fair and effective agreement. Brazil has been 
doing its part to face up to the challenge of climate 
change. In 2009, during the Copenhagen Conference, 
we committed to a voluntary reduction of 36 to 39 per 
cent of our projected emissions by 2020. Between 2010 
and 2013, we avoided releasing into the atmosphere an 


average of 650 million tons of carbon dioxide every 
year. Throughout those years, we achieved the lowest 
deforestation rates in our history. In the past decade, 
we have reduced deforestation by 79 per cent, without 
giving up our agenda of economic development and 
social inclusion.

We have therefore shown that it is possible to 
grow, to include, to preserve and to protect. Such an 
achievement stems from the continuous and steadfast 
commitment of the Brazilian Government, civil society 
and other public and private stakeholders. We hope 
that developed countries, which have not only the 
legal but also a political obligation to lead by example, 
will unequivocally and concretely demonstrate their 
commitment to combat this problem that affects us all.

At the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development in Rio de Janeiro, we were proud to set 
the foundations for a new development agenda, based 
on sustainable development goals applicable to both 
developing and developed nations. It will be crucial 
for us to identify the means of implementation that 
correspond to the magnitude of the challenges that we 
have committed ourselves to overcoming. We must be 
ambitious when it comes to financing, cooperation, 
national capacity-building and technology transfer, 
especially to ensure that the least developed countries 
benefit. Let me underscore, in that context, the need to 
establish a mechanism for the development, transfer and 
dissemination of clean, environmentally sustainable 
technologies.

In addition to sustainable development and peace, 
the international order that we seek to build must be 
anchored on fundamental values. Among those values, 
emphasis should be put on efforts to combat all forms 
of discrimination and exclusion. We have a clear-cut 
commitment to the empowerment of women in the 
labour market, liberal professions, entrepreneurship, 
political activity and access to education, among others. 
My Administration has tirelessly fought violence 
against women in all its forms. We consider the twenty-
first century to be the century of women.

By the same token, the promotion of racial equality 
seeks to compensate Brazilians of African descent for 
the consequences of the centuries of slavery to which 
they were subjected. Today, those Brazilians account 
for more than half of our population. We owe them our 
rich and permanent legacy of cultural, religious and 
human wealth and values. For us, racial miscegenation 
is a matter of pride. Racism is not only a heinous and 
extremely serious crime, but it is also a scourge that we 
have not hesitated to fight, punish and eradicate.

The same commitment that we have had to combat 
violence against women and African Brazilians, we 
have also had against homophobia. My country’s 
Supreme Court has recognized same-sex civil unions, 
thereby ensuring them the full range of civil rights 
arising therefrom. We firmly believe in the dignity of 
all human beings and in the universal nature of their 
fundamental rights. Those rights must be protected 
from all double standards and all forms of politicization, 
both domestically and internationally.

Yet another fundamental value is the respect for 
public good. We all face a relentless fight against 
corruption. History has shown that there is only one 
correct and efficient way to tackle corruption; that is 
by ending impunity, thereby strengthening institutions 
that oversee, investigate and punish acts of corruption, 
money-laundering and other financial crimes. That is 
a responsibility incumbent upon each Government, a 
responsibility that Brazil has fulfilled by strengthening 
our institutions.

In Brazil, we have designed and built a Government 
transparency portal website that gives citizens access 
to all information on Government spending within 24 
hours after monies are spent. We have also adopted 
a law on access to information, which allows all 
Brazilian citizens the right to access Government 
data, except for that related to the country’s national 
sovereignty. We have strengthened and given autonomy 
to investigators as well as to those in charge of internal 
Government controls. We have passed laws that punish 
not only those who actively engage in corruption but 
also those who passively agree with acts of corruption. 
Strengthening those institutions is absolutely crucial 
for strengthening open and democratic governance. 
Brazil’s recent re-election to the Executive Committee 
of the Open Government Partnership will also allow 
us to contribute to promoting more transparent 
Governments worldwide.

It is essential that measures be taken to effectively 
protect human rights, not only in the real world but 
also in the virtual world, as stated in resolution 68/167 
on privacy in the digital age, adopted by the General 
Assembly in the past year. Brazil and Germany 
promoted an important discussion on the matter in 
2013. We intend to deepen that discussion during this 
sixty-ninth session. For our review of such matters, the 
2013 annual report of the Office of the United Nations 


High Commissioner for Human Rights, published in 
May 2014, can provide significant inputs. In September 
2013, I proposed from this rostrum (see A/68/PV.5) that 
a civil framework be development for the governance 
and use of the Internet, a framework based on the 
principles of freedom of expression, privacy, network 
neutrality and cultural diversity. 

I am pleased to note that the international community 
has, since then, mobilized its efforts to enhance the 
current Internet governance architecture. Brazil’s 
initiative to hold the Global Multistakeholder Meeting 
on the Future of Internet Governance, NETmundial, in 
São Paulo in April was an important step in the process. 
The Meeting brought together stakeholders from 
various regions of the world and from multiple sectors. 
Discussions were held on the principles that should be 
followed and the actions to be undertaken in order to 
ensure that the Internet will continue to develop in an 
open, democratic, free, multisectoral and multilateral 
manner.

The United Nations and its Member States have 
before them today challenges of great magnitude, which 
should be the priorities of this session of the General 
Assembly. The year 2015 must be a turning point. I am 
certain that we will not shy away from fulfilling, with a 
sense of courage and insight, our lofty responsibilities 
to build an international order founded on the promotion 
of peace, sustainable development, poverty eradication 
and the reduction of inequality. Brazil stands ready and 
is fully determined to contribute to that end.



===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
It is a privilege to address the General Assembly this year as the United Nations celebrates its seventieth birthday.
My first remarks are to congratulate you, Mr. President, on having been chosen to preside over the Assembly. I reiterate, in particular, Brazil’s support for your willingness to put in place measures that will ultimately strengthen the Organization’s development agenda.
Seventy years have passed since the San Francisco Conference. On that occasion, the international community sought to build a world founded on international law and on the pursuit of the peaceful resolution of conf licts. Since then, we have seen progress and setbacks. The decolonization process has evolved remarkably, as can be seen from the composition of the Assembly.
The United Nations has since expanded its initiatives and incorporated into the development agenda the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In other words, it is addressing issues related to the environment, poverty eradication, social and economic development and access to quality services, while issues related to urban life, gender, women and children, and race have all gained priority on the agenda.
However, the Organization has not achieved the same success in addressing collective security challenges, even though they were at the origin of the Organization and at the centre of its concerns. The proliferation of regional conflicts, some of which have the potential to be highly destructive, and the spread of terrorism, which kills men, women and children, destroys our common heritage and displaces millions of people from their long-established communities, demonstrate all too well that the United Nations is currently being severely tested. One cannot be complacent in the face of barbaric acts such as those perpetrated by the so- called Islamic State and other associated groups. The situation today explains, to a large extent, the refugee crisis currently facing humankind.
A substantial proportion of the men, women and children who desperately brave the waters of the Mediterranean and wearily make their way along the roads of Europe come from the Middle East and North Africa, from countries whose State institutions have been dismantled by military actions undertaken in contravention of international law, thereby opening space for the proliferation of terrorism. The deep sense of indignation caused by the picture of a dead Syrian boy on the beaches of Turkey and by the news of the 71 persons asphyxiated inside a truck in Austria should be translated into unmistakable acts of practical solidarity.
In a world where goods, capital, information and ideas flow freely, it is absurd to prevent the free flow of people. Brazil is a host country, a welcoming country, one that is made up of people from around the world. We have received Syrians, Haitians, men and women, just as we have provided shelter for more than a century to millions of Europeans, Arabs and Asians. We are an open society. We welcome refugees. We are a multi-ethnic country, where differences coexist. We know all too well the importance of differences, which ultimately make us stronger, richer and more diverse culturally, socially and economically.
The disquieting backdrop I have just described demands that we reflect on the future of the United Nations and requires that we act resolutely and quickly. We need a United Nations that is capable of promoting lasting international peace and of acting swiftly and effectively during crises, regional and localized conflicts and in response to any crimes against humanity. We can no longer delay, for example, the creation of a Palestinian State that coexists peacefully and harmoniously with Israel. Similarly, the expansion of settlements in the occupied territories cannot be tolerated.
In order to give the United Nations the central role it is rightfully entitled to, a comprehensive reform of its structures must be carried out. The Security Council must be expanded in its permanent and non-permanent member categories in order to become more representative, legitimate and effective. Most Member States do not want a decision on this matter to be postponed forever. We hope that the current session will enter into history as a turning point in the trajectory of the United Nations and that it will yield concrete results in the long, and so far inconclusive, reform process of the Organization.
In our region of the world — where peace and democracy reign — we welcome the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States of America, which puts an end to a dispute stemming back to the Cold War. We hope that this process will be completed with the end of the embargo currently imposed on Cuba. We also celebrate the recent agreement reached with Iran, which will enable that country to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and to restore the hope of peace to an entire region. Together, the countries of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa have launched a new development bank, which will assist in expanding trade and investment and will also possibly help to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) outlines the future we want. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals reaffirm the basic tenet of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, that is, it is possible to grow, include, preserve and protect. They establish universal targets and stress the need for cooperation among people and a shared path for humankind. The 2030 Agenda requires global solidarity, determination from each one of us and a commitment to tackling climate change, overcoming extreme poverty and creating opportunities for all.
In Paris, next December, we must strengthen the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by ensuring that its provisions are fulfilled and its principles respected. The obligations we take on in Paris should be ambitious in scope and nature and should include financial and technological support to developing countries and small island States, in line with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Brazil is making a substantial effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions without jeopardizing its development. We continue to diversify the renewable sources in our energy mix, which is among the cleanest in the world. We are also currently investing in low- carbon agriculture. We have reduced deforestation in the Amazonian region by 82 per cent. A sense of ambition will continue to guide our actions. In this spirit, I announced yesterday at the United Nations Brazil’s intended nationally determined contribution, which is to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 43 per cent by 2030, with 2005 as the baseline year. During this period, Brazil intends to put an end to illegal deforestation and to reforest 12 million hectares,
to recover 15 million hectares of degraded pasture lands and to integrate 5 million hectares of crop, livestock and forest.
In a world where the share of renewable energy accounts for only 13 per cent on average of the overall energy mix worldwide, we intend to derive 45 per cent of our domestic energy mix from renewable sources. To that end, we will pursue a share of 66 per cent for hydropower in our electricity generation output and a share of 23 per cent for renewable energy, including from wind, solar and biomass sources, in electrical energy generation. We will also seek an increase of about 10 per cent in energy efficiency and will add a share of 16 per cent of ethanol fuel and other sugarcane-derived biomass sources to our energy mix. Brazil is thus contributing decisively to the global efforts to implement the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which has established a limit of no more than 2°C on temperature increases for this century.
We are one of the few developing countries to set an absolute emissions reduction target. Our intended nationally determined contributions include actions to increase environmental resilience and reduce the risks associated with the negative effects of climate change for the poorest and most vulnerable populations, with an emphasis on gender issues, workers’ rights and the rights of indigenous, former black slave and traditional communities.
We recognize the importance of South-South cooperation in the global efforts to counter climate change. Allow me to stress that, since 2003, social and income transfer policies have helped lift over 36 million people out of extreme poverty. Last year, Brazil was officially removed from the World Hunger Map. This is a testament to the effectiveness of our so-called zero-hunger policy, which has now evolved to become Sustainable Development Goal 2.
In the transition to a low-carbon economy, it is important to ensure dignified and fair conditions for workers. Sustainable development requires us to commit to the promotion of decent work, the generation of quality jobs and guaranteed opportunities for all.
Our efforts to eradicate poverty and promote development must be collective and global in scope. In my country, however, we know that the end of extreme poverty is only the beginning of a long journey marked by new gains. For six years, we have been working to
prevent the impact of the world crisis that began in 2008 in the developed world from overwhelming our economy and our society. During those six years, we have adopted a comprehensive set of measures, including reducing taxes, expanding credit, strengthening investment and stimulating household consumption. We have increased employment opportunities and income levels in that period. This effort has now come to an end owing to both domestic fiscal constraints and external conditions. The slow recovery of the world economy and the end of the ”commodity super cycle” have negatively affected our economic growth. Currency devaluation and recession pressures have triggered inflation and a substantial reduction in tax revenue, leading to restrictions in public finance.
Brazil does not have any serious structural problems, however. Our problems are limited to the current circumstances. In order to address this situation, we are rebalancing our budget and have substantially reduced public expenditures and even investments. We have realigned prices. We are adopting measures to permanently reduce spending. We have proposed drastic spending cuts and we are redefining our sources of revenue. All of these initiatives are aimed at reorganizing the fiscal framework, reducing inflation, consolidating macroeconomic stability, boosting confidence in the economy and ensuring the resumption of economic growth with income distribution.
The Brazilian economy is today stronger, more solid and more resilient than it was a few years ago. We are in a position to overcome the current difficulties as we advance on our path towards development. We find ourselves at a moment of transition to another cycle of economic expansion, one that has greater depth and is more solid and long-lasting. In addition to the fiscal and financial rebalancing actions and providing incentives for exports, we have also adopted measures to encourage investments in infrastructure and energy.
In Brazil, the process of social inclusion has not been interrupted. We hope that inflation control and the resumption of economic growth and credit availability will help to further expand household consumption. This is the basis for a new development cycle, led by an increase in productivity and the generation of more investment opportunities for businesses and more job opportunities for citizens.
The gains we have achieved over the past few years have been reached in the environment of our strengthened and deepened democracy. Thanks to an
effective legal framework and vigorous democratic institutions, the functioning of the State is being firmly and impartially examined by the judiciary and the governmental agencies in charge of investigating, assessing and punishing any misconduct.
The Brazilian Government and society do not and will not tolerate corruption. Brazil’s democracy grows stronger when its authorities recognize the limits imposed by the law as their own limits. We Brazilians desire a country where the law represents the limit. Many of us fought for that, precisely when laws and rights were being violated during the military dictatorship. We desire a country where governmental authorities conduct themselves strictly according to their duties, without ever succumbing to excess; where judges try and judge cases freely and impartially, without any pressure whatsoever, independent of political passion and without ever compromising on the presumption of the innocence of any citizen.
We desire a country where the clash of ideas takes place in a civilized and respectful environment. We want a country where the freedom of the press is one of the cornerstones of the freedom of speech and of the expression of different positions, namely, the rights of all Brazilians. Legal sanctions must be applied against all those who have committed illicit acts, bearing in mind the need to uphold the principle of due process. Those are the very foundations of our democracy. In that regard, I wish to avail myself of a recent quote by my friend José Mujica, former President of Uruguay. He said: “Democracy is not perfect, for we are not perfect. However, we must defend it in order to improve it and not deny it”. Allow me to state for the record that Brazil will continue on the path of democracy and will never relinquish the achievements for which we have so greatly struggled.
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that Brazil welcomes citizens from around the world, with open arms, for the 2016 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games to be held in Rio de Janeiro. We look forward to welcoming each and every one. It will be a unique opportunity to promote sport as a key instrument for peace, social inclusion and tolerance in the fight against racial, ethnic and gender discrimination. It will also be an opportunity to promote the rights and inclusion of persons with disabilities, one of the top priorities of my Government.
One last point is that a few days ago, here at United Nations Headquarters, the murals entitled War and
Peace by the Brazilian artist Candido Portinari, which were donated to this Organization by the Government of my country in 1957, were re-inaugurated. Those works of art denounce violence and poverty and further urge the people of the world to seek mutual understanding and tolerance. They stand as a symbol of the ultimate responsibility of the United Nations, namely, to prevent armed conflict and promote peace, social justice and the eradication of hunger and poverty. Portinari often stated that “there is no great work of art that is not identified by the people surrounding it”. The message of the murals remains timely and topical. It speaks not only to the victims of wars, but also to the refugees who risk their lives on fragile boats in the Mediterranean and to all of the anonymous people who turn to the United Nations seeking protection, peace and well-being.
We hope that, as we walk into the premises of the United Nations and gaze upon those very murals at the entrance, we may be capable of hearing the voices of the people we represent and of working persistently to ensure that their calls for peace and progress are met. After all, those were the very ideals that were present 70 years ago at the foundation of the United Nations Organization, this major accomplishment of humankind.

===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
Brazil brings its natural spirit of openness to the United Nations and to the world. We are a country that is built on and by the strength of diversity. We believe in the power of dialogue. We strongly advocate the principles that govern the Organization — principles that are needed now more than ever before. Today’s world shows signs of uncertainty and instability.
The international system is currently experiencing what could be described as an order deficit. Reality has moved ahead faster than our collective ability to address it. From outbreaks of regional conflicts to violent fundamentalism, we face both old and new threats that we have been unable to contain. In view of the refugee crisis and the upsurge in terrorism, we cannot help but be overwhelmed by a sentiment of perplexity or bewilderment. Hotbeds of tension show no signs of fading away. A state of virtual political inaction leads to prolonged wars with no solution. The system’s inability to react to conflicts further worsens cycles of destruction. The social vulnerability of so many in several countries is exploited by narratives of fear and entrenchment.
There has been a return to xenophobia, and extreme forms of nationalism are gaining ground. Different expressions of demagoguery bring about serious risks on all continents. Even in the economic arena, the fact is that today’s world lacks standards that can otherwise reduce globalization’s asymmetries. Many have yielded to the easy answer of protectionism. We cannot possibly shy away from such a world. On the contrary, we must join hands and unite to transform it through diplomacy — balanced but firm diplomacy, sobering but determined. Such diplomacy should be well-grounded and embracing of change. That is how Brazil has conducted diplomacy both within our region and beyond as a country that has pursued its interests without ever relinquishing its principles.
What we wish for the world is what we wish for Brazil — peace, sustainable development and respect for human rights. Those are the values and aspirations of our society. Those are the values and aspirations that guide us on the international stage. We would like to live in a world in which law prevails over force. We would like to have rules that reflect the pluralistic nature of the community of nations. We would like to have a results-oriented United Nations, capable of facing up to the major challenges of our time. Our debates and negotiations cannot possibly be confined to the Organization’s rooms and halls. Instead, they should reverberate through the markets of Kabul, the streets of Paris and the ruins of Aleppo.
The United Nations cannot be reduced to a mere observation post that condemns the world’s scourges. Instead, the Organization should assert itself as a source of effective solutions. Those who sowed the seeds of conflict have reinvented themselves, but multilateral institutions have not. It is for that reason that Brazil has warned that it is essential to make global governance structures more representative, many of which have by now aged and have become disconnected from reality. The Security Council must be reformed. We stand ready to overcome the current impasse surrounding that issue.
Many challenges go beyond national borders, including trafficking in drugs and weapons, and have an impact on our cities, schools and families. Fighting organized crime requires us to work hand in hand. The very safety of our citizens ultimately depends on the quality of our collective action. An example of this is the war in Syria, which continues to engender unacceptable suffering, with women and children as the main victims. A political solution can no longer be postponed. We call on the parties involved in the conflict to respect the agreements endorsed by the Security Council and to guarantee the civilian population access to humanitarian aid.
We are also concerned by the lack of prospects for peace between Israel and Palestine. Brazil continues to support a solution based on two States living in peaceful coexistence within mutually agreed and internationally recognized borders. It is our common responsibility to give new impetus to the negotiating process.
Another reason for concern, if I may say so, is the lack of progress on the nuclear disarmament agenda. There are thousands of nuclear weapons in the world today. That amounts to thousands of threats to international peace and security. The most recent nuclear test in the Korean peninsula is a reminder of the danger that nuclear proliferation poses. Brazil can speak with the authority of a country where the use of nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes is an obligation enshrined in the Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil.
Yet not all news is bad. There are well-known examples, which have already been mentioned in today’s meeting, of what can be accomplished through dialogue. We celebrate that diplomacy has prevailed on the Iranian nuclear dossier and encourage full compliance and understanding with the agreements reached. The peace accord between the Colombian government and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia allows us to envisage the end of the last armed conflict on our continent. I congratulate President Juan Manuel Santos and all Colombians for that achievement. Brazil stands ready to contribute to peace in Colombia. The re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States of America shows that there are no eternal antagonisms or unbreakable deadlocks. We hope that closer ties will bring progress to the region as a whole, to include the economic and trade arenas. We hope that the re–establishment of relations between Cuba and the United State will be followed by the end of the economic embargo against Cuba.
This year, Brazil and Argentina celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Brazilian-Argentine Agency for Accounting and Control of Nuclear Materials. The Agency is the world’s only binational organization responsible for applying nuclear safeguards. As Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has stated, the Agency is an inspiration for regional and global efforts towards the elimination of nuclear weapons. Confidence-building between Brazilians and Argentines in the nuclear arena, as I have just indicated, is part of the inception of our integration experience, and of the foundation of projects like the Southern Common Market. For Brazil, Latin American integration is not only Government policy but the expression of a constitutional principle and a permanent foreign policy priority.
As we are all aware, Governments of different political inclinations coexist in our region. That is natural and sound. What is essential is that there be mutual respect and that we agree on basic common objectives, such as economic growth, human rights, social progress, security and freedom for all citizens. Those are the objectives that guide and inform the presence of the United Nations in Haiti. Since 2004, Brazil has led the military component of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti and has sent more than 33,000 contingents to that Caribbean country. We trust that the United Nations presence on the ground in Haiti will focus more on developing institutions and capacity-building.
Brazil’s neighbours also include our brothers and sisters from Africa, to whom we are tied by the Atlantic Ocean and by a long-standing history. This year, we will host the Summit of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. Of the Community’s nine members, six are African States. Brazil therefore looks towards Africa with friendship and respect, with a determination to undertake projects that will unite us even more.
Development is more than just an objective, it is an imperative. A developed society is one where all are entitled to high-quality public services such as education, health care, transportation and security; one where equal opportunity is assured and where access to decent work opportunities is not a privilege for a few. In a nutshell, development is paramount to dignity, and the dignity of humankind is one of the principles of the Brazilian State, as laid down in article 1 of the Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is the greatest United Nations endeavour in favour of development. Turning it into reality will require more than the sum of national efforts. Supporting developing countries will be crucial to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Prosperity and well- being today should not impair the future of humankind. Economic growth should be socially balanced and environmentally friendly. After all, we live on the same Planet. There is no plan B. We must therefore take ambitious measures under the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. Tomorrow, I will formally deposit Brazil’s instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on climate change. As the world’s most biodiverse country, and with one of the world’s cleanest energy mixes, Brazil is an environmental powerhouse with an uncompromising commitment to the environment.
Development also depends on trade. In periods of economic crisis, protectionism often increases. It must be curbed. Protectionism is a perverse barrier to development. It reduces the number of jobs and opportunities and makes men, women and families around the world, including in Brazil, fall victim to unemployment and hopelessness. The multilateral trading system is part of the fight against that evil. Ending protectionism in agriculture is particularly important for development. We cannot keep backtracking on the implementation of World Trade Organization commitments on agriculture any longer. It is urgent to prevent sanitary and phytosanitary measures from serving protectionist purposes. It is urgent to discipline subsidies and other distortive domestic support policies in the agricultural sector. Home to a modern, diversified and competitive agriculture, Brazil contributes to food security. We produce for ourselves and we help to feed the world.
Unfortunately, the full enjoyment of human rights remains an unaccomplished aspiration in today’s world. Every human being has the right to live freely, according to one’s own beliefs and convictions. Such fundamental liberty, however, is disrespected every day. Persecutions, political detentions and other arbitrary acts remain recurrent in many areas of the world. Our eyes should also turn to minorities and other more vulnerable segments of our society. That is what we have done in Brazil through income-transfer initiatives and housing and education programmes, including financial aid available to students from poor families and backgrounds. We have also advocated gender equality as expressly envisaged in our Constitution. It is incumbent upon us to safeguard the rights of all.
Refugees and migrants are, more often than not, victims of human rights violations, poverty, war and political repression. Yesterday’s high-level meeting cast light on some of those substantive matters. Brazil is the product of immigrants, men and women from all continents. We repudiate all forms of racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. We provide shelter to refugees and migrants, as I underscored in yesterday’s meeting (see A/71/PV.4B).
In a world still plagued by hatred and sectarianism, the Rio de Janeiro Olympic and Paralympic games showed that it was possible for nations to come together
16-29296 9/56 in an atmosphere of peace and harmony. In fact, for the first time, a delegation of refugees was able to compete in the games. Therefore, through sports, we can succeed in promoting peace, fighting exclusion and tackling prejudice.
Finally, I bring to the United Nations a message of uncompromising commitment to democracy. Brazil has just undergone a long and complex process, led by our national congress and supreme court, which ultimately led to an impeachment. I must stress that everything unfolded in full compliance with constitutional order. We offer that example as a clear indication that there can be no democracy without the rule of law with standards that apply equally to all, even the most powerful. That is what Brazil is showing the world through the process of cleansing its own political system.
We have an independent judiciary, an active public prosecutor’s office and executive and legislative bodies that fulfil their duties. Individual agendas do not prevail but rather the will of institutions, under the careful oversight of a pluralistic society and a genuinely free press. Our task now consists in resuming economic growth and ensuring that Brazilian workers regain the millions of lost jobs. We are clear on the path to be followed. It is the path of fiscal and social responsibility. Trust has already been restored and a more prosperous horizon lies ahead in the near future. Our development process consists primarily of investment, trade, science, and technology partnerships. In that regard, our relations with countries of all continents will prove decisive.
I do not wish to close my remarks without addressing the Secretary-General, who will soon be leaving office. Mr. Ban Ki-moon, as we all know, has devoted the last 10 years of his life to a tireless pursuit of peace, development and human rights. He can be sure that we are highly appreciative and thankful for his efforts.
In the second decade of the twenty-first century, we can no longer doubt that our problems are global. There is no place for isolationism. Ours is a common destiny. At the United Nations, more than anywhere else, we can come close to the universalist ideal that drives us all. About sixty years ago, my fellow countryman, Oswaldo Aranha, stated from this rostrum that even in a world as disturbed as it was then, no one wished to see the doors of the United Nations close. He warned us all that without the United Nations, the shadows of war would descend upon humankind to relentlessly and indefinitely eclipse the hope of so many men and women. It is in the Assembly of nations that we nurture our hope, a hope achieved through dialogue, mutual understanding and respect for others, ourselves, our children and our grandchildren.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
At the outset, I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election. You can count on the continued support of the Brazilian delegation.
I am also pleased to greet the Secretary-General in our common language, Portuguese. I once again wish the Secretary-General enduring success during his tenure.
The challenges faced by the United Nations since its creation have been manifold. Additionally, we all know that the aspirations of its founders have not been fully realized. However, the truth is that over the past 72 years, the United Nations has always represented and continues to represent hope. The truth is that the United Nations has always represented and continues to represent the possibility of a fairer world; a world of peace and prosperity; a world in which no one should face discrimination, oppression and poverty; a world in which production and consumption patterns are compatible with the well-being of present and future generations.
The United Nations has established itself as a privileged forum to build the world to which we aspire. In order to build that world, we need proper methods and a sense of realism, all without ever losing sight of our ideals. At the current moment in history, which features such distinct uncertainty and instability, there is a clear need for more diplomacy and more negotiation, not less. We need more multilateralism and dialogue, not less. We certainly need more of the United Nations. We need the United Nations to be increasingly legitimate and effective.
It is for that reason that, along with many other countries, we uphold the imperative of reforming the United Nations. It is particularly necessary to enlarge the Security Council in order to adapt it to the realities of the twenty-first century. It is urgent that we listen to the will of the overwhelming majority of the General Assembly.
One should not assume that ideas that have proved erroneous in the past may now yield good results. We reject exacerbated forms of nationalism. We do not believe in protectionism as a solution to economic challenges. Those challenges actually require effective responses to the root causes of social exclusion. The pursuit of development in all its dimensions should guide our collective action.
Brazil’s commitment to sustainable development is our top priority. It permeates our public policies and our actions abroad. During our chairmanship of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, for instance, we made the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development the driving blueprint for our efforts in that forum. On all fronts, Brazil has sought to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Combating climate change is a necessary part of that contribution. We stand committed to supporting the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. Last year, I submitted the Brazilian instrument of ratification of the Agreement. There is no possibility of postponing action in the sphere of tackling climate change. We must act now.
I am proud to say that my country is leading the way towards a low-carbon economy. Clean and renewable energy sources account for more than 40 per cent of the Brazilian energy portfolio, which is three times more than the global average. We are leaders in hydroelectricity and bioenergy. Brazil is proud to have the world’s highest tropical forest cover. Deforestation is a matter of concern, especially in the Amazon. We have been drawing attention and allocating resources to that issue. Some good news is that data from the past year point to a reduction of more than 20 per cent in deforestation in the Amazonian region. We are on the right track and on that track we shall remain.
Another key factor of development is trade. We are committed to an open and rules-based international trade system, with the World Trade Organization and its dispute-settlement mechanism at its centre. At the upcoming Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, to be held in Buenos Aires in December, we will once again have to face up to long-standing issues, which have proved detrimental mainly to developing countries. We will have to make progress on market access to agricultural products and on eliminating agricultural subsidies that distort trade. We believe that, together, we will succeed in achieving concrete results. All these efforts contribute to the accomplishment of our main objective: to ensure opportunities for all, everywhere.
Tomorrow, I will have the honour of signing the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Brazil was among the drafters of the Treaty. It will be a historic moment. We reiterate our call for the nuclear Powers to undertake additional disarmament obligations. In this regard, Brazil expresses itself with the authority of a country that, while mastering nuclear technology, has voluntarily given up possessing nuclear weapons. Brazil expresses itself with the authority of a country whose own Constitution prohibits the use of nuclear technology for non-peaceful purposes; a country that was at the origin of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which, half a century ago, established the denuclearization of Latin America and the Caribbean; a country that, along with its South American and African neighbours, has turned the South Atlantic into a nuclear-weapon-free zone; lastly, a country that, along with Argentina, created a binational nuclear safeguards mechanism, which has become a benchmark for the world at large.
As we welcome the achievement represented by the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, we must acknowledge that there are lingering issues of serious concern on the peace and security agenda. The recent nuclear and missile tests on the Korean peninsula constitute a serious threat to which none of us can be indifferent. Brazil condemns these acts in the strongest possible terms. We must urgently seek a peaceful resolution to the current situation, whose consequences are unimaginable.
In the Middle East, talks between Israel and Palestine remain at a standstill. As a friend of both Palestinians and Israelis, Brazil continues to support the solution of two States living side by side in peace and security, within internationally recognized and mutually agreed borders.
In Syria, despite the de-escalation of recent months, we are still witnessing a conflict with tragic humanitarian consequences. The solution that must be sought in Syria is essentially political in nature and can no longer be postponed. Similarly, in Afghanistan, Libya, Yemen, Mali and the Central African Republic, wars have caused intolerable suffering that extends beyond borders.
Let us visit the refugee and displaced person camps in Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Kenya. Let us listen to the stories of those who have lost fathers, mothers, sons and daughters. These families have been engulfed by the irrationality of conflicts that seem to know no limits, conflicts that result in violations of humanitarian law with unacceptable frequency.
Our Secretary-General is right. We should reinvigorate the mechanisms of conflict prevention. Prevention is about diplomacy. It is about development.
It is crucial to recognize the nexus between security and development. This recognition has guided Brazil’s participation in the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). As MINUSTAH concludes its mandate, the international community must maintain its commitment to the Haitian people. Brazil certainly will do so.
In South America, Colombia is ending more than 50 years of conflict. Brazil will continue to be a resolute partner in this effort.
From Barcelona to Kabul, from Alexandria to Manchester, repeated demonstrations of cowardly violence do not let us forget the evil of terrorism. This evil feeds on fundamentalism and exclusion, and no country is immune to it. Unity is crucial, particularly in view of the capacity of terrorism to adapt to new ages and environments. We will not be frightened by terror, nor will we allow it to weaken our belief in freedom and tolerance.
In many of our countries, transnational crime also undermines the security and tranquillity of individuals and families. Only through coordination and collaboration will we effectively combat trafficking in persons, arms and drugs, and money-laundering. It was in this spirit that Brazil organized, in November 2016, a ministerial meeting of South American countries on border security, and it is in this spirit that we will continue cooperating with countries around the world to tackle organized crime.
Regrettably, human rights violations remain frequent throughout the world — both violations of civil and political rights, as well as of economic, social and cultural rights. We must ensure that every individual everywhere can live with dignity, according to his or her convictions and choices.
Brazil is a country of deep-rooted liberties, which was and is still being built on a foundation of diversity — diversity of ethnicity, culture, creed and thought. More than anything, it is from this diversity that we draw our strength as a nation. We reject racism, xenophobia and all other forms of discrimination. We are party to the main international human rights treaties and members of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights and the International Criminal Court. We have extended a standing invitation to United Nations special rapporteurs.
Today we have one of the most modern refugee laws in the world. We have just updated our immigration law, guided by the principle of humanitarian reception. We have granted humanitarian visas to Haitian and Syrian citizens and we have welcomed thousands of migrants and refugees from Venezuela.
The human rights situation in Venezuela continues to deteriorate. We are on the side of the Venezuelan people, with whom we share a fraternal bond. In South America, there is no longer room for alternatives to democracy. This is what we have stated in MERCOSUR and what we will continue to uphold.
Brazil is going through a moment of decisive transformation. With structural reforms, we are overcoming an unprecedented economic crisis. We are recovering our fiscal balance, and with it, the credibility of our economy. We are once again creating jobs. We are recovering the State’s capacity to implement social policies that are indispensable to a country like ours. We have learned and are applying this elementary rule in practice: without fiscal responsibility, social responsibility is nothing more than empty words. The new Brazil that is emerging from these reforms is a country that is more open to the world.
That is the attitude of openness that we bring to the United Nations, as well as to MERCOSUR; the Group of 20; the Brazil, Russian Federation, India, China and South Africa group of countries; the India, Brazil and South Africa group of countries; and to all forums in which we participate. It is the attitude of openness that we have adopted towards each of our partners in our region and beyond it.
South America is our immediate neighbour. For that reason, we have worked for a prosperous and democratic South America. We have worked for an increasing convergence of the integration processes in Latin America and the Caribbean. A significant example thereof are the present closer ties between the Southern Common Market and the Pacific Alliance. Together, the countries of these two different groups constitute a market of almost 470 million people, which accounts for over 90 per cent of Latin America’s gross domestic product.
Africa, in turn, is a continent with which we are associated by strong historical and cultural ties. Africa is a continent where we wish to have both increasing cooperation initiatives and partnerships for development. With regard to Europe, we have cultivated long-standing friendships and we have worked to boost trade and investment flows there. Likewise in Asia and the Pacific region — the most dynamic hub of the global economy — we have stepped up our relations with both traditional partners and with new ones. We have also opened up new trade fronts with Asia and the Pacific.
This has been our foreign policy — a truly universalist foreign policy. And the fact is that the General Assembly is the most universal of all forums we have and can count on. Here, we can all benefit from the broadest and most pluralistic array of perspectives. Here, we find the parameters and standards that govern respectful coexistence. And here our nations shall become more united, and aim at the ultimate development of our peoples, the dignity of our citizens and the security of our planet.

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
It is an honour for Brazil and it gives us great pleasure to officially open this general debate. I am pleased to greet the President of the General Assembly, María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, the first Latin American woman to hold that high office at the United Nations. Allow me to reiterate, Madam, my wishes for your every success, and rest assured that you can count on Brazil.
It is also particularly satisfying to greet Secretary- General António Guterres in our common language.
How many speakers have already come to this rostrum to call for the improvement of the international order that we have been building for decades? There have certainly been many, myself included. I believe we were and still are right to do so, and the words we spoke remain relevant.
However, if we truly  want to improve our international collective order, yet another task is required of us today: to defend the very integrity of that order. However imperfect it may be, the current order has nevertheless served  the  greater  interests  of humankind.
There are numerous challenges  to  the  integrity of the current international order. We live in times clouded by isolationist forces. Old intolerances are re-emerging. Unilateral relapses are increasingly becoming less the exception than the rule. Yet those challenges should not and cannot intimidate us. When it comes to isolationism, intolerance and unilateralism, we must respond to each of those tendencies with the very best that our peoples have.
Brazil has been responding to the first of those tendencies — isolationism — with more  openness  and more integration. Brazil is keenly aware that our common development ultimately depends on more international trade and investment flows. It depends on increased contact with new ideas and with new technologies. We will build prosperity that can be effectively shared only by opening ourselves to others, rather than by withdrawing into introspection and isolation.
That is how Brazil has acted. We have implemented a universalist foreign policy. We have worked to deepen integration mechanisms in our geographic region. Within the South American Common Market, for example, we have reaffirmed the group’s democratic calling, brought trade barriers down and entered into new agreements. We have been pushing for strengthened ties with the countries forming the Pacific Alliance so
 
as to seek an increasingly united Latin America, as enshrined in our Constitution.
We have also revitalized and initiated trade negotiations with partners in all regions, such as the European Union, the European Free Trade Association, Canada, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Lebanon, Morocco and Tunisia. Through these and other initiatives, we continue to strengthen our relationships with the Americas as a whole, as well as with Europe, Asia and Africa.
Brazil’s participation in  cooperation  forums, such as the G-20, the BRICS group of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, and  the  Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, has  been especially productive. In those forums we have worked to produce tangible results that have a direct impact  on the daily life of our societies. It is with openness and integration that we approach a better future for  all. Isolation may provide a false sense of security. Protectionism may sound seductive. But it is with openness and integration that we achieve harmony, growth and progress.
Turning to the challenge posed by intolerance, Brazil has responded decisively with dialogue and solidarity, which inspire us, at every moment, to honour the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The implementation of that document, created almost 70 years ago, is an imperative that requires permanent attention and action. Much has already been done for the sake of human rights by Governments, institutions and individuals. One such remarkable individual was Sérgio Vieira de Mello, a  Brazilian national to whom I wish to pay tribute as we remember the fifteenth anniversary of his tragic death.
We must nonetheless acknowledge that violations of international norms protecting individuals and their dignity persist worldwide. In Latin America, Brazil has been working to uphold democracy and human rights. We will continue to do so with so many other countries in solidarity with brotherly peoples that have suffered so much.
Dialogue and solidarity also form the basis for the recently agreed global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. There are more than 250 million migrants in the world. These are men, women and children who, threatened by protracted crises, are faced with the hard and risky choice of leaving their homelands. It is our duty to protect them, and that is the very purpose of the global compact on migration. It now falls on us to conclude the negotiations on the global compact on refugees.
In South America, a large-scale  migratory wave is under way. It is estimated that more than 1 million Venezuelans have left their country in search of better living conditions. Brazil has welcomed all those who have arrived in our territory. We have sought to provide assistance of all types to tens of thousands of migrants. In cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, we have built shelters to protect them as best as we can. We have sought to relocate them throughout the country. We have issued documents that enable them to work in Brazil. We have offered schooling for the children, and vaccination and health services for all. But we know  that this crisis can be resolved only when our neighbour, Venezuela, rediscovers the path of development.
Brazil has a proud tradition of welcoming foreigners. As a people, we have been forged through diversity. There is a piece of the world in every Brazilian. Faithful to that tradition, last year we passed a new migration law — a modern piece of legislation that not only protects the immigrant’s dignity but also recognizes the benefits of immigration. We in Brazil have expanded rights and have streamlined the entry and residence process.
Dialogue and solidarity are antidotes to intolerance, and they are the foundation for a lasting peace. That has been the cornerstone of the Brazilian position regarding the various crises in the Middle East. As it joins the celebrations of the seventieth anniversary of the creation of Israel, Brazil renews its support for the two-State solution — Israel and Palestine living side by side in peace and security.
We also support international efforts to bring the conflict in Syria to a long overdue end. We have sought to help alleviate the great suffering there. In 2017 alone, for example, Brazil donated approximately one ton of medicines and vaccines for children affected by the conflict. We have also welcomed a considerable number of Syrian refugees.
On the Korean peninsula, dialogue and solidarity represent the cornerstone of our position. We reiterate our support for diplomatic solutions leading to denuclearization and peace.
 
It is through dialogue and solidarity that we will overcome intolerance and build peace. As expressed by Nelson Mandela, whose centenary we commemorate this year, it is our duty to strive towards “a world of tolerance and respect for difference”, and to show an unwavering “commitment to peaceful solutions of conflicts and disputes”.
Lastly, the challenge of unilateralism must be met with more diplomacy and more multilateralism. We do so firmly convinced that collective problems demand coordinated solutions. That is noblest meaning of the United Nations — a house for mutual understanding.
We must strengthen the Organization. We must make it more legitimate and effective. We need important reforms — among them the reform of the Security Council, whose current configuration reflects a world that no longer exists. Finally, we  must reinvigorate  the values of diplomacy and multilateralism. We have shown time and again what we are capable of together when those values guide our actions, such as when we took a historic step last year in concluding the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. I had the honour of being the first Head of State to sign it.
That is also how, over the course of decades, we built a robust multilateral trade system with increasingly comprehensive rules and a credible and effective dispute-settlement mechanism. Those are shared historic achievements, which we must honour and broaden by eliminating the many distortions in agricultural trade, which primarily affect developing countries.
Diplomacy and multilateralism provide us with effective solutions well beyond disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation and international trade.  The  same is true in many other areas, such as sustainable development,   which   is   crucial   for    the    future of humankind.
I note that in recent years alone, we adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement. Those are true milestones that put us on the path of economic development with social justice and respect for the environment. Brazil’s early commitment to sustainable development remains unwavering. There is no shortage of examples.
We are fully committed to the shift towards a low-carbon international economy. Over 40  per cent of Brazil’s energy portfolio is clean and renewable. It is one of the most sustainable in the world. We have also stepped up efforts to reduce deforestation. Long- term trends are encouraging. Today, in the Brazilian Amazon region, deforestation rates are 75 per cent lower than in 2004. Over the past two years, we have created and expanded environmental protection areas in Brazil, which are now more than four times the size of Norway.
The protection of the oceans is another cause that is dear to us. During the World Water Forum, which we hosted in Brasilia earlier this year, we established protected areas in Brazilian waters as vast as Germany and France combined. In two years, we have doubled the size of protected areas in Brazil.
Diplomacy and multilateralism are also decisive instruments for global security, as demonstrated by United Nations peacekeeping missions, in which Brazil is proud to play a major role. And make no mistake, they are also decisive instruments for defeating terrorism and fighting transnational crime. Trafficking in persons, arms and drugs, money laundering, and sexual exploitation are crimes that know no borders. They are scourges that corrode our societies and can be effectively tackled only through concerted policies and actions.
That is what we have done in our region. In Brasilia, we hosted the first ministerial meeting of South American countries on border security. Since then, we have stepped up cooperation with our neighbours in combating transnational crime. We must remain united in the collective task of building a world where peace, development and human rights prevail. Absolutely nothing will be achieved alone. We will achieve nothing without diplomacy and multilateralism.
This is the last time that I will have the privilege of representing my country in the general debate at the General Assembly as the President of  the Republic. In two weeks, the Brazilian people will go to  the polls. They will choose their political leaders in both the executive and the legislative branches, who will govern Brazil starting in 2019, as enshrined in our Constitution. That is what has been done for almost 30 year, and that is how it must always be. After all, we are Government officials chosen by the people because all power comes from the people, and the President holds the power only for a  fixed period. The transfer of power is the very essence of democracy. Ours is a vibrant democracy anchored by solid institutions. As
 
I turn over the presidency to my successor, I will have the peace of mind of having fulfilled my duties.
Today, in Brazil, we can look back and realize how much we have accomplished in such a short term of office. We rejected populism, and we overcame the worst recession in our history, with severe consequences for society, especially for the poor. We managed public finances responsibly and restored our economic credibility. We are growing and creating jobs again. Social programmes once threatened by uncontrolled spending have been rescued and expanded. We put Brazil back on the path of development.
The country that I will hand over to whomever the Brazilian people elect will be better than the one   I received. Much remains to be done, but we are back on track. It is time to move ahead. The incoming Administration and National Congress will find a solid foundation upon which a more prosperous and just country can continue to be built.
The members of the General Assembly know that Brazil will always be a steady ally for cooperation among nations. In the face of isolationism, Brazil responds with more openness and integration. In the face of intolerance, it responds with increased dialogue and solidarity. And, in the face of unilateralism, it responds with more diplomacy and multilateralism.
In the words of the late Kofi Annan:
“Our mission is to confront ignorance with knowledge, bigotry with tolerance, and isolation with the outstretched hand of generosity”.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
First of all, I thank God for my life, for the mission of presiding over Brazil and for the opportunity to re-establish truth, which is a good thing for all of us.
I come before the General Assembly today to introduce a new Brazil, a country that is re-emerging from the brink of socialism — a country being rebuilt on the basis of the yearnings and ideals of its people. Under my Administration, Brazil has been working to regain the world’s trust and reduce unemployment, violence and the risk for business activities by streamlining bureaucracy, pursuing deregulation and, above all, leading by example.
My country came very close to socialism, which led to a situation of widespread corruption, serious economic recession, high crime rates and endless attacks on the family and religious values that underpin our traditions. In 2013, an agreement between the former Workers Party Government and the Cuban dictatorship brought to Brazil 10,000 physicians who had no evidence of professional training. They were prevented from bringing their spouses and children, had 75 per cent of their wages confiscated by the Cuban regime and were denied basic freedoms, such as that of coming and going. Their situation was tantamount to slave labour — believe me — and it was supported by human rights entities of both Brazil and the United Nations alike.
Before I took office, almost 90 per cent of those Cuban citizens left Brazil due to unilateral action by the Cuban regime. Those who decided to stay in Brazil will be subject to proper technical eligibility criteria in order to exercise the medical profession. Brazil has thus stopped supporting the Cuban dictatorship by no longer sending $300 million to Havana every year, as was the case previously.
History taught us that, as early as the 1960s, Cuban agents were sent to several countries to help establish dictatorships across the region. A few decades ago they tried to change the Brazilian regime and the systems in place in other Latin American countries. They were defeated. Brazilian civilians and military personnel were killed and many others had their reputations utterly destroyed. Nonetheless, we ultimately won the war and prevailed in safeguarding our freedom.
Agents of the Cuban regime made their way likewise into Venezuela thanks to Hugo Chavez. Today around 60,000 Cuban agents control and interfere with every area of Venezuelan society, especially intelligence and defence. Once a vibrant democratic country, Venezuela is today experiencing the cruelty of socialism. It is fair to say that, yes, socialism is working in Venezuela: everyone is poor and deprived of freedom.
Brazil has also felt the impact of the Venezuelan dictatorship. Of the more than 4 million citizens who fled the hunger and violence in Venezuela, a sizeable proportion migrated to Brazil. We have done our part to assist them, through Operation Welcome — an operation conducted by the Brazilian army that has earned praise worldwide.
We have also worked with other countries, including the United States of America, to ensure that democracy is restored in Venezuela. We have devoted concerted efforts to ensure that no other South American country will experience this nefarious scourge. The Sao Paulo Forum, a criminal organization established in 1990 by Fidel Castro, Lula da Silva and Hugo Chavez to spread and implement socialism throughout Latin America, remains alive and must be fought.
In the quest for prosperity, we have put in place policies to bring us closer to other countries that have achieved development and consolidated their democracy. There can be no political freedom without economic freedom, and vice versa. A free market, concession projects and privatization opportunities are already a visible part of today’s Brazil. The Brazilian economy is recovering from the distortions and chains of more than two decades of fiscal irresponsibility, ideological manipulation of the State apparatus and widespread corruption. Economic openness, capable governmental management and enhanced productivity are immediate goals for our Administration. We are opening up our economy and becoming an integral part of global value chains. In only eight months, we have successfully concluded the two most significant trade agreements in the history of my country: between the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR) and the European Union; and between MERCOSUR and the European Free Trade Association. We will enter into further such agreements in the months ahead.
We also stand ready to begin the process of accession to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. We are well on our way in that effort, having adopted the world’s highest standards and best practices in all areas, ranging from financial regulation to environmental protection.
I note the presence here of indigenous leader and spokesperson Ms. Ysani Kalapalo. I shall now turn to the Amazon.
First of all, I wish to say that my Administration is solemnly committed to environmental preservation and sustainable development, to the benefit of Brazil and the world at large. Brazil is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of biodiversity and mineral resources. Our Amazon region is larger than all of Western Europe combined and remains virtually pristine and untouched. That is evidence of the fact that Brazil is a leader when it comes to environmental protection.
At this time of the year, dry weather and winds favour both spontaneous forest fires and criminal blazes. It is important to note that indigenous peoples and local populations also use forest fires as part of their culture and means of livelihood.
We all know that all countries have problems. However, the sensationalist attacks we suffered from much of the international media following the outbreak of fires in Amazonia stirred our patriotic sentiment. It is a fallacy to say that the Amazon is the heritage of humankind, and a misconception, scientists confirm, to say that our Amazonian forests are the lungs of the world. In resorting to those fallacies, certain countries, instead of helping, have amplified media lies, behaved disrespectfully and shown their true colonialist colours. They have even called into questioned that which we hold most dear: our sovereignty.
One of those countries, during the most recent Group of Seven meeting, dared to suggest imposing sanctions against Brazil without even consulting with or listening to Brazil. I am grateful to those countries that refused to proceed with that absurd proposal. I thank President Donald Trump in particular, who very aptly summarized the spirit that should prevail among States Members of the United Nations, that is, respect for the national sovereignty and freedom of each of us.
Today 14 per cent of Brazilian territory is officially demarcated as indigenous land, but we must understand that our native peoples are human beings like all the rest of us. They want and deserve to enjoy the same rights as all of us. I want to make it clear: Brazil will not increase the area officially demarcated as indigenous lands to 20 per cent, as some Heads of State would like to see.
There are 225 different indigenous peoples in Brazil, in addition to about 70 tribes living in isolated locations throughout the country. Each people or tribe has its own chief, culture, traditions, customs and, above all, its own way of seeing the world. The views of one indigenous leader do not represent those of the entire Brazilian indigenous population. Some of those leaders, such as tribal chief Raoni, have often been used as pawns by foreign Governments as part of their information warfare to advance their interests in the Amazon. Unfortunately, some people, both inside and outside Brazil, with the support of non-governmental organizations, have stubbornly insisted on treating our indigenous peoples as cavemen.
Brazil now has a President who cares about those who were on our territory before the Portuguese arrived in the 1500s. Indigenous people do not want to be poor landowners sitting on rich lands, some of which, such as the Yanomami and Raposa Serra do Sol reserves, are the richest lands in the world. Those reserves are home to vast deposits of gold, diamonds, uranium, niobium and rare earth elements, among other resources. And those territories are huge. The Yanomami reserve alone is approximately 95,000 square kilometres, the size of Portugal or Hungary, although only 15,000 indigenous persons live there. That shows clearly that those who attack us are not concerned with indigenous peoples as human beings, but, rather, with the mineral wealth and biodiversity in those areas.
As evidence of the fact that there is no single authority among the indigenous peoples, I wish to read out an open letter by, and representing a substantial portion of, the indigenous communities in Brazil, addressed to the General Assembly.
“The Indigenous Farmers Group of Brazil, composed of various ethnic groups with representatives in all states of the Brazilian Federation, who inhabit an area of over 30 million hectares of the Brazilian territory, respectfully addresses Brazilian society to express is full, unconditional support for indigenous spokesperson and representative Ysani Kalapalo, of the Xingu indigenous park in the state of Mato Grosso, so that she may explain to the United Nations General Assembly, in New York, the reality of the indigenous peoples of Brazil, as well as shed light on the lies disseminated by the national and international media, which insist on keeping the indigenous peoples of Brazil as an endless market reserve, serving the interests of foreign countries that still see Brazil as a colony without rules or sovereignty.
“Fourteen per cent of Brazil’s national territory has been officially established as indigenous land, and many communities are thirsty and eager for the development of this part of the country to finally take place, without ideological constraints, which will, in turn, improve quality of life and the standard of entrepreneurship, health care and education. A new indigenous policy in Brazil is needed. Time is of the essence. Bold measures can and should be encouraged in the pursuit of autonomy and economic empowerment for indigenous peoples. Certainly, if a series of decisions is taken to that effect, we can envision a new model for the Brazilian indigenous agenda.
“A new chapter of hope is needed for indigenous communities. The situation of extreme poverty in which we find ourselves, surviving only on the family stipend and basic food supply, has never brought dignity or development. Radical environmentalism and outdated approaches to indigenous issues are out of sync with what indigenous peoples truly want and are tantamount to backwardness, marginalization and utter absence of civic rights.
“That reality requires world leaders attending the United Nations General Assembly to become familiar with our wishes and aspirations through the voice of indigenous spokesperson Ysani Kalapalo, who will convey the real situation of Brazilian indigenous communities and the environment. Therefore, Ysani Kalapalo enjoys the trust and prestige of indigenous leaders interested in furthering development and empowerment and in attaining a higher profile and greater role and voice, and is in a position to represent the 52 ethnic groups listed in the annex to this letter. The monopoly of tribal chief Raoni is over.”
The United Nations has played a key role in overcoming colonialism and cannot possibly accept that this type of mindset be allowed to return to its halls and corridors under any pretext.
We must not forget that the world needs to be fed. France and Germany, for example, use more than 50 per cent of their territories for agriculture. By contrast, Brazil uses no more than 8 per cent of its land for food production; 61 per cent of our territory is preserved. Ours is a zero-tolerance policy for crime, including environmental crimes. I wish once again to affirm my stance in that regard. Any initiative to help or support the preservation of the Amazon rainforest, or other biomes, must fully respect the sovereignty of Brazil. Moreover, we reject attempts to exploit and instrumentalize environmental issues or indigenous policy in order to further foreign political and economic interests, especially attempts disguised as good intentions. We stand ready to work in partnership to exploit our resources with a view to developing all of our potential in a sustainable manner.
Brazil reaffirms its unwavering commitment to the highest standards of human rights and to the promotion of democracy and freedom, including the freedoms of expression, religion and the press. That commitment goes hand in hand with our efforts to fight corruption and crime — an urgent demand of Brazilian society. We will continue to contribute, in and outside the United Nations, to building a world free from impunity, with no safe havens for criminals or corrupt individuals. Under my Administration, Italian terrorist Cesare Battisti fled Brazil and was later arrested in Bolivia and extradited to Italy. Three other terrorists from Paraguay and one from Chile, who until recently lived in Brazil as political refugees, have also been repatriated to their countries of origin. Terrorists, under the guise of politically persecuted persons, will no longer find refuge in Brazil.
Not long ago, socialist Presidents who came before me embezzled hundreds of billions of dollars to buy off part of the media and our Parliament, all in a bid to attain absolute power. They have been tried and punished thanks to the patriotism, perseverance and bravery of a judge who has become an icon in my country, Mr. Sergio Moro, our current Minister of Justice and Public Security. Those Presidents also transferred a considerable amount of funds to third countries with the aim of promoting and realizing similar power-grabbing objectives throughout the region. That source of funds has now dried up. The same top-ranking Government officials came here, year after year, and made blithe statements about issues that never served Brazil’s real interests or contributed to world stability. Still, they were all applauded.
In my country, we had to do something about the nearly 70,000 murders and countless violent crimes that tore apart Brazilian society each year. Life, after all, is the most basic human right. Our military police officers were the preferred target of crime. In 2017 alone, around 400 military police officers were brutally murdered.
That is changing. Measures were taken and we managed to reduce murder rates by more than 20 per cent in the first six months of my Government. The seizure of cocaine and other drugs has reached a record high. Today Brazil is safer and even more welcoming. We have just extended visa exemptions to countries such as the United States, Japan, Australia and Canada. We are currently considering the adoption of similar measures for China and India, among others. With greater safety and ease, we want everyone to be able to visit Brazil, particularly our Amazon rainforest, with all its vastness and natural beauty. The Amazon is not being destroyed or consumed by fire, as the media misleadingly says. Each Member State can verify what I am saying. Do not hesitate to visit Brazil. It is very different to the country portrayed in many newspapers and television programmes.
Religious persecution is a scourge against which we must tirelessly fight. In recent years, in various regions we have witnessed cowardly attacks that victimized the faithful gathered in churches, synagogues and mosques. Brazil strongly condemns all such acts. It is ready to cooperate with other countries to protect those who are oppressed because of their faith.
The Brazilian people are particularly concerned about the growing persecution, discrimination and violence against missionaries and religious minorities in different regions of the world. That is why we supported the establishment of the International Day Commemorating the Victims of Acts of Violence Based on Religion or Belief. On that day every year we will remember those who have suffered the harmful consequences of religious persecution. It is unacceptable that in the twenty-first century, with so many instruments, treaties and organizations whose aim is to safeguard all kinds of rights, there are still millions of Christians and people of other religions that lose their lives or their freedom because of their faith.
Brazil’s devotion to the cause of peace is evidenced by its strong history of contributing to United Nations missions. For 70 years, Brazil has effectively contributed to United Nations peacekeeping operations. We support all efforts to make peacekeeping missions more effective, bringing real and tangible contributions to the host countries.
In diverse contexts, whether in Haiti, Lebanon or the Democratic Republic of Congo, our troops are acknowledged for their outstanding work and their respect for local communities, human rights and the principles that guide peacekeeping operations. I reaffirm our willingness to continue our tangible contributions to United Nations peacekeeping missions, including through training and capacity-building, areas where we have recognized experience.
Throughout this year, we have established a broad international agenda to restore Brazil’s role on the world stage, as well as to re-establish relations with key partners. In January, we were in Davos, where we presented our ambitious reform programme for investors from all around the world. In March, we went to Washington, D.C., where we launched a comprehensive and bold partnership with the Government of the United States in all areas, particularly political cooperation and economic and military collaboration. Also in March, we visited Chile, where the Forum for the Progress and Development of South America was launched, an important initiative to ensure that South America is consolidated as an area of democracy and freedom.
We then visited Israel, where we identified numerous opportunities for cooperation, especially in the area of technology and security. I thank Israel for its support in combating recent disasters in my country.
We also visited one of our major partners in the Southern Cone: Argentina. With President Mauricio Macri and our partners from Uruguay and Paraguay, we have moved away from the ideology of the Common Market of the Southern Cone and achieved important trade advantages in terms of international trade by concluding negotiations that had been ongoing for decades.
Later this year, we will visit key partners, both in the Middle East and in East Asia. Those visits will strengthen friendship and deepen relations with Japan, China, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. We hope to follow the same path with the entire Arab world and Asia. We are also looking forward to visiting our partners and friends in Africa, Oceania and Europe.
As can be seen, Brazil is open to the world and eager to establish partnerships with all those interested in working for prosperity, peace and freedom.
The Brazil that I represent is a country that is recovering and rising again, reinforcing its partnerships and regaining its political and economic confidence. We are ready to take on our responsibilities in the international system.
Over the past few decades, without realizing we let ourselves be seduced by ideologies that sought not the truth but absolute power. Ideology has taken root in the areas of culture, education and the media, dominating means of communication, universities and schools. Ideology has invaded our homes and sought to dismantle the cellular mater — mainstay — of any healthy society: the family.
It has also tried to destroy the innocence of our children, distorting even their most basic and elementary identity: biology itself. Political correctness came to dominate the public debate, expelling rationality and replacing it with manipulation, recurring cliches and slogans. Ideology has invaded the human soul itself to expel from it God and the dignity with which He has endowed us.
With such methods, ideology has always left a trail of death, ignorance and misery wherever it went. I am a living proof of that. I was cowardly stabbed by a leftist militant and survived only by a miracle. Once again, I thank God for my life.
The United Nations can help to overcome the materialistic and ideological environment that undermines some basic principles of human dignity. The Organization was established to promote peace among sovereign nations and social progress in freedom, in accordance with the Preamble of the Charter of the United Nations.
With regard to issues such as climate, democracy, human rights, equal rights and duties of men and women and many others, all we need to do is to behold the truth: “And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.” (The Holy Bible, John 8:32)
All our means, both national and international, should ultimately be directed towards that goal.
We are not here to erase nationalities and sovereignties in the name of an abstract global interest. This is not the global interests organization; this is the United Nations Organization, and so it must remain. With humility and confidence in the liberating power of truth, I reassure the United Nations that it can count on the new Brazil that I have presented to the Assembly today. By the grace and glory of God, I thank everyone.


===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
Mr. President of the United Nations General Assembly, Volkan Bozkir,
Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, whom I am pleased to greet in our mother tongue, Heads of State, Government and Delegation,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is an honor to open this Assembly together with representatives of sovereign nations, at a point in time when the world needs the truth to overcome its challenges.
COVID-19 has become the center of attention over the course of this year and, first of all, I wish to express my sorrow for each and every life lost.
From the very beginning, in my country, I warned that we had two problems to solve, the virus and joblessness, and that both issues had to be addressed simultaneously and with the same sense of responsibility.
As determined by court ruling in Brazil, all measures involving social distancing and restrictions of movement were delegated to each of the 27 Governors in the Federation. The President, in turn, was assigned the responsibility for sending out resources nationwide.
As was the case in much of the world, segments of the Brazilian media have also politicized the virus by spreading panic among the population. Under the mottoes “stay at home” and “we will deal with the economy later on”, they almost brought about social chaos to the country.
But our administration in a bold step put in place several economic measures that prevented a greater evil.
Emergency relief was granted in installments adding up to approximately $1,000 for 65 million people, the largest assistance program for the poorest in Brazil and perhaps one of the largest in the world.
More than $100 billion were allocated to cover health related actions and help small and micro enterprises; measures were also taken to offset the loss in revenue collection in state and local governments.
More than 200,000 indigenous families were assisted with foodstuffs and covid prevention efforts.
In close contact with healthcare professionals, we encouraged early treatment of the disease.
$400 million were dedicated to the research, development and production of the Oxford vaccine in Brazil. In Brazil, hospitals did not lack the means to cater to covid patients.
The pandemic teaches us a major lesson, which is that we cannot possibly depend on just a few nations for the production of essential inputs and means for our survival. The hydroxychloroquine input production alone had a 500 per cent price increase at the onset of the pandemic.
Brazil is thus open for the development of state-of-the-art technology and innovation efforts, such as 4.0 Industry, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology and 5G technology, with all partners who respect our sovereignty and cherish freedom and data protection.
In Brazil, despite the world crisis, agricultural production never stopped. Farmers have worked harder than ever, producing food to feed over 1 billion people.
Brazil has indeed helped to continuously feed the world. Our truck drivers, maritime, port and aviation workers have kept the entire logistics chain fully active and ensured distribution domestically and into the export markets.
Our agribusiness remains vibrant and thriving and, above all, it has and respects the best environmental legislation on the planet.
Even so, we are victims of a most brutal disinformation campaign about the Amazon and the Brazilian wetlands.
The Brazilian Amazon is known to be immensely rich. That explains the support given by international institutions to this disinformation campaign anchored on shady interests coupled with exploitative and unpatriotic Brazilian associations with the purpose of undermining the Government and Brazil itself.
We are leaders when it comes to the conservation of tropical rainforests. We have the world’s cleanest and most diversified energy mix.
Even as one of the world’s ten largest economies, we account for only 3 per cent of carbon emissions worldwide.
We provide food security to one sixth of the world’s population, even while preserving 66 per cent of our native vegetation and using only 27 per cent of our territory for animal husbandry and agriculture. These are figures that no other country has.
Brazil stands out as the world’s largest producer of foodstuffs. And for that reason there is such a strong interest in spreading out disinformation about our environment.
We are open to the world to offer our very best, i.e., our agricultural products. We have never exported so much. The world increasingly relies on Brazil to feed itself.
Ours is a tropical rainforest and as such it does not allow fire to be spread out within it. Fire outbreaks tend to occur virtually at the same places, in the eastern surroundings of the forest, where Brazilians of indigenous ancestry burn their farmlands in search of livelihood in already cleared areas.
Criminal fire outbreaks are fought with stringency and determination. I stand by my zero tolerance policy towards environmental crime. Together with Congress, we have sought land regularization with a view to identify the perpetrators of these criminal acts.
May I call to mind that the Amazon Region is larger than the whole of Western Europe. Hence, the difficulty of fighting not only fire outbreaks, but also illegal logging and biopiracy. In response, we are currently expanding and enhancing the use of technology and improving inter-agency operations, which include the engagement of the Armed Forces.
Our wetlands, with an area larger than many European countries, just as California, faces the same problems. Large fires are the inevitable consequence of high local temperature coupled with the accumulation of decaying organic matter.
Our concern for the environment goes beyond our forests. Brazil’s National Marine Debris Program, one of the very first initiatives of this kind, has designed a strategy for our coastline, which spans over 8,500 km.
Accordingly, Brazil made every effort at the COP25 in Madrid to establish, under the provisions of the Paris Agreement, an effective international carbon market. Unfortunately, however, the forces of protectionism prevailed.
In 2019, Brazil was the victim of a criminal seepage of Venezuelan oil, sold without proper control, which resulted in serious damage to the environment and major losses to the fishing and tourism industries.
Brazil deems it important to respect the freedom of navigation as established under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Accordingly, environmental protection rules must be respected and criminal acts investigated in a timely fashion, so as to ensure that criminal offenses such as that perpetrated against Brazil will not affect other countries.
Brazil stands out not only on the environmental preservation front, but also on the humanitarian and human rights agenda, an area where Brazil has become an international benchmark reference given our commitment and dedication in supporting Venezuelan refugees who reach Brazil through the border state of Roraima.
Operation Welcome, led by the Brazilian Ministry of Defense, has received almost 400,000 Venezuelans displaced as a result of the deep political and economic crisis bred by the Venezuelan dictatorship.
More than 4,000 Brazilian members of the military have taken part in the operation, which consists of a humanitarian logistical task force with a view to welcoming, sheltering and internalizing newly arrived families at the border.
As a founding member of the United Nations, Brazil is committed to the basic principles of the UN Charter: peace and international security, cooperation among nations, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. As the organization reaches its 75th anniversary, we now have the opportunity to renew our commitment and loyalty to these ideals.
Peace cannot possibly be dissociated from security. Cooperation among peoples cannot possibly be dissociated from freedom.
Brazil has enshrined the principles of peace, cooperation and the prevalence of human rights in its own Constitution, and has traditionally contributed to translate them into reality.
Brazil has by now taken part in more than 50 peacekeeping operations and related missions and has, as such, contributed with more than 55,000 members of the military, police officers and civilians, with remarkable involvement in the Suez Canal, Angola, East Timor, Haiti, Lebanon and the Congo.
Two Brazilian female members of the military were acknowledged by the United Nations for their work against sexual violence as part of the UN Mission in the Central African Republic.
We remain committed to completing the trade agreements signed between Mercosur and the European Union as well as the European Free Trade Association. These agreements contain important provisions that reinforce our commitment to environmental protection.
Under my administration, Brazil finally puts behind a protectionist tradition and has now adopted trade liberalization as a key tool for growth and transformation.
I reaffirm our commitment to the reform of the World Trade Organization, which must provide us with the relevant disciplines in line with the new international realities.
We are also approaching the official process for Brazil’s accession to the OECD. To that end, we have already put in place the world’s highest standards in all areas, to include financial regulation, digital security and environmental protection.
In my first year in office, we have successfully carried out the pension reform and, more recently, we submitted two new reform bills to Congress, to include the tax system and the administrative reform of the state apparatus.
New regulatory frameworks in key sectors, such as sanitation and natural gas, are also being put in place. They will attract more investments, provide economic stimulus and create jobs and income.
In 2019, Brazil was the world’s fourth largest destination of foreign direct investment and, in the first half of 2020, despite the pandemic, we have seen an increase in the inflow of investments as compared to the same period of last year. This is a clear-cut evidence of the world’s confidence in our government. In coordination with South Atlantic partners, Brazil has been working to reinvigorate the South Atlantic Peace and Cooperation Zone.
Brazil is concerned with and repudiates terrorism in all parts of the world.
In Latin America, we continue to strive for the preservation and promotion of democracy as a cornerstone of the economic progress we all desire.
Liberty is humankind’s greatest asset.
I call upon the entire international community to protect religious freedom and fight against Christophobia. I also wish to reaffirm my solidarity and support for the people of Lebanon in the wake of the recent hardships they have endured.
We believe that the time is right for us to open up new and more optimistic horizons for the future of the Middle East. The peace agreements between Israel and the United Arab Emirates and between Israel and Bahrain — three friends of Brazil with which our government has greatly strengthened relations — are excellent news.
Brazil also welcomes the Plan for Peace and Prosperity launched by President Donald Trump, which features a promising vision to resume the path towards a much- desired solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict after more than seven decades of efforts.
Brazil’s new policy of simultaneously pursuing closer relations with Israel and the Arab countries is very much in line with those initiatives, which finally shine a light of hope for that region.
Brazil is a Christian and conservative country, and has family as its foundation.
May God bless us all.
Thank you very much.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
It is an honour to once again open the General Assembly.
I come here to show a Brazil that is different from the one portrayed in newspapers or television. Brazil has changed a great deal since we took office in January 2019.
Brazil has not had a single case of corruption in the past two years and eight months. My country has a President who believes in God, respects the Constitution, values family principles and is loyal to its people. This is a lot; it is a solid foundation, considering that we were on the brink of socialism.
Our State-owned enterprises used to incur losses in the billions of dollars, and are now profitable. Our National Development Bank was used as a conduit to finance public works in communist countries, with no collateral guarantees. It is the Brazilian people themselves who bore the brunt of those commitments and costs.
All of that has changed. I now present to the General Assembly a new Brazil, whose credibility has already been restored worldwide. My country currently has the largest public-private investment partnership programme in its history. This programme is already in place and being fully implemented. So far, we have collected $100 billion in new investment contracts and $23 billion in concession projects.
In the infrastructure sector, we auctioned 34 airports and 29 port terminals to the private sector. We already have more than $6 billion in private contracts for new railroads. We also introduced a railway permit system, which brings our model closer to that of the United States. In just a few days, we received 14 applications for permits for new railroads, amounting to nearly $15 billion in private investments.
Under our Administration, we have promoted the revitalization of the railway transportation system. As a result, there is less fossil fuel consumption and a decrease in operational costs associated with doing business in Brazil, especially in connection with food production.
Great progress has been made in the field of basic sanitation. The largest auction in this sector’s history took place in April, with concession projects granted for water distribution and sewage services in Rio de Janeiro.
We have everything that investors are looking for: a large consumer market, excellent assets, a solid tradition of honouring contracts and confidence in our Government.
I also wish to announce that in the next few days, we will be holding an auction for the deployment of 5G technology in Brazil. Our modern, sustainable low- carbon agriculture currently feeds more than 1 billion people around the world while occupying only 8 per cent of our national territory.
No other country in the world has environmental legislation as comprehensive as ours. Our Forest Code sets an example for other countries to follow. Brazil is a country that is as vast as a continent, and it has great environmental challenges. It encompasses 8.5 million square kilometres, 66 per cent of which remains pristine and continues to have the same native vegetation it did in the early 1500s, when the country was discovered.
In the Amazon biome alone, 84 per cent of the forest is untouched and is home the greatest biodiversity on the planet. I note that the Amazon region covers an area equivalent to that of all Western Europe.
We moved up the target date, from 2060 to 2050, for attaining the goal of climate neutrality — net zero. Human and financial resources aimed at bolstering environmental agencies were doubled, with a view to fully eliminating illegal deforestation.
The results of this important initiative are already visible. In the Amazon region, we have seen a 32 per cent drop in deforestation in August compared to August of last year. What other country in the world has an environmental preservation policy like ours? All are invited to come and visit our Amazon.
Brazil today is already setting an example in energy generation, with 83 per cent of our energy coming from renewable sources. At the upcoming twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we will pursue consensus on rules governing a global carbon credit market. We hope that industrialized countries will indeed fulfil their climate financing commitments in substantial amounts.
The future of green jobs lies in Brazil, in renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, low-carbon industries, basic sanitation, waste management and tourism.
We have ratified the Inter-American Convention against Racism, Racial Discrimination and Related Forms of Intolerance.
We believe that the traditional nuclear family is the very foundation of civilization and that the freedom of human being is made complete only with the freedom to worship and freedom of expression.
Fourteen per cent of Brazil’s territory, which represents over 110 million hectares — an area equivalent to Germany and France combined — is devoted to indigenous reserves. Those areas are home to 600,000 indigenous people, who live there in freedom and increasingly wish to use their lands for agriculture and other activities.
Brazil has always participated in United Nations peacekeeping operations, from the Suez to the Congo and from Haiti to Lebanon.
My country has always welcomed refugees. At our border with neighbouring Venezuela, Operation Welcome, conducted by the Federal Government, has already received and welcomed 400,000 Venezuelan citizens who were displaced due to the severe political and economic crisis bred by the dictatorship’s regime.
The future of Afghanistan also gives us cause for great concern. We will grant humanitarian visas to Afghan Christians, women, children and judges.
As we commemorate the twentieth anniversary of the attacks against the United States of America on 11 September 2001, we reiterate our condemnation of terrorism in all its forms.
In 2022, Brazil will once again hold a seat on the United Nations Security Council. I wish to thank the 181 countries out of a total of 190 that trusted Brazil in that regard. It is the visible result of a serious and responsible foreign policy led by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We support the reform of the Security Council, where we seek a permanent seat.
The pandemic caught us all by surprise in 2020. We sincerely regret every death in Brazil and across the world. I have always advocated for fighting against both the virus and unemployment, at the same time and with the same sense of responsibility.
Isolation and lockdown measures left behind a legacy of inflation, particularly in relation to food prices, all over the world. In Brazil, in order to cater to those in need, forced to stay at home due to decisions taken
by governors and mayors and who lost their sources of income, we granted emergency relief compensation in the amount of $800 to 68 million people in 2020.
I wish to recall that we ended 2020, the year of the pandemic, with more formal jobs than was the case back in December 2019 thanks to the initiatives led by our Government, for example, programmes to ensure working conditions and income support, which have cost us nearly $40 billion. In the first seven months of this year alone, we created nearly 1.8 million new jobs. I also wish to recall that our growth rate forecast for 2021 is estimated at five per cent.
Thus far, the Federal Government has distributed more than 260 million doses of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) vaccines. More than 140 million Brazilian citizens have received at least the first shot, which accounts for almost 90 per cent of the adult population. Eighty per cent of the indigenous population has already been fully inoculated against COVID-19. By November this year, all citizens who choose to be vaccinated in Brazil will be duly covered. We support vaccination efforts; however, my Administration has not supported a vaccine or health passport or any other vaccine-related obligation.
Since the pandemic started, we have supported doctors’ professional autonomy in the quest for early treatment measures, in line with the recommendations issued by the Brazilian Federal Council of Medicine. I myself underwent early treatment for COVID-19. Of course, we respect the confidentiality of the doctor- patient relationship with regard to decisions on the proper medication to be used, as well as the potential for off-label use. We cannot understand why many countries, along with a large portion of the media, took a stance against early treatment measures. History and science will certainly hold everyone accountable.
On 7 September, our national independence day, millions of Brazilians peacefully and patriotically took to the streets in the largest demonstration in our history to show that they will not give up on democracy or individual freedoms and to show their support for our Administration.
As I have outlined, Brazil is entering a new era. In terms of the economy, we are one of the best performers among emerging countries. My Administration has restored our foreign credibility and, today, Brazil is one of the best investment destinations in the world.
It is here at the General Assembly that we envision a world with greater freedom, democracy, prosperity and peace. May God bless us all.


===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
I would like to greet the Secretary-General, whom I have the renewed pleasure of addressing in our common language.
I begin by congratulating you, Ambassador Csaba Korosi, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its seventy-seventh session. You can count on the support of Brazil.
The theme chosen for this general debate revolves around a concept that perfectly applies to the moment we live in: a watershed. Our collective responsibility in the General Assembly is to understand the scope of the challenges that make up this watershed moment and, from there, to build responses that pull their strength from the objectives shared by us all. The task is not simple. But strictly speaking, we have no alternative. The effort must begin within each of our countries. First of all, it is what we do at the domestic level that gives the measure of the authority with which we act at the international level.
Allow me to speak from my country’s perspective. When Brazil expresses its positions on the public health agenda, we do so with the authority of a Government that, during the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, spared no effort to save lives and preserve jobs. Like many other countries, we focused our attention from the very beginning on ensuring emergency financial assistance to those most in need. Our goal was to protect families’ income so that they could face the economic hardships resulting from the pandemic. We helped more than 68 million people, the equivalent of one third of our population. In tandem, we launched a broad vaccination programme, including the domestic production of vaccines. We are a nation of more than 210 million people, and already more than 80 per cent of the population has been vaccinated against COVID-19. All were vaccinated voluntarily, in full respect of each person’s freedom of choice.
Likewise, economically Brazil has the authority of a country that, for the sake of sustainable and inclusive growth, has been implementing reforms to attract investment and improve the living conditions of its population.
During my Administration, we uprooted the systemic corruption that existed in the country. Between 2003 and 2015 alone, the period in which the left presided in Brazil, the debt level of Petrobras due to poor management, politically driven appointments and favours, as well as the diversion of funds, reached $170 billion. The person responsible was convicted unanimously in three court cases. Whistle-blowers returned $1 billion, and we paid the United States stock market another $1 billion due to losses incurred by shareholders. But that is the Brazil of the past.
We upgraded public services by reducing costs and investing in science and technology. Nowadays, for instance, Brazil is the seventh most digitally advanced country in the world, with 135 million people accessing 4,900 services provided by my Administration. Brazil was a pioneer in the deployment of 5G in Latin America.
We implemented a comprehensive agenda of privatizations and concessions, with an emphasis on infrastructure. We have concluded the Transfer of the Sao Francisco River project, bringing water to the Brazilian north-east. We adopted new regulatory frameworks, such as in basic sanitation, railroads and natural gas. Moreover, we improved the business environment, with the economic freedom law and the start-up law. As a result, we created opportunities for young people to be entrepreneurs and have quality jobs. Crowning all those efforts to modernize the Brazilian economy, we are making great strides towards Brazil’s entry as a full member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Despite the global crisis, Brazil is reaching the end of 2022 with an economy in full recovery. We have high employment and a low inflation rate. The economy is growing again. Poverty increased across the world as a result of the pandemic. In Brazil, it has already begun to fall sharply.
The figures speak for themselves. It is estimated that, by the end of 2022, 4 per cent of Brazilian families will be living below the extreme poverty line. In 2019, it was 5.1 per cent. That represents a drop of more than 20 per cent. Auxilio Brasil, the minimum-income programme established by my Administration during the pandemic, which reaches 20 million families, pays them almost $4 a day.
Unemployment fell by 5 percentage points, reaching 9 per cent — a rate not seen for seven years. We reduced inflation to an estimated 6 per cent this year. I am pleased to announce that we had unprecedented deflation in Brazil in the months of July and August. Since June, the price of gasoline has dropped by more than 30 per cent. Today a litre of gasoline in Brazil costs about $0.90. The price of electricity also fell by more than 15 per cent. Let me stress that the cost of energy did not drop because of price-fixing or any other type of State intervention. It was the result of a tax-rationalization policy formulated and implemented with the support of the National Congress of Brazil.
In 2021, Brazil was the fourth-largest destination for foreign direct investment in the world. Our foreign trade reached the historic milestone of 39 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP), even after reducing taxes or lowering them to zero on thousands of products. Domestically, we are also breaking records in three areas — tax collection, State-owned company profits and the public debt-to-GDP ratio. In fact, in 2021 we had a surplus in the consolidated result of national accounts. Brazilian GDP increased by 1.2 per cent in the second quarter. The forecast for 2022 is 3 per cent growth.
We have the peace of mind of being on the right path — the path to prosperity shared among Brazilians
and, beyond that, with our neighbours and other partners around the world.
That is what we see, for example, in food production. Four decades ago, Brazil used to import food. Today we are one of the world’s largest exporters. That was only possible thanks to heavy investments in science and innovation, with a view to increasing productivity and sustainability. I pay tribute to Alysson Paolinelli, Brazilian candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize, for his role in expanding the Brazilian agricultural frontier through the use of new technologies. This year the country has already started the largest grain harvest in our history. We estimate it to be at least 270 million tons. In a few years, Brazil will also make the transition from importer to exporter of wheat.
For the period 2022 to 2023, total production is expected to exceed 300 million tons. On a recent visit to Brazil, the Director-General of the World Trade Organization stated that if it were not for Brazilian agribusiness, the planet would go hungry, as we feed more than 1 billion people worldwide. Our agribusiness is a source of national pride. I also note that, in the area of sustainable development, Brazil’s achievements lend credibility to our country’s international action.
With regard to the environment and sustainable development, Brazil is part of the solution and a reference for the world. Two thirds of Brazilian territory is host to native vegetation, which is exactly as it was when Brazil was discovered in 1500. In the Brazilian Amazon, an area equivalent to all of Western Europe, more than 80 per cent of the forest remains untouched, contrary to what is reported by the mainstream national and international media.
It is essential that, when taking care of the environment, we do not overlook people. The Amazon region is home to more than 20 million inhabitants, including indigenous and riverside dwellers, whose livelihoods depend on economic use of the forest. We brought the Internet to more than 11,000 rural schools and more than 500 indigenous communities.
Brazil began its energy transition almost half a century ago, in reaction to the oil crises at that time. Today we have a modern and sustainable biofuel industry. That industry contributes to the cleanest energy mix among the Group of 20 countries. About 84 per cent of our electricity matrix is currently renewable — a goal that many developed countries hope to achieve only by 2040 or 2050.
Last year, Brazil was chosen by the United Nations as the global champion of energy transition. We have the potential to become a major global exporter of clean energy. We have a surplus, already under construction, that can reach more than 100 gigawatts between biomass, onshore wind and solar, in addition to the unexplored opportunity of 700-gigawatt offshore wind farms, with one of the lowest production costs in the world. Those sources will produce green hydrogen for export. Part of this 100 per cent clean energy opens up the possibility for us to become suppliers of highly competitive industrial products, especially in the Brazilian north-east, with one of the smallest carbon footprints in the world.
The sustainable development agenda is impacted in many ways by threats to international peace and security. We built the United Nations from the ruins of the Second World War. What motivated us back then was the determination to avoid repeating the cycle of destruction that marked the first half of the twentieth century. To some extent, we can say that we were successful.
But today the conflict in Ukraine serves as a warning.
A reform of the United Nations is essential if we are to find world peace. In the specific case of the Security Council, after 25 years of debates, it is clear that we need to look for innovative solutions. Brazil delves into this topic based on experience that goes back to the beginnings of the United Nations. This is the eleventh time that we have held a non-permanent seat at the Council. We have tried to do our best to achieve peaceful and negotiated solutions to international conflicts, always led by the Charter of the United Nations and international law.
Brazil also has an extensive history of participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations. From Suez to Angola, from Haiti to Lebanon, we have always supported peacekeeping.
We also contributed to peace by opening our borders to those seeking a chance to restart their lives in our country. Since 2018, over 6 million Venezuelan brothers have been forced to leave their country. Many of them came to Brazil. Our response to that challenge was “Operation Welcome”, which has become an international benchmark. More than 350,000 Venezuelans have found in Brazilian territory emergency assistance, protection, documentation and
the possibility of a fresh start. All of them have access to the labour market, to public services and social benefits. In recent months, around 600 Venezuelans have been arriving in Brazil every day on foot, the vast majority of them being women and children weighing on average 15 kilos less than before and running away from violence and hunger.
The Brazilian humanitarian reception policy goes beyond Venezuela. We have also received Haitians, Syrians, Afghans and Ukrainians.
It has been seven months since the conflict began in Ukraine. It is a source of great concern — not only in Europe but throughout the world. I would like, first, to reiterate Brazil’s gratitude to the countries that helped with the evacuation of Brazilian citizens who were in Ukraine when the conflict started. I refer especially to Slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania and the Czech Republic. The operation was successful. We left no one behind, not even their pets.
With regard to the conflict itself, Brazil has been guided by the principles of international law and the United Nations Charter. Those principles are also enshrined in our Constitution. We call for an immediate ceasefire, the protection of civilians and non-combatants, the preservation of critical infrastructure in order to assist the population and the maintenance of all channels of dialogue between the parties in conflict. Those are the first steps to achieving a lasting and sustainable solution. We have been working towards that goal. At the United Nations and elsewhere, we have tried to avoid the hampering of dialogue channels caused by the polarization around the conflict. In that regard, we are against diplomatic and economic isolation.
The fallout of the conflict can already be felt in world prices for foodstuffs, fuel and other raw materials. This situation distances us all from the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals. Countries that once presented themselves as leaders of the low-carbon economy have now turned to dirty sources of energy. That is a serious setback for the environment.
We support all efforts to reduce the economic impact of this crisis, but we do not believe that the best way is to adopt unilateral and selective sanctions that are inconsistent with international law. Those measures have hampered the economic recovery and undermined the human rights of vulnerable populations, including in European countries.
The conflict in Ukraine can be resolved only through negotiation and dialogue. I make a plea to the parties, as well as to the entire international community, to not pass up any opportunity to end the conflict and ensure peace. The stability, security and prosperity of humankind are at serious risk if the conflict continues.
I have been an unconditional supporter of the freedom of speech. Moreover, under my Administration, Brazil has made an effort to bring the right to the freedom of religion to the core of the international human rights agenda. It is essential to ensure that everyone has the right to freely worship and practice their religious orientation without discrimination. I would like to state here that Brazil is ready to welcome the Catholic priests and nuns who have suffered cruel persecution by the dictatorial regime in Nicaragua. Brazil repudiates religious persecution wherever it occurs in the world.
Other fundamental values for Brazilian society with implications for the human rights agenda are the defence of the family, the right to life after conception, the right to self-defence and the rejection of gender ideology. I would also like to stress our commitment to women’s rights. Our effort to enact over 70 legal norms on the subject since the beginning of my Administration, in 2019, is proof of that commitment.
We resolutely combat violence against women. That is part of our broader priority of ensuring public security for all Brazilians. The results can be seen in our Government — a 7.7 per cent drop in the number of femicides and a decrease in the general number of deaths by homicide. In 2017, there were 30 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants; now there are only 19. Violence in rural areas has also plummeted, and land tenure by the most in need has increased. Under my Administration, we delivered 400,000 rural property deeds, 80 per cent to women.
We are making efforts in Brazil to have strong and independent women so they can reach their goals. Since 2019, First Lady Michelle Bolsonaro has brought new meaning to volunteer work, with special attention to people with disabilities and rare diseases.
On 7 September, Brazil celebrated 200 years of history as an independent nation. Millions of Brazilians took to the streets, called upon by their Government, wearing the colours of their flag. It was the largest civic demonstration in the history of our country, a people that believes in God, nation, family and freedom.

===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
I would like to greet the President of the General Assembly. Ambassador Dennis Francis of Trinidad and Tobago. It is also a great pleasure to be preceded by Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. I acknowledge all the Heads of State and Government and representatives present. I pay tribute to our compatriot Sergio Vieira de Mello and the 21 other staff members of the Organization who fell victim to the brutal attack in Baghdad 20 years ago. I also would also like to express my condolences to the victims of the earthquake in Morocco and the storms that struck Libya. Like the recent events in the state of Rio Grande do Sul in my country, those tragedies have claimed lives and caused irreparable losses. Our thoughts and prayers are with all the victims and their families.
Exactly 20 years ago. I stood at this rostrum for the first time and said, on 23 September 2003.
“Let my first words before this world parliament be of confidence in the human capacity to overcome challenges and to move towards higher forms of partnership” (A/58/PV.7, p.5).
I return today to say that I maintain my unshakable trust in humankind. At that time, the world had not yet realized the severity of the climate crisis. Today it is at our doorstep, destroying our homes, cities and countries, killing people and causes losses and suffering for our brothers, especially the poorest.
Hunger — the central theme of my statement at this world parliament 20 years ago — today affects 735 million human beings, who will go to sleep tonight without knowing if they will have anything to eat tomorrow. The world is increasingly unequal. The 10 richest billionaires have more wealth than the poorest 40 per cent of humankind. The destiny of every child born on the planet seems to be decided while they are still in their mother’s womb. The part of the world where their parents live and the social class to which their family belongs will determine whether or not they will have opportunities throughout their life; whether they will eat at every meal or they will be denied the right to eat breakfast, lunch and dinner every day; whether they will have access to health care or they will succumb to diseases that could have already been eradicated; whether they will finish school and get a decent job or they will be numbered among the countless unemployed, underemployed and discouraged people. First of all. we must overcome our resignation, which makes us accept such unfairness as a natural phenomenon. There is a lack of political on the part of those who govern the world to overcome inequality.
If today I have returned in the honourable capacity as President of Brazil, it is thanks to the victory won through democracy in my country. Democracy ensured that we overcame hate, misinformation and oppression. Hope, once again, has won over fear. Our mission is to ignite Brazil and rebuild a sovereign, fair, sustainable, supportive, generous and joyful country with solidarity. Brazil has once again found its place within our region, the world and multilateralism. As I never tire of repeating. Brazil is back. Our country is back to make its rightful contributions to facing the major global challenges. We have reclaimed our foreign policy’s universalism, marked by respectful dialogue with everyone. The international community has been immersed in a flood of multiple and simultaneous crises. The coronavirus disease pandemic, the climate crisis and food and energy insecurity have been amplified by growing geopolitical tensions. Racism. 
intolerance and xenophobia have spread, encouraged by new technologies that were created supposedly to bring us closer together. If we had to summarize those challenges in a single word, it would be “inequality”. Inequality is at the root of those phenomena and serves to aggravate them.
The United Nations broadest and most ambitious collective action aimed at development, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, could turn into its greatest failure. We have reached the mid-point of the implementation period and are still far from achieving its defined goals. Most of the Sustainable Development Goals are moving at a slow place. The moral and political imperative of eradicating poverty and ending hunger appears to have been numbed. In the seven years that we have left, reducing inequalities within and among countries should become the core objective of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Reducing inequalities within countries requires providing for the poor in Government budgets and making the rich pay taxes that are proportional to their wealth. In Brazil, we are committed to implementing all 17 Sustainable Development Goals in an integrated and indivisible manner. We want to achieve racial equality in Brazilian society through an eighteenth goal, which we will voluntarily adopt.
We launched the Brazil zero-hunger programme, which will bring together a series of initiatives to reduce poverty and food insecurity, including the Bolsa Familia Programme, which has become a global reference for income transfer programmes for families who keep their children vaccinated and in school. Inspired by Brazilian Bertha Lutz, a pioneer in and advocate for gender equality and the Charter of the United Nations, we have adopted a bill that makes equal pay between women and men mandatory when they perform the same roles. We will fight femicide and all forms of violence against women. We will strongly advocate for the rights of LGBTQI+ groups and people with disabilities. We have revived social participatory practices as a strategic tool for implementing public policies.
Taking action against climate change involves thinking about tomorrow and facing historical inequalities. Rich countries grew, based on a model with high rates of climate-damaging emissions. The climate emergency makes it urgent to correct course and implement what has already been agreed. There is no other reason why we speak of common but differentiated responsibilities. It is the vulnerable populations in the global South who are most affected by the loss and damage caused by climate change.
The richest 10 per cent of the world’s population is responsible for almost half of all carbon that is released into the atmosphere. We. the developing countries, do not want to repeat that model. In Brazil, we have already proved once and will prove again that a socially fair and environmentally sustainable model is possible. We are at the forefront of an energy transition, and our matrix is already one of the cleanest in the world. Some 87 per cent of our electrical power comes from clean and renewable sources. Solar, wind, biomass, ethanol and biodiesel power generation is growing every year. The potential for generating green hydrogen is immense. With the ecological transformation plan, we will invest in sustainable industrialization and sustainable infrastructure. We have renewed the sound Amazon Agenda with oversight actions aimed at combating environmental crime.
Over the past eight months, deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon has already been reduced by 48 per cent. The entire world has always talked about the Amazon, and now the Amazon is speaking for itself. A month ago. we hosted the Belem Summit meeting in the heart of the Amazon and launched a new collaboration agenda among countries that are part of that biome. There are 50 million South Americans living in the Amazon whose future depends on the decisive coordination and action by the countries that hold sovereignty over the region’s territories.
We also have continued our dialogue with other countries that have tropical forests in Africa and Asia. We want to arrive at the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Dubai, with a joint vision that reflects, without any coaching, priorities for preserving the Amazon, the Congo and Borneo-Mekong basins, based on our needs.
Without mobilizing financial and technological resources, there is no way to implement what we decided in the Paris Agreement and the global biodiversity framework. The promise to allocate $100 billion annually to developing countries remains just that — a promise. Today that amount would be insufficient for the demand, which already reaches trillions of dollars.
The principle on which multilateralism is based — that of the sovereign equality of nations — is being eroded. At the main global governance levels. 
negotiations in which all countries have a voice and vote have lost momentum. When institutions reproduce inequalities, they are part of the problem, not the solution.
Last year, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) made available $160 billion in special drawing rights to European countries and just $34 billion to African countries. The unequal and distorted representation of the management of the IMF and the World Bank is unacceptable. We have not corrected the excesses of market deregulation and support for the ideology of the minimum state. The foundations of a new economic governance have not been laid. The Brazil. Russian Federation. India. China and South Africa (BRICS) group was the result of that paralysis and constitutes a strategic platform to promote cooperation among emerging countries.
The recent expansion of the group at the Johannesburg summit meeting strengthens the fight for an order that accommodates the economic, geographical and political plurality of the twenty-first century. We are a force that works towards fairer global trade in the context of a serious crisis of multilateralism. The rich countries’ protectionism has gained strength, and the World Trade Organization remains paralysed, in particular its dispute-settlement system. No one remembers the Doha Development Round anymore. Meanwhile, unemployment and precarious work have been undermining people’s confidence in better times, especially the youth.
Governments must stem the increase in dissonance between the voice of the markets and the voice of the streets. Neoliberalism has aggravated the economic and political inequality that plagues democracies today. Its legacy is a mass of disenfranchised and excluded people. Amid the wreck, far-right adventurers emerge, who deny politics and sell solutions that are as easy as they are wrong. Many have fallen to the temptation of replacing failed neoliberalism with primitive, conservative and authoritarian nationalism.
We reject an agenda that uses immigrants as scapegoats, undermines the welfare State and attacks workers’ rights. We need to reclaim the best humanist traditions that inspired the creation of the United Nations. Active inclusion policies at the cultural, educational and digital levels are fundamental for promoting democratic values and defending the rule of law.
Preserving press freedom is essential. A journalist such as Julian Assange cannot be punished for informing society in a transparent and legitimate way. Our fight is against misinformation and cybercrime. Applications and platforms should not abolish the labour laws for which we fought so hard. Upon assuming the presidency of the Group of 20 next December, we will spare no effort to place the fight against inequality in all its dimensions at the core of the international agenda. Under the motto. “Building a just world and a sustainable planet”, the Brazilian presidency will coordinate social inclusion, combat hunger and promote sustainable development and the reform of global governance institutions.
There will be no sustainability or prosperity without peace. Armed conflicts are an offence to human rationality. We know the horrors and suffering caused by all wars. Promoting a culture of peace is a duty for all of us. Building it requires persistence and vigilance. It is disturbing to see that old. unresolved disputes persist and that new threats emerge or gain force. The difficulty of guaranteeing the creation of a State for the Palestinian people clearly shows that, not to mention the persistent humanitarian crisis in Haiti, the conflict in Yemen, threats to Libyan national unity and institutional ruptures in Burkina Faso. Gabon. Guinea- Conakry. Mali, the Niger and the Sudan. In Guatemala, there is a risk of a coup d’etat, which would prevent the winner of the democratic elections from taking office.
The war in Ukraine exposes our collective inability to enforce the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We do not underestimate the difficulties of achieving peace, but no solution will be lasting if it is not based on dialogue. I have reiterated that work needs to be done to create space for negotiations.
Much is invested in weapons, and very little in development. Last year, military spending totalled more than $2 trillion. Expenditures on nuclear weapons reached $83 billion — a value 20 times higher than the regular United Nations budget. Stability and security will not be achieved where there is social exclusion and inequality. The United Nations was born to be the home of understanding and dialogue. The international community must choose: on the one hand, there is the expansion of conflicts, the furthering of inequalities and the erosion of the rule of law; on the other, there is the renewal of multilateral institutions dedicated to promoting peace. 
Unilateral sanctions cause great harm to the populations of affected countries. In addition to not achieving their alleged goals, unilateral sanctions hinder mediation and prevention processes and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. Brazil will continue to reject measures taken without the support of the Charter of the United Nations, such as the economic and financial embargo imposed on Cuba and the attempt to classify that country as a State sponsor of terrorism. We shall continue to criticize any attempt to divide the world into zones of influence and revive the Cold War.
The Security Council has been progressively losing its credibility. Its frailty is the specific result of the actions of its permanent members who wage unauthorized wars aimed at territorial expansion or regime change. The Council’s paralysis is the most eloquent proof of the urgent need to reform it. which will bring it greater representation and efficacy.
Inequalities need to inspire outrage — outrage over hunger, poverty, war and disrespect for human beings. Moved by the power of outrage, we may act willingly and unwaveringly in the fight against inequality and effectively transform the world around us. The United Nations needs to fulfil its role as a builder of a world with greater solidarity, fraternity and fairness, but it can do so only if its members have the courage to proclaim their discontent at inequality and work tirelessly to overcome it.

===== Session 79 - 2024 =====
Mr President of the General Assembly, Philemon Yang,  
I extend my greetings to Secretary-General António Guterres and to each Head of State and Government, as well as to all delegates present.

I would like to make special mention of the Palestinian delegation, which is taking part for the first time in this opening session—albeit still with observer status.

**Ladies and Gentlemen,**

Two days ago, in this very hall, we adopted the Pact for the Future.

Its difficult approval underscores the weakening of our collective ability to negotiate and engage in dialogue.  
Its limited scope is also a reflection of the paradox of our time: we move in circles, trapped between feasible commitments that deliver insufficient results.

Not even the tragedy of COVID-19 was enough to unite us around a Pandemic Treaty within the World Health Organization.

We must go much further and equip the United Nations with the tools it needs to confront the dizzying changes in the international landscape.

We live in an age marked by mounting anxiety, frustration, tension, and fear.  
We are witnessing a disturbing escalation in geopolitical disputes and strategic rivalries.  
The year 2023 set the grim record for the highest number of armed conflicts since the Second World War.  
Global military spending increased for the ninth consecutive year, reaching $2.4 trillion.  
More than $90 billion were directed toward nuclear arsenals.  

These resources could have been used to combat hunger and address climate change.  
Instead, we are seeing a growing investment in warfare capabilities.  
The use of force, without grounding in international law, is becoming the norm.

We are facing two simultaneous conflicts with the potential to spiral into wider confrontations.  

In Ukraine, we regret to see a war that drags on with no horizon for peace.  
Brazil firmly condemned the invasion of Ukrainian territory.  
It is now clear that neither side will achieve all its objectives through military means.  
The use of increasingly destructive weapons evokes the darkest memories of the sterile confrontation of the Cold War.

Creating conditions for the resumption of direct dialogue between the parties is crucial at this moment.  
This is the essence of the six-point understanding jointly proposed by China and Brazil, intended to lay the groundwork for dialogue and an end to hostilities.

In Gaza and the West Bank, we are witnessing one of the greatest humanitarian crises in recent history, now dangerously spilling into Lebanon.

What began as a terrorist act by fanatics against innocent Israeli civilians has become a form of collective punishment for the entire Palestinian people.  
There are more than 40,000 fatalities—most of them women and children.

The right to self-defence has devolved into a right to revenge, obstructing an agreement for the release of hostages and delaying a ceasefire.

Forgotten conflicts in Sudan and Yemen continue to impose unbearable suffering on nearly 30 million people.

This year, the number of people in need of humanitarian assistance around the world will reach 300 million.

In an era of growing polarisation, expressions like “deglobalisation” have become commonplace.  
But it is impossible to “de-planetise” our shared existence.

We are condemned to the interdependence imposed by climate change.  
The planet no longer waits for the next generation to act, and it is tired of unfulfilled climate agreements.  
It is weary of missed emissions reduction targets and the financial aid to poor countries that never arrives.

Denialism is succumbing to the evidence of global warming.  
2024 is on track to be the hottest year in modern history.  

Hurricanes in the Caribbean, typhoons in Asia, droughts and floods in Africa, and torrential rains in Europe have left trails of death and destruction.  
In southern Brazil, we experienced our worst flooding since 1941.  
The Amazon is suffering its most severe drought in 45 years.  
Wildfires have swept across the country, burning 5 million hectares in August alone.

My government does not outsource responsibility nor relinquish its sovereignty.  
We have achieved much, but we know we must do more.  
Beyond confronting the climate crisis, we are fighting those who profit from environmental degradation.  
We will not tolerate environmental crimes, illegal mining, or organised crime.

We reduced deforestation in the Amazon by 50% last year, and we are committed to eradicating it entirely by 2030.

It is no longer acceptable to seek solutions for tropical forests without listening to Indigenous peoples, traditional communities, and all those who live within them.

Our vision of sustainable development is anchored in the potential of the bioeconomy.  
Brazil will host COP-30 in 2025, convinced that multilateralism is the only path to overcoming the climate emergency.

Our updated Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) will be submitted later this year, aligned with the goal of limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C.

Brazil is emerging as a hub of opportunity in a world transformed by the energy transition.  
We currently possess one of the cleanest energy matrices in the world.  
Ninety percent of our electricity comes from renewable sources such as biomass, hydro, solar, and wind power.  
We committed to biofuels fifty years ago—long before the global debate on alternative energy gained traction.

We are also at the forefront of other critical sectors, such as green hydrogen production.

It is time to confront the slow pace of global decarbonisation and to work towards an economy less dependent on fossil fuels.

**Mr President,**

Latin America has been living through a second "lost decade" since 2014.  
Average growth during this period has been just 0.9%—half the rate recorded during the lost decade of the 1980s.  
This combination of low growth and high inequality has had toxic effects on the political landscape.

Drawn into disputes that often originate outside the region, our tradition of cooperation and dialogue is weakening.

There is no justification for keeping Cuba on a unilateral list of States alleged to support terrorism, nor for imposing coercive unilateral measures that disproportionately penalise the most vulnerable populations.

In Haiti, we must urgently combine efforts to restore public order and promote development.

In Brazil, defending democracy requires constant action against extremist, messianic, and totalitarian forces that propagate hatred, intolerance, and resentment.  
Brazilians will continue to defeat those who seek to undermine our institutions and bend them to reactionary ends.

Democracy must answer the legitimate demands of those who can no longer tolerate hunger, inequality, unemployment, and violence.

In a globalised world, it makes no sense to turn to false patriots and isolationists.  
Nor is there hope in ultraliberal experiments that only worsen the plight of an already impoverished continent.

The future of our region depends above all on building a sustainable, efficient, and inclusive State—one that confronts all forms of discrimination.  
One that is not intimidated by individuals, corporations, or digital platforms that consider themselves above the law.

Freedom is the first casualty in a world without rules.

Essential elements of sovereignty include the right to legislate, to resolve disputes, and to enforce the law within a nation's territory—including the digital realm.

The State we are building is attuned to the needs of the most vulnerable while upholding sound macroeconomic principles.

The false dichotomy between State and market has been abandoned by developed nations, which have returned to active industrial policy and robust domestic regulation.

In the field of Artificial Intelligence, we are witnessing the consolidation of asymmetries that amount to a true oligopoly of knowledge.

We are seeing unprecedented concentration in the hands of a small number of individuals and corporations, located in an even smaller number of countries.

We are interested in an emancipatory Artificial Intelligence—one that also reflects the face of the Global South and strengthens cultural diversity.  
One that respects human rights, protects personal data, and promotes information integrity.  
Above all, one that is a tool for peace—not for war.

We need intergovernmental governance of Artificial Intelligence, with seats at the table for all States.

**Mr President,**

Access to financial resources remains prohibitive for the vast majority of low- and middle-income countries.  
The debt burden constrains fiscal space for investments in health, education, inequality reduction, and climate action.

African countries borrow at interest rates up to eight times higher than Germany and four times those of the United States.  
This is a reverse Marshall Plan—where the poorest finance the richest.

Without greater participation by developing countries in the leadership of the IMF and World Bank, no effective change will occur.

As the Sustainable Development Goals fall behind, the world’s 150 largest companies together recorded $1.8 trillion in profits over the past two years.  
The wealth of the five richest billionaires has more than doubled since 2020, while 60% of humanity has become poorer.  
The super-rich pay proportionally far less tax than working people.

To address this anomaly, Brazil has consistently advocated for international cooperation in developing minimum standards for global taxation.

The data published two months ago by the FAO on global food insecurity is shocking.  
The number of people going hungry around the world has increased by more than 152 million since 2019.  
This means 9% of the global population—733 million people—are undernourished.

The problem is particularly acute in Africa and Asia, but persists in parts of Latin America as well.  
Women and girls represent the majority of those affected by hunger.  
Pandemics, armed conflicts, extreme weather events, and agricultural subsidies from rich countries have worsened the crisis.

But hunger is not caused solely by external factors. It is primarily a result of political choices.  
Today, the world produces more than enough food to eradicate it.  
What is lacking is the creation of conditions for access to that food.

Ending hunger in Brazil—as we did in 2014—is the most urgent commitment of my government.  
In 2023 alone, we lifted 24.4 million people out of severe food insecurity.

The Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty, which we will launch in Rio de Janeiro in November, arises from this political will and spirit of solidarity.  
It will be one of the principal outcomes of Brazil’s G20 presidency and is open to the world.  
All who wish to join this collective effort are welcome.

**Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen,**

As it approaches its 80th anniversary, the United Nations Charter has never undergone a comprehensive reform.  
Only four amendments have been approved—all between 1965 and 1973.  
The current version of the Charter fails to address some of humanity’s most pressing challenges.

When the UN was founded, we were 51 nations. Today, we are 193.  
Many countries—especially in Africa—were under colonial rule and had no say in shaping its objectives and functioning.

There is no gender balance in the highest offices. A woman has never served as Secretary-General.

As we near the end of the first quarter of the 21st century, the United Nations finds itself increasingly hollowed out and paralysed.

It is time to respond vigorously to this state of affairs and restore to the Organisation the prerogatives inherent in its status as a universal forum.

Minor adjustments are not enough.  
We must undertake a thorough revision of the Charter.

This reform must include the following objectives:

- The transformation of the Economic and Social Council into the main forum for sustainable development and climate change, with the power to guide financial institutions;
- The revitalisation of the General Assembly, including in matters of international peace and security;
- The strengthening of the Peacebuilding Commission;
- The reform of the Security Council, with a focus on its composition, working methods, and the right of veto, to make it more effective and representative of contemporary realities.

The exclusion of Latin America and Africa from permanent seats on the Security Council is an unacceptable echo of colonial domination.

We will advance this discussion transparently, through consultations in the G77, G20, BRICS, CELAC, and other forums.

I harbour no illusions about the complexity of such a reform, which will face entrenched interests committed to preserving the status quo.  
It will require great negotiating effort. But that is our responsibility.

We cannot wait for another global tragedy—like the Second World War—to once again build a new global governance structure upon its ruins.

The will of the majority can persuade those clinging to raw expressions of power.

This chamber echoes the aspirations of humanity.  
Here, we conduct the world’s great debates.  
In this forum, we seek solutions to the problems that plague our planet.

It falls to the General Assembly—the highest expression of multilateralism—to lay the path for the future.

Thank you very much.