

===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
It was characteristic of the international situation in the year now drawing to a close that technically there has been no break of continuity between the fifth session of the General Assembly and this, its sixth session, which has opened in an atmosphere of cordial hospitality shown by the French people and Government.
101.	The Organization, established at San Francisco “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”, has had to face a flagrant case of breach of the peace in the Far East, exactly five years after the signing of the Charter.
102.	The hand that set in motion the machine of aggressive war against the Republic of Korea on the morning of 25 June 1950, also roused the free world from its lethargy and, by awakening the reaction natural to the instinct of self-preservation, helped to strengthen the system of collective security.
103.	The General Assembly began the proceedings of its fifth session last September under the ominous sign of aggression. The cries of the victim rendered vain all the artifices of rhetoric; the blood of the Korean people was itself more eloquent than anything that could be said in justification or even in condemnation of the crime. Still, the aggression against the Korean Republic represented the test by fire of the effectiveness of the United Nations and of the ability of the free world to meet the challenge.
104.	The prompt and energetic action taken by the Security Council through its resolutions of 25 and 27 June 1950 gave a lead to the determination of the great Powers, on whom Article 24 of the Charter confers the primary responsibility of the maintenance of peace and security, to make a joint effort to resist the aggression and to establish peace and security in the disturbed area.
105.	As became apparent subsequently, the absence of the concurrent vote of one of the permanent members of the Council, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, could only be construed as a calculated attempt to encourage the aggression and to paralyse the Organization in its measures to defend peace and the principles of the Charter.
106.	The vast majority of nations, great and small, endorsed the measures taken by the Security Council under Chapter VII of the Charter. Virtually the whole world may be said to have come forward in a solid block to offer moral and material resistance to the aggression. In contrast to this impressive solidarity, a small group of Member States adopted an attitude inconsistent with the obligations of the Charter and fraught with danger for the future of the Organization and the international community as a whole, for their attitude constitutes nothing less than an attempt to justify aggression as an instrument of political or ideological expansion.
107.	The attitude shown by this bloc of nations in declaring its support for the aggressors instead of participating in the collective action, gave rise to profound misgivings for the immediate future. It was quite natural for men to fear that the blow struck against the Korean Republic was but the prelude to new aggressions and the signal for the launching, in physical form behind the guns of armies, of a well known plan for world domination, hitherto confined to the ideological sphere. That understandable fear still holds and binds us, because contempt for the principles of law and of the foreign policy of States, the distortion of the most simple facts, and the derision of United Nations objectives and resolutions, represent a rule of conduct which could not and, so long as it is persisted in, cannot be compatible with the maintenance of peace.
108.	In the light of the flagrant case of the aggression against the Korean Republic and the subsequent intervention of the Peiping Government in the conflict, it is clearly necessary first, by legal and technical means, to use the collective security machinery provided for in the Charter, and secondly, by practical measures, to organize a better defence of a world that seeks to live in peace and to banish the danger of new aggressions.
109.	It is by now an accepted truth that the “Uniting for peace” resolution [377 (V)] of 3 November 1950 marked a decisive moment in the determination of the Members of the United Nations to prevent an organization established to preserve peace from possibly being paralysed in its action of resisting the aggression, and to prevent all the principles, purposes and measures established by the Charter pursuant to a solemn agreement from becoming, as a consequence, of no effect or even the butt of cruel derision for some.
110.	We shall not at this juncture go into the controversy of the so-called right of veto so frequently raised both inside and outside the Organization. It is sufficient to state that, as a result of the aggression against the Republic of Korea, the idea took shape in the minds of most Member States that the unanimity rule laid down in the Charter as the ideal arrangement for agreement between the five great Powers must not be vitiated in its essence or purpose nor converted into an instrument for preventing peace and opening the way for aggression.
111.	The “Uniting for peace” resolution has saved the Charter and the Organization from this unwholesome interpretation which would have been bound sooner or later to destroy both.
112.	The peoples of the world desire peace and hate war. But it must be said that it is the imperialist policy culminating in the aggression in Korea that still remains the most serious obstacle on the road to peace.
113.	The spokesmen of this new imperialism may pretend that they cannot stifle their laughter at the disarmament proposals of some of the great Powers or at the opinions of the medium and small countries; and nobody can prevent them from continuing to use this platform for committing afresh every day, in this land renowned for its moderation, the sin of pride and that other nameless sin of which the Scriptures speak and which Anatole France calls “ bad taste”. Nor can anyone or anything prevent the peoples from continuing to judge them by their deeds and from drawing their own conclusions from such deeds.
114.	It might perhaps be speaking with too much frankness to remind them that title blood of peoples and the destruction of towns, as witnessed in Korea since the aggression of 25 June 1950, are more substantial evidence than the fallacious ideologies, which mirage-like, point the way to world domination and to the exploitation of all nations under the dictatorship of a central committee.
115.	The Paraguayan delegation does not, however, wish to abandon the idea that a positive policy of pursuing the aims of the Organization can still be urged upon those States which, by basing their whole policy on the belief that their regime is absolutely incompatible with that of the others, have been systematically frustrating all attempts to ease world tension and to create an atmosphere of rational serenity in. which to consider the world’s important problems.
116.	Paraguay continues to place its faith and hope in this idea and at the same time reaffirms its unshakeable belief in the ability of the United Nations to safeguard from all risks the system of collective security laid down in the Charter and the ideal of peace to which the peoples cling.


===== Session 07 - 1952 =====
It is hardly possible to take part in this opening debate of the seventh session of the General Assembly without referring first of all to the armed conflict which has engaged the attention of the whole world since 25 June 1950. Since that sad and fateful day, there have been two sessions of the General Assembly of the Organization which was created at San Francisco, and the third one is now beginning. But the conflict still goes on, claiming thousands of victims, destroying homes and engulfing vast material wealth. It was thought that the good sense of the Powers which fought the war against the Axis Would suffice to create a world with more security and less fear. But Korea in flames belies this hope and mankind is more than ever a prey to fear.
125.	We must not allow the routine of these international assemblies, with their inevitable ceremony and their still more inevitable flood of speeches, to banish or weaken our understanding of the real meaning of this tragedy. The war in Korea goes on. We must return again and again to this simple and terrible fact and ponder its challenge to the conscience of our civilization and to the principles set forth in the Charter.
126.	The United Nations did its best to meet its responsibilities in this emergency. The aggression was recognized and condemned by the competent organs of the United Nations and, although the concurrence of one of the permanent members of the Security Council was lacking throughout, the machinery for collective action was put into operation to repel the attack and to re-establish peace and security in the troubled area. An overwhelming majority of nations, both great and small, gave both moral and material assistance, as far as they were able within the limits of their capacities, their means and their resources, to the action undertaken by the Security Council. It is true that it has not been possible to achieve our purposes fully, but there have been definite results of practical value and of supreme moral value. In the first place, the United Nations has almost unanimously condemned the aggression ; secondly, a great many of its Members are giving effective material assistance; thirdly, the system of collective security has been put to the test for the first time and the world now knows what action to take in similar cases.	.
127.	When the permanent representative of the USSR made his statement of 23 June 1951 in New York, millions of people believed that peace was in sight in Korea and that an armistice would be possible. Nevertheless, the negotiations at Panmunjon have gone on for more than a year and there has been no end to the conflict. For several months, now, the question of the exchange of prisoners of war has been the root cause of an apparently insuperable deadlock. Yet the delegation of Paraguay still believes that it is possible to find a compromise formula which will take into account the legal, human and moral aspects of the problem. As regards the second aspect, Paraguay recognizes the justice of the principle that the wishes of prisoners who do not want to be repatriated should be respected, for that principle is based on natural law. The world is entitled to hope that, by the acceptance of this principle, the final obstacle will be removed and that we shall be able to achieve an honourable armistice; the United Nations has already made as many concessions as it can to that end without abandoning its principles. The end of the Korean war would lead to a rapid relaxation of international tension and to the creation of an atmosphere far more favourable to progress and the solution of the most important problems affecting world peace than that prevailing at present,
128.	The Collective Measures Committee, which was set up by the Assembly at its fifth session under the "Uniting for peace” resolution [377 (V)], is to submit its second report to us at this seventh session.
129.	This resolution resulted from the fear that the veto might be used in a case of aggression, and from the lack of unanimity among the permanent members of the Security Council regarding the negotiation of the special agreements referred to in Article 43 of the Charter. Accordingly, the resolution extended the powers of the General Assembly in the event — and only in the event — that the Security Council should find itself prevented by the use of the veto from exercising its "primary responsibility” under Article 24. Naturally it is to be hoped that these two circumstances will change, that, in the first place, there will be a decrease in the danger of the use of the veto in connexion with an act of aggression, and, secondly, that there will be at least a minimum agreement among the permanent members of the Security Council to enable them to negotiate the agreements designed to implement, under the Council’s auspices, the system of collective security provided for in the Charter. Until these two requirements are met — and the delegation of Paraguay is convinced that the United Nations should work towards that end — the General Assembly is entitled to consider that the Security Council’s "primary responsibility” is not its exclusive responsibility, and consequently does not relieve the Assembly of the obligation to fill the gap which, if allowed to exist, might at any moment plunge the world into international anarchy or War. It is in the light of these considerations that the delegation of Paraguay will examine the second report of the Collective Measures Committee [A/2215].
130.	Paraguay sincerely regrets the fact that the Disarmament Commission set up by a resolution [502 (VI)] of the General Assembly has not made any progress in bringing the gap between the opposing views on certain basic questions, which was already apparent in previous years in the Commission for Conventional Armaments and the Atomic Energy Commission.
131.	Rearmament imposes a heavy burden, not only on the great Powers but on all the countries of the world, for it produces instability in international trade and finance, which has serious economic repercussions everywhere. Consequently it is quite rightly a matter of universal concern that the great Powers should agree on the general outline of a balanced plan for disarmament. The delegation of Paraguay still considers that the afore-mentioned resolution constitutes a fair basis for the progress of discussion on these questions. At the same time, there can be no doubt that the international tension, aggravated by the Korean war and the long-drawn-out armistice negotiations, is the least favourable atmosphere for a conciliation of the differing or opposing viewpoints expressed in the Disarmament Commission. The ending of the Korean war is therefore essential if the Commission’s work is to succeed and the world is to be freed from the terrible economic and moral consequences of the armaments race.
132.	The problem of the admission to the Organization of countries which have applied for membership continues year after year to challenge the United Nations. Paraguay regrets that the lack of basic agreement among the great Powers on this subject has kept out of the Organization countries with such high qualifications for admission as Italy, a country which we take the liberty of mentioning particularly because of its supremely important position in the community of peace-loving and, democratic nations of the world. We believe that the United Nations should adhere closely to the principle laid down in the Charter that all nations that are peace-loving and presumed to be such are entitled to be admitted as Members of the Organization. It should be the policy of the United Nations, on the basis of this very wise principle, to try to make its membership as universal as possible, for that would increase the possibilities of international co-operation and advance the cause of peace. The opposite attitude would serve only to foster resentment among the nations whose admission was unjustly delayed and would increase instead of decreasing the causes of international friction.
133.	Poverty, sickness and ignorance are at present the scourges of many countries and vast regions of the globe, and nearly two-thirds of the human race suffer the consequences of these evils. It may be said that such conditions constitute a type of aggression within each country which is as dangerous as armed aggression on the international level. In the countries where they prevail, they create an atmosphere of discontent, social insecurity and political instability. In such an atmosphere if is easy for extremes of scepticism and despair to flourish. In a world in which peoples are becoming more and more interdependent, such a situation is in itself a threat to international peace and security.
134.	The delegation of Paraguay fully agrees with the view expressed by the Secretary-General, in the introduction to his annual report that it is essential for the "countries whose peoples enjoy high standards of living ... to join more fully in aiding the economic development of the under-developed countries”. As the Secretary-General points out, and expanded international programme of this kind would not be "an act of charity”, but on the contrary would constitute "a sound investment in peace and stability and lead to a mutually beneficial expansion of world productivity and world trade”.
135.	The delegation of Paraguay is convinced that the intensification of the efforts which the United Nations is making to provide technical assistance for the under-developed countries and to give them better economic opportunities is one of the most positive contributions which the United Nations could make towards peace and international co-operation. Consequently we believe that, in spite of the unfavourable conditions created by rearmament, the General Assembly should go forward with, rather than interrupt, the activities in respect of economic development and technical assistance which it initiated in previous years. The faith of the peoples in the United Nations depends largely upon an understanding of this necessity.
136.	The delegation of Paraguay hopes and trusts that the Assembly will take steps at this session which will strengthen this faith and increase the prestige of the Organization.


===== Session 10 - 1955 =====
32.	First of all, I should like to convey Paraguay’s congratulations on the spontaneous, enthusiastic and unanimous vote whereby the Assembly elected Mr. Maza as its President, and to say how pleased I am personally about this election. Mr. Maza’s ability and his deep faith in the principles of the Charter qualify him for this office. Moreover, and particularly for the Latin American peoples, Mr. Maza is the representative not only of the sister nation of Chile, a traditionally peace-loving country and the standard- bearer of international justice, but also — for the good of the whole free world  —  of American culture, which is founded on the political, legal and moral principles of American emancipation. Those principles, in their turn, are identical with the fundamental ideals which gave birth to the United Nations — political independence and self-determination of peoples; equality of all States, great and small, before the law; respect for national sovereignty and non-intervention, human dignity for its own sake, and as a corollary, respect for fundamental human rights. Let me express the hope that, under Mr. Maza’s presidency, the tenth session of the General Assembly will take a decisive step forward towards the fulfilment in international affairs of the legal and moral ideals enshrined in our Charter.
33.	I do not think it can be repeated too often that the United Nations is first and foremost a moral entity striving to establish, on the basis of moral values, a political and legal structure which will enable countries to live side by side safely and securely, in mutual respect and co-operation, in a free world — free from fear and free from want, a free world freely ruled by States and Governments for the benefit of man, as an end in itself.
34.	The fundamental aim of the United Nations is international peace and security; but not any kind of peace, not peace at the price of slavery, servitude or subjection by terror, for this is not peace. The United Nations is striving for a peace under law based on justice, a spiritual and political peace founded on the mutual respect and co-operation of all free peoples.
35.	The fact that the United Nations is essentially a moral entity does not mean that it is only an ideal of perfection. In order to achieve its purposes, the United Nations is organized on a legal and political basis; and its founders had to bear in mind the awful realities and the burning passions of the nations, men, States and Governments which in 1945 were still fighting the greatest and most terrible of wars.
36.	The United Nations and its Charter arose out of the spiritual impulse produced by the terrible sacrifices of 1939 to 1945, when the free nations raised the banner of lofty moral principles to encourage their peoples in the fearful struggle against imperialistic and aggressive totalitarianism and dictatorship, based on contempt for and debasement of the moral values of civilization and on the glorification of force and the instinct for power, which turns men into blind instruments of the State’s urge for domination.
37.	The grim and frightful logic of facts would have it that our Charter, a gospel of peace, freedom and dignity for men and nations, should become at the same time the victors’ code, an instrument of power politics, an instrument for consolidating the conqueror’s victory. But ever since its foundation, the United Nations has striven with patience and tenacity to co-ordinate and reconcile the practical necessities of power politics and the moral exigencies of peoples and civilization. We have faith in the perfectibility of man, and we consider that past frustrations and temporary disillusionments regarding the effectiveness of the United Nations as an instrument for the maintenance and consolidation of a world peace in justice and prosperity are not inherent in the Charter and the Organization, but are the bitter fruit of the conjunction of might with right, which was unavoidable at the time but can be dispensed with.
38.	In keeping with the legal principles and moral values enshrined in its preamble, and with its aims, purposes and principles, the Charter granted the great Powers the right of veto; but it was not foreseen at the time that this right would be used in a manner contrary to those aims, purposes and principles. In a world which had sacrificed millions of lives and incalculable material and cultural wishes to save humanity enslaved by greed for power, the other nations had confidence in the victorious Powers which had borne the greater part of the burden of the war, and assumed that the great privilege of the veto would be exercised in the defence of justice and in the interests of peace under law among nations. The civilized world, with its respect for law and its moral sense, was still struggling at that time against the barbarous remnants of aggressive and imperialistic totalitarianism, and it did not of course envisage or condone the illegal use of the veto to thwart and frustrate the high and noble purposes of the Charter.
39.	Unfortunately, the right of veto has in the past been exercised quite unlawfully to give a semblance of legality to injustice and iniquity, and to support and justify aggression and conquest. The arbitrary use of the veto as a weapon against the fundamental purposes and principles of the Charter — a remnant of the barbarity against which the conscience of the free world revolted — makes it necessary to revise the Charter, not its purposes and principles relating to the maintenance of peace and respect for law and moral obligations, but those articles which appear to countenance the unlawful use of arbitrary powers. It is on this basis that the delegation of Paraguay urges that the Charter be revised. Under the laws, systems of morality and philosophies of the great civilizations and religions of the world, it is out of the question that a right such as the. right of veto should be exercised in an arbitrary, illegal, irrational and anti-moral way to attack the principles for the defence of which it was established. The use of the veto without justification is not only unlawful; it is also a remnant of totalitarian vandalism, an example of might against right. We believe that the time has come to think seriously of revising the Charter in such a way as to make the use of the veto, if it is retained, compatible with the principles and purposes of the Charter.
40.	At the same time, the arbitrary use of the veto, at will, by perhaps a very small minority against an immense and overwhelming majority, and in the face of the opinions and the spiritual strength of this majority, is contrary to the democratic principle that the will of the majority shall prevail. If the veto is retained when the Charter is revised, its exercise must be based on law and must be justified. Otherwise, even though it may actually be effective, the arbitrary use of the veto will always be immoral and wrong in the eyes of the civilized world, and it will only help to weaken the moral and legal authority of the United Nations. Moreover, in the long run, the Powers which use it arbitrarily and in defiance of the principles of the Charter will be less and less respected. It is gratifying and inspires optimism as to the perfectibility of our Organization to hear criticisms from some of the great Powers which have the right of veto condemning its arbitrary use, and favouring a reasonable revision of the Charter.
41.	As I have said, the Charter was the work of the victors in the last world tragedy. But the war must finally be ended by a settlement based on law. Article 107 of the Charter, which was approved as a transitional arrangement, still authorizes action, any action, i.e., action regardless of any rule or standard, in relation to any State which, during the Second World War, was an enemy of any signatory to the Charter. This division into victors and vanquished cannot continue forever: justice and co-operation for the victors; arbitrary action for the enemies. And after all, which are the enemy States? Only those States whose Governments were responsible for the aggression in 1939 or which continued that aggression? Or does the list include States which were victims of aggression, whose territories are still occupied and annexed, and whose populations are still subject to the arbitrary rule of foreign Powers? That is why the Paraguayan delegation is in favour of revising the Charter, in due time and without haste, in order to ratify the fundamental principles, aims and purposes which it enshrines.
42.	Year after year, free and independent nations, worthy of respect for their contribution to civilization, law, philosophy and science, and universally recognized as qualified for membership of the United Nations, have failed to gain admission. Why? For no reason, save that the veto has been used arbitrarily and without justification. The Paraguayan delegation believes that the time has come for the Security Council, as an organ at the service of the United Nations, to take up this question again in conformity with the basic legal, political and moral principles of the Charter, and to admit the peace-loving nations which qualify for membership.
43.	Reference has been made to the spirit of Geneva. If that spirit means anything, as we nope it does, it means making amends and redressing the injustices which still survive as a legacy of the war; it means co-operation and faith in a better world.
44.	In addition to Portugal, Italy and other free and peace-loving nations already explicitly recognized as qualifying for membership in the United Nations, the Paraguayan delegation urges the admission of Spain, the mother country and cradle of the people, the culture, the religion and the language of 18 free and independent American republics and of other peoples in different parts of the world. 
45. In accordance with the provisions of the Charter, and as a regional body, the Organization of American States is effectively implementing the fundamental principles of the Charter. Within the organization, 21 free and independent American States have achieved peace founded on justice and mutual respect. Certain principles are already deeply rooted in the conscience of America and regularly applied — for instance, non-intervention in internal affairs and respect for the right of self-determination of peoples. These are the foundations of peace in America and of mutual confidence and co-operation. Thanks to this peace based on. justice and respect for the liberty and dignity of sovereign peoples, the nations of America, most of them economically under-developed, have been able to concentrate all their efforts on improving their cultural, moral and material standards.
46.	The Paraguayan delegation hopes that the so-called spirit of Geneva will spur on the great Powers at this session to end the cold war, which flares up sporadically in an orgy of bloodshed, and slowly but surely, without regard to cordial smiles or sullen, menacing gestures, to remove the injustices to nations which perpetuate the war atmosphere, as well as the threats and fears which cause mistrust among nations.
47.	The Paraguayan delegation places its faith and hope, not so much in the fear of a suicidal atomic war, as a factor for peace, as in the determination of the free peoples and the will of their truly representative leaders to respect the right of nations to self-determination. This implies, in theory and practice, the elimination and condemnation of the foreign intervention which now oppresses peoples who formerly prided themselves on their freedom and independence.
48. As far as the relations between the democratic world and the Soviet world are concerned, it also implies the elimination of aggression through infiltration and subversive activities carried on in free and democratic countries by foreign Powers or international organizations obeying the dictates of the power politics of foreign Powers. God grant that the spirit of Geneva may enlighten the leaders of the totalitarian States, so that they may understand with their minds and feel in their hearts that domination and brute force are not the only values worthy of men and of nations, and renounce their plans for world domination and their subversive tactics for undermining the liberty of free nations, The transition will then be easy from the physical and material coexistence of aggressor and victim to a world in which peoples can live a dignified, honourable and co-operative fife side by side in mutual respect
49.	Finally, in the name of God and of the souls of the millions of men and women who sacrificed their lives, their homes, their wealth and their health during the Second World War and in Korea in defence of the right of peoples and men of goodwill to live in peace, free from fear, to determine their own destiny, and to seek their own material and spiritual welfare, I reiterate my fervent hope that the deliberations of this session of the General Assembly, in its quest for peace and security based on justice and moral values, may be crowned with success. Paraguay will contribute its grain of sand, its modest capacities, its stubborn determination and its incorruptible loyalty to the principles of the Charter.

===== Session 11 - 1956 =====
At its eleventh session the General Assembly is facing critical and difficult problems which demand our full attention. We have before us various matters which must be examined strictly in accordance with the terms of the Charter. My delegation will try to give its views on the most important of these matters so as to establish its position in regard to them.
58.	First of all, let me refer to agenda items 66 and 67 which are being considered in plenary session.
59.	Item 66 is entitled “Question considered by the first emergency special session of the General Assembly from 1 to 10 November 1956”.
60.	At this stage of the general debate, having studied the various resolutions adopted by the General Assembly, we consider it our duty as a Member of this international Organization, to state emphatically that we wish to see all forces still on Egyptian soil other than those of the United Nations, leave Egypt as soon as possible.
61.	We insist that it is the duty of the Israel forces to return to the lines established by the Armistice Agreement of 1949 and that the other countries which still have troops on Egyptian soil should likewise withdraw them. It is the duty of the Governments of the United Kingdom and France, as Member States responsible for safeguarding international peace and security, to take immediately whatever measures may be necessary to ensure that the withdrawal of their forces is carried out as quickly as possible.
62.	Paraguay, a country which will brook no compromise where its sovereignty is concerned, is adamant in its position on this aspect of international law. We maintain that the sovereignty of a people ends where the sovereignty of other peoples begins. There can be no international excuse for non-national forces, with the exception of the supervisory forces of the United Nations, where necessary and by agreement, to occupy the territory of a free and sovereign nation.
63.	The history of Paraguay written in heroism, suffering and blood that our people may be worthy of the heritage of our forefathers, is a call to the present generation and even more to its rulers. Paraguay has always been and will always be a jealous defender of its sovereignty. As such it cannot but protest when the right of sovereignty which it claims for itself is denied to another country or to other peoples.
64.	For that reason it has supported and voted in favour of all the resolutions proposed in this Assembly to secure the earliest possible withdrawal of the United Kingdom, French and Israel forces from Egyptian territory. Let us hope that the support we have given to the United Nations will help to bring about the withdrawal of those forces.
65.	Once that objective has been attained, we are firmly convinced that the United Nations must make an all-out effort to resolve the serious and longstanding problem of the Middle East, not in part but in its entirety, for it is apparent that unless we can be sure of an atmosphere of calm we shall never have peace and security in that part of the world.
66.	Paraguay reiterates its faith and its confidence in the United Kingdom, France, Israel and Egypt. We hope that those nations, traditional friends of Paraguay, will return to the path of international understanding and that under the auspices of the United Nations they will resolve their problems with justice and with renewed faith in the future of the world.
67.	The other aspect of the Middle East conflict is the practical matter of clearing the Suez Canal, as envisaged in the General Assembly resolution of 24 November 1956 of which Canada, Colombia, the United States of America, India, Norway and Yugoslavia had been the sponsors. The resolution “notes with approval the progress so far made by the Secretary-General in connexion with arrangements for clearing the Suez Canal, as set forth in his report” and “authorizes the Secretary-General to proceed with the exploration of practical arrangements and the negotiation of agreements so that the clearing operations may be speedily and effectively undertaken”.
68.	My delegation has already explained its abstention in the voting on this matter, but we feel obliged to press our point once more with regard to the scope of the resolution. With the best will in the world we do not feel that the expense of clearing the Suez Canal can or should be shared pro-rated by the Member States. We wish to state here and now that Paraguay cannot contribute to those costs, either under its regular budget or as an extraordinary item. Our peculiar economic problems make it impossible for us to undertake a commitment of this nature. The Secretary-General indicates in his preliminary report [A/3376] that he is not yet prepared to suggest how those costs should be allocated among the Member States of the United Nations. We hope that with his great ability and wisdom he can help to work out a fair way of meeting the expense of clearing the Suez Canal. We want to see that vital international waterway back in operation as quickly as possible so as to relieve the difficult situation in which the many Canal users now find themselves. But, we repeat, the solution must be fair and equitable toward countries like my own which are not in a position to undertake such expenditure. It was for that reason that my delegation abstained in the voting.
69.	I now turn to item 67, entitled “Question examined by the General Assembly at its second emergency special session from 4 to 10 November 1956”. This item was considered at the second emergency special session under the title “The situation in Hungary”, The bloody repression of the Hungarian people, the mass deportation of Hungary’s youth, and the debates stirred by those brutal acts of aggression committed by the Soviet forces are still fresh in our minds.
70.	Ever since this tragic episode was first discussed by the Security Council and subsequently by the General Assembly at its second emergency session, the delegation of Paraguay has given its support to all the resolutions calling for the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Hungary. The reaction to those recommendations has been a systematic campaign of repression by the armed forces of the Soviet Union. The campaign has now been extended to include the mass deportation of Hungarian youth, which is thus paying the penalty for the crime of having aspired to freedom. In the United Nations the whole civilized world has given voice to its sense of, outrage. These halls have echoed the anguish of all mankind at the fate of the brave Hungarian people. The abhorrence and condemnation of the massacre and extermination carried out by the armies of the Soviet Union are reflected in the various resolutions approved by the General Assembly at its emergency special session and at the eleventh session.
71.	Never before has the United Nations been so unified in its efforts as in the search for a solution to the problem of Hungary. The international community has made an urgent appeal for justice and freedom on behalf of an entire nation which had called upon the United Nations for help to secure the withdrawal of the army of the Soviet Union from Hungarian soil. The moral forces of the world spoke as one in support of the desire of the Hungarians to rid themselves of the oppression of Soviet armed might.
72.	So far, the reiterated appeals of the United Nations have been met with strong silence; or rather, the answer has been the slaughter and extermination of the Hungarian people. Occupation of Hungarian soil has meant savage repression, massacre and deportation. This is the outcome of the ruthless policy of the Soviet Union, a Member State of the United Nations and a country responsible, as a member of the Security Council, for peace, tranquillity, justice and security throughout the world.
73.	The only praiseworthy aspect of the situation is the assistance being given by the United Nations to the thousands of Hungarian refugees who have been able to leave their country in search of help and a better life. Those who have remained in Hungary could also be assisted by the United Nations; but there are still many obstacles to be overcome in that direction. Let us hope that the Secretary-General will be able to obtain facilities, not from the Hungarian people but from the Soviet Union, to carry out this humanitarian work.
74.	This is a suitable opportunity to express once more our profound sympathy for the brave people of Hungary in their misfortune, and to repeat that Paraguay supports unconditionally and without reservation their desire to be a free and sovereign nation with a Government of their own express choice.
75.	With regard to agenda item 22 concerning the regulation, limitation and balanced reduction of armed forces and armaments, my delegation will support any measure adopted with a view to bringing about world disarmament based on justice, logic and the balance of forces, but always under strict international control. We are keen advocates of disarmament, because the world needs peace and tranquillity. On this we are in agreement. It is only with regard to the way of bringing it about that there are differences of opinion.
76.	We advocate as a first step the establishment of an international control organ which is to guarantee in, advance the disarmament measures to be taken later. Unlimited aerial photography control should also be established prior to any agreement on the suspension of nuclear bomb tests or the destruction of already existing stockpiles of such weapons.
77.	The Soviet Union has submitted new proposals for disarmament [A/3366, para. 26). First of all, the Soviet Union proposes the reduction of armed forces to specific figures within two years and recommends that armaments be reduced accordingly.
78.	Secondly, it proposes that within the two-year period the prohibition of atomic and hydrogen weapons should be effected together with the cessation of the production of nuclear weapons, the prohibition of their use, the complete destruction of stockpiles of these weapons and their removal from the armaments of States; and that as a first step, tests of atomic and hydrogen weapons should be discontinued forthwith,
79.	The third proposal provides that the armed forces of the United States, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and France stationed in the territory of Germany should be reduced by one-third during 1957, with the establishment of the appropriate control over this reduction.
80.	In its fourth proposal, the Soviet Union recommends that a considerable reduction in the armed forces of the United States, the United Kingdom and France stationed in the territory of the countries participating in NATO should be effected during 1957, and of the armed forces of the Soviet Union stationed in the territory of the Warsaw Treaty countries.
81.	Under the fifth proposal, foreign military, naval and air bases in the territory of other States would be liquidated within two years.
82.	The sixth proposal prescribes that the military expenditures of States should be reduced in the course of two years in conformity with the reduction of armed forces and armaments, the prohibition of atomic and hydrogen weapons and the liquidation of foreign military bases in the territory of other States.
83.	Finally, the seventh proposal provides that, for supervision of the fulfilment of the disarmament obligations assumed by States, strict and effective international control should be established, with all the rights and functions necessary for these purposes. It goes on to say that “In order to prevent a surprise attack upon one State by another, control posts should be set up on a basis of reciprocity at large ports, railway junctions, motor highways and airfields, which will see to it that no dangerous concentration of armed forces and armaments occurs”.
84.	All these phrases are well known to the Western world. The Soviet Union has never consented to the prior establishment of an international organ, before the study of disarmament itself is taken up. This is the difference between what the two groups — West and East — would like to see. For the West, such a guarantee is essential, since it is only thus that a relative state of peace can be attained.
85.	My delegation maintains that unless this organ for strict control is set up in advance, any disarmament promises or programmes submitted are nothing more than calculated propaganda.
86.	The only new element in the disarmament programme now submitted by the Soviet Union is the acceptance in a limited form, of aerial photography control. This would apply, however, only to certain areas and would not have the scope of President Eisenhower’s plan, which calls for the inspection of the entire territory of the United States of America and the Soviet Union.
87.	The Soviet proposal for limited inspection does indicate an important shift in the attitude of the Soviet Union, since it formerly opposed the basic principle of President Eisenhower’s plan. Let us hope that this shift may prove auspicious for the later study of the matter.
88.	Turning to agenda item 27 concerning economic development of under-developed countries, my delegation considers it imperative to reach agreement as quickly as possible on the establishment of a Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development. It is our understanding that this body would in future carry out the plans drawn up and at present handled by the Technical Assistance Board. Once the underdeveloped countries have gone through the preparatory phase which technical assistance is designed to make possible, they will come up against difficulties in their schemes for establishing or improving their economic and social infrastructure.
89.	We are definitely of the opinion that the Special Fund should begin its work by concentrating on the infrastructure, and then go on to other aspects of development or plans for industrial and agricultural production. In principle we agree that the Fund should begin its work with an initial capital of $200 million to $250 million, made up of voluntary .contributions, in addition to the capital which will be diverted to it, in accordance with the resolution approved by the General Assembly, once an adequate programme of world disarmament has been put into operation.
90.	With regard to the type of currency in which contributions should be made, we reserve the right to express our point of view when the time comes.
91.	We consider that the Fund should be able to make grants and especially long-term, low-interest loans. We agree that the Fund should be an autonomous body functioning independently within the framework of the United Nations and co-operating closely with the various bodies,
92.	We are convinced that the United Nations should give its utmost attention to this problem, the reason being that the improvement of living standards is essential if international peace and security are to be strengthened.
93.	We now come to item 26 of the agenda concerning programmes of technical assistance. My delegation would like to take this opportunity to express its full satisfaction with the technical assistance offered by the United Nations and its specialized agencies, supplemented by the Expanded Programme.
94.	For the under-developed countries the work done by the United Nations has been strikingly effective, inasmuch as it has gone hand-in-glove; with the efforts of those countries themselves. In my country in particular, it has given new impetus to the programmes which were being planned for the immediate and more remote future. The training of new technicians and the teaching of modern methods have made it possible to deal with economic, social and health problems in a manner more in keeping with the needs of the various countries and regions of the world.
95.	Paraguay has always contributed its share to the technical assistance programme and will continue to do so, being convinced that the combined efforts of that programme and of the individual countries themselves will substantially improve the living standards of the needy peoples of the world.
96.	We come now to items 56, 57 and 59. They concern the question of amending the United Nations Charter, to increase the number of non-permanent members of the Security Council, and to increase the membership of the Economic and Social Council, and the question of amending Article 2 of the statute of the International Law Commission to increase the membership of the Commission. The delegation of Paraguay will fully support these items, the more so as it co-sponsored their inclusion in the provisional agenda of the eleventh session. We did so because we felt that if new Members were to be admitted to the United Nations they must be given the opportunity to contribute the fruits of their culture and civilization to help to strengthen the Organization by their participation in the various Councils.
97.	The goal of the United Nations is the well-being, security and happiness of all peoples; and we believe that all Member States must be given equal opportunities if those ends are to be achieved.
98.	We are sure that an increase in the membership of the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, and the inclusion in those bodies of the new Members of the United Nations, will do much to increase the prestige of our Organization,
99.	In conclusion, on behalf of the people, the Government and the President of Paraguay, we reiterate our deep faith in the work of the United Nations and the high, purposes it is pursuing with vigour and determination.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
May I offer Sir Leslie Munro my country’s congratulations on his well-deserved election as President of the Assembly. I wish also to express my Government's gratitude to all the delegations present for their virtually unanimous election of Paraguay to a vice-presidency of the Assembly. I am proud to have the opportunity of making this statement of Paraguay's position with respect to the United Nations.
2.	Paraguay whole-heartedly believes in international organization under legal and moral rules to promote beneficial international co-operation. Our faith in the United Nations grows ever stronger and we consider that its capacity to guide the destiny of mankind is steadily increasing.
3.	It is true that certain events of the past year do not seem to have found a wholly satisfactory solution, or at least the solution desired by the majority of States represented here. I refer, to cite but one example, to the case of Hungary. But the Hungarian problem, far from demonstrating the ineffectiveness of the United Nations, emphasizes the need for its existence and for its improvement, having regard to the differing and opposed conceptions of international law and morality which are the reflection of differing cultures and civilizations.
4.	No one would suggest that because some patients still die, medicine and surgery should be prohibited. The injustices committed daily by national courts and the abuses committed throughout the ages and in every country by national authorities are not an argument for the abolition of courts and government authorities. Similarly, the relative inability of the United Nations to impose a solution in certain very special cases - an inability of which it is fully conscious - reveals, not so much shortcomings in the Organization, as substantial defects in the conduct of certain Member States, and those defects can be remedied only by a greater degree of submission on the part of all Member States to the authority of the United Nations.
5.	This is what is referred to in international law as the surrender to the legal community of a portion of absolute national sovereignty. In our view, the majority of the political difficulties encountered by our Organization derive from the circumstance that Member States have not yet been able to make the transition from absolute sovereignty to voluntary submission to an international legal order ruled by international laws, international courts and international forces - the ideal to which we should all aspire.
6.	To attain this goal, we need time, experience and, above all, a willingness to accept realities and situations which are manifestly unjust in the present opinion of the majority of States, but which will soon be no more than episodes in history, necessary milestones towards the attainment of a universal legal order.
7.	As an association of nations, a world organization can be no more than the sum of its parts. Accordingly each State can best contribute towards the improvement of the United Nations by improving itself through the promotion of its own economic, cultural, social, legal and moral development.
8.	In this connexion, Paraguay fully appreciates and is grateful to the United Nations and its specialized agencies for the invaluable co-operation which it is at present receiving, and which is enabling it to advance more rapidly along the path of peace and progress. Thanks to the co-operation, both financial and technical, of the United Nations, Paraguay is enjoying a period of unprecedented well-being and tranquillity, made possible by the execution of public works, measures in the fields of health and education, the development of productive resources, the expansion of consumption and the provision of comprehensive benefits for workers.
9. In recent months, the policy of austerity and financial and administrative integrity followed by the Government over a period of several years has permitted the revalorization and the stabilization of the currency, followed by broad measures to liberalize imports, exports and monetary transactions, thus opening the country's frontiers to a full and free flow of trade.
10.	The country's most serious problem, from its earliest days as an independent nation, has been the fact that it is land-locked, and my Government feels that it is entitled to raise the problem in the United Nations and to request the latter's assistance in solving it.
11.	In this connexion, I should like publicly to acknowledge before the representatives of the nations of the world in this Assembly the invaluable and disinterested co-operation which the Government of Brazil has afforded us by financing international roads which will give us access to the sea, by providing us with free port facilities on the Atlantic Ocean, and by building - as it is now doing - a great international bridge over the Parana which will link the Brazilian and Paraguayan highway systems, thus making available to us the benefits of Brazil's seacoast, as extensive as is its sense of international solidarity. In addition, the Brazilian Government has undertaken technical and financial responsibility for the construction of hydroelectric stations.
12.	Paraguay's problems as a land-locked country require further measures for their solution and we intend in due course to lay before the appropriate bodies of the United Nations two proposals to which we attach essential importance: substantial assistance in the development of the Paraguayan merchant fleet, and the development of the potentialities which Paraguay, thanks to its position at the heart of the continent, possesses as South America’s natural air base and centre.
13.	I wish also to emphasize the substantial financial and technical assistance we have received from the Government of the United States through its cooperative services and official agencies and departments. This co-operation, which has already become traditional for Paraguay, and is increasing daily, will, by helping us to solve our domestic problems, one day enable us to help other countries to solve their problems.
14.	We are firm supporters of the principle of nonintervention in the domestic affairs of other States, and we faithfully follow that principle in practice. We interfere with no one and desire that no one shall interfere with us. We respect freedom of thought and of expression, but we believe that such freedoms must be exercised with respect and in a disinterested spirit; they must never be associated with petty interests or used with systematically evil intent. We do not believe in general panaceas. Each State has its own problems, which it must solve in its own way.
15.	I shall not take up the valuable time of the Assembly in presenting a statement of Paraguay's position on specific items of the agenda. On each item, Paraguay will express its views and lend its support in the appropriate committee.
16.	This statement may be summarized as a message of faith in the United Nations; of optimism with regard to the Organization’s future; of gratitude for its cooperation in our progress and well-being, and of hope that we may receive greater assistance, which may one day enable us to return the invaluable aid and benefits we are now receiving.


===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
81.	We Latin Americans are all proud of you, Mr. Belaúnde. Your unanimous election to the high and distinguished office of President of the fourteenth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations places you in a privileged position. To me personally it has been a great satisfaction to witness the tribute that has been paid by all countries of the world to your effective, generous and humane work, to your ceaseless activity for many years on behalf of the United Nations, its Charter and its fundamental Purposes and Principles.
82.	Your feeling for humanity and your philosophy of life, your steadfast faith in God, which at all times have marked your efforts and activities in this world forum, place you, as I have already said, in a privileged position on the international stage. I should like to extend to you and to Peru, your country, our congratulations on this recognition of your great personal qualities. On behalf of Paraguay, on my own personal behalf, and on behalf of all the members of my delegation, I offer the sincere wish that your efforts may be crowned with the fullest measure of success and that they may bring prestige to all America and to all our peoples, so closely linked in a common destiny.
83.	As Chairman of the Paraguayan delegation, I speak for the Government and the people of Paraguay when I express our deep appreciation of the gigantic task which the Secretary-General is carrying out on behalf of the United Nations. Because of his efforts, the Organization is daily gaining prestige through the formation of a more favourable attitude among the nations of the world, an attitude of confidence and hope in the principles and objectives of the United Nations Charter. The personal renown which the Secretary-General has won in fostering a world public opinion in favour of the United Nations is a very valuable contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security. Mr. Hammarskjold’s policy of visiting so many different countries, where personal contacts help to increase knowledge and understanding of the problems which, confront the United Nations, has enabled the peoples to appreciate more and more the role being played in the world by this Organization.
84.	Paraguay recently had the privilege and satisfaction of receiving a visit from the Secretary-General which was of great importance to our country. Paraguay is a small and sparsely populated country, but our people have always had a profound belief in the rule of law as the only means of solving the problems which may often degenerate into conflicts between nations. Paraguay is a united nation, as the Secretary-General has seen, a nation formed from a new race which has sprung from the absorption of the proud Spaniards by the Guarani race, equally renowned for its pride and its warm-heartedness.
85.	With this background, the Paraguayan nation has emerged without encountering problems of race or religion or even of social divisions. Paraguay is a homogeneous nation, conscious of its social and ethnic unity which provides a bulwark for the defence of its destiny and its progress.
86.	Such was the people that welcomed the Secretary-General on his recent visit to Paraguay, and informed him, through its Government spokesmen, of its anxieties and its hopes, and at the same time of the great efforts being made to build a better way of life more in agreement with the principles of an honest peace-loving nation which is an ardent defender of the Purposes and Principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
87.	It is an honour for me to express to the Secretary-General our deepest gratitude for his support and understanding of the aspirations of the people of Paraguay in their peaceful struggle to achieve the progress and well-being, of which they are so much in need, and also for the privilege which we conferred on us in visiting our country.
88.	It is an honour and a pleasure for me to express the views of Paraguay before this fourteenth session of the General Assembly, and to reaffirm our faith in the work of this international body which was specially created to preserve international peace and security and, at the same time, to fashion a better world by endeavouring to promote the progress and happiness of all peoples.
89.	A great deal has been said on this rostrum about the aspirations of peoples and Governments and about their attitude to world problems. Paraguay too, wishes to make its voice heard, the voice of a people which is working for the peace of all nations and which at all times has pursued its destiny under the banner of law and justice. We shall touch on only a few of the problems, since their diversity makes it impossible to study them all, and we shall express our views at a later date on those problems which we are leaving alone for the moment.
90.	We are deeply disturbed by the ever more appalling dangers which attend the armaments race, when every day brings the announcement of the invention of new and deadly weapons capable of destroying ever larger areas of the world and bringing about the complete disappearance of human life, which could be overwhelmed and destroyed from distant points of the earth almost without possibility of detection. We have also pondered on the words and deeds reflecting the position of the leading countries of the world in connexion with the dangers of a permanently armed peace.
91.	We have listened attentively too to the aspirations expressed by those peoples and Governments which, though they do not possess the means of keeping up with scientific progress or the economic background needed for technological development, nevertheless ardently seek disarmament on the moral and spiritual level. These nations earnestly desire, too, the limitation of armaments and armed forces, together with the abolition of nuclear weapons, the destruction of stockpiles, and the prohibition of the manufacture of such weapons. They also desire to see the peaceful use of outer space assured, and adequate provision for liter national control.
92.	As representative of the people and Government of Paraguay, I wish to express the hope that the personal contacts between world leaders, and the future meetings of organizations created by the United Nations to seek a solution to this vital problem for mankind, will conduce towards better understanding and greater harmony, in order that the peoples of the world may live without brooding daily on the fearful destiny that awaits mankind if a rapid understanding is not reached among the great Powers.
93.	We are very anxious for a system of disarmament accompanied by adequate international control, without which there can be no feelings of security and trust among the nations. We do not believe in declarations of peaceful intentions unless they are made against this background of international control, which must be established before the introduction of any real measure of disarmament.
94.	We all have been witnesses of, and participants in, the efforts made by the United Nations to reach an effective agreement on the question of disarmament. Year after year we listen to debates, exchanges of views, and declarations, but every time, whatever we may do, we come up against an insoluble problem, that of the acceptance of complete international control wherever it may be necessary and absolutely independent of alien factors which might create antagonism and ill-feeling between the great Powers. The people and Government of Paraguay are well aware of this aspect of the problem and, as a nation of western culture we firmly believe in the sincerity of the efforts that are being made by the United States, the United Kingdom and France to have a system of control accepted as the cornerstone of future measures for armaments limitation, the abolition of nuclear weapons, the destruction of stocks and the prohibition of the manufacture Of such weapons. Having stated its position clearly and honestly, Paraguay expresses the hope that the future may offer some more favourable solution for this fundamental problem of disarmament.
95.	The so called cold war which is so often mentioned in this Assembly is another aspect of the same problem, which disturbs the conscience of mankind. Severe frictions exist in certain parts of the world which unfortunately encourage the use of force and certainly endanger the delicate balance of power while at the same time giving rise to inordinate attempts at domination. We are very concerned by the stationing of military forces on the Indian frontier by a nation Whose ambition is to achieve hegemony over a large part of the globe. We sincerely hope that this problem will be quickly solved and that there will be no repetition of such incidents.
96.	The same cold war has created a very difficult situation in the Kingdom of Laos, where there has •been foreign interference on the part of the adherents of certain ideologies who can only establish their influence by force and destruction. Happily the revolt, as this strange method of violating a people’s integrity has been called, has been met by action in the Security Council, We await With confidence the result of thiB action and we hope that peace and tranquillity will be quickly restored to the Kingdom of Laos. 
97.	Distressing events have also occurred in Tibet. The forces of Communist China, seeking complete domination, compelled the Dalai Lama to leave his country and seek refuge in India after a spectacular and perilous flight. The result of this action was the annihilation of a large part of the population of Tibet who are defending their age-old religion and liberty. We raise our voice in solidarity with the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people, and we protest strongly against the extermination of a people which desires to preserve its religion and its ancient way of life.
98.	Other problems on which we should like to focus attention concern the self-determination of peoples. First of all, we would refer to the question of Cyprus. In connexion with this problem we can say that the United Nations contributed in large measure to the achievement of peace and to the final settlement of the problem of this island, which will soon be free and independent. We should like to pay tribute to the Governments of the United Kingdom, Turkey and Greece for their good will, and to the Cypriot people, of both Greek and Turkish origin, for having contributed, through their conciliatory attitude, to the achievement of a solution to the problem which had preoccupied many General Assemblies of this Organization. The happy solution of this problem of Cyprus should serve as an encouragement to the United Nations to continue its work in connexion with problems arising from the aspirations of peoples.
99.	The Algerian question is a matter of great concern to us. When previous General Assemblies took up this problem, world attention was aroused and this helped to clarify the situation. The President of France, General de Gaulle, has now offered a more reasonable solution to the problem. We hope that the new proposals for discussion and negotiation will be considered by the parties directly concerned, and so offer a new opportunity to France and the Algerians to seek a satisfactory settlement and a means of living together which will be acceptable to both sides. We earnestly desire friendship between France and the Algerian peoples, and we are therefore in favour of direct negotiations between the parties. We also think that, since there is now a possibility of a satisfactory outcome, it is better to await a direct settlement. We hope that France and the people of Algeria will find peace in a settlement which will enable them, in the future, to maintain friendship based on mutual respect.
100.	Paraguay is a member of the Trusteeship Council. In the work of this important organ over the past year, it has found occasion to emphasize repeatedly its support for self-determination for the peoples hitherto under the trusteeship and protection of the United Nations. In all cases we have argued that it is the duty of the Administering Authorities to prepare these peoples to assume responsibility for their own future in the shortest possible time. We shall spare no effort in this direction and we shall work constantly for the future of these peoples. In a few months, a number of nations which the Trusteeship Council has helped towards preparedness and political maturity will attain their independence. We salute the future free countries of the Cameroons, Togoland and Somalia, and we look forward confidently to their prompt entry into the United Nations, with a view to receiving their co-operation in strengthening the prestige and unity of the international community.
101.	Another item of great interest to my delegation is that relating to the freedom of the seas and of international rivers and waterways. We have listened to many statements in the course of the general debate, as well as many arguments for and against free passage through the Suez Canal. Paraguay enjoys excellent relations with the United Arab Republic and is a staunch admirer of its people, as it is of the people and Government of Israel, so that the statement which I shall make is in the nature of an appeal and an expression of hope that a sincere under standing and an agreement will soon be reached which will make transit through the Suez Canal free to all shipping under any flags wishing to pass through it on their peaceful and lawful errands.
102.	Paraguay has always defended the principle of the freedom of the seas and of international waterways and canals. Its whole history as an inland country offers examples of this unswerving policy. Because it has had experience of this type of problem and because it is familiar with the trouble and unpleasantness which restrictions on this freedom can cause to any country, Paraguay fervently hopes that the United Arab Republic and Israel may be able to reach a peaceful understanding on the use of and passage through the Suez Canal.
103.	In our view, an agreement of this kind would do a great deal to diminish the international tension which is now a feature of relations in that part of the world. Reaching an agreement does not mean renouncing rights or relinquishing sovereignty. We know perfectly well that the Suez Canal lies within the territory of the United Arab Republic and that the Republic's sovereignty extends over the Canal, but we make this appeal in our anxiety to see an amicable solution to the problem of free passage through this waterway, which is at present denied to Israel.
104.	In regard to the problem of the economic development of the under-developed countries, my delegation would like to place on record the importance which Paraguay has always attached to United Nations technical assistance. Much has already been done in this direction and more and wider technical assistance services are envisaged for the future. The establishment of the Special Fund rounds off this extremely effective action by the United Nations. The Managing Director, Mr. Paul Hoffmann, is envisaging a target figure of $100 million to cover the programmes of the Special Fund. Paraguay is contemplating a substantial increase in its contribution, with a view to assisting the operation and activities of the Special Fund which is doing and will do so much in future for the under-developed countries. We therefore greet with sincere appreciation the announcements which have been made regarding future contributions to the Special Fund, noting with special pleasure the United Kingdom's pledge of a substantial increase in its contribution and that made by the United States, which will continue to contribute on a large scale to the operations of this very important agency of the United Nations.
105.	In the regional field, Paraguay's international policy is based on the inter-American system; accordingly, it attaches particular importance to all that relates to joint and positive action to secure a stable and lasting equilibrium and understanding within the American continent. We take particular satisfaction in keeping in close touch with and actively participating in all efforts made to strengthen inter-American relations, and especially anything connected with the economic development of Latin America.
106.	Paraguay attended the Fifth Meeting of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American States held at Santiago from 12-18 August 1959 under the auspices of the Organization of American States, in a spirit of harmony and understanding. Our attitude at this international meeting was clear and specific. As an illustration, I should like to quote, with his permission, what Mr. José Ramón Gutierrez, leader of the Chilean delegation at this fourteenth session of the General Assembly, so pertinently said in this connexion: “… The Organization in question has just achieved some very satisfactory results at Santiago as has been recalled here by ether speakers. There is no need therefore for me to sing its praises. I will merely reiterate our faith in the effectiveness of its methods. "However, I do feel that we should contribute something of our own experience, in regard to a few of the matters with which we have to deal. At the Santiago Conference, the principle of non-intervention was of course reaffirmed "This principle which in the past placed the former Spanish colonies beyond the reach of any foreign jurisdiction threatening their recently-won independence, now forms part of a statement of principles for our own internal use. It is no less valuable for that reason. "There is a tendency to meddle in the affairs of other Governments or to judge them from our own particular point of view. This is especially true where frontiers permit easy contact between individuals and even actual infiltration with a view to changing prevailing systems. "This would be a most unfortunate policy as far as American coexistence is concerned". [817th meeting, paras. 123-127.] This is a sound and positive approach to good inter-American understanding.
107.	Much has already been said from this rostrum regarding the disastrous and almost non-existent state of economic development in Latin America, and also regarding the right of Latin America to act jointly and in harmony, in the international field, as a creative and steadying force. In this connexion, Paraguay warmly supports the principles put forward [797th meeting], so ably by the head of the Brazilian delegation at the current session of the General Assembly, Mr. Augusto Frederico Schmidt, in his lucid explanation of the plan which his chief, the President of the United States of Brazil, Mr. Juscelino Kubitschek, called "Operation Pan-America". As we understand it, this is in essence a plan to set in motion a gigantic effort on behalf of the political and economic development of Latin America, transforming static Pan-Americanism into a philosophy equipped to cope with the anxieties and realities of the present or contemporary world.
108. The President of Paraguay had occasion to say, replying to the message from the President of the United States of Brazil: "Paraguay is and has always been devoted to the principles of continental solidarity, and shares the zeal inspiring your Government’s activities in this Pan-American crusade, formally initiated by the exchange of letters between Your Excellency and His Excellency Mr. Dwight Eisenhower, President of the United States of America. That is the reason why I intimated to you my Government’s sympathy with your anxieties and aims. “The Government of Paraguay agrees fully with your view that America should participate dynamically in problems of international scope in accordance with its contribution, its responsibility and the risk it assumes in the settlement of world conflicts, and Paraguay is therefore willing to participate, to the same extent as the other nations of this continent, in what Your Excellency has called 'Operation Pan-America'. "I share whole-heartedly in the tribute you paid to the United States as a nation which has made many sacrifices, and is doing its duty towards the world, on behalf of international law and in defence of human dignity. This sacrifice will always be worthy of remembrance by the other nations, and will serve as a moral basis for continental solidarity. "I agree with Your Excellency that investment for the advancement of the backward areas, intensified technical assistance, protection against fluctuations in prices of raw materials and products and a reconstruction of the international financial organs are fundamental problems which America should approach with speed and energy. I therefore offer Your Excellency the collaboration of the people and Government of Paraguay in the task of laying the necessary economic, social, cultural, and political foundations for genuine American progress towards a happy solution of world problems”. We Paraguayans regard this as the legitimate attitude of a country which sincerely desires to contribute to the growth of our American continent and thus to strengthen peace and mutual respect throughout the world.
109. In conclusion, may I express the heartfelt wish that the deliberations of this fourteenth session of the General Assembly may prove of benefit to the future of this world of ours, and in particular to all the peoples in all parts of the world whose hopes are centred on this great international organization, the United Nations.

===== Session 15 - 1960 =====
May I be permitted, Mr. President, to join the other representatives who have spoken before me in expressing my satisfaction at your election to the Presidency of the General Assembly at this session, which is more, important than others because of the grave nature of the questions Which are to be discussed, the special situation that the world is facing and the unaccustomed presence of prominent Heads of State. We are sure that your well-known ability and thorough knowledge of United Nations procedure will help to bring our deliberations to a successful issue.
118.	An auspicious event marked the opening of this fifteenth session and has already given it special historical significance, namely the admission to the United Nations of fourteen new States, the Republics of Cameroun, Togo, Malagasy, Somalia, the Congo (Leopoldville), Dahomey, the Niger, the Upper Volta, the Ivory Coast, Chad, the Congo (Brazzaville),Gabon and Cyprus and the Central African Republic.
119.	This unusual event, characterized not only by the great number of admissions to the United Nations but also by the fact that the new Members are new States which have recently attained sovereignty and independence, reflects two great achievements: first, the universalization of the United Nations, as the logical and necessary outcome of the universal operation of international law and, secondly, the triumph of the natural and inalienable right of peoples to self-determination when they have attained the necessary maturity and competence to exercise efficiently the full measure of sovereignty which devolves on States,
120.	When we recall that during the preceding stage of their evolution several of the new States appeared on the agenda of the General Assembly because they were the object of serious concern and the cause of conflict on questions of principle or between nations, it makes us still more happy to see their Representatives seated side by side with us today so that we may all work in concert to find solutions to the disturbing problems that concern the whole world.
121.	A number of those who have spoken before me have pointed out that, fifteen years after its establishment, the United Nations still has not managed to accomplish once and for all one of the essential purposes described in the preamble of the Charter signed at San Francisco , which is "to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind".
122.	It is undeniably true that the fear of a third world war, more destructive than any other and than all previous wars together, has not been finally removed. Nevertheless, while we cannot claim that the present situation is satisfactory, neither can we describe it as one giving cause for pessimism and even less as a tragic situation.
123.	The very fact that representatives of ninety-six States are meeting together here is indicative of a high degree of tolerance and, of course, of the same faith in the ability of the United Nations to achieve the purposes for which it was established. It matters little, and it should not discourage us, that our criteria for achieving the ideals of the Charter are conflicting. Rather should our overriding concern be the possibility of achieving continual unanimity in the solution of our great problems, since it is not natural for men coming from different continents, of different races, religions, cultures and civilizations, who reflect different economic or political interests, historical or present, to think in the same way.
124.	If nations behave in the international community in the same way as individuals in national communities, we must recognize that the universal coexistence of nations of such varied origins and upbringing, whose ideological, political and economic criteria are also different, can only be firmly established on the three classic foundation stones: namely, international law or internationally recognized principles, international tribunals or organs to decide disputes between nations, and international forces to prevent abnormal situations, to rectify them and to enforce international judgements.
125.	Here I would remind you of what I had occasion to maintain from this same rostrum some years ago, following an eminent authority, that the crisis through which the world is passing is caused by the deep imbalance between the increasingly rapid scientific and technological progress achieved within a few decades and the comparatively slow juridical, political and moral evolution of mankind. The fact is that, while not overlooking the considerable efforts the United Nations has made to develop international law, there can be no denying that this is a very slight advance compared with the progress in science and its application. That progress in the atomic field alone has given some nations an extraordinary potential for aggression that, even if it is not used, hangs threateningly over all the other nations which in the meantime, in their attempts at prevention or control, have not even been able to define what constitutes international aggression or to decide whether it can or should be defined.
126.	With regard to international tribunals, the United Nations should strive to make their jurisdiction compulsory for all nations and all juridical disputes. Reference of a dispute to such a tribunal cannot continue to be optional or voluntary. In this connexion it is discouraging to note what little use is made of the Permanent Court of Arbitration set up by The Hague Convention of 1907 and the failure of a great many States to make the declarations called for in Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute of the International Court of Justice. We consider that the best proof of international good faith and a sincere desire to live in harmony with other nations is prior acceptance of international jurisdiction, and to this end we urge States which have not yet done so to take the necessary action under Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute of the International Court of Justice. It does not derogate from the sovereignty of States, large or small to submit to the Court’s judgement, to recognize its jurisdiction. On the contrary, it is only in periods of retrogression and barbarism that the strongest can take the law into their own hands and enforce it to their own advantage.
127.	The existence of permanent international forces is a logical corollary of the operation of an international law ensuring good order and of international authorities to prevent or suppress conflicts. It is all the more necessary in view of the imbalance that we have noted between the powerful means for aggression provided by increasingly rapid scientific and technological progress and the weak and inadequate measures for prevention and control provided by a slow and difficult advance in the juridical and moral order.
128.	The existence of permanent international forces is essential in order to put any plan for disarmament, which all the nations here assembled certainly desire, into effect and to make it possible for expenditure on national defence to be reduced in the budgets of all countries.
129.	In appraising the results achieved by the United Nations since the Charter was signed at San Francisco, we feel that, although we have not finally removed the fear of a third world war, it would be equally incorrect to assert that we have failed in that attempt. The difficulties of a cold war, which do in fact exist, can in no way be compared with the damage, destruction and tragic consequences of a real war. Moreover, there is still the possibility of a future understanding between the Powers which hold in their hands the power to start a war or to renounce it definitely as an instrument for satisfying their ambitions. Neither can we overlook the effective way in which, during the fifteen years of its existence, the United Nations has acted to prevent and to suppress a number of international conflicts. It is common knowledge that its actions have not met with the same approval from all the nations represented here. Nor should we expect that to be the case, for the administration of justice, be it good or bad, cannot please all the parties. The essential point is to respect it as the expression of the will of the majority and of loyalty to the principle of peaceful coexistence of nations.
130.	The fruitful work performed by the United Nations is more apparent in the international co-operation given to the solution of economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems than in the attainment of its political aims, namely the maintenance of international peace and security. It is the difference between doing good and preventing evil from being done. The first requires action, driving force and constructive efforts; the second consists in exerting a calming influence and halting any action. But the lack of visible evidence in no wise detracts from the importance of the effective political work done by the United Nations to preserve the peace, which is the most valued possession and an essential condition for the attainment of the happiness of all peoples and harmony among all nations.
131.	With respect to disarmament, the delegation of Paraguay considers that, taking into account the facts of the situation, it is a question that should be the subject of negotiation between a limited number of countries rather than one for general discussion among all the Members of the United Nations.
132.	Here, interpreting the obvious wishes of the vast majority of the peoples of the world, we can only express our fervent desire that an agreement may be reached proscribing atomic warfare and that atomic energy may be used solely for peaceful purposes for the benefit of mankind.
133.	An agreement on disarmament and the exclusive use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes would have two immediate results. First, it would end the cold war which is responsible for the armaments race between the great nations; secondly, it would make it possible for enormous resources to be devoted to the assistance of the less developed countries, in order to raise the level of living of all their peoples and thus to obtain greater well-being and tranquillity.
134.	In this matter the two great world Powers can be certain that they are being watched with anxiety and hope by all the other nations
135.	With regard to outer space, its ownership and use, the delegation of Paraguay thinks that this should be the subject of a special conference.
136.	Here it is worth pointing out once again that scientific and technological progress has been so rapid in recent years that the conversion into reality of something which seemed to be only a figment of the imagination has not given the jurists time to find a common approach or to establish any rules. We can, however, declare that in any case outer space should be used for peaceful purposes only.
137.	On the agenda of this session of the Assembly there are various items relating to the economic development of the under-developed countries and to technical assistance programmes. My delegation is of the opinion that on this occasion we should consider the severe disequilibrium facing countries producing raw materials, the prices of which are constantly falling while those of the goods, machinery and parts that they have to buy from the industrial nations are constantly rising.
138.	In considering, for example, the specific case of Paraguay, I am sure that I am referring to the position of all the countries represented here whose economies are based on agriculture and cattle breeding. I shall refer to only eight of our export commodities, taking for purposes of comparison present prices and those of ten years ago. In 1950 a ton of tannin or quebracho extract exported by us represented $156; today, in 1960, It represents only $90. In 1950, a ton of cotton fibre exported was worth $949; today, only $400. In 1950, a ton of tobacco exported was worth $62; today, it fetches only $27. In 1950, a ton of cowhides brought in $762; today, only $205. In 1950, a ton of cedar logs yielded $120; today, only $45. In 1950, a ton of coconut oil exported brought us in $400; today, it brings in only $310. In 1950, a ton of tung oil was exported for $415; today, it is exported for less than $300. In 1950, a ton of petit-grain oil exported was worth $700; today, less than $300. The conclusion to be drawn is that in I960 the Paraguayan people are working and producing two and a half times more than in 1950 in order to obtain the same nominal value in money. But as the price of the manufactured goods that we have to obtain from industrial countries has increased considerably, sometimes by more than 100 per cent, instead of declining with the fall in the price of raw materials, the purchasing power of our agricultural and cattle-breeding economy has in less than ten years been reduced to less than a quarter of what it was.
139.	My delegation considers that one of the main causes of economic under-development, and consequently of the low level of living and the backwardness of peoples, is the uneven and unfair prices paid for the produce of their labour.
140.	The agricultural and cattle-breeding nations too have the right not only to maintain but also to raise their levels of living, and technical assistance which causes us to produce more in order to earn less would defeat its own purpose. This would indeed be the worst type of servitude, for it would retain all the outward signs of freedom. We consider that agriculture, cattle breeding and industry ought not to be stages in history through which all nations must of necessity pass in order to reach their highest level of living, but different occupations which should exist side by side at the same time, as a result of the division of labour between nations.
141.	The General Assembly and its economic organs should study the problem of the prices of raw materials and industrial products with a view to ensuring that the raising or the maintenance of the level of living of the industrial economies is not effected at the cost of a lowering of the level of living of countries with agricultural and cattle-breeding economies.
142.	In this discouraging picture, the economically underdeveloped countries are drifting and losing faith in the principles on which our economic system is based; the only freedom they have is, as they say, freedom to die of starvation in a long-drawn-out agony. This painful and sad struggle of the under-developed countries leads to a real and certain loss of faith in destinies and ideals weakening and dispelling to an ever greater degree their hopes of a better world.
143.	It is not possible to continue along the path that we have followed without rebelling against an economic destiny which can no longer be accepted. Our peoples aspire to better living conditions and ask for financial and technical assistance which our States cannot provide. Their legitimate aspirations are thwarted by natural limitations, artificial obstacles and injustices which hamper and delay economic progress.
144.	It is worth stopping to formulate some considerations and suggestions in view of the close relationship between economic and political development, or, in other words, of the fact that the efforts to raise levels of living also strengthen political stability both at the domestic and the international level, and that is the basis of peace for each State and of international peace.
145.	Unless the level of living is raised there is little likelihood that contentment and tranquillity will reign among States, and if the economic position of the State and the individual is not strengthened foreign doctrines will often thrive, seemingly inexplicably, and will spread rapidly, sowing disagreement, chaos and insecurity.
146.	The under-developed countries are struggling desperately to raise their level of living and to strengthen their economies, but they see with dismay that their efforts are in vain because of the decline in the international prices of raw materials or because they come up against inexplicable obstacles in the bureaucracy of some international organizations when they ask for financing for works or projects of conspicuous economic or social interest.
147.	These negative factors — relating to markets, prices, international financing and the increase in the cost of machinery and equipment — produce imbalances which seriously endanger international peace and tranquillity.
148.	If the under-developed countries which are aimlessly drifting are not speedily provided with adequate resources which will enable them to obtain greater and better returns for .their efforts, they will lose faith and confidence in international co-operation and will no longer feel the precious incentive that today inspires so many nations, which see the United Nations and the regional organs as beacons lighting their way in the international sphere.
149.	At the regional level, I may mention Operation Pan America, an initiative of the eminent statesman, Juscelino Kubitschek, President of Brazil, which was submitted to the Organization of American States as one of the most concrete and effective plans to put an end to the under-development of Latin America.
150.	Paraguay acknowledges and is grateful for the efforts of international organizations, some of them United Nations bodies, which have co-operated in its economic development and in raising its level of living. In a spirit of international co-operation, however, I should like to make a few observations which I might summarize in five points.
151.	First, assistance to under-developed countries should not only be increased but should take into account the whole complex of their economic problems. Paraguay, for example, has been through the difficult experience of acquiring and maintaining monetary stability by means of exchange, currency and fiscal measures, but without the resources needed for it to increase production, in particular export production, the foreign exchange earnings from which constitute the very basis of monetary stability.
152.	Second, assistance to under-developed countries should not be made subject to the rigid banking rules of the traditional system of credit. It is only natural and logical that the under-developed countries are those which can offer the fewest guarantees to the banker. To treat them like any other customer would be tantamount to deciding in advance that once again it would be the wealthy countries, with greater potentialities, greater opportunities and a higher and better level of living, which would continue to benefit from international credit and that the under-developed countries would forever remain under-developed, in order that the bank or international institution providing assistance might not suffer any set-back and might continue to be able to collect interest and amortization regularly. To prevent rich countries from getting richer and poor countries from getting poorer, to avoid the disproportion between the wealth of nations and the living standards of peoples, the United Nations should act effectively, fairly and appropriately, so that it does not squander its resources or become a capital investment corporation.
153.	Third, international collaboration should play a more important part in the development of the underdeveloped countries. It should facilitate the building up of the economic infrastructure on a long-term basis so that economic progress would be greater and more attractive to private capital, which will always be governed by self-interest. This international collaboration may be collective or it may include regional projects with wide economic and social repercussions.
154.	Fourth, the administrative procedure in international finance and credit organizations should be more rapid and should not be hampered by an elaborate and cumbersome administrative machinery which may unnecessarily delay the execution of projects.
155.	Fifth, there should be an understanding of the problems of the State planning the project and no attempt should be made to impose rules, systems or special procedures on the under-developed borrowing countries.
156.	The agenda of the Assembly also includes questions relating to technical assistance. I should like to say how valuable and useful United Nations technical assistance has been to Paraguay and to express publicly, in the Assembly, the gratitude of the people and Government of my country. We should like to continue these programmes and, if possible, to adapt them to an increasing extent to our needs in order to secure the. maximum benefit at the lowest possible cost.
157.	When we had the honour and the pleasure of a visit from the Secretary-General in August of last year, we discussed all our technical assistance problems and we may say with satisfaction that the fruits of those discussions are becoming evident and that we are obtaining better results. In that connexion, I should like to make two suggestions in the light of our experience.
158.	First, no minimum cost should be fixed for Special Fund projects lest they exclude small or under-developed countries. The effect of the high minimum cost is that only the large and economically advanced countries are in a position to benefit from Special Fund projects. We think it would be better to decide the type or category of project which can be undertaken and not to establish a high minimum cost.
159.	Secondly, the technical assistance programme should give greater scope and importance to certain types of industrial development in under-developed countries and should provide special facilities for carrying out studies on the processing of primary commodities, their initial processing or their conversion into manufactured goods.
160.	At this juncture, I should like to refer to the work accomplished by the Trusteeship Council. In 1958, at the thirteenth session of the General Assembly, Paraguay was selected to membership of that Council for a three-year period. My country has therefore been participating in the Council’s work for the past two years, i.e., during four regular sessions of the Council.
161.	We assumed our responsibilities as a member of the Council with the unanimous support of the Latin American group, which did, and still does, us great honour. Accordingly, in view of Paraguay’s own policy with regard to Trust Territories and in view of the commitment made by the Governments and peoples of free America, our primary concern was and will continue to be the preparation of those peoples which are not yet self-governing for the rapid attainment of freedom, either through self-government or through independence and full sovereignty. We believe that we have thus been fulfilling the primary responsibility which we assumed.
162.	In the course of our work in the Council, we have been happy to witness the accession to independence of the Togolese Republic, which became a distinguished Member of the United Nations a few days ago. We also witnessed the birth of two other independent countries: Cameroun and Somalia. Conscious of the overwhelming significance of the movement towards the emancipation of Africa, Paraguay sent a special mission to attend the ceremonies in celebration of the independence of Cameroun. Before this Assembly I should like once again to convey to the Government and people of Cameroun the satisfaction and pleasure it gave Paraguay to witness Cameroun's admission to membership, of the United Nations.
163.	Somalia, too, became an independent nation after a period of trusteeship. There again Paraguay made its contribution to the task so successfully carried out by the Somali people and the Government of Italy, And when the date for the independence of the Republic of Somalia was fixed, it was made perfectly plain in the Trusteeship Council that the "miracle of Somalia” was a result of the ability and perseverance of the Somali people in training and organizing themselves in an orderly way for the attainment of freedom and independence.
164.	Similarly, Paraguay co-operated in the preparation and training for self-government or independence of the Territories of Ruanda-Urundi and Tanganyika, which are still under trusteeship. Paraguay was elected to serve on the visiting mission which went to that area, and our representative, together with the representatives of New Zealand, the United Arab Republic and the United States, under the chairmanship of the latter, visited Ruanda-Urundi from 2 March to 1 April of this year and Tanganyika from 1 to 22 April. The relevant report was submitted to the Trusteeship Council at its twenty-sixth regular session.
165.	As the representative of Paraguay, I feel it my duty to state, as clearly as possible, that we have worked and shall continue to work resolutely and unremittingly to give our full support to the Trusteeship Council and to the United Nations so that the peoples still under trusteeship may attain self-government or independence as soon as possible.
166.	The best way that any nation can contribute to the fulfilment by the United Nations of the purposes of the Charter is by strengthening its own well-being and its own development. For that reason I venture to give you a-brief summary of what is being done in my country.
167.	In the last five years, Paraguay has taken on an entirely different aspect. With the help of the International Monetary Fund and the United States Treasury Department, the Government has succeeded in stabilizing the currency, the guarani, and has progressed from a system of controls, licences, quotas and differential exchanges for imports and exports to a system of free exchange, total freedom of foreign trade abolition of economic quotas and controls, freedom to hold and dispese of foreign currencies.
168.	In a gigantic effort to solve the problems arising from its geographical situation, Paraguay has in the last two years acquired twenty-three ships suitable for river traffic, which are being built in the shipyards of Spain and Japan and will be delivered within the next few months. It has also built extensive international highways, which now link its capital with the road networks of Brazil and Argentina, and it is continuing the construction of another 780-kilometre highway which crosses the Paraguayan Chaco and will soon reach the border with Bolivia. In order to appreciate the magnitude of this effort, it should be remembered that twenty years ago there was not one metre of road or highway in the whole of Paraguay
169.	Asuncion, our capital and the founding city of other cities of America, had to wait for over four centuries before it had the essential services of running water and public sanitation which were installed recently, just over a year ago.
170.	Schools are being built and equipped at the rate of one a week. Airports, bridges, buildings and public Works are being constructed; two additional university departments have been opened, as well as a Catholic University independent of the National University; the National University has been given full autonomy; attention is being given to public health and malaria has been completely eradicated; the Paraguayan worker enjoys social security benefits, which give him peace of mind and which are operating normally; programmes of immigration, settlement and repatriation are under way.
171.	I should now like to digress. I am unhappily obliged to refer to two statements made to the Prime Minister of Cuba.
172.	The first was to the effect that the United States likes to have the support of military governments imposed by force like that of Paraguay and others which he mentioned.
173.	I do not wish to refer to, or discuss, any foreign Government, but I must confess that it is really paradoxical for the Government of Cuba to speak of governments imposed by force in America or in any other part of the world. Nevertheless, I shall not refer to that Government; I shall, however, describe the characteristics of the Government of Paraguay and if any similarity should emerge from my description, it will be — as they say in the films — purely coincidental.
174.	The Government of Paraguay is the result of free elections and not of any military coup which happened to be successful and has, no intention of calling for elections; it is, I repeat, a Government created by free and popular elections.
175.	The Government of Paraguay is a democratic Government because it is supported by the majority party, the oldest political party in Paraguay, founded in 1887; it is the party with the largest membership; it is the party of the poor and of the peasants, the party which had spent its whole life, up to a few years ago, in the plains. It is the best organized: when its opinion is sought, it does not hold a plebiscite in the streets at which everybody shouts at the signal of the leader; the people come with their ballot papers and cast their votes.
176.	In Paraguay, there is a separation of powers: our judiciary is completely independent of the executive and often takes issue with decisions of lower executive authorities and corrects them in a sensible way.
177.	There have never been any special courts or special laws passed with retroactive effect for any offence, nor have there been any executions. I remember only one execution in Paraguay and it took place forty years ago, when I was a little boy: that of two common criminals, Gastón Gabin and Cipriano León, who had combined to kill the father of the former. Since then, never at any time has there been a single execution in Paraguay ordered either by the public authorities or by the regular courts, and it is even less conceivable that there should be a special court empowered, on the basis of special ex post, facto legislation, to order the execution of Paraguayans.
178.	The legislative branch in Paraguay is independent of the executive and the executive branch is not dominated by the military, as has sometimes been said. I think that if we count all the military men in our public service and our diplomatic corps, we shall find no more than two.
179.	Our University is completely autonomous. Countries which can have an autonomous university are privileged indeed. The Government does not interfere in the appointment of teachers or in their salaries or in the establishment of the curricula. Our University is so autonomous that it allocates its own funds, appoints its teachers, imposes its own sanctions, discipline, etc.
180.	Here I should mention that for the last four or five years Paraguay has not had a single strike of students or workers or of any other kind and that strikes in my country are not put down with armies or bayonets.
181.	There is freedom of the Press in Paraguay, In the last ten years, to which I am referring, no newspaper has ever been shut down. There is no censorship of the Press. Foreign newspapers are allowed to circulate freely and say what they wish and that is how we find out what is being said by a certain Press in America which makes a specialty of distorting the truth and then circulating it in good faith to the whole world.
182.	There are no concentration camps in Paraguay; no political prisoners in the jails. Last year, the opposition was invited by the President of the Republic, the Minister of the Interior and the head of the Partido Colorado to take part in the elections held in March of this year, to publish its own papers freely and to serve on the electoral court. What was the result? Three invasions were immediately turned back, without any need for the intervention of the army or the police, since Paraguayan citizens of every political affiliation co-operated in repelling the invaders. And what did we find in the invaders’ equipment but the “Manual of Guerrilla Warfare” by Ché Guevara, that is, instructions sent from Cuba. In deference to the Assembly, I must say that I am not officially naming the Government of Cuba in this connexion. But the truth is that what we found were guerrilla warfare manuals by a certain Ché Guevara, who is, I believe, a foreign major: instructions sent from Cuba, the statement of the participants in the invasion that they had received funds from Cuba as also the promise that they would receive arms as soon as the invasion made some headway or after the initial successes. The countries which have accredited missions in Paraguay have witnessed these things and are witnessing them daily. Indeed, they have recently been confirmed by the Vice-President of the Council of Government of Uruguay during a visit he recently made to Paraguay, accompanied by three ministers and over 270 other people. Attempts were even made to prevent his coming. It was said that there was fighting in the capital, that tanks were being used  — and we have not a single tank — that aircraft were in action, that the Government had fled, and a whole series of other lies. When the delegation arrived and saw that our people were quietly at work and that all they wanted was to be left in peace, they were indignant and their reaction was reflected in the Uruguayan newspapers for many months.
183.	Another assertion made yesterday afternoon in an attempt to include us in or link us with a specific bloc of States is that the Paraguayan telephone company is a United States monopoly. Now there is no foreign company in Paraguay holding a public monopoly. The telephone company has never belonged as a concession or a monopoly to any public or private capital of the United States. There is no public service in Paraguay in the hands of foreign capital and the only United States holdings in the country are three private companies and a rather large branch of a bank.
184.	I see no advantage in all the countries represented here being linked with one block or another. In fact, we may be giving a very bad impression to the new States that were admitted to membership early in the session, .
185.	Paraguay is simply and solely dedicated to the great principles guiding our regional organization, the Organization of American States, and the United Nations. In connexion with the Organization of American States, Paraguay is eagerly looking forward to the time when all the African States, old or new, will be grouped together, like the nations of America, in an organization of African States.
186.	America has gained nothing but advantages and benefits from its regional organization: legal, economic, social, cultural and above all political advantages, which tend to promote peace and security on the continent. The regional organization is extremely useful and the Charter of the United Nations provides expressly for such organizations.
187.	I have no authority to give advice to the African States, but perhaps they too will be impressed by the clear foresight of Simón Bolivar, the Liberator of America, when more than a century and a half ago he initiated the idea of grouping all the American States in a single organization in order to preserve the peace of the continent.
188.	I shall conclude by expressing the fervent desire of my country, Paraguay, that this Assembly, in which the delegations have been augmented by the participation of eminent Heads of State, should reach conclusions and obtain results so positive and so well conceived that they will be remembered with satisfaction and honoured by posterity.


===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
﻿50.	The tragic death of that apostle of peace, Dag Hammarskjold was a source of profound shock to the Paraguayan nation. There is no more eloquent testimony to the grief which this dramatic occurrence produced among my compatriots than the following words used by our President, General Stroessner, in his message to the President of this, Assembly:
"The people and Government of Paraguay are profoundly grieved at the tragic fate of the illustrious Dr. Dag Hammarskjold, Secretary-General of the United Nations, whose death in line of duty casts a pall of mourning on that high international organization, as well as on all peoples of the world, because of his tireless efforts on behalf of the strengthening of world peace and his noble attributes. These words are the expression Of our deep sorrow."
With these just and fitting words my delegation pays its tribute of admiration and respect to the memory of one who gave his life for the purest ideals of mankind.

51.	Even long before attaining its political independence, Paraguay waged a constant battle in support of the principle of self-determination of peoples. Its history is marked with events testifying to something that is rooted deep in our ethos, namely, dedication to this principle which we continue to uphold today with unwavering devotion. This is the source of our firm traditional anti-colonialist position.
52.	We believe that the problems which arise from colonialism must be fearlessly resolved, for it is obvious that they have a profound effect on the efforts to maintain world peace and that they sow the seeds of discord in international relations. We therefore hail the birth of new States and their admission to the United Nations and trust that, as the natural obstacles are overcome, more peoples will attain their full and sovereign independence. We take this opportunity to reiterate the position set forth by my country in the Trusteeship Council during consideration of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV):
"The exercise of the right of peoples to self- determination is not and cannot be dependent upon the prior establishment of ideal conditions. The peoples have within themselves permanent, dynamic forces impelling them towards the continual perfecting of their political institutions, the strengthening of their economic structures, the raising of their levels of education, the improvement of their living standards and the development of their own cultural values; but, first and foremost, their supreme virtue is their passion for freedom and a will to use their knowledge to further their own ideals."
53.	It is on the basis of this criterion that we have urged and shall continue to urge that increasingly more rapid ,.and effective steps be taken to reduce to the reasonable minimum the time which must elapse before each of the dependent peoples, constituted as a clearly defined political entity, can decide, as it must decide, its own national destiny.
54.	In 1958, at the General Assembly's thirteenth session, Paraguay was elected a member of the Trusteeship Council for a regular three-year period, to end on 31 December 1961.
55.	During these years, in conformity with the policy which my country follows and has always followed in colonial questions, we have given our support in the Council to every more designed to intensify and make more speedy and dynamic, the preparation of the peoples of the Trust Territories for the attainment of the goals of the Trusteeship System. We have spared no effort to ensure that the Powers administering Trust Territories give the greatest possible attention to the preparation of the dependent peoples in political, economic, social and educational matters. We are pleased to note that the Trusteeship Council, that important organ of the United Nations, has persuaded the Administering Authorities, especially in the last few years, to show greater concern for the peoples of Territories still under trusteeship.
56.	In a few months only three Trust Territories will be left, all of them situated in the Pacific—the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, which is considered strategic, Nauru and New Guinea—and the process of emancipation of the former Trust Territories in Africa will have been completed. The Council will then be in a position to concentrate its efforts on the three Territories which I have named,
and the results of such a concentration of energies are not difficult to conjecture.
57.	As we near the end of our term in the Council, we can state emphatically that Paraguay, in carrying out the delicate mission assigned to it by the major} vote of the General Assembly, has striven with devotion, application, equanimity and impartiality to further the general interests of the peoples of the Trust Territories.
58.	To the Latin American countries which supported the candidature of Paraguay for election to the Trusteeship Council? we once again offer our thanks for the opportune which they gave us, and we also assure them of firm conviction that, faithful to continental policy, we have participated in the Council's work in a manner befitting our hemisphere, our civilization and our continental culture, and that we have at all times stressed the aspirations of the Latin American countries for a world consisting exclusively of independent and sovereign peoples.
59.	Paraguay is following with great attention the problem of the division of Germany. Because of this division a section of its people is enduring a shameful oppression incompatible with the provisions of the United Nations Charter. The German nation has the legitimate right to form itself into a single State through the exercise by its people of the right of self-determination. Until this right is exercised, a problem will remain which will lead not only to crises like the one now centred around Berlin but to others of still graver consequence. Here is a constant threat to world peace and security. We firmly believe that the citizens of Germany alone have the right to decide their destiny. We therefore consider that the most just and equitable solution, which we fervently support, would be to consult the wishes of the German people regarding their future.
60.	My country is not categorically opposed to a revision of the United Nations Charter, but it considers that this should be done at a time when conditions are favourable and the international situation makes this possible, always provided that any revision of the Charter will in no way entail a weakening of our Organization. In the meanwhile, Paraguay supports faithful compliance with the Charter, which is a sufficiently flexible instrument to fulfil its purposes so long as Members agree that it must be strictly observed.,
61.	The vacancy occasioned by the death of the Secretary-General of the United Nations creates a further problem which has already arisen in the past regarding this important post, in addition to the
' problems which are causing grave concern throughout the world at the present time, since they have the makings of an international crisis. The election of a person to fill this executive post is a matter which cannot be postponed; otherwise the possibilities of action provided for in our Charter may be obstructed. In this regard, Paraguay is opposed to any change involving a division of responsibility. We do not agree with the proposal that more than one person should hold the office of Secretary-General. This proposal is completely unacceptable, in our view, since it would weaken the functions of the office, to the detriment of the solution of the world problems, and, consequently, to the detriment of the Members of the Organization. This essentially executive office cannot be used to obstruct the implementation of resolutions emanating from the Security Council itself,
it will happen if the post is shared among a number of persons, who will inevitably come from geographical regions with conflicting points of view.
62.	"To save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought sorrow to mankind"—this, according to the Preamble of the United Nations Charter, is one of the basic purposes of our Organization, yet the behaviour and deeds of men up to the present time make the achievement of such a purpose seem remote.
63.	Until there is a sincere and honest determination to apply international principles and standards, mankind will remain at the fatal crossroads and will continue to live in terror and despair.
64.	The resumption of nuclear tests in the atmosphere by one of the great Powers, which thus destroyed the status quo has made the world's hopes for peace and the possibility of living free from fear seem once again threatened.
65.	My delegation will support any draft resolution aiming at the abolition of nuclear tests, for it is not the preparation and carrying out of such tests that will bring about peaceful coexistence; this will never be achieved through intimidation. The goal of using atomic science to further the peaceful ideals of human progress is attractive to the scientific spirit and holds out unforeseeable possibilities for the happiness of the world's peoples. This is the objective towards which we must strive; science in the service of man and not for mankind's destruction.
66.	The Charter of San Francisco, in pursuit of the goal of world peace, established human rights as one of its corner-stones. Paraguay has acceded to
 all the international conventions and agreements which have been concluded in this matter, and the Paraguayan ; Government, loyal to its engagements, and in the implementation of its programme, has constantly endeavoured to improve its laws and to bring them  into harmony with the democratic yearnings and social aspirations of its people. President Stroessner  recently promulgated an Act of the Republic grunting  women the same political rights as men. It is only a I few years since my country, in recognition of all that it owes to its daughters—the mothers of our race accorded civil rights to them. Now, by virtue of a just and timely decision, all rights have been conferred on the Paraguayan woman, in order that she may no longer be a silent spectator of the community's acts but may be a lawful participant, with a voice and a vote in great rational decisions.
67.	Besides this highly important event, there is another to which I must refer, if only in passing; it relates to land reform.
68.	For my people—primarily a farming and cattle- raising people—this reform is of such importance
 that, in the minds of the present rulers of Paraguay, its execution is synonymous with the question of human rights.
69.	Without fanfare or demagogic propaganda, and without harming private interests, but simply by making use of its own reserves, the State has distributed land to the peasants, established settlements, and opened up roads into every corner of its territory, in order to bring out of isolation and to integrate into
"the national economy areas which until yesterday were neglected and forgotten. A few days ago the President of my country personally handed to a humble
rural worker the 15,000th title-deed to be distributed during the period of his progressive rule, at a ceremony organized by the Land Reform Institute, A study of FAO data will serve to bring out the significance of this figure, especially if the population of Paraguay is taken into account and comparisons are made with other nations of the hemisphere „ „
70.	The "Alliance for Progress", that happy plan conceived by the President of the United States of America, Mr. John Kennedy, was given concrete form in the Charter of Punta del Este, This document, by focusing attention on economic and social problems, constitutes an important advance towards overcoming the difficulties which confront us? countries and will lead to renewed endeavours by Governments and peoples, resulting in substantial reforms in taxation, agriculture, health and education.
71.	The United States of America has promised a considerable increase in its technical and financial assistance in the preparation and execution of short- term and long-term national development plans.
72.	The campaign waged in every region against evils of economic and social origin will, owing to the close relationship of these vital questions with politics, necessarily help to strengthen internal peace in the various countries and this will be reflected in international relations.
73.	The economic interdependence of the various regions of the world makes the provisions of adequate aid to the under-developed countries, with due regard for the complexity and nature of their economies, a matter of supreme urgency. Such aid must be accompanied by efforts to stabilize the prices of raw materials and to provide opportunities for the industrial use of the products of these countries.
74.	Loans to agricultural nations must be provided on more flexible economic and financial terms, since such loans will be of no use, to them if the same terms are applied to them as to economically strong countries such as those whose industries guarantee there is a relatively higher level of living.
75.	Spurred on by the desire to overcome their difficulties, and inspired by the European common market, several countries of our continent—Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay— have signed the Montevideo Treaty, setting up the Latin American Free-Trade Association. The Treaty seeks to bring about the complementarity of the economies of the member nations, and, in a true spirit of brotherly solidarity, provision has been made for according special advantages to nations which are at a relatively less advanced stage of economic development.
76.	The system which, within twelve years, will exempt products circulating within the area: from duties, thereby extending national markets to the whole area, will enter into force on 1 January 1962. The spirit of justified optimism in which this step towards unity has been made has infected neighbouring republics which, like Ecuador and Colombia, have already announced their intention of joining the Latin American Free-Trade Association..
77.	Another happy development—the establishment by the Central American Republics of their own common market—makes it still more important for the Latin American Free-Trade Association to become a working reality. The day is not far off when, with opposing interests reconciled, the whole of America will be bound together by the strong tie of economic co-operation.
78.	Here is tangible evidence of the way in which the present generation in our hemisphere approaches the great problems of the day. On the one hand, there is the Alliance for Progress, which will enable our peoples to advance in the economic, cultural, health and social fields; and, on the other hand, the Latin American Free-Trade Association, which is gradually abolishing the artificial frontiers of duties and tariffs, in order to create a united country for the purposes of trade in its agricultural and industrial products. This, without any shadow of doubt, constitutes a positive encouragement to our proletarian masses in the urban and rural areas, who are yearning for a better life.
79.	Mr. President, my delegation has the greatest pleasure in associating itself with the congratulations already offered on your election to preside over the discussions of the United Nations General Assembly during its sixteenth session. Your outstanding personality, which for many years we have appreciated at its true value in this international forum, where you have given proof of a high sense of justice, prudent judgement and a keen insight into the problems which trouble the world, makes you a particularly appropriate choice for the high office of President of the Assembly; and we are confident that, in the exercise of your duties, you will display those qualities which we have learnt to admire in you.
80.	May God enlighten our deliberations in this Assembly, that we may be worthy of the mandate given us by our peoples to find ways and means of banishing, if possible for ever, the spectre of war.


===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
153.	My delegation heartily welcomes the election of. Mr. Muhammad Zafrulla Khan to preside over this august Assembly. We are confident that his outstanding personal qualities, his devotion to the cause of peace and justice and his great experience in international affairs will make our deliberations fruitful.
154.	When the sixteenth session of the General Assembly opened a year ago, the United Nations, and with it the cause of peace, had just suffered a tragic loss in the person of Dag Hammarskjold, one of its most capable and brilliant crusaders. 
155.	That was the time, fraught with uncertainty, when we elected U Thant and entrusted to him not only the tremendous office of Secretary-General but our most fervent hopes for his devotion to the task of preserving international peace and security. The year which has passed since then has shown the wisdom of that election, which was a just and unanimous choice. With these words my delegation pays its tribute of gratitude to our Secretary-General.
156.	 In his Introduction to the annual report on the work of the Organization [A/5201/Add.l], the Secretary-General referred to the problem of the so-called crisis of confidence" which, according to those who put forward the idea, the United Nations is said to be undergoing; at the same time, however, U Thant did not hesitate to bring all the weight of his robust personality and the prestige of his high office to bear in making a categorical assertion of optimism and faith, an optimism and faith which my delegation loyally and sincerely shares.
157.	My country believes — and once again I quote the Secretary-General — that “the 'crisis of confidence', if indeed there is such a crisis, is a passing phase" and that "the United Nations will survive this 'crisis' and emerge stronger than before as a force for peace".
158. The Charter imposes common tasks on all the Members of our Organization because our aspirations for peace, well-being, progress and mutual and sincere understanding are, and should be, common. The United Nations will be able to withstand fresh "crisis of confidence" and be strengthened in the fulfilment of its noble aims to the extent that its Members decrease or intensify their co-operation.
159.	There is a popular saying that a chain is no stronger than its weakest link. In the same way we may say that peace and tranquility among the Members of the United Nations depend on the peace and tranquility of each and every one of its Members.
160.	Paraguay is pleased to come to this Assembly presenting a sound economic and social structure, stabilized and strengthened by hard sacrifice. Having gone through a great deal of misunderstanding both at home and abroad, we have finally arrived at an era of great and positive achievements which consolidate the unity of our people in our joint efforts to raise the level of living as high as possible and to achieve our own political, cultural and social aspirations.
161.	Looking back upon the years which have passed since the creation of the United Nations, we find irrefutable evidence of the growing vigour of our Organization and we proclaim our faith in its future. It would be a long and superfluous task to cite numerous examples, but I cannot refrain from mentioning one which is among the glories of this era. I refer to the appearance on the international scene and in the United Nations itself of new independent and sovereign States composed of ancient peoples which have recently been liberated from the colonial yoke that oppressed them. Their emergence is a continuous and encouraging process.
162.	My delegation welcomes the admission of four new Members at this session: two African States — Rwanda and Burundi — and two States in the Western Hemisphere — Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago. To these States, and to their representatives here present, I address a most cordial and brotherly welcome.
163.	Anticipating the formal decision which will be adopted within a few days, for it has already been adopted in sentiment, I also welcome with the same fraternal joy the admission of Algeria to the free and sovereign nations of the world assembled in our Organization.
164.	The continuous process of decolonization of the regions of the world in which dominated and dominating countries still exist is drawing to its inexorable end. Encouraged by the United Nations in their struggle for liberation, these peoples which are seeking their sovereignty have found in this Assembly a friendly forum in which to proclaim their hopes and aspirations.
165.	My delegation wishes to pay a tribute to those Committees established by our Organization to which specific tasks in this field have been assigned; in particular to the Committee usually known as the Committee of Seventeen, whose extensive, complex and fundamental work we appreciated in its true dimensions.
166.	The common effort to eradicate colonialism has in recent years seen definite evidence of a new conception and a new spirit for the solution of some of the grayer problems which might at any time jeopardize international peace and security. Our fervent desire is that this new spirit may be extended to all cases and to other peoples.
167.	We have witnessed the end of the struggle in Algeria and the signing of the Evian agreement, negotiated with sincerity and mutual understanding between the leaders of a people called to a great destiny, as are the Algerian people, and the representatives of the wise, determined leader of France, General de Gaulle. This agreement, made in good faith and put into effect, has healed the wounds of a long and cruel war and has opened the way for sincere co-operation between the former adversaries, co-operation between equally sovereign and independent States.
168.	We have seen this same spirit prevail in the settlement of another of those conflicts which have for years been causing us grave concern: I refer to the question of West New Guinea or West Irian. The peaceful settlement which has been reached and which this Assembly has witnessed has closed a lamentable chapter in the history of relations between Indonesia and the Netherlands and has created a basis for better mutual understanding.
169.	Nevertheless, although some very serious problems have begun to disappear, others even more serious have arisen. The problem of nuclear and thermo-nuclear tests is certainly on the priority list of our concerns. This is a problem which by its very nature is of concern to all the peoples of the world, for they are living in an agony of uncertainty and peril under the daily threat of the most terrible of catastrophes.
170.	For a brief period, the suspension of nuclear tests brought relief to all mankind. But then came that dark hour when, despite the cries of despair of people everywhere, the Soviet Union violated the moratorium agreed Upon by the great Powers and resumed nuclear testing about a year ago. The echoes of those explosions reverberated throughout the world, striking terror into the hearts of people in all parts of the globe. There could be no mistaking the meaning and the implications of those tests. Behind the arrogance there lay an intention to intimidate others in order to reap the harvest of terror, namely, the triumph of a doctrine unacceptable to the vast majority of nations.
171.	In view of the threat to the human race from nuclear and thermo-nuclear tests and the anguish which holds all peoples in thrall, my delegation, does not hesitate to declare emphatically and categorically that it is opposed to the continuance of that destructive and perilous undertaking.
172.	We believe that the time has come to put an end to such tests once and for all. We have heard the words of one of the great Powers which possess the secret of nuclear fission and they were words of hope. That is how I understood the statement of the United States representative at. the meeting held on 20 September (1125th meeting) and I am pleased to quote it. Mr. Stevenson said: “... we in this country want to cease testing nuclear weapons. If other nuclear Powers are also willing to make an agreement to cease, the testing will cease.”
173.	We resolutely join with those who have spoken before us in expressing the hope that that objective which is not the aim of the United States alone but of the whole world, will soon be realized.
174.	We, the representatives of countries at different stages of economic development, we who are working to raise the level of living of our peoples and devoting all our available resources, limited as they are, and all our best and unremitting efforts to accelerating our growth and consolidating our economic infrastructure — we are witnessing another deplorable phenomenon.
175.	I refer to the vast arms race in which the great Powers are engaged, a race which devours fantastic sums that should be spent in the interest of human welfare rather than in the production of weapons of destruction. A mere fraction of the money invested in armaments could speed the progress of vast masses of people and promote their general development.
176.	There has been very little progress in the year since this Assembly adopted the resolution laying down the broad lines for achieving disarmament and ensuring for the world a future free from the fear of imminent disaster. We are familiar with the various positions and we can see no grounds for the Soviet Union's stubborn refusal to agree to procedures of international inspection which would guarantee the security of both sides, if its avowed intentions are in good faith.
177.	If we look at the situation from that point of view, we are forced to conclude that the Soviet Union is not really trying to bring the arms race to an end. It is the fact that the Soviet Union is a great military Power which gives support and encouragement to the expansion of communism, a doctrine which we vigorously reject. In this second half of the twentieth century, we are seeing how the Soviet Union is ruthlessly establishing a vast empire and helping to create and perpetuate the very problems with which we are at present concerned, There is much evidence to substantiate that charge. Although it would take a long time to enumerate all the instances, and we are all familiar with them, a few examples should be mentioned because they are so obvious.
178.	Germany is one such instance. It is an artificially divided country and one of the two States resulting from that division is the Federal Republic of Germany, a democratic, consolidated and powerful State whose progress is a magnificent example of how a people can recover and develop when it is free to act for itself. Side by side with it there is the other Germany, so-called East Germany, which in our opinion is not really a State but a piece of German territory in which the inhabitants are totally subjugated by the Soviet Union. This East Germany, which possesses neither its own identity nor its own voice, which has been torn off and sacrificed, should be allowed to exercise the right of self-determination so that it may return to the great German fatherland and, unified and sovereign, independent and free, become what it should always have been, an integral part of the great Federal Republic of Germany.
179.	What we have said about Germany applies to Berlin. Side by side with a free and democratic West Berlin, there is East Berlin, which is so different beneath the Soviet yoke that it has been necessary to erect a wall to seal it off. That wall is a monument to the shamelessness of, those who built it and when I think that it was erected to prevent the Berliners of East Berlin from exercising their free will, my admiration and sympathy go out to the countless thousands of Germans who decided individually to exercise their right of self-determination, even at the risk of their lives, and to seek refuge in West Berlin and in the Federal Republic of Germany.
180.	I have cited Germany as a typical example. I have also said that it is not the only one. What is more, here on our American continent, in the context of a political, social, juridical and economic system based on an identity, of principles and objectives, the Soviet Union has introduced its Trojan horse; it has taken possession of the sovereignty of a Latin American nation and is holding it by virtue of its military power and tyranny, usurping the powers of self-determination which belong to the people alone and seeking to implant principles alien to the culture and civilization of our America.
181.	That event, which is tantamount to aggression against all the nations of the American continent; is no more than a normal and logical episode in the imperialist totalitarianism of international communism.
182.	The countries of America, whose Ministers for Foreign Affairs met informally in Washington on 2 and 3 October, expressed the hope that this situation will soon be resolved so that this problem will not be one of the items on the agenda of the next session of the General Assembly.
183.	I should now like to refer to the vast changes which have taken place in the United Nations since its inception, changes brought about by the admission of new States, in particular Asian and African States, which only yesterday were dependent territories and are now sovereign like the other Members.
184.	The change in the membership of the United Nations has been a very marked one, and I might add, for the greater good of the Organization, for it has made it necessary to adopt new approaches in many areas of activity specified in the Charter.
185. There has been talk in some quarters of the possibility that a system of what might be called "weighted voting" might eventually be adopted in the Assembly. On that point I should like to say flatly that our Views concerning the right of each Member State are identical with what has been clearly established in the Charter, namely, that each Member State shall have and shall continue to have one vote, I might add that we were glad to read the clear opinion expressed by the Secretary-General on this point in his Introduction to the Annual Report on the work of the Organization, of which I spoke earlier.
186.	As I said just now. the drastic changes in the membership of the United Nations compel us to adopt new approaches, generally speaking in connexion with the composition of the Councils, especially the Security Council.
187.	The number and influence of the countries of Africa and Asia has grown considerably and our Organization has been enriched by the contribution of those new States to such an extent-that the Councils, and, I repeat, especially the Security Council, cannot remain as at present constituted because the political and social interests of the Afro-Asian States should be duly represented.
188.	In expressing these ideas, I should like to add that we cannot and must not close our eyes to the consequences of a historical process which is of the greatest significance and that we should therefore consider the problems resulting from current developments.
189.	My comments concerning the Councils and principal organs of the United Nations apply also, for the same basic reasons, to the composition of what the Charter calls "the principal judicial organ of the United Nations", namely, the International Court of Justice.
190.	My delegation does not propose to offer possible solutions for this problem, but it felt it a duty, and of course a right, to express its concern and its ideas on this question in the hope that they might help in some way towards the formulation and solution of the problems in question.
191.	There are many very important items on our agenda. My delegation will state its views on them in due course, when they are discussed in the organs to which they have been allocated?
192.	I should not fail to state, however that at the appropriate time the delegation of Paraguay intends to uphold the right of the Republic of China to participate in our Work as a Member of the United Nations and to serve on its organs. The People's Republic of China, which seeks to replace it in our Organization, is not qualified to do so, has not complied with the resolutions of the General Assembly on the Korean question and has not shown that it accepts the basic principles on which the, United Nations is founded.
193.	In conclusion, I should like to express my best wishes for the success of this Assembly's deliberations.

===== Session 18 - 1963 =====
My first words must be words of congratulation to the President on his election to the high office with which the Assembly has honoured him at its eighteenth session. Our American continent is deeply gratified that one of its foremost intellectual and moral Leaders is the President of the world assembly.

48. In commenting on the Introduction to the Secretary-General's annual report on the work of the Organization from this rostrum, only a year ago [1144th meeting], I expressed the view that the United Nations, which at that time was passing through a "crisis of confidence" would survive that and other crises and would emerge from them strengthened and invigorated.

49. The accuracy of that prediction is now apparent. There is an appreciable difference in the atmosphere of the General Assembly, in the prevailing international climate and in the optimistic spirit in which we have come to this session.

50. But we are not deceiving ourselves in our appraisal of the difficult and complex task which lies ahead of us; nor do we in any way under-estimate the volume of work with which we shall be confronted in the plenary meetings and in the Main Committees, when we consider in detail the numerous items on our agenda. Since that lies ahead, I have no intention of attempting to make a preliminary analysis of these questions. My delegation, like all the rest, will have ample opportunity to express its views on the various items in the course of the coming debates; and as in the past, Paraguay's vote will in all cases be determined by considerations of justice, equity and unwavering respect for the lofty moral and legal principles which give our Organization its purpose.

51. Some items are of such importance, either because they affect us all equally or because they have a direct bearing on our own national Interests, that positions will have to be taken at the highest level. I consequently propose to confine my comments to some of these problems, with the purpose of informing the General Assembly of Paraguay's position on them. I am not afraid of repeating the obvious, because I am convinced that our voices, which are weak if heard in isolation, become powerful when they are joined together and will end by being heard.

52. The ashes of the Second World War were still warm when the United Nations was born, blessed by the hopes of nations torn and shaken by that great upheaval. The instrument created at San Francisco to preserve the peace and to promote the happiness of the human race was not perfect, but it was perfectible, and then, as now, it alone was capable of enforcing moral and legal principles in relations among States to ensure the benefits of peace, collective well-being and happiness for all nations.

53. But at the same time the great Powers began an arms race involving weapons in such quantities and of such destructive force as had never been known in the history of mankind; and this race has been consuming material resources of incalculable value and entailing a boundless waste of talent and energy. What is worse, this race has inspired a fear never felt before —fear of the possible extinction of human life on the planet.

54. Our only hope lies in disarmament; and therefore, this subject must have priority. The fact that we developing nations have no part in the arms race matters little. We too are feeling its effects. And if the item remains on our agenda year after year, the responsibility lies with the great Powers and not with us, reduced as we all too often are to the role of spectators in apparently endless negotiations. Despite this almost passive role, we firmly refuse to believe that the difficulties are insurmountable. With the optimism of those who look towards the future with confidence, we think that it is possible to achieve world agreement on disarmament subject to adequate international inspection and supervision. Freely agreed international inspection and supervision do not, in our opinion, constitute any limitation upon the sovereignty of States greater than the offer of disarmament itself when made in good faith.

55. If there is any task in which there should be no remission, or discouragement in face of repeated setbacks, that is the task of finding a formula for general disarmament. Not only our national interests are at stake, but the survival of all mankind.

56. This year, the Assembly is meeting in a climate where the major tensions of the cold war have been relaxed. Two recent events give grounds for reasonable optimism. First, there is the establishment of direct lines of communication between the capitals of the two great nuclear Powers, with the clearly stated purpose of avoiding the accidental outbreak of a war of annihilation. The other is the signature of the Moscow treaty, prohibiting nuclear tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water.

57. We having been advocating the prohibition of such tests for years, as they were progressively contaminating the earth's atmosphere, seriously endangering the terror-struck nations. In accordance with its tradition, my country not only greets this treaty with relief and satisfaction, but has resolutely formally acceded to it, signing it in the capitals of all three contracting Powers. We think that the treaty is not only a positive reply from the great Powers to the world's appeals; it is the precursor of a series of other agreements which will finally lead to disarmament. It is a great step forward which must be followed by other steps.

58. It should be remembered that despite the extremes of horror which were reached during the Second World War, both sides were able at least to respect certain agreed standards, such as the ban on the use of poison gas and on bacteriological warfare. It was, I repeat, a total war. Hence the logical consequence of the Moscow Treaty should be the banning of the use of nuclear and thermo-nuclear weapons and the destruction of the stocks of such weapons.

59.In view of the magnitude of the problems of disarmament and the obvious common danger of nuclear and thermo-nuclear weapons an attempt has been made to devise formulas to safeguard vast areas of the world through denuclearization. Such progressive denuclearization may lead gradually to complete denuclearization.

60. The heads of State of five Latin-American countries have been making a joint effort to reach a regional agreement for the purpose of denuclearizing Latin America. I solemnly declare that Paraguay is most favourably disposed to the denuclearization of our region. These negotiations should be initiated in the proper framework for this issue, i.e. in the Organization of American States and not in the United Nations.

61. We sincerely believe that for such denuclearization to provide real security the following basic requirements must be satisfied. The denuclearization of a particular zone, in this case Latin America, must be complete, and consequently should include all the States and territories within the zone. Full guarantees of respect and protection on the part of the nuclear Powers must be obtained and effective systems or means of international control and inspection must be instituted.

62. I said before that certain items or groups of related items dominate the scene in the General Assembly. Prominent among them are those relating to the liquidation of colonialism which, regrettably, still stains the map of the world —a stain which will remain as long as even a single people is prevented from exercising the right of self-determination and rising to be master of its national destiny. I wish to pay a simple and sincere tribute to the efforts of those peoples that are struggling for emancipation, and of course to their leaders as well. The one and the other have our respect.

63. I also wish to pay a tribute to the committees set up by the General Assembly to watch over the fate of those peoples which are still unable to speak for themselves in our Organization; and in a very special way the same tribute goes to the representatives of the young States of .Africa and Asia which are the standard-bearers of the liberation movement. To our way of thinking there is something inexorable in this march towards emancipation. Final victory, which cannot now be far distant, belongs to those peoples which have not yet won self-government and in which we welcome the free, sovereign and independent States of tomorrow.

64. If there is any matter before the Assembly on which there is unanimity of views, it is the policy of apartheid practiced by the Republic of South Africa, which is rejected by all. The concept of racial discrimination is perhaps more foreign to the Paraguayan people than to any other people of Latin America. Consequently, with regard to the problems of discrimination we can have only one position. I declare emphatically and in all sincerity that Paraguay considers that the policy of apartheid practiced by the Government of South Africa is fundamentally wrong; that it engenders serious conflicts deriving from racial segregation, and that it is characterized by a vexing and continual denial of universally proclaimed rights. Such a policy must be outlawed.

65. I now pass on to other questions which concern the great mass of members of the Assembly. We are in the midst of the United Nations Development Decade; we trust that the beneficial effects of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for the Benefit of Less Developed Areas will soon make themselves felt; and we are on the eve of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. We attach tremendous importance to this last Conference, and justifiably so, because we under-developed peoples have been asking for it with a rarely encountered unanimity.

66. It is always the agricultural commodity-producing countries which are designated as under-developed. Developed countries, on the other hand, are, with very few exceptions, countries having mainly industrial economies. In exporting their primary products the agricultural countries barely manage to pay for their low level of living and the inevitable export taxes. On the other hand, when the industrialized countries export their products they make the purchaser pay for the high cost of labour caused by their high levels of living, and include industrial profits, social security and all manner of taxes in the prices.

67. I shall quote some figures which reflect this tragic situation. In 1962 Paraguay's volume of commodity exports was 300 percent greater than in 1950, but the foreign exchange proceeds were barely higher than the total for 1950. To this must be added the aggravating factor that most of the products purchased from abroad with that currency had increased in price by up to 200 per cent, I imagine that this serious situation is not confined to Paraguay, but is common to the majority of the commodity-producing nations of Asia, Africa, the Pacific and Latin America, whether or not they would describe themselves as underdeveloped countries.

68. The constant decline in the prices of commodities produced by the countries with agricultural economies, aggravated by the constant increase in the prices of products from countries with industrial economies, has accentuated and will continue to accentuate the difference between the developed and the underdeveloped countries. When the last territory in the world is emancipated, political colonialism will have come to an end, but the economic colonialism to which countries with an agricultural economy are subjected will persist unless substantial changes are made in the present conditions of production and export of agricultural products. Under the system of economic freedom we favour, it is difficult to adjust prices of commodities and manufactured goods on the world market.

69. In our view the way to solve the problem of under-development is by attacking simultaneously its two main causes; first, through financial and technical assistance to increase the output of agricultural countries with a view to offsetting the low prices of commodities and thus achieving a rise in levels of living, and secondly, by promoting the industrialization of the agricultural countries, giving them an opportunity of processing their main commodities. This task also requires technical co-operation and the contribution of the necessary capital.

70. These two measures are indispensable to put an end to the present economic colonialism which the developed nations in fact exercise over the underdeveloped nations.

71. The specialized agencies of the United Nations and of course the Conference on Trade and Development should give due attention to the problem of underdevelopment, which is the main cause of the world's economic, social and political ills.

72. In connexion with the recent inauguration of a new presidential term of office, Paraguay received visits from some sixty special missions, many of which were led by permanent representatives accredited to the United Nations and now present in the General Assembly. I would repeat the gratitude of Paraguay to all of them for having thus honoured us. Those sixty missions were reliable witnesses of the consolidation of an order marked by economic, social and political progress. They have seen that our economic progress is based on free enterprise, free trade, free imports and exports and the absence of quotas and other restrictions, and that it rests on monetary and economic stability and respect for capital and for private property. They have also seen that in our order social progress is based mainly on the steady and uninterrupted increase in the number of rural landowners through agrarian reform, which, without noisy propaganda or internal violence, has created 30,000 new landowners in the last five years, and that it Is also based on incentives to workers in the cities, who fully enjoy all their rights, including social security. They have seen, too, that political progress is firmly consolidated through the participation of the political parties in the government of the country, through the exercise of control on the part of the opposition, and through freedom of the Press and freedom of expression.

73. As the old saying has it, no chain is stronger than its weakest link. Each Member of our Organization has the duty to strengthen the chain by strengthening himself. In keeping with that idea, we believe that our present situation and our promising prospects for the future are the best contribution that Paraguay as a Member can make to the United Nations.

74. Before concluding my remarks, I should like to mention briefly the forthcoming twentieth anniversary of the foundation of the United Nations, which will be celebrated in 1965. The General Assembly, which at the seventeenth session set up a Preparatory Committee of the International Co-operation Year [resolution 1844 (XVII)], will shortly receive the Committee's report. As a member of that Committee my country supported suggestions intended to give prominence to everything which unites the Members of the Organization, and to avoid anything controversial. Acting, as we still do, in fulfilment of a trust, this is the way in which we had to discharge our obligations.

75. However, individually and as a representative of a land-locked State, I should now like to appeal to the goodwill of the Assembly, so that in due course it may consider giving unanimous approval to a resolution which, as a magnificent contribution in that anniversary year, provides for the solution of the foreign trade problems of those States which are not fortunate enough to have access to the sea.

76. I would express the sincerest wishes for the success of this Assembly. May this session, as a result of its labours, go down as one of the most constructive in the annals of the United Nations.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
97.	May I join other speakers in extending to you, Mr. President, our warmest and most sincere congratulations on your election by acclamation to preside over this Assembly. Your elevation to the General Assembly's highest office is a tribute to your personal qualifications and also to the country which you represent so brilliantly. My’ delegation also regards your election as a well-deserved and unstinted tribute to the peoples of Africa and particularly to the new sovereign States which, with their wealth of human and physical resources, are taking over the role and the responsibility in this community of nations which are unquestionably theirs by right. Together we shall establish, on a basis of law and justice, rules that will ensure the peaceful and fruitful coexistence on an equal footing of all nations, however different their origins, their stages of development and their ideological, political and economic systems.
98.	Every session of the Assembly has before it a number of problems of the highest importance calling for attention and vigilance on its part. Some of these problems are a legacy from past sessions because, despite the efforts made, it has not been possible to come up with mutually satisfactory formulas for practical and effective solutions. For example, some items such as disarmament, appear on our agenda year after year; the recurrence of this item is an indication of the sterility of our efforts in this direction. I shall refer to some of these problems in more detail at a later stage.
99.	In addition, each Assembly considers problems of another kind, problems which by their nature necessitate decisions that cannot be postponed. In this area, the Assembly over which you are presiding is one of the most difficult.
100.	Although it is true that we have before us the promising prospects opened up by the discussions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, that are on the threshold of the International Co-operation Year when, by our own unanimous decision, we shall celebrate the twentieth anniversary of the founding of our Organization and that we are in the middle of the United Nations Development Decade, the grave crisis through which the United Nations is now passing nevertheless casts a dark shadow over a whole encouraging picture.
101.	The nature and gravity of this crisis are such that its consequences may eventually paralyse the Organization or diminish its ability to launch, organize and carry out operations to preserve international peace and security. In these circumstances our primary and imperative duty is to seek appropriate solutions, without hesitation or delay.
102.	The crisis seemed at first to be a strictly financial one. Although we realized how serious it was, we still hoped that before it became acute consultations would lead to generally acceptable solutions.
103.	Unfortunately, time has not brought forth the hoped-for solution. On the contrary, the original problem has been complicated even more by the addition of new facts. To give an example, one question which is closely linked with it is that of the powers of the General Assembly and the special powers of the Security Council under the Charter. In this connexion, my delegation feels that the General Assembly is not only entitled but in duty bound to exercise these powers, and this opinion is based on both legal and practical considerations.
104.	Incidentally, as the withdrawal of the United Nations Force in the Congo was completed in the middle of this year and it was the Congo operation which precipitated the present crisis, it is fitting that we should judge it as a whole in the light of the results obtained and the cost involved. My delegation concurs with the Secretary-General's objective and convincing analysis and assessment contained in chapter VI of the Introduction to his report on the work of the Organization.
105.	I must say quite frankly that my country and my Government are seriously concerned over the possible consequences of the present crisis, because we fear that they may in the future affect the proven effectiveness of the United Nations for maintaining international peace and security.
106.	My country has loyally accepted its obligations under the Charter; we respect the Charter and we abide by it. Being fully aware of our duties as a Member of this great Organization, we shape our national and our international conduct, according to the Purposes and Principles proclaimed in the Charter, the result of our conduct on the national plane is that we can affirm with deep and sincere satisfaction that Paraguay has never been involved in any national or international conflict or dispute which has required the attention of this Assembly. On the other hand — and because of our devotion to these same Purposes and Principles — we have warmly and vigorously supported all the causes expressing the ideals and aspirations of the new continent and the philosophy of the Christian and democratic world to which we belong by conviction and by law, and all the other enterprises which reflect the aspirations of the developing peoples. We have supported with equal enthusiasm, every sound proposal which has been discussed in this forum. Therefore the name of my country has never appeared in the records of meetings of United Nations bodies except as the sponsor or co-sponsor of draft resolutions relating to situations in which it did not have and does not now have any special interest.
107.	Because of our loyalty to this tradition, of which we are proud, we believe that our opinion is both sincere and impartial. We have always acted in the Organization to serve the collective interest based on justice and law. We have given proof of this 5 both in the General Assembly and in the exercise of the high functions with which we have often been honoured by the United Nations.
108.	In this spirit, we accept the heavy financial burdens which peace-keeping operations entail, even though we know that we may sometimes be confronted with temporary economic difficulties owing to our need to give priority to our people in using our available resources. We nevertheless consider that the principle of collective responsibility must always be respected and safeguarded in situations which might lead to a breach of international peace.
109.	In our view, therefore, the measures adopted in the case of the Congo operation and the establishment of the Emergency Force were ineluctibly predetermined by that principle and by our Organization's obligation to meet its responsibilities. Any difference between our views and those of other Member States has been solely in connexion with the scales of assessment to be applied to meet the cost of those operations, scales which we feel must be different from those for the regular budget.
110.	Therefore, if the Assembly is obliged to decide between the diametrically opposed position of its Members, our opinion will be given without hesitation and will be determined by our official position, which is based on the considerations I have just outlined and is in line with the legal tradition in which Latin America takes pride. However, since we are aware of the possible consequences of such a decision, we would be the last to want the Assembly to be forced to take it, unless all hope of arriving at a satisfactory formula has been ruled out. Whatever the majority decision may be, if there is a confrontation it would be our Organization as a whole and its ability to act that would suffer, and its present infinite potentialities would be restricted, perhaps for all time.
111.	Time presses, but it is not yet too late. Let us preserve our Organization. Despite its imperfections, which we know and recognize, it is still the best instrument for channelling and meeting the common needs of nations and the best known forum for the expression of constructive ideas. At the same time, however we must realize that the sacrifice of principles is too high a price to pay for its preservation. This is the essential condition which governs our thinking with regard to satisfactory solutions.
112.	The Member States, our Organization and the specialized agencies are preparing to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. The observances planned are designed to emphasize how much has been done in the two decades since then and to emphasize and diversify the forms of international co-operation in an increasingly inter-dependent world. This world-wide celebration would have no meaning if we were not first to give it real and las ting significance by overcoming our present crisis and ensuring that the United Nations will emerge — and here I quote the words written by the Secretary-General in 1962 — "stronger than before as a force for peace".
113.	We are still seeking the paths which will lead to disarmament and to the realization of one of the greatest aspirations of our times, the conversion to peaceful uses of the resources released by disarmament. Success still evades us, but steps have been taken in the right direction; however, we must admit that they have not been taken by all, nor have they been sufficiently effective to bring peace to a world terrified by the power of modern weapons.
114.	When, one year ago, we rightly rejoiced at the signature of a Treaty banning nuclear weapon tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water, we nourished the hope that additional agreement would soon follow. That hope has not been realized.
115.	Nevertheless, for the time being and in view of the high-level conversations which are under way between the representatives of the two major Powers, we prefer to await results in the hope that they will be positive and will help to improve present prospects, not only in the field of disarmament, but also in other fields within the competence of the United Nations where disagreements between two Powers often have very negative repercussions.
116.	In the meantime, I feel in duty bound to express sincere appreciation to the eight non-aligned members of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament for their persistent and praiseworthy efforts to find conciliation formulas.
117.	The history of the United Nations is short if reckoned in years but long in terms of effective and lasting achievements. The important measures adopted to fulfil the Purposes and Principles laid down in the Charter are already part of the universal heritage and history of mankind.
118.	The role played by the United Nations in liberating peoples formally subject to foreign domination and the firm action it has taken to eradicate the last vestiges of colonialism which still regrettably persist are encouraging and shining examples of the traditions of our Organization. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination are further proof that the United Nations is truly reflecting the philosophy and thinking of our time.
119.	In recent years the United Nations has played an increasing role in the economic and social field and its many different and complex sectors. One indication of the order of importance that these problems have for Member States, because of their close and indissoluble link with development, is the parallel in the importance of the Second Committee and in its weight in the General Assembly. A review of the items on which the Committee must decide and make recommendations to the plenary meetings at the present session clearly shows the importance of that body.
120.	My country has no hesitation in affirming this, as it is one of the so-called "developing" countries. Whatever the term used to describe them, it is a fact that the developing countries are always agriculturalprimary producing countries. The expression "developed" countries, on the other hand, is used, except in a very few cases, for countries with a preponderantly industrial economy. This is not the first time that my delegation has expressed these ideas; we have done so repeatedly in this Assembly. But we shall never stop emphasizing the dramatic reality of the enormous gap between the two groups of countries, and above all, between the peoples1 levels of living in the one and in the other.
121.	Whereas the agricultural countries are trying desperately to finance their low levels of living through their exports of primary commodities, the industrialized countries include in the price of their manufactured products the financial implication of their high levels of living, their industrial profits, social insurance and all sorts of taxes. The end result is that the agricultural peoples are the ones who suffer from the imbalance in world trade. Another result is that while the prices of raw materials tend to remain stationary, the cost of manufactured products is continually rising. In this connexion, I should like to repeat something I said once before in this forum.
122.	The result of the steady decline in the price of raw materials and the steady rise in the price of manufactured goods — I said — has been and will continue to be a widening of the gap between the developed and the under-developed countries; and although political colonialism is on its last legs, the economic colonialism applied to countries with an agricultural economy will remain unless the present conditions for the production and export of agricultural commodities are radically changed. I also said that the outstanding event of 1964 might be the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development for which the developing countries had long been pressing with remarkable unanimity.
123.	These predictions have come true. I do not propose to review all the conclusions and recommendations of the Conference that met in Geneva from March to June or to re-emphasize the long and difficult path which led up to it, but I will say that the results achieved in those few months were beyond our expectations and they have revived our hope that in an international atmosphere of greater understanding, generosity and fairness, the time when we shall become developed countries is fast approaching.
124.	We now have to act in the Assembly with promptitude and without hesitation; it is our imperative duty to adopt without delay or disagreement the measures called for by the recommendations of the Geneva Conference as they are presented to us in that remarkable document, its Final Act. Let us — as the Conference asked — give our Organization new and broader functions in these spheres which are so close to the hearts of the developing peoples and, above all, let us give the United Nations a new dimension which may give it a scope that we cannot yet foresee.
125.	The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development has also drawn attention to an event of exceptional importance. I refer to the consolidation of the grouping in which the developing countries first began to band themselves in this Assembly in 1963. Overcoming our differences, which result from the diversity of our degrees of development and from certain special characteristics of our particular problems and local interests, we have joined together to defend our common aspirations and real interests. Although individually weak, together we form a force to be reckoned with and one that is called upon to play a dominant role in the fields of international trade and development. The continued strength of the new force represented by the Group of 75 — or Group of 77 as it is now known — will depend on the extent to which it maintains the solid cohesion it has thus far displayed. Let us not forget, therefore, our obligation to strengthen that cohesion. Our reward will be in proportion to the extent to which we do strengthen it. Upon our attitude in this matter depends the possibility of bringing closer for our waiting peoples the day when they will have access to those levels of living hitherto reserved for the industrialized nations of the northern hemisphere, levels to which they are entitled and should in justice achieve.
126.	Still on the subject of the Conference on Trade and Development, I cannot fail in my capacity as representative of a land-locked country, to make specific. mention of one of the Conference's results; namely, the recommendations on the problems of the transit trade of land-locked countries and the principles relating thereto, which were adopted without a single negative vote being cast.
127.	The Conference — as you are aware — recommended that the United Nations should convene in the middle of 1965 a conference of plenipotentiaries to consider and adopt a convention relating to the transit trade of land-locked countries. The Assembly must heed that recommendation and take the necessary decisions. Meanwhile, an ad hoc committee of twenty-four members has recently completed the preparation of the draft convention which will serve as a basis for the work of the conference of plenipotentiaries, together with a report presenting the different views expressed by the members of the Committee during its deliberations.
128.	Today, my country enjoys partial access to the sea and to transit facilities through adjoining maritime States under various bilateral agreements which it has concluded with those States. Examples of this friendly co-operation are the agreements concluded with Argentina, and particularly those known as the Act of Buenos Aires and Supplementary Act of Asuncion, and the agreement concluded with Brazil.
129.	Notwithstanding this, we wish to remind you that, within the more general problem of transit as a whole, the right of access to the sea, to its infinite riches, and to international markets, and the exercise of the right of transit which is its undeniable corollary, are matters of vital importance for the expansion of international trade and the protection of the most legitimate and fundamental interests of land-locked countries.
130.	It is therefore our desire that the various principles and norms already established in practice and in international law, which govern such rights should attain complete universality, and that every new principle or new norm which represents an advance on earlier principles or norms and is now tribunals and to prevent or correct, as the case may be, any abnormal situation embodied in a bilateral agreement should be reproduced or confirmed in the text of multilateral conventions. We are confident that in this era of solidarity the 1963 conference of plenipotentiaries, by adopting a convention that does justice to the aspirations of the land-locked States, will add further lustre to the international Co-operation Year.
131.	The agenda of this Assembly includes a number of items already dealt with on previous occasions and on which our opinion has already been expressed and frequently repeated. However, my delegation will again have an opportunity to make known its position when these items are discussed individually. Among such items, for example, are those relating to the efforts to eliminate colonialism, which, however much we may regret it, still exists. Because of our convictions and our traditions our feelings are for the peoples who are striving to break their colonial bonds and become masters of their own national destiny.
132.	There are, in addition, questions relating to racial discrimination, such as the item on the policies of apartheid of the Government of the Republic of South Africa. In our opinion, these policies, which are fundamentally wrong and imply a provoking disregard for universally proclaimed rights, must be proscribed. Those are but a few examples. I preferred to devote the greater part of my statement to the questions relating to the maintenance of international peace and those concerning developments, because we look mainly to the future.
133.	Accordingly, I would like now, Mr. President, to examine if I may two inter-connected matters which have been submitted for the Assembly's consideration. One of them is mentioned in the Introduction to the Annual Report of the Secretary-General on the Work of the Organization. U Thant refers therein to the offers made by a number of Member States of military units on a standby basis, that is to say forces that would be available to the Organization whenever a justified need for them arose. He goes on to say that he has been in no position to do much about it in the absence of any authorizing action by an appropriate organ of the United Nations.
134.	The second matter relates to the idea put forward by the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement here on 3 December 1964 [1289th meeting]. This idea concerns the possibility of including in the Charter a new Chapter entitled "Peacekeeping Operations" the contents and other details of which — and, of course, the reasons for his proposal — were amply explained to the Assembly.
135.	We see the future establishment of standby forces as an integral part of a larger scheme. We have previously said that if the behaviour of nations in the international community is like that of individuals in their rational communities, then we must recognize that peaceful coexistence at the international level must rest on three conventional supports, namely international law or internationally recognized principles, international tribunals or bodies to render justice among nations, and international forces to enforce the rulings of international
136.	In the context of the ideas I have just touched upon, the Brazilian suggestion would signify a step forward. We are therefore prepared to examine more, closely the ideas which led to that suggestion, and in this we shall be guided by one unalterable purpose: the strengthening of the United Nations.
137.	We see a need in the world today for a solidarity so strong that no country is able fully to enjoy the benefit, of material possessions or attain true happiness while there continue to be less developed countries and impoverished, suffering peoples. The developed countries must understand that international solidarity should have the force of dogma even for countries that are guided by self-interest and considerations connected with the preservation of their present living standards. On the basis of this concept of solidarity, we take the view that each State should set an example of national self-help for progress and of honest observance of the fundamental principles of love of peace and security and respect for human rights and freedoms.
138.	I wish now briefly to outline the situation in Paraguay. In the political sphere, the responsibilities of government are shared by the major traditionally democratic parties. In the economic sphere, the national "self-help" effort has led us to unprecedented progress based on monetary stability and complete freedom in our international trade, which is unfettered by quota restrictions, licensing requirements and expropriation of foreign exchange, and also in our domestic production which is entirely free and enjoys, the protection afforded by even-handed justice for all.
139.	In the social sphere, our domestic tranquillity is founded on the recognition of the right? of town and country workers to the fruits of their labours and on the application of the benefits of social security. Our agrarian policy is far-reaching, reforming and effective. It is being implemented without fanfares of publicity and without unjust confiscations and expropriations.
140.	At the same time, we have been making exceptional progress in the cultural and educational spheres. As a brief indication of the great advance we have made in the space of a few years, I shall merely mention the objective and factual reports made by international organizations to the effect that my country is among those with the best-fed population and among those in Latin America which have the highest level of school registration and attendance. It is with this background of achievement, indicative of the efforts we have made, that we are participating in this Assembly.
141.	I would like, at this point, to express to the United Nations, its various bodies and its specialized agencies, our appreciation of the quality and quantity of the technical assistance with which they are helping us in our great national effort constantly to improve our economic and social conditions. I hope that the very simplicity of these words will be taken as an indication of our deep sincerity.
142.	With the utmost cordiality and respect I would address my closing words to the representatives of Malawi, Malta and Zambia, the three States which have just been admitted to membership of the United Nations. On behalf of my country, I salute these three States which are now masters of their own destinies. On behalf of my delegation, I welcome their representatives here present. On behalf of Paraguay, I welcome the three nations to this community of free, independent and sovereign nations.


===== Session 20 - 1965 =====
120. On behalf of my Government, my delegation and myself, it is with the sincere pleasure that I convey to you, Mr. President, our warmest congratulations on your election to preside over the deliberations of the twentieth session of the General Assembly. We view this election both as a tribute paid to your great country, which is bound to mine by strong and immutable ties of friendship, and as a proof of the general confidence placed in you because of your outstanding personal qualities.
121. This Assembly is beginning at a time when our troubled world is faced with serious threats to the peace. These threats are most ominous in the continent of Asia. In these circumstances, our most urgent collective task is to offer our complete co-operation loyally and unreservedly and to pledge our best and strongest efforts to work together in common accord until we find the formulae which will avert those threats and re-establish the peace that has been shattered. On the maintenance and preservation of peace depends our ability to continue our ceaseless task of bringing within reach of the great masses of humanity and the great majority of Member States those levels of living and that social progress which so far have been enjoyed in practice only by a small number of countries.
122. The continent I mentioned is now faced with the growing dangers of a conflagration in which an unforeseeable number of other States may easily become involved. At this critical juncture, we reaffirm our faith and confidence that those two great Members of the United Nations, India and Pakistan, will be able to find through their own efforts and with the help of our Organization ways and means of resolving their differences peacefully, that is to say, not on blood-drenched battlefields but through reasonable and fruitful discussions.
123. On this same continent of Asia we are witnessing another war which is a typical war of aggression. If the universally accepted principles and the postulates which constitute the basis of relations between States were loyally and consistently observed by all countries, a war such as this would not have occurred and the Republic of Viet-Nam would have been able by its own efforts to follow the path of development without outside interference. However, although it is painful to say so, we must recognize that these standards of international coexistence which are respected by most countries are for others merely a dead letter. In this particular case, I refer especially to the People's Republic of China which has made threats, aggression and violence the very basis of its international policy.
124. Attacked from outside by the forces of subversion, the Republic of Viet-Nam has fortunately not found itself left alone to defend itself. Other countries stand beside it, some giving material and others moral support. Here again, and in spite of the apparent lateness of the hour, we are confident that justice will prevail and that the sincere and repeated offers to bring outstanding questions to the negotiating table will find a favourable response among those Governments which so far have been so unwilling to listen to the voice of reason.
125. During this year, a sister nation in the Western hemisphere, the Dominican Republic, dear to our hearts, like all the members of the great American family, underwent a grave crisis that might have shattered the foundations of its Christian and democratic political organization. In this case, the regional organization adopted decisions of the greatest importance whose constructive results may already be appreciated and which have allowed the Dominican Republic to weather the crisis. It is now returning to normal, having kept its institutions intact and, above all, having spared the blood of its children which, at one time, seemed destined to be spilled in a fratricidal civil war of enormous proportions.
126. We must admit that such decisions were opposed by certain members of the regional organization. For our part, we readily accept the possibility of dissident or opposing views, for these are typical of free societies and in no way jeopardize the amicable mutual relationships between their members.
127. In this Assembly we may all congratulate ourselves, both those of us who hold governmental responsibilities in our respective countries and men of goodwill throughout the world, that his Holiness Pope Paul VI is coming here to address to us a message of pure love and dedication to the service of mankind. We are absolutely certain that few messages will be so carefully listened to by such a vast audience as that which will be delivered by the Supreme Pontiff within a few days and in this very hall.
128. At this session our Assembly must take up a large number of items most of which have been postponed for a whole year because, for obvious reasons, the nineteenth session could not follow its normal course. I shall not refer to these reasons, which are only too well known to all Member States, but I do wish to stress that, in spite of the difficulties, the previous Assembly adopted one of its most important decisions for many years in establishing the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development as an organ of the General Assembly [resolution 1995 (XIX)].
129. In this new body, and above all in the effectiveness of its action, reside the hopes of those States which form the group of developing countries and which constitute not only the majority of our Organization but also the majority of the world's population. We hope, with the impatience born of frustration, that the time will soon come when there will be a fairer and more rational distribution of wealth and its benefits, which will satisfy our legitimate rights as developing peoples and allow us truly to enjoy without restrictions what the Charter calls "social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom".
130. Even at the risk of excessive repetition, we wish to reaffirm once more our conviction that within this new organization the unity of the developing countries will be the best guarantee of fruitful action and that we must combine our efforts to strengthen and consolidate that unity if our collective activities are to be successful.
131. In my delegation's view, our Organization is emerging from the nineteenth session and from the crisis which prevented its normal functioning with a clear desire to reaffirm the essential need for international solidarity in considering old and new questions objectively and reasonably. We feel that each and every Member State, convinced that the United Nations is the most effective international organization for solving the great problems which affect us all equally in tills essentially interdependent world, is determined, perhaps more strongly than twenty years ago, to keep it alive and to enhance its opportunities to act.
132. We stated clearly at the previous session our position as regards the dispute which divided the United Nations, and the principles which we said we supported then are as valid today as they were a year ago. We are therefore glad that this Assembly can now resume the continuous action expected of it, without prejudice to the individual positions of States.
133. A rapid glance at the Assembly's agenda is the best reminder of the way in which certain items keep coming up every year. Among these items, and always enjoying top priority because of their importance, are those concerning the maintenance of peace and security, general and complete disarmament under effective international control, and the urgent need to halt the proliferation of nuclear weapons. On each and every one of these items and on others that are closely linked with them our opinions are well known. To reiterate a point rather than add something new, in spite of the meagre progress achieved so far, we can interpret each positive step as an advance towards a goal that mankind hope one day to reach, and these items are obviously so important that no frustration will exhaust our patience in the search for satisfactory solutions.
134. Inspired by feelings of continental unity, the countries of Latin America are continuing their efforts to conclude a treaty that will ensure the effective denuclearization of this region. The intensity of these efforts reassures us that we shall achieve positive results which may well serve as an example to other regions and other States.
135. Whether we admit it or not, the fact is that vestiges of colonialism still remain. Although in the recent past this colonialism cast its shadow over large areas of the world, we must recognize that, since the advent of the United Nations, this shadow has been rapidly disappearing. Although the once dominated peoples in growing and impressive numbers have succeeded, in their victorious struggles, in becoming masters of their own sovereign destinies, it is no less certain that colonialism still exists in many continents. In the past we have fought unflaggingly, as we shall continue to fight in the future to achieve the complete eradication of this colonialism.
136. Similarly, we are fighting and shall continue to fight with equal tenacity to eradicate neocolonialism, which manifests itself most crudely in the attempt to impose economic domination, I do not need to dwell on these and other subjects, because in these cases too my country's position has been repeatedly explained, both in the Assembly and in the Main Committees.
137. The General Assembly is, of course, the organ which gives each delegation the widest scope for the expression of its opinions and points of view on each agenda item, particularly during the exhaustive debates that take place, occasionally in the plenary meetings but usually in the Main Committees. During the general debate, held before the Assembly gets down to its business, each State should confine itself to outlining its general policy and philosophy. That does not prevent us, however, from mentioning certain problems of a specific or regional nature, in order tor bring them to the attention of Member States with the aim of awakening the spirit of understanding and international solidarity. We all have an unquestionable right to do this when reason is on one side and our cause is based on legitimate rights. I shall refer to some of these specific problems later.
138. In the meantime, we note with gratification the constant increase in the Organization's membership. Soon after the opening of this session, three new sovereign States were admitted by acclamation. We extend a warm and cordial welcome to the peoples of the Gambia, the Maldive Islands and Singapore, and to their representatives in this Assembly; we are sure that they will make a most valuable contribution to the work of our Organization.
139. At previous sessions we expressed our conviction that coexistence on the same planet and social and economic interdependence among nations make international solidarity imperative. International solidarity is a source of reciprocal rights and duties: it makes it impossible for some countries to be comfortable and happy while others, near or far, are hard pressed and impoverished; it makes it impossible for the developed countries to remain calm and contented while elsewhere there are countries which are less developed or under-developed; above all, it makes it impossible for some countries to be happy because they have all that is needed for happiness and can be sure of obtaining the benefits of justice for themselves, as long as there are countries elsewhere in the world which, enjoy few or none of the benefits of law and international justice or are begrudged them.
140. It is for this reason that our representatives have considered it their duty to inform the Assembly briefly every year of Paraguay's progress, for the well-being of our Organization depends on the wellbeing of all its Members.
141. During the year between the nineteenth and twentieth session of the General Assembly, Paraguay's progress and development have been very striking in every way. In the political sphere, the democratic system that characterizes its form of government has ensured peace, employment and well-being for the whole population. Surveillance of the Government's actions by the opposition parties and wide freedom of the Press have created a stable and equitable legal system with all its benefits.
142. In the economic sphere, Paraguay has maintained the stability of its currency since 1957 and will resolutely continue to do so. Furthermore, thanks to its favourable balance of payments its monetary reserves have grown, enabling it recently to increase its contribution to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to buy bonds from it. Paraguay has made notable progress in building roads, schools, hospitals, in other public works and in the establishment of new industries, etc.
143. In the social sphere, the benefits of social security have been extended progressively to additional groups of workers, while land reform, carried out without expropriation or fanfare, is extending the benefits of land ownership to agricultural workers. I must, however, point out to this illustrious Assembly that this unique effort by the entire Paraguayan nation, by its admirable people and by its Government, is not matched by deeds and attitudes on the rest of the continent which are based on the selfish exploitation of geographical positions and de facto situations. I do not intend to refer on this occasion to the injustice inherent in the contrast between the paltry price paid for agricultural products and the steadily rising prices of manufactured goods, an injustice which daily deepens and widens the gap between the developed countries and the underdeveloped countries. The grievances of the agricultural and stock-raising countries must be settled in a way that is equitable for all the peoples of the world.
144. I do, however, intend to refer to the unfair discrimination to which ships flying the Paraguayan flag are subjected when sailing on international rivers In order to reach the sea, or world markets, carrying the fruit of the Paraguayan peoples' labour.
145. Paraguay is not only a relatively underdeveloped country, which other, more developed countries, motivated by a spirit of solidarity or even by enlightened self-interest should help or at least not harm; it is also a country which as a result of geographical and historical factors is situated in the middle of a continent, without a coast, far from the natural resources of the sea-in short, a landlocked country.
146. In an unprecedented effort, the Paraguayan Government has built and is continuing to build and improve approximately 2,000 kilometres of road, designed to link our country to its neighbours. Furthermore, Paraguay has contracted for and has had built a fleet of over thirty modern, specially designed cargo ships and auxiliary vessels, which is already in operation.
147. On the Parana, an international river flowing through Paraguay and constituting its only water link with the sea, ships flying the Paraguayan flag have to comply with unreasonable requirements and are subjected to abuses of sovereign jurisdictional power and especially to discriminatory treatment which is unjust and much more onerous than the more favourable treatment accorded to powerful nations with extensive seaboards.
148. In order to reach world markets, Paraguayan goods must travel down 1,600 kilometres of international rivers in shallow-draft vessels to the sea before they can compete with similar goods from countries with seaboards, and, as if that were not enough of a disadvantage, ships flying the Paraguayan flag are still subjected to discriminatory treatment and conditions which compare unfavourably with those applied to ships flying other flags.
149. We are not asking for any favours, privileges or special concessions. We are not trying to arouse pity, and our national dignity would make us reject those who might seek to set themselves up as our benefactors or protectors. We are seeking justice; we need equality; we want our right to free navigation on the international rivers which flow through our land to be properly recognized and respected, in the same way that that right is recognized and respected in the case of ships of other countries sailing on those same rivers.
150. I deeply regret that in this era of interplanetary travel it should be necessary for me to draw the Assembly's attention to a problem concerning the right to free navigation on international rivers, aright which was referred to in the French National Convention's Decree of 16 November 1792 and is clearly recognized in international law as established in the Treaty of Paris (1814), at the Congresses of Vienna (1815), Berlin (1885), Barcelona (1921), and Lima (1847-48), and various inter-American conferences, in the definitions of the Inter-American Juridical Committee and the Inter-American Council of Jurists and in many bilateral treaties.
151. No matter how incredibly anachronistic it may seem, however, it is an indisputable fact that Paraguay's right to free navigation on an international river which flows through its territory and which constitutes its only water link with the sea is being denied and curtailed.
152. My Government hopes that this situation will be rectified as soon as possible for it is firmly convinced that the happiness of peoples and harmony among nations cannot be built on injustice, inequality and discrimination.
153. In conclusion, I wish to express the sincere hope that the work of this Assembly will be crowned with success.


===== Session 21 - 1966 =====

211.     My delegation is very glad that Mr. Pazhwak of Afghanistan is now occupying the highest office in the General Assembly, and it regards his election as a tribute to his great personal qualities. Furthermore, knowing him as we do after years of friendly relations, we are sure he is the right man to bring our deliberations to a successful conclusion. We also know that, when we come to the end of this session, his name will be added to the list of those who, like his predecessor, Mr. Fanfani, and other illustrious men, have earned our gratitude for the valuable services they have rendered to the cause of international peace and security. With these words, and with a solemn promise of our unconditional cooperation, we welcome his election.

212.    Once again, the General Assembly is resuming its work in international circumstances which are overcast with ominous clouds. However regrettable it may be, we are obliged to note that potentially explosive situations remain unresolved in various parts of the world. In the southern part of Africa, the most negative forms of racial discrimination still persist, and the repeated appeals by the United Nations for the abolition of this discrimination are being blatantly ignored. In South-East Asia, the war which is tearing Viet-Nam asunder and reducing it to ashes is increasing in intensity. In various continents there are peoples who, in spite of their own unremitting struggle and our collective efforts, are still waiting for the day when they become masters of their own sovereign destinies.

213.    And the developing countries like yours, Mr. President, and like mine, and like the vast majority of countries which belong to this Organization, are still struggling day after day, with stubborn perseverance, to bring nearer the day when our peoples will be able to make a substantial improvement in their standard of living, and to secure justice in the distribution of wealth, which even today a few peoples possess to excess while many peoples have too little. As we survey this discouraging scene, we should at the same time like to try to extract from the repeated postponements of our most cherished aspirations, and from our manifold frustrations, some tonic which will flourish our hopes and give us grounds for optimism.

214.    The agenda for this session contains about a hundred items of a diversity and complexity which reflect the urgency of the problems that our countries are facing, both individually and in their collective efforts. I have briefly mentioned only a few of these problems, and merely by way of illustration. When in this General Assembly, or in the various Committees, we come to consider each of these items in detail, our views will differ and will frequently conflict. But that should not discourage us — and of course it does not discourage us. On the contrary, the success of this or of any other session, and also the very fate of our Organization and of its efforts to create the better world which we all desire will depend, in the last analysis, on the confrontation of our ideas and viewpoints, on the presentation in constructive dialogue of the different historical, political and philosophical interests we represent, and on our ability to strike a proper balance between our differing views.

215. A task of this magnitude is not easy, nor can we necessarily expect positive results. We are fighting against tremendous difficulties which are due, it seems, to what a famous author has described as the serious imbalance that exists in our era and in our time between the remarkable progress of science and technology — the benefits of which, I might add, are enjoyed only by a few peoples — and the slow legal, political and moral development of mankind, the slow rate of development in this case operating particularly to the disadvantage of the peoples of the developing countries.

216. For these reasons, and in these circumstances, we have an unquestionable right and an inescapable duty to combine our efforts to establish the universal rule of justice without restrictions, to safeguard and defend the dignity of every human being, to apply without restriction the principle of the sovereign equality of States, and to ensure the full enforcement and respect of international law which is continually being developed and brought into line with the realities of the present-day world.

217.    I know that I am talking for a small country, and I realize that, because of this, my voice on its own is weak, as are other voices like mine in this hall. But, when weak voices join together, they become an outcry, and an outcry can be heard.

218.    In the few States which possess nuclear weapons there is a concentration of terrifying potential destructive power. If one bears in mind that, ever since the day when the flames of the Second World War were extinguished, we have been living under the threat of a third conflagration which would be the final holocaust for the human race, it is easy to see why the problems relating to the proliferation of nuclear weapons must be given undisputed priority. We know, of course, that several other States have the potential resources for manufacturing these weapons, provided that they are ready to make the huge financial and other sacrifices involved and provided, of course, that they are prepared to defer other more urgent aspirations of their peoples. I must say that in this respect I was impressed by the remarks made in this hall a few days ago by Mr. Aiken, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ireland, when he was referring to the possibilities to which I have mentioned, and I quote:

"For their own safety and prosperity and for the peace and prosperity of the world, it would be better if the potential nuclear States firmly made up their minds to seek their security and prestige in improving the lives of their own peoples and those of their poorer neighbours throughout the world and in helping to build up reliable and effective United Nations conciliation and peace-keeping procedures." [1434th meeting, para. 5.]

219.    As time is already running out, the voices of reason must speak out more forcefully to safeguard what is the common heritage of the human race. Scarcely a year ago, here before this Assembly [1347th meeting], the purest voice of all rose above our own weak voices and brought us a message of love and peace in the words of the supreme Pontiff, Pope Paul VI — words which shook the conscience of the world. For our own good, lot us bear his message in mind, and above all, let us practise his teachings.

220.    With regard to efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, the Latin American States, including of course my own country, are at present endeavouring to bring about the denuclearization of the region by means of a treaty. This treaty has become a reality, as we expect it will, Latin America will have given an encouraging example of what can be achieved if the collective will is placed in the service of a cause which transcends merely regional frontiers and takes on universal moaning.

221.    I said earlier that the war in Viet-Nam is having an effect on this Assembly, which itself reflects the anguish of the world. There are few events which would be welcomed as much as a cessation of this bloody struggle; and the search for formulas to restore peace in the region must be continued unremittingly, even though all previous efforts have been frustrated. In this connexion, scarcely two weeks ago in this very hall [1412th meeting] the United States representative made some proposals which are designed to remove the conflict from the bloody field of battle to the bloodless level of peace negotiations. Since those proposals were put forward, we have heard several comments, many in favour, some against. Of the letter, some were designed to cast doubt on the sincerity of the proposals. We are not satisfied with judgements of this kind, because we believe that the only positive way to discover the true nature of the proposals, which we ourselves regard as sincere, is to put them to the test. Until this happens, and until those who can and should assess the proposals have dime so, there is no good reason for describing them in advance as disingenuous.

222.    In the slow legal, political and moral development which I mentioned earlier, and in the efforts to accelerate it, the United Nations is playing a constant and major role in establishing legal principles governing international co-existence. Some of the resolutions adopted by the General Assembly have already become historic documents. I am thinking, to mention only two examples, of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples.

223.    More recently, during the twentieth session of the General Assembly, those important declarations were followed by another. I am referring to General Assembly resolution 2131 (XX) — that is, the Declaration on the Inadmissibility of Intervention in the Domestic Affairs of States and the Protection of Their Independence and Sovereignty. My delegation, which is proud to have co-sponsored the draft that the Assembly adopted as a resolution, is happy to note that our agenda includes an item dealing with the status of the implementation of this Declaration. Violations of the principles and norms contained in the Declaration should be the subject of constant consideration by the Assembly; and in this connexion the events of January 1905, which were the subject of a joint submission to the Security Council by the representatives of Latin American States, will certainly be mentioned by us during the debate on this item in the First Committee.

224.    I also referred, in my brief review of problems at the beginning of my statement, to the struggles and appeals of tho developing peoples for true justice in tin distribution of wealth. In the interest of all, our world can not go on presenting tho sorry spectacle of a few peoples enjoying all its wealth while many others — tho vast majority — are struggling against poverty and often even against complete destitution. The peoples who are dependent on agricultural economies, the producers of primary commodities and raw materials — those are tho ones who are suffering all the adverse effects of the imbalance inherent in an unfair system of trade which must not be allowed to continue. From this very rostrum, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of my country said two years ago that the result of this system of trade:

"... has been and will continue to be a widening of the gap between the developed and the underdeveloped countries; and although political colonialism may be on its last legs, the economic colonialism applied to countries with an agricultural economy will remain unless the present conditions for the production and export of agricultural commodities are radically changed" [1297th meeting, para. 122].

The same is true of countries which export other raw materials.

225. I have quoted these comments, which are still relevant today, in connexion with the efforts made by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to correct this situation. The results of its efforts have so far been modest, just like the results achieved at the mid-point of the United Nations Development Decade. There will soon be a further opportunity at the Second Conference on Trade and Development, to be held in 1937 — a further opportunity for the industrialized countries as a group to pay due regard to our legitimate demands.

226. These States have an inescapable duty to help in securing justice in the distribution of wealth, not merely because right is on our side, but in order to safeguard their own interests in a world which is becoming increasingly interdependent, both economically and socially.

227.    Here I should like to thank the representatives of the so-called Group of Seventy-Seven in the Trade and Development Hoard for their intense and constant efforts on behalf of all members of the Group.

228.    With the same sense of appreciation, I should like to say that my country attaches great value to the manifold efforts being made by the United Nations to bring progressive industrialization to our developing countries, and I want to express our gratitude for the positive effects at the national level of UNDP projects and assistance, and for the co-operation displayed by the specialized agencies.

229.    My delegation has said more than once, without boasting but and without false modesty, that we consider it an honour — and indeed a credit to our tradition in the United Nations — that in all the years of our Organization's existence, the General Assembly has never had to deal with specific items relating to problems peculiar to my country. The doors are crossed the threshold. This does not mean that we do not have problems but rather that, in accordance with our own convictions, we first try to find appropriate solutions by direct negotiation. On the other hand, in eases where questions of principle or questions of general interest, are at stake, or where the particular rights and interests coincide with the rights and interests of other Member States, we have never been, and shall never be, found wanting. We have also taken it upon ourselves to keep the General Assembly informed, year after year, about my country's constant progress and advancement.

230.    We are participating with sincerity and conviction in the work leading up to the regional integration of the economies of a sizable group of countries which are united in a free trade zone, and in this we are following the line of action that leads from the national to the regional and thence to the universal. Furthermore, inside our own frontiers, we are now working on an additional task with an eye to the future.

231.    Realizing that the scarcity, if not the total lack, of communication would impose restrictions on this integration effort, Paraguay, under a dynamic and enterprising Government and despite its limited financial means, has used and is using a considerable proportion of its resources for constructing and extending its roads, which already run from tho western frontier with Bolivia to the eastern frontier with Brazil and the southern frontier with Argentina. In a country which until recently did not have any paved highways, this national effort Is of considerable magnitude. As well as bringing new areas effectively into the national economy, those roads — many of which are all-weather highways — link up with the roads of our friends and neighbours. Our plan is that these roads will in the near future be like proverbial arms linking our brothers of the Pacific Coast to our brothers of the Atlantic Coast across the territory of Paraguay.

232.    My country is one of the only two countries in America which have to deal not only with the problems peculiar to developing States, or countries which are in a state of relative economic development, but also with the problems arising from their position as landlocked countries. As such it has fought and is still fighting with unshakable determination to establish definitive principles of international law which will in justice and equity give all countries like mine — and like the countries of the President of the General Assembly — the right of free and unrestricted transit across tho territories of coastal States. A famous Afghan has said that the international trade problems of land-locked countries are enormous and that the fact of being land-looked never changes although the problems may differ from time to time and from region to region.

233.    Furthermore, in relations between a landlocked State and a maritime neighbour, tho general rule is that the former is the weaker partner, not only because of its disadvantageous geographical position — the fact that it is far from the sea, from the resources of the sea and from the major international markets — but also in terms of the respective population figures for each country, the areas they cover and their economic and political power.

234.    True to our own national destiny and to the solidarity we owe to those who are in a similar situation, we insist that these rights of transit — and particularly and especially the freedom of navigation on international rivers flowing to the sea — shall be granted without unfair restrictions.

235.    In a speech delivered on 30 September 1905 to this Assembly during the twentieth regular session [1344th meeting] the Minister for Foreign Affairs of my country, Professor Radi Sapena Pastor, mentioned the obstacles to freedom of navigation on the international rivers which are Paraguay's only water link with the sea. These difficulties are the result of the fact that ships flying the Paraguayan flag are subject to discriminatory treatment which is much more onerous than the more favourable treatment accorded to powerful nations which have extensive seaboards.

236.    On that occasion, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of my country recalled that on the river Parand, an international river flowing through Paraguay and constituting its only water link with the sea, ships flying the Paraguayan flag have to comply with certain requirements — through the exercise of sovereign jurisdictional power — which infringe upon the principle of freedom of navigation. Since then, bilateral and multilateral efforts have been made to regularize the commercial exploitation of international rivers.

237.    The Second Special Inter-American Conference, held at Rio do Janeiro from 17 to 30 November 1965, unanimously adopted resolution 10 by which it decided to convene an inter-American conference of specialists to examine matters relating to the commercial use of international rivers and lakes, to make appropriate recommendations and possibly to sign one or several international instruments which would contain general principles on the matter. In addition, the conference was asked to examine matters relating to the use of international rivers and lakes for agricultural and industrial purposes.

238.    Furthermore, in bilateral negotiations with the Argentine Republic progress has been made towards reaching an agreement which would solve the problem. We are confident that this matter will be solved very shortly in the spirit of brotherhood and co-operation which has always characterized our relations with Argentina.

239.    As another example, I should like to mention a very important event in the development of our relations with our neighbour, the United States of Brazil. This began with a border problem and the tempers of both our peoples were aroused; but the episode ended happily in the spirit of goodwill and harmony which is characteristic of the bonds between us. As a consequence, results were achieved which were compatible with the interests of both nations; and the traditional friendship both brother peoples — a friendship based on mutual respect which constitutes the indestructible foundation of relations between our two countries — was reaffirmed.

240.    On 21 and 22 June 1966 the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Paraguay and Brazil met at the frontier towns of Puerto Presidente Stroessner, Paraguay, and Foz do Iguayu, Brazil, to review various aspects of relations Lie tween our two countries and, in particular, those aspects on which differences of opinion had arisen.

241.    As a result of these cordial talks, both Foreign Ministers declared that their respective Governments were ready to proceed, by common accord, to study and evaluate the economic potential, in particular the water resources potential, of the Salto del Guaira, or Salto Grande do las Siete Caidas, which belongs in condominium to both countries.

242.    Furthermore, they agreed that henceforth any electric power produced from waterheads on the Pa rand River from and including the Salto del Guaira, or Salto Grande de las Siete Caidas, to the mouth of the Iguazu River, will be shared equally between the two countries, on the understanding that each country will have preferential rights to acquire any of the power not used to meet the consumer needs of the other country at a fair price, to be determined, as appropriate, by specialists from both countries.

243.    With respect to the work of the Joint Commission on the limits and definition of the frontier between Paraguay and Brazil, both Foreign Ministers agreed that the work will tie resumed on a date to be decided by the two Governments. This, together with the Brazilian Government's decision to withdraw a Brazilian military detachment — its decision was communicated in a memorandum to which my country will reply in a note expressing its satisfaction — may serve as an example to the whole world on ways of seeking solutions to problems which arise in relations between peoples, and as a pledge of the growing and fraternal union between Paraguay and Brazil.

244.    I have only a few more points to mention. First, I should like to say how glad my country is that Guyana has joined the community of free, sovereign and independent nations, and we welcome its admission to the United Nations. To its representatives in the General Assembly we would offer our frank and friendly cooperation together with our most cordial greetings. At the same time, we should like to welcome the accession to independence of two new countries in Africa, and we are glad that Indonesia has resumed full participation in our common tasks in the General Assembly.

245.    In conclusion, I should like to refer to a statement made by the Secretary-General on 1 September 1966, in which he informed an astonished audience throughout the world the f he had decided not to offer his services for a second term. In the letter which I wrote to him on the same day, I told him that my country greatly appreciated his constant devotion to the ideals of the United Nations, his unremitting efforts in the cause of international peace and security and his concern for the promotion of higher standards of living for the great majority of the developing peoples, all of which — I added — had earned him admiration and respect because of his personal qualities as a world figure. Shortly afterwards, I had the privilege to be a member of the committee of representatives appointed by Latin America to request him to reconsider his decision. Now, from this rostrum, and on behalf of my country, once again and with respect, I repeat that appeal.

===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
142. This Assembly, in which our peoples have placed their hopes, is meeting once again in order, through the exchange of the different points of view and opinions of its Members, which are nevertheless united in a common cause, to seek the solution of the many complex and serious problems that afflict the world of today. In a task of such magnitude, the duties that fall upon the President are of fundamental importance and we are under an obligation to give him our full co-operation. The General Assembly has given him its collective confidence. In mentioning this fact, I wish to assure him that my delegation, in keeping with its own traditions, will never, at any moment, give him less than its full co-operation.
143. I come to this Assembly as the spokesman of a people who are devoting all their efforts to peaceful and constructive work designed to raise their level of living and for whom international peace and security are essential requirements if their efforts to achieve economic, political and social progress are not to be halted or obstructed, let alone brought to nought. Our thoughts are therefore fixed on peace and security based on mutual respect, on justice and on law.
144. In view of the interdependence of States which characterizes the age in which we live, any disturbance, or threat of disturbance, of peace, wheresoever it may occur, has repercussions in other places and affects other peoples, no matter how far they may be from the actual or potential scene of the conflict. It is therefore our primary individual and collective duty to play our part with enthusiasm and energy in establishing peace, or restoring peace where it has been disrupted, not only because that is our obligation under the Charter but also in order to protect our own national interests. 145. In two regions of the world in particular, the problems of peace are of extreme gravity. In Viet- Nam the destruction peculiar to wars is continuing and the United Nations, which was created for the purpose of saving peoples from the scourge of war, has so far been powerless to help, as it could and should have done, to bring the bloodshed to an end, to see that the first steps are taken towards negotiations and to ensure that political and not military solutions are reached by means of contacts between the parties.
146. Meanwhile it is difficult to explain to a world under the shadow of the war in Viet-Nam the inaction of an Organization like the United Nations in a matter of world importance. This situation should be given the most careful study.
147. In the Middle East, countries with which my country maintains long-standing and cordial relations of friendship have become involved in a bloody conflict which is costly both in human lives — which are the most precious — and in material possessions. My delegation has no direct interest in the conflict and is prompted solely by the duty which falls on each and every one of us to contribute impartially to the efforts to achieve a just and lasting settlement. Accordingly, before the fifth emergency special session, my delegation, together with its brother republics of Latin America, made every endeavour to find formulas that would make it possible for the tensions and conflicts that had plagued the region for the past two decades to give place to an atmosphere more conducive to the application of all efforts. In the same brotherly and impartial spirit, we shall spare no efforts until the peace for which we all yearn is established.
148. These two conflicts — and they are not the only ones — sadden us. At the same time, the threat of the dissemination of nuclear weapons hangs over the world. Recent events give us reason to think that perhaps the time is coming when this dissemination will be halted and when, as a result, the dread that nuclear weapons, against which we have not the slightest defence, inspires in our peoples will begin to diminish. We long to be free of this threat, When more countries join the hitherto restricted group of States that are able to manufacture and use nuclear weapons, the sufferings and anguish of the great masses of the inhabitants of this world will he even greater.
149. This concern about the possible dissemination of nuclear weapons should, moreover, be appraised in relation to the possibilities of the peaceful use of the atom. We are just as strongly in favour of the extension of the peaceful uses of atomic energy as against the dissemination of atomic weapons. We know the great potential of nuclear energy for the productive tasks of peace and we therefore want to have it in order to speed up our progress as developing countries by the use of a technology to which we have no access today owing to our limited resources. We are not in a position to invest the enormous sums required for research and we feel that nothing could be more contrary to the interests of mankind as a whole, and especially of the nations which see their development delayed by the present conditions of international trade, than the fact that the present enormous differences between the levels of living of the industrial countries and those of the non-industrial countries are being increased as a result of the monopoly by a few States of the peaceful use of atomic energy, which could even become a monopoly of the industrialization of the atom. In this field we do not merely ask, we demand, assistance through the transmission of information, the generous opening of the doors of the great research centres and the training of national experts in the appropriate centres.
150. These comments are related also to the Development Decade, which was conceived under such good auspices but which nevertheless, although already in its second half, has certainly not fulfilled the hopes placed in it.
151. We have become accustomed, in our common parlance, to classify countries in two big groups and to call them developed and developing. The fact is that the former are industrial countries and the latter non-industrial countries; it is distressing to observe that with the passage of time the distribution of wealth has not improved, that the industrial countries receive and possess most of the wealth and that the non-industrial countries, which account for two thirds of the population of the world, receive for their efforts a minimal payment which is absolutely insufficient to provide for their development.
152. The slower a country's process of industrialization, the more will its attainment of higher levels of living be delayed. The conclusion is that, unless the present conditions of international trade are amended in all urgency, the only course left to us will be to seek ways and means of achieving our own complete industrialization.
153. My country, making the maximum use of its own resources, devoting its best efforts to the task and relying on less external aid, is already in the process of solving its economic infrastructure problems. At the same time it is enjoying political peace and social peace; it is continuing its economic progress; it has achieved remarkable monetary stability and, with the co-operation of the different political sectors, it has just given itself a new fundamental charter. These are the characteristics of a State in manifest progress on all sides.
154. Aware as we are of our role in the international community in general, and in the regional community in particular, we have devoted and are devoting our efforts to achieving Latin American economic integration and, through that undertaking of historic importance, bringing about the effective progress and greater well-being of the peoples of our region.
155. The possibilities of wider markets are being more and more often restricted by the limits of national sovereignty. We do not think that regional economic integration is prejudicial to sovereignty or implies the acceptance of supernational organs. On the other hand, it would enable each and every one of our States to reach the international common market and the adoption of common tariffs. In this important undertaking we need technical and financial aid, and here and now we ask for it. 156. Latin America has vast resources in raw materials and must try to achieve its own industrialization. As far as we ourselves are concerned, we want industries of regional interest to be situated in our own territory and we therefore accept multinational enterprises of a private nature.
157. We shall attend the forthcoming second United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, to be held at New Delhi in 1968, with an open mind, hoping once again that the time Is drawing near when justice will be done in the distribution of the wealth to which we are entitled by what we do and what we produce. At the same time, however, I must confess that we are not very optimistic. There are still many barriers of prejudice to break down.
158. In this brief review, I have drawn attention to only a few of the problems facing this Assembly. There are others, and certainly serious ones. I need only mention the problems of the liquidation of colonialism and, in particular, the case of South West Africa. I could also mention the question of apartheid, an outrage that is still going on and that must disappear. Our position on these questions is well known; it is that of nearly all the States represented in this Assembly. We shall in due course unite our efforts with those of other countries in order that these problems may soon be no more than bitter memories of the past.

===== Session 23 - 1968 =====
152. On behalf of my delegation I have great pleasure in tendering our most sincere congratulations to Mr. Emilio Arenales on his election as President of this Assembly. The countries which make up our Organization have entrusted
to him tasks which confer both-high honour and a heavy responsibility. His election is an honour both to him and to his country, but at the same time it is one shared by all the peoples of Latin America, who know that in Mr. Arenales they have a representative of the highest calibre. As regards
the responsibilities entrusted to his wisdom, ability, political sagacity and diplomatic tact, we know that he will guide the work of the Assembly in such a way as to secure the best results. Now that he is ill and temporarily absent, we express our best wishes for his early and complete recovery.

153. The people and Government of Paraguay rejoice at the admission of Swaziland to the community of free, independent and sovereign States. We hope and pray that that country will enjoy peace and prosperity. We welcome its admission to the United Nations and my delegation offers its representatives in this Assembly its sincere and fraternal co-operation.

154. We are moved by the same sentiments with regard to Equatorial Guinea, the newest of the independent African States and one which only a few days ago entered a new era by assuming control of its own national destiny. We extend to the leaders of that country our whole-hearted congratulations and most cordial greetings.

155. The international climate in which we are beginning our work is scarcely a propitious one. The general picture of our world is not encouraging. There are armed conflicts which have already lasted too long and whose cost in blood, tears and destruction saddens us. There has been no halt in the arms race. Vast sums are still being invested in the development and manufacture of ever more deadly weapons, while the majority of the world’s population is
increasingly anxious and disturbed about the unjust and immoral distribution of wealth whereby a few countries have too much and many countries have too little; in one case labour is rewarded by well-being and a high standard of
living, while in the other there is a tendency to perpetuate the wages of hunger and poverty.

156. And this is not all. Very recently we witnessed with stupefaction and indignation the violation of the most fundamental rights of a State Member of our Organization and the breaking of the most elementary rules of co-existence among States.

157. And lastly, colonialism, although it is declining, has not yet disappeared: there are many peoples still awaiting the hour when they can become masters of their own destiny. This world picture has been described by the Secretary-General in the Introduction to his Annual Report on the work of the Organization [A/7201/Add.1] and it is summarized in paragraph 205 of the Introduction, in which U Thant says: “I am well aware that this document must
make gloomy reading.” It certainly does.

158. The war in Viet-Nam—cruel, sad and destructive as few others—is still going on; but at least official conversations have begun in Paris and all peace-loving men and lovers of justice are pinning their hopes on a positive
outcome. When I say “positive outcome", I am thinking of political solutions within the framework of the Geneva Agreements. We realize that very little progress has been made so far, but the very fact that the conversations are
continuing justifies our hope that the adversaries will manage in the near future to overcome their differences and to restore peace and justice in that tormented region of South-East Asia. 

159. The Middle East is another region where the flames of a conflagration might again involve the States of the area in the fires of destruction and even expand with unforeseeable intensity. Our views on the possibility of settling this conflict, which has lasted for two decades, are well known.
Together with other Latin American republics, we submitted during the fifth emergency special session of the General Assembly a formula which, we felt, offered a chance of arriving at the just, and therefore stable and lasting, peace desired by all, but our formula failed to obtain the two-thirds majority required by the Charter. We consider that resolution 242 of 22 November 1967, unanimously adopted by the Security Council, enshrines
the ideas and principles of the Latin American proposal and may in the present circumstances offer the only positive way of settling this distressing, long and complex conflict.

160. In this firm conviction we have devoted and are still devoting our best endeavours to securing the acceptance and implementation of all the provisions and principles embodied in resolution 242 (1967). For the same reason we unreservedly support the mission entrusted to Mr. Jarring, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, and are fully confident that his outstanding qualities will ensure the success Of his difficult task. We are happy to reiterate our support and confidence from this rostrum.

161. Since it is our wish that Mr. Jarring should find the atmosphere most conducive to the success of his difficult task, and because the Security Council has so decided, it is with growing concern that we have watched the frequent and cruel violations of the cease-fire laid down by the resolutions of 1967. Within the Security Council, in whose work we have been participating since 1968, we have often stated that our delegation is not prepared to condone acts of violence, terrorism or reprisal in violation of the cease-fire. Accordingly, my delegation has voted in favour of all the resolutions adopted by the Security Council this year. We are well aware that the situation arising from scrupulous observance of the cease-fire is, by its very nature, bound to be a temporary one pending the restoration of peace based on justice, equity and law, but at least that situation will make it easier for Mr. Jarring to fulfil his mission. 

162. Two decades of continuous hostilities, in which war has broken out three times with destructive violence, have brought all too much bloodshed to all the States of the region. We feel it is our collective duty — and one which
cannot be postponed — to do all we can to help to achieve the long-awaited, just and lasting peace which will enable the peoples of the Middle East, with all of whom we are united by bonds of sincere friendship, to devote all their
energies to the constructive work of peace and to the consolidation of their well-being and prosperity.

163. Although we have not set out to make an exhaustive catalogue of the problems, we felt bound to allude to some of them and, above all, to define the position adopted by our country in each individual case.

164. From this standpoint, we note that authority in Southern Rhodesia is still illegally in the hands of the racist regime of Ian Smith and that South Africa, in flagrant violation of United Nations resolutions, is still depriving Namibia and the Namibian people of their legitimate right to be masters of their own national destiny; moreover, South Africa persists in imposing, as a matter of official policy, the immoral and inhuman system of apartheid.

165. We should pause and reflect, in a spirit of solidarity, on what the problems I have briefly outlined, as also those which afflict the peoples who have not yet achieved emancipation, mean in terms of human suffering, for only thus shall we understand their extreme gravity.

166. As I said earlier, my country has been a non-permanent member of the Security Council since 1 January 1968. Consequently, our actions in that body are public, and open to the scrutiny of world opinion. We feel we have
nothing to reproach ourselves for in what we have done, all of which is reflected in the records and, more importantly, in all the resolutions adopted by the Security Council in 1968, for all of which we voted, whether they concerned Namibia, Southern Rhodesia or the Middle East.

167. After lengthy negotiations, a draft treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons was finally submitted at about the middle of this year. We knew that the proposed text did not satisfy all our aspirations and that it
was intended to prevent the horizontal and not the vertical proliferation of nuclear weapons, to use United Nations parlance, But after carefully studying all the provisions of the draft treaty, we decided to co-sponsor the text which later became General Assembly resolution 2373 (XXII) of 12 June 1968, to vote in favour of it and, finally, to sign the Treaty. In provisionally assuming, by our vote and our signature, the obligations imposed by that Treaty, and until its ratification in accordance with our own constitutional
procedure, we were acting in all sincerity and faith in the cause Of international peace and security. As we stated at the time, in the region where my country is situated our relations with our neighbours near and far are such as to shelter us from any fear of possible aggression, but with the present development of nuclear weapons and the means of launching them no State can consider itself entirely free from the possibility of nuclear attack, whatever its geographical situation, its desire for peace or its level of economic and social development.

168. With this thought in mind and with the same sincerity of purpose, we also voted in favour of Security Council resolution 255 (1968) on safeguards in the event of aggression or threat of aggression by nuclear weapons
against States not possessing such weapons. We said at the time that the resolution on safeguards should be of a temporary nature since it would become obsolete once advances in the field of real and complete disarmament,
under effective international control, had brought us to the ultimate goal, which is to halt the manufacture of nuclear weapons and to bring about the complete destruction of those held in the arsenals of the nuclear Powers.

169. Moreover, in our interpretation of the Treaty, we find the way open for accelerating the progress of our developing peoples through technical and financial co-operation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, which would otherwise be denied us owing to the paucity of our resources. The doors of the major research centres must be opened to us and to others, as must opportunities for training our own experts at those centres. Assistance must
be ample and generous. By virtue of the obligations we have assumed, we have a right to request it.

170. The approval and signing of the Treaty and the adoption of Security Council resolution 255 (1968) gave rise to fresh hopes of new and more far-reaching agreements between the great Powers in respect to disarmament.
Although a number of States supported neither the Treaty nor the resolution that I mentioned, it is true to say that an international climate of greater confidence in disarmament progress was engendered.

171. There was an abrupt deterioration in that climate in August, when Czechoslovakia, a State Member of the United Nations, was suddenly and brutally attacked and, without its consent and without forewarning, found itself invaded by troops of countries members of the Warsaw Pact led by Soviet troops. As a result of the violation of the basic principles and provisions of the Charter, of the crude interference in its internal affairs and of the military occupation to which it was subjected, Czechoslovakia
found itself unable to exercise the first and most fundamental of the rights of a State, namely, that of handling its own sovereign affairs. That unjustified and indefensible invasion has shaken to its foundations the structure of the international legal order on which relations among States
are based. In conformity with our traditions, we did not hesitate to speak out in angry protest in the Security Council and to call for the condemnation of the aggressors. As I said, that was the least we could do. 

172. I think there are few States Members of the United Nations which have adhered so firmly to the principle of respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity as mine, which has carried its support to the limits of individual and collective sacrifice. Much time has passed since the era we regard as the epic period of our history; but a basic duty to ourselves, to our past and to the traditions of which we are so proud determined the position which we adopted in the Security Council and which we reaffirm here.

173. My country’s participation in the work and responsibilities of the Security Council accounts for the relatively large part of this statement which I have devoted to the problems of peace and security.

174. But for us and for our destiny as a developing nation, the problems caused by the fact that the world is divided into North and South are also of the utmost importance. From this same rostrum the Foreign Minister of my
country said last year:

"In our everyday parlance we have become accustomed to classifying countries in two major groups, which we call the developed countries and the developing countries. The fact is that the former are industrialized countries, while the latter are not. It is sad to note that the passage of time has not brought about any improvement in the distribution of wealth, that the industrialized countries receive and own most of the wealth and that the
non-industrialized countries, which account for two thirds of the world’s population, receive in return for their efforts a minimal remuneration which is absolutely inadequate for their development needs.” [1570th meeting, para. 151].

175. A few months later the Second United Nations Conference on Trade and Development was held at New Delhi, and although we hoped that the Conference would lay the foundations for hastening the hour of justice in the distribution of wealth and the fruits of labour, we were not over-optimistic because we know that there are too many barriers of prejudice to be overcome.

176. Viewing the Conference now from the perspective afforded by the months that have passed since its closure, we are imbued with a painful feeling of frustration. Once again the chance to correct the unjust rules governing trade between the two groups of countries has been lost; once again we have seen our hopes of constructive dialogue dashed and once again our legitimate aspirations have had to be shelved. It is certainly not the developing countries which are to blame for that failure, but it is they that will suffer the direct and indirect consequences of it.

177. The United Nations is now preparing to set up a system for ensuring the peaceful uses of the resources of the sea-bed, beyond the limits of national territorial jurisdiction and of its subsoil. We trust that the Organization will find just ways of ensuring that those resources will be used for the benefit of all mankind, that is to say for the benefit of all States whether or not they have seaboards. If we really wanted to set a fair standard, it should be the countries without a seaboard that should be the first to
receive the benefits derived from the exploitation of such resources, in order to compensate them for the permanent disadvantage that their land-locked situation represents for their development.

178. In the conviction — already expressed on other occasions and from this same rostrum by spokesmen more qualified than myself — that regional economic integration in no way impinges on sovereignty or implies acceptance of
supranational bodies but, on the contrary, permits the expansion of markets that are often restricted by the limits of national jurisdiction, we are continuing our efforts to give practical effect to the regional common market. In so doing, we are imbued with the belief that its operation will
bring just and positive benefits to all its members. We know the difficulties to be overcome, but we also know that sooner or later — and we hope sooner — political wisdom will prevail and we shall build up a solid organization in which each and every participant will obtain equitable and reciprocal recognition of its legitimate aspirations.

179. It is with the same confidence and perseverance that we are continuing to work for the establishment of the continental common market, within the time-limit to which we have voluntarily agreed. Latin America has tremendous
natural resources and its raw material potential is practically unlimited. Its population has a high working and production capacity. It is without doubt one part of the world which should have a bright future, but in order to bring that future nearer there must be continuous and increasing industrialization. My own country is particularly anxious to see industries of regional interest established on its territory and we hope to succeed in this undertaking by our own efforts and with the fraternal co-operation of the other countries in the hemisphere.

180. In the increasingly interdependent world of today, the problems of one country or reg:on must directly or indirectly, but inevitably, affect other countries and other regions. In the course of this statement I have referred, in a spirit of willingness to co-operate in the search for possible solutions, to some of the more serious problems which the present General Assembly will have to consider.

181. No co-operation in the purposes and principles of the United Nations can outshine that which Member States can offer by respecting and complying with rules of universal validity, each within the framework of its own national
jurisdiction.

182. My country receives little foreign aid. The vast domestic task of consolidating its economic infrastructure, of constantly improving social conditions, raising the standard of living, streamlining its political institutions within a democratic framework, stabilizing its monetary basis, achieving comprehensive progress and establishing an atmosphere of peace and justice, order and mutual respect — all this is the result of the dynamic and harmonious dedication of the collective efforts in which the various
political and economic sectors of the country are participating under the leadership of a truly representative Government actuated by the noblest of national aspirations. These are the credentials we offer when we take this
rostrum and express our views.

183. I began my statement by quoting from the Introduction to the Secretary-General’s Annual Report to the General Assembly on the work of the Organization [A/7201/Add.1, para. 205] and 1 should like to conclude
with another quotation from the same paragraph:

“... I feel", says U Thant, “that it is not enough to bemoan the past; we must also renew our efforts to promote the cause of international understanding and rededicate ourselves to the principles of international
order and morality set out in the Charter.”

These words also express our own aims, hopes and desires.

===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
1. Madam President, on behalf of my Government I
warmly welcome your election to preside over the General
Assembly’s deliberations at its twenty-fourth session. By
placing the conduct of our difficult tasks in your wise and
skillful hands, the delegations in this hall, including my
own, have paid a just tribute both to your outstanding
personal qualities and to your position as representative of
your own country in particular and of Africa as a whole.
We offer you our most cordial congratulations.

2. At the same time, we recall with regret your predecessor 
in office, Mr. Emilio Arenales, a citizen of Guatemala
by birth and a citizen of the American continent by virtue
of his outstanding ability and his personality, whose
premature death we deeply lament. My delegation wishes to
pay a respectful tribute to his memory.

3. In speaking from this rostrum, the most eminent in the
international community, in view of the session’s heavy
agenda that reflects the scope and complexity of the
problems of today’s world, I do not propose to examine
these problems in detail. The procedures established under
the existing provisions and rules give every delegation the
opportunity to express its views and ideas fully and without
restriction during the discussion of each specific item both
in plenary and in the Main Committees. At the present
stage of our work, however, such an examination would in
a sense be inconsistent with the purposes and character of
the general debate.

4. As the representative of a developing country, that is,
of a State which day by day has to face and attempt to
solve the enormous obstacles to its progressive development
resulting from unjust conditions prevailing in world markets, 
my first concern must necessarily be to deal with all
matters connected — to use the words of the Preamble of the
Charter — with the promotion of “social progress and better
standards of life in larger freedom”.

5. As the representative of a Member State of this
assembly of nations in a world and at a time marked by the
increasing interdependence of nations, I shall concentrate
on problems relating to the maintenance of international
peace and security in the firm belief that any breach or
threat of breach of the peace, wherever it may occur,
inevitably affects, though to a lesser or greater degree, each
and every member of the international community. From
that standpoint, there are no problems that can be
described as distant or remote. We know full well that no
lasting structure can be established or any real progress
achieved except on the sure foundations of peace with justice.

6. It is deplorable that, in this year in which man has
witnessed the fulfilment of his age-old dream of travelling
on a mission of peace from our planet to the moon and
returning unscathed, the international situation should
present so discouraging a picture. This is one of the great
contrasts of our time. On the one hand, scientific and
technological advances have opened up almost unlimited
prospects for the future, while on the other, man’s slow
legal, political and moral evolution constantly reminds us of
the discrepancy between these two areas of development.

7. In the introduction to his annual report on the work of
the Organization, the Secretary-General who, from the
lofty post he occupies, is exceptionally well-placed to take
an over-all view, tells us among other things that during
“the past 12 months, the deterioration of the international
situation ... has continued” [A/7601/Add.1, para. 1], that
in the field of disarmament “progress is indeed very
limited” [ibid., para. 2], that “it is accordingly most
disquieting to see that the solution of the problem of
preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons, both
horizontally and vertically, is still hanging in the balance”
[ibid., para. 26], and that “the product of the awful
alphabet and arithmetic of ABMs (anti-ballistic missiles)
and MIRVs (multiple independently targetable re-entry
vehicles) can only be the acceleration of what has been
described as the ‘mad momentum’ of the nuclear arms
race” [ibid., para. 28]. These quotations are merely 
illustrative and are by no means exhaustive, but as a whole they
point to a situation fraught with sombre prospects.

8. But the main source of immediate and collective
concern lies in the wars at present in progress, with the
indescribable hardships they involve for millions of human
beings and with the devastation that accompanies all armed
conflicts.

9. If this gloomy picture is viewed from the standpoint of
the developing countries and peoples which already have
more than their share of deprivation because of the state of
development of their fragile economic infrastructures and
the levels of living prevailing in their societies, it must be
agreed that large reserves of faith and optimism are needed
in order to avoid sinking into the depths of despair.

10. I believe, however, that the States gathered together in
this Assembly and the peoples they represent possess both
individually and collectively the necessary reserves of
optimism and energy to persevere in their efforts to bring
closer the dawn of the better days for which we yearn.
Knowing as we do that it is only in a congenial international 
climate that we can hope to achieve our aspirations
for progress and well-being, our first task, our main and
permanent task, is to help to create such a climate, which
may be characterized in very few words: security, peace
and justice for all.

11. Built on the ruins of a world conflagration, the
Organization was established in order to develop friendly
relations among nations based on the principles of equal
rights and self-determination of peoples; to achieve international 
co-operation in solving international problems of an
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character; to
promote and encourage respect for human rights and for
fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race,
sex, language or religion; to be a centre for harmonizing the
actions of nations, but first and foremost to maintain
international peace and security. At the same time, the
appropriate bodies were set up and procedures laid down
for the settlement of disputes that result, or threaten to
result, in a breach of international peace.

12. Since 1 January 1968, my country has been a member
of one of these organs. I refer to the organ entrusted by the
Charter with the primary responsibility for the maintenance
of international peace and security, that is to say, the
Security Council. The term of office for which my country
was elected by this Assembly will expire on 31 December
next. The views I propose to set forth are based on the
experience gained during the period in which we have
participated in the Council’s work, a period that can be
described, without exaggeration, as both important and active.

13. We believe that the concepts on which the Security
Council’s structure was based reflect the political ideas of
the post-war world. Even if those ideas were valid at the
time of San Francisco — and there were already then enough
grounds to rule out excessive optimism on this score — today, 
a quarter of a century later, they are no longer in
keeping with the outlook characteristic of a different era.
In our opinion, it is this difference that explains a certain
operational weakness, which, in certain situations, restricts
the Council’s possibilities of action, even where such action
is both essential and urgent.

14. I refer in particular to the provisions on the adoption
of decisions on non-procedural matters. These provisions, as
contained in the amended text of Article 27, paragraph 3,
of the Charter, stipulate that decisions shall be made
”...by an affirmative vote of nine members including the
concurring votes of the permanent members”.

15. I must forthwith add that the Council itself has for
some time now established the practice of taking decisions
by votes in which one or more permanent members abstain.
Despite that practice, today’s world is so complex that it is
often difficult if not impossible to achieve unanimity
among the five permanent members and thus to decide on a
given course of action. This, we believe, is the primary
cause of the limitation of the Council’s real powers. I am
not referring to the casting of negative votes by the
permanent members, because, in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter, such negative votes entail the
rejection. of any substantive proposal. I am referring
exclusively to cases where there is a possibility of positive
action.

16. In these circumstances, an ever-increasing burden of
responsibility and a constantly growing role devolve upon
the non-permanent members of the Security Council,
provided that they act in unison. Individual action by those
members is inevitably limited in view of the type of nations
that make up that group, all of them so-called medium or
small countries. Collectively, on the other hand, they wield
a strength that cannot be ignored.

17. To put the matter another way, as a group, the
non-permanent members and particularly those which
represent the dispossessed areas of the world — Africa, Asia
and Latin America — in the present Council, enlarged as a
result of the amendments made to the Charter a few years
ago, constitute a political force whose opinions must
necessarily be taken into account by the permanent
members. We do not believe that the time has yet come
when that force can decisively sway the Council, but in any
event its influence is obviously growing and is undoubtedly
destined to increase still further. It is equally obvious to
anyone participating in the Council’s work that this group
of non-permanent members is the most effective. instrument
for finding formulae for action that reconcile the desirable
with the possible.

18. In that firm belief, my delegation has exerted its best
efforts to strengthen the unity of action of that group of
members. Of course, we realize that such unity of action is
not possible in all cases, because the group represents a
variety of States, each with its own political, ideological
and philosophical views and its own legal tradition. Many of
the decisions taken during the period I am 
discussing — 1968-1969 - nevertheless bear out the truth of the 
statement I have just made. Those decisions strike a delicate
balance between aspirations and possibilities, limited as the
latter are by the political realities reflected in the structure
of the Council.

19. Apart from that, our position on the specific problems
of peace and security referred to the Council is well known.
The Council’s meetings are public and we have stated and
restated our views, also in public. This fact relieves us of the
need to expound them at length yet again. I am thinking in
particular of the Middle East, one of the most serious and
complex problems of the time. It is our sincere belief that
the best and perhaps the only means of bringing about a
just and stable peace lies in the application of the provisions
and principles contained in the resolution adopted unanimously 
on 22 November 1967 [242 (1967)]. I am thinking
of Southern Rhodesia and the Zimbabwe people, oppressed
by a tiny minority which has appointed itself as a political
authority in the form of the illegal racist regime of Ian
Smith, a regime which my country does not recognize and
with which it maintains no relations of any kind. I am
thinking of Namibia, a Territory whose people still remain
subject to a foreign authority which exploits them without 
a vestige of a right — a people which is still awaiting the day
of its liberation from the yoke which afflicts them. 

20. Incidentally, I should point out that my delegation 
had the honour to sponsor, jointly with the other Latin
American members and with the African and Asian representatives, 
the draft resolutions on Namibia which the Security 
Council adopted as its resolutions 245 (1968), 246 (1968),
264 (1969) and 269 (1969), I am thinking also of Jerusalem, 
a city whose legal status was determined by the 
resolutions adopted by the General Assembly, a status
whose maintenance has been repeatedly advocated by the 
Council. These are not the only problems, and here again 
my list is not exhaustive.

21. I make these comments a bare three months from the
expiry of our term of office in the Council and they are
therefore in a sense a review of a period of service that is
virtually completed. I know that it is not customary, in
speaking from this rostrum, to submit the work that has
been done to the judgement of the international community. 
This is, however, precisely what I am doing, in the 
firm belief that we have placed our concept of justice and
our best and most sincere efforts at the service of that
community.

22. I have only a few words to add on this same point.
When two years ago we announced our wish to become a 
member of the Security Council, our purpose was to prove
once again our sincere desire to serve the United Nations by
exercising the special responsibilities of one of the principal
offices existing in the Organization. We believe, and still
believe, that a representative who participates in such an
organ acts in accordance with instructions emanating from
one source and one source only, namely, from his own
Government. Nevertheless, because we share the outlook,
ideology and traditions of the other States of our continent, 
we sincerely believe, without vanity or false modesty, 
that in exercising the duties of a member of the
Security Council, we have expressed at one and the same
time our own ideas and those of Latin America.

23. So far I have referred to matters that have come 
before the Security Council. I have stated, and I repeat,
that those are not the only problems affecting peace and
security, and that other problems also distress and concern
us, even though they are not discussed within the Organization. 
I am thinking of the cruel war in Viet-Nam. We hope
that the Paris talks, which have so far been unproductive,
will achieve positive results as soon as possible by bringing
an end to the hostilities that have dragged on there for so
long. I also have in mind the indescribable tragedy
unfolding before our eyes in western Africa. I again wish to
express the hope that, in place of the death, destruction
and desolation that prevails there, it will be possible to
reconstruct peace and restore the rule of justice.

24. I am thinking too of America and of the conflict
between two brother States of the continent. But at least in
this case, with the goodwill of the parties concerned and
the help of the regional organization, means have been
found of halting the military operations. This is a first step
of fundamental importance. We know, however, that a long
and arduous road remains to be travelled before complete
and lasting peace is restored, wounds are healed and
resentments are wiped out. But the goodwill shown by the
Hondurans and the Salvadorians — a goodwill of which we
are absolutely convinced — together with the co-operation of
the other nations of the continent, which has been
extended without any reservations or limitations, encourages 
us in our faith and confidence that a reconciliation
based on justice is close at hand.

25. There is another kind of war, a war in which the vast.
majority of States Members of the United Nations are
taking part — a war which is also cruel and is taking its toll in
sacrifices, suffering and tears. I refer to the war being waged
by the developing countries to overcome the problems
caused by an unequal, unjust and immoral division of
wealth and of the fruits of labour, to the battles being
fought to overthrow the artificial barriers dividing the
countries that have too much from those which have too
little, to the struggle of the developing countries to speed
up the process of their development so that their peoples
may enjoy the higher levels of living to which they are
legitimately entitled. So far this war has been fought at the
conference table and at international meetings; but if
present conditions continue, if they are prolonged indefinitely 
and if there are no glimmerings of hope of a better
future to brighten this world picture, it may well develop
into a conflict on an unimaginable scale, one from which no
continent or country would be excluded.

26. On the other hand, there are the countries whose
economies depend on agriculture, cattle-breeding and the
production of raw materials, and on the other, the
industrialized countries. Between the two there is a gulf
which has been widening instead of narrowing with the
passage of time, because the relations between the two
groups are governed by a system whereby some reap the
benefit of well-being while hunger and poverty are meted
out to others. “We consider that agriculture, cattle breeding
and industry ought not to be stages in history through
which all nations must of necessity pass in order to reach
their highest level of living.” This statement was made on
an earlier occasion from this same rostrum by Mr. Raul
Sapena, my country’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, who
added that instead they ought to be “different occupations
which should exist side by side at the same time, as a result
of the division of labour between nations“.

27. On another occasion, he stated that if the prices of
raw materials continued to decline and the prices of
manufactured goods continued to rise, there would “be a 
widening of the gap between the developed and the
under-developed countries; and although political colonialism 
is on its last legs, the economic colonialism applied to.
countries with an agricultural economy will remain unless
the present conditions for the production and export of
agricultural commodities are radically changed”.

28.  We are almost at the end of the First United Nations
Development Decade and on the eve of the Second. The
meagre results obtained are a guide to the depth of our
disappointment. Even so, we cannot allow ourselves to be
overcome by pessimism. On the contrary, we shall intensify
our efforts to find solutions. Our most fundamental
national interests are bound up with the achievement of
equitable solutions.

29. In this connexion, I should like to draw attention to
the position of solidarity adopted by Latin America, as
embodied in the Consensus of Viña del Mar That Consensus, 
although addressed to a specific recipient, contains
ideas, principles and observations that are of universal
significance.

30. At a time when the Assembly is preparing to set the
targets for the Second United Nations Development Decade, 
we believe it appropriate to make a renewed appeal to
the common sense of the highly developed countries to
show, if only in their own national interests, a greater
readiness to remedy the notorious shortcomings in the
terms of international trade, shortcomings which operate to
the constant advantage of those countries to the constant
disadvantage of countries like my own.

31. I cannot end these general remarks without referring
to the peoples still suffering under the colonial yoke and
conveying to them an expression of our solidarity in their
struggle to achieve their legitimate right to self-determination 
and become masters of their own national destinies.

32. Our contribution to the cause of international peace
and security within the United Nations is limited by the
modest resources at our disposal. This is not, however, our
only contribution; we have also contributed through action
at.the purely national level.

33. Believing that collective efforts by the Members of the
Organization to make it stronger and more effective must
be matched by simultaneous and parallel efforts of a purely
national character, my delegation traditionally presents to
the General Assembly an objective picture of the conditions
obtaining in Paraguay.

34. Under the leadership of a Government that is outstandingly 
dynamic and constructive, we are continuing to
make sustained progress. I need hardly say that work on
our economic infrastructure is proceeding without interruption. 
The work’ that has been accomplished includes the
building of new highways, those already in existence being
maintained at a high level of efficiency, the construction of
new schools and of new and better hospitals, and the
provision of health services covering the whole population.
The level of nutrition is among the highest in the continent
and the illiteracy rate, which was already low, is being
steadily reduced. 

35. Where political affairs are concerned, the party system
has functioned smoothly and the freedoms of association,
of assembly, of the press and of expression have been fully
exercised. 

36. In regard to social affairs, the rule of law, the
institution 6f home ownership for all Paraguayan families,
the measures taken to ensure adequate remuneration for all
workers, the extension of social security, a sound agrarian
policy of far-reaching scope — all these are factors which
explain the existence of a fair and just domestic peace that
provides men with a climate propitious to maximum output
and the maximum devotion to the attainment of common
objectives.

37. Economically, the general conditions prevailing in our
country have ensured that progress has been spectacular in
every aspect of Paraguayan life, but it has been achieved
without display. Although we receive external financial aid,
it is none the less true that the results achieved have been
primarily due to the national efforts carried out — I repeat — for 
the realization of our aspirations by a statesman who is
animated by a deep-seated patriotism and by an unshakable
devotion to the public weal, and in whom the highest ideals
are allied to a capacity for effective action.

38. We continue to have an unfavourable balance of trade,
since although our exports have increased, our imports have
done so also. Machinery and equipment, particularly tor
agriculture and industry, account for a large part of these
imports which now affect the balance of trade because of
their high cost. They will shortly yield, however, dividends
for the national economy and accelerate the profound
changes taking place in our country, which has been lifted
from its past condition of prostration to its present state of
creative energy. The goals we have set ourselves are still
remote but we are marching towards them with unshakable resolve.

===== Session 25 - 1970 =====
226.	  Before I begin my statement in the general debate and with the consent of the President, I should like to state from this rostrum the deep and sincere feeling of solidarity with which the people and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay as well as members of my delegation associate themselves with the sorrow of the Government and people of the United Arab Republic on the premature death of their President, Gamal Abdel Nasser, an eminent leader of worldwide stature, to whose memory we seriously and respectfully bow.
227.	On coming to this rostrum I shall first discharge an express mission, which is as honored as it is pleasant, entrusted to me by my Government. On its behalf I extend to Ambassador Hambro its warmest congratulations on his election to preside over this session of the General Assembly, during which the United Nations Organization will commemorate its twenty- fifth anniversary. My Government sees in Mr. Hambro's election both a tribute to Norway because of its eminent and constant contribution to the cause of peace, and a tribute to Ambassador Hambro's lofty personal qualities, which have justly won for him our respect, admiration and confidence. As the representative of my Government I present to his predecessor, Mrs. Angie Brooks-Randolph, a tribute of sincere appreciation for the outstanding work she did during the previous General Assembly.
228.	It has been a rule of my delegation to participate in the general debate at each session of the General Assembly so as to state from this rostrum its views regarding the principal problems submitted to it for consideration and on the most important items in the agendas.
229.	But, in this anniversary year, which marks a quarter of a century of existence for the United Nations, we wish to depart from this rule and present in a tightly-knit synthesis a recapitulation of some of the ideas connected with the past, the present and the future of our Organization, which have already been expressed by my delegation at previous meetings.
230.	Being fully aware that no cooperation in the application of the principles and the attainment of the purposes of the United Nations is more complete or more noble than that which can be offered by Member States through their compliance and respect both in their domestic and international conduct, we wish to present the credentials which authorize me to speak from this rostrum with objectivity and independence of views.
231.	My country is one which belongs to the numerous group of the "developing countries", as they are called, whose economy is essentially agricultural and of livestock and whose industrialization is still in its beginning. Furthermore, it is one of the only two countries which in Latin America see that, over and above the problems inherent in development without sufficient financing, we furthermore face problems which result from being landlocked. As such, we have fought and will continue to fight with steadfast determination to win acceptance for ever more advanced principles of international law which will compensate for the disadvantages derived from our being situated at a considerable distance from the sea. In this connexion, an eminent jurist from Afghanistan said that the problems of international trade of landlocked countries are enormous and that this condition does not disappear, even though the problems may change from time to time and from region to region.
232.	I mention this circumstance simply to give you a clearer idea of the magnitude of the problems which Paraguay must overcome and vanquish in its tenacious and uninterrupted effort under a dynamic and patriotic Government, to consolidate our economic infrastructure and to raise to ever higher levels.
233.	On the international level our conduct is such that we can proclaim, without either boasting or false modesty, that our country has not created situations nor been involved in conflicts that required the attention of the General Assembly at any time. That does not mean that we have no problems of this kind, or that we have not had them, but that, in conformity with our own tradition and with the mandates of the Charter, we have sought and still seek adequate solutions by way of direct negotiations.
234.	Internally, we have carried out a vast task of consolidating the economic infrastructure, of constantly raising the standard of living of our population; of improvement of our democratic institutions; of maintaining the value of our currency, despite the tremendous sacrifices this implies; and, above all and foremost, we have managed to strengthen an order of peace based on justice, in which democratic political parties are free to play an active part, and are now preparing to participate in general municipal elections called for 25 October. The index of attendance at schools, as well as that of nutrition, are among the highest in Latin America. Progress, in a few words, is continuous and integral, and the results obtained are the best rewards won by the statesman who presides over our national destiny. This is the country which I represent in this Assembly and whose voice I bring to you.
235.	Perhaps as never before, this general debate has given us an opportunity to know with greater accuracy the points of view of Member States regarding the undoubted successes of the United Nations during its twenty-five years of existence; regarding the failures which, even though with pain and in spite of sincere efforts, we must recognize, and the frustrations which more than once have tended to weaken our will. But, above all, this debate is in a way unique, because the criticisms of the shortcomings of the Organization, brought to light during its life span, have been set forth with loftiness of purpose and, we believe, with a constructive intent.
236.	But it would be tantamount to self-deceit and to deceiving the peoples whom we represent if these criticisms, addressed to the United Nations as a whole, were not accompanied by a capacity for as objective an examination as possible, which each Member must undertake, of the value and scope of his own national effort to give the provisions contained in the Charter universal content and validity.
237.	As long as this capacity for criticism and self criticism exists we can have faith in the future of our Organization, in its role, and expect that its actions will move forward a time of wellbeing, of dignity, a time of value and happiness for the human being, whatever his nationality, race, sex, creed, language, the place where he was born, or the land he inhabits.
238.	Some of the criticisms have perhaps been very severe. It is conceivable that with the creation of the United Nations, the world, which had just emerged from an extremely cruel, bloody, and devastating war, placed in the Organization an overdose of optimism about the possibilities open to it, giving it a prematurely illusory content.
239.	The frustrations resulting from the contrast between illusions and reality and from observing the growing political and economic power held by a few States, which are too powerful in comparison with the vast majority of those which make up this Assembly, have probably been some of the determining causes of a situation which, particularly in recent years, has become accentuated and is certainly a cause for deep concern. This situation consists in the tendency to remove from United Nations jurisdiction some of the gravest international problems which should, because of their very nature, have a natural forum in this Assembly. Instead of bringing those problems to a frank and open debate in this universal forum, they have been taken to the restricted forums of the conference tables of a few States which are, of course, the strongest within the community of nations. We cannot accuse the most powerful countries which hold the political, military and economic power I have referred to, of being solely responsible. We must also recognize our share of responsibility. We have increasingly attributed to them greater responsibilities, thus adding to the power which they already have, the power of representation, which is nothing but a disguised form of a renunciation of what should be our unavoidable duties.
240.	Hence, the time has come to reaffirm the need to make maximum use of the possibilities of this lofty forum. It is time to bring or bring back to it the problems which are its responsibility and not remove them. And when these problems refer to the breach or the possibility of a breach of peace and international security, the obligation is even more absolute. If any attitude can be dangerously negative, if any conduct can contribute to a greater degree to the ineffectiveness of the United Nations and eventually to its decline, it would be to remove from the Organization the examination of the problems I am referring to.
241.	Of course, we must expect that debates of such problems will bring to light deep differences of views in the application of the principles and the attainment of the purposes of the Organization criteria which not only will be different but will even be opposite. None of this should discourage us. Perhaps we should be less concerned with the quest for constant unanimity, since uniformity of thinking is not a usual condition among men who come from and represent different continents, States, races, cultures and civilizations, and accordingly respond to different historical, political and economic interests. In the contrast of criteria is the indispensable element to give strength and vigor to our Organization.
242.	In making those comments I do not intend to attempt to pronounce judgment on the results achieved by the United Nations during twenty-five years of existence. But I would be failing in an unavoidable duty were I not to formulate the categorical and unequivocal affirmation that in our view the postulates, the principles and the purposes of the United Nations, incorporated in the Charter which was signed at San Francisco, are at present as valid as they were then, that in themselves they point to the goal we shall some day reach and that today, like yesterday, they define the standards for domestic and international conduct, whose universal scrupulous and loyal observance is, and will continue to be, the best guarantee for the maintenance of peace and security in justice, for the establishment at the world level of the rule of that justice, to regulate relations among States in an order in which each one enjoys full sovereign equality, and to promote social progress and the economic wellbeing of man within an atmosphere of greater freedom.
243.	Our differences in many cases are due to our diverse criteria regarding the procedures which are adequate to win universal acceptance of such principles, and for the likewise universal attainment of these purposes. These differences are due also to varying assessments of the effectiveness of the organ to which the Charter attributes the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, namely the Security Council. The political conception of what the postwar world would be, seen from the perspective of 1945, determined the structure of that Council and the role of fundamental importance assigned to its permanent members. These had emerged victorious after a long and hard bloody war, waged in solidarity, against the forces of aggression and barbarism. That conception of the postwar world, nevertheless, is not fitting for a different era. Since then we have seen the decline of great colonial empires. On the world stage we have seen the emergence of superPowers endowed with a military, economic and technological might as yet unknown on earth, On the other hand, a result of the growing application of the principle of right of peoples to self-determination in the process of decolonization which, nevertheless and regrettably, has still not been completed, most representatives who attend this Assembly represent States which barely twenty-five years ago were subject to the colonial yoke and are today masters of their own sovereign destinies. No, the world of 1945 is not that of 1970.
244.	In San Francisco it was expected that, in cases of a breach or threat of a breach of international peace, the permanent members could take joint and harmonious action to preserve peace. The expectation faded, time has seen to it, and the result has been, in many cases, the inability or powerlessness of the Security Council to take effective action; inability or powerlessness which is all the more to be deplored since the action which we expected from that organ was both indispensable and urgent.
245.	Faced with that situation and its possible consequences for the effectiveness of the fundamental mission which devolves on the United Nations which led to its creation we can expect a growing role for the other Members of the Organization, particularly for those which represent the less endowed areas of the world Africa, Asia and Latin America. But let us not forge for ourselves the vain illusion that because of our number we constitute an influential force, yet nor would we wish to underrate the value of our numerical majority, a numerical majority and a value which would subsist to the extent that we found a formula for joint action, based on our own common interests. This quest is something far greater than a right. It is an obligation to exert our best efforts to that end and with that purpose.
246.	Referring to the area from which I come, Latin America, I must specifically mention the important and far-reaching role in the preservation of peace and international security which our regional Organization plays, an organization which combines the achievements which honor its existence with the vast capital of its contributions in the field of international law.
247.	Now, I believe it is my duty to reiterate once more the concepts stated in past sessions of the Assembly by the head of my delegation and Minister for Foreign Affairs. If States are to act within the international community as individuals do within national communities, logic indicates that the peaceful coexistence of countries of such varied origins and disciplines, with such different ideological, political and economic criteria and at such unequal stages of development, can only be secured with the three traditional basic elements: international law or the set of internationally accepted principles loyally observed; international tribunals or organizations for the administration of justice; and international forces able, when needed, to forestall situations which violate accepted "laws and to apply international sanctions.
248.	The United Nations has done considerable work in the field of establishing international laws, because of the many conventions adopted under its auspices, but we must recognize that the road ahead is a long one. As regards organizations able to administer justice at the international level, we note with concern and sorrow the declining role of the International Court of Justice. We believe that acceptance of international justice and compliance with the decisions of competent organs is no offense to the sovereignty of States. On the contrary, it is typical of eras of regression and barbarism that, in the event of conflict between States, the strong try to prevail over the weak by their own means, for their own benefit, disregarding all concepts of right and justice.
249.	As for the existence of international forces provided for in the Charter, the possibility is still remote. Years ago, in his introduction to his annual report on the work of the Organization, presented to the General Assembly at its nineteenth session,  the SecretaryGeneral referred to offers of military units as reserve forces made to the United Nations by several Member States, that is, forces available to the Organization whenever a justified need for them arose. The SecretaryGeneral then added that he had not been able to do much because no competent United Nations organ had adopted any measure authorizing him to accept the offer, even though no expenditure for the
Organization was involved until a contingent actually began to serve the Organization. Six years later, the situation is still the same. Furthermore, it is known that there has been no solution to a problem indissolubly linked to the possibility of having those forces, or others, intended for peacekeeping. I am referring to the adoption of equitable systems to finance peacekeeping operations. We know the magnitude of the efforts made in the relevant committee, under the leadership of an eminent Latin American, to find mutually acceptable formulas. In recording the fact that they have not yet been found, we trust that the months to come will prove to be more fruitful.
250.	The above comments and, particularly, some made during this general debate, would seem to indicate a desire to revise the Charter. We frankly admit that we do not believe that the time is propitious to undertake such a task. At the same time we believe that for a real and effective evaluation of the predominant trend of thought among Members of the United Nations, the General Assembly already has the appropriate instrument in item 88, entitled "Need to consider suggestions regarding the review of the Charter of the United Nations". Let us avail ourselves of that instrument.
251.	I have devoted most of my statement to questions related to international peace and security. Implicit in these comments is the hope for general and complete disarmament, under adequate international control. If I have not made special reference to matters pertaining to disarmament, it is because the item is on the agenda of the First Committee, where there will be ample opportunity for an exhaustive examination. For the time being, I should like to voice the deep concern with which we observe the monstrous amount of resources invested in armaments, an amount which is all the more overwhelming when it is compared with the figures to which the solidarity of the developed world is reduced, as its contribution to the economic and social development of most of the human race.
252.	Peace is the cornerstone on which order among nations and collective security rest, because they are indissolubly linked with other problems, and it is the latter that affect us from day to day. This is so for those of us who constitute the countries called developing, in our unceasing efforts to overcome the obstacles to our economic and social development, to correct a system of international trade which is not only unjust but immoral, to obtain the equitable distribution of our riches and the fruits of our work and to raise the standard of living of our peoples, many of whom, in this second half of the twentieth century, are still struggling in the infamy of backwardness and the degradation of poverty.
253.	Every day that goes by without demolishing the artificial barriers which separate those who have too much from those who have too little, barriers dividing those who enjoy highly satisfactory remuneration as compensation for their efforts from those who must be satisfied with the wages of a pauper, means new and increasing suffering for those large masses of man
kind. In that difference, the magnitude of which can only be measured in unspeakable anguish is rooted the greatest of the potential conflicts which it is possible to imagine, and, should it ever break out, would spare no continent, no country, no human community.
254.	The time for finding adequate solutions to this contemporary drama is running short, particularly in this Second Development Decade. The hour is late, but not irrevocably so. Therefore let us renew our efforts and our hope, in the expectation of better days. I conclude my statement with a quotation from the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Brazil: "We must not forget that the United Nations represents the only specialized agency we have for peace, development and collective security" [1841st meeting, para. 15].
255.	On our capacity for collective action, on our sincerity of purpose and on the intensity of our efforts, will depend whether we convert into fruitful reality the theme of this twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations: peace, justice and progress for all the peoples of the world.


===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
199.	  On behalf of my Government, it is my pleasant duty to tender to you most cordial and sincere congratulations both for the honor done to you and the responsibilities entrusted to you by the General Assembly of the United Nations in electing you to preside over its twenty-sixth regular session. May I assure you, moreover, that yw will find in my delegation, all the co-operation that you may need in the performance of your lofty functions.
200.	At the same time, I would ask you to convey to your predecessor in the Chair, Mr. Edvard Hambro of Norway, the testimony of Paraguay's deep recognition of the brilliant manner in which he presided over the previous session.
201.	With the remembrance of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the creation of the United Nations the commemoration of which gave rise, within and outside the Organization, to a recapitulation and evaluation of its accomplishments in the quarter century of its existence, to the examination of its current situation and the quantitative assessment of prospects for action in the near and distant future still fresh in our memories, my first words are aimed at reiterating, without reticence or reservation, the unswerving faith of the Republic of Paraguay in the United Nations.
202.	In the opinion of my Government, the tenets, the principles and the purposes of the United Nations, as enunciated in the Charter, are today as valid as they were in 1945. These tenets, principles and purposes define norms of national and international conduct, the scrupulous and universal observance of which is and will continue to be the best guarantee for the maintenance of a just international peace and security; for the regulation of relations between States, through mutually agreed, accepted and respected norms, in which each enjoys full sovereignty, in which each and all nations, regardless of their political, economic or geographical size, is juridically equal and in which the international community, acting harmoniously, promote social progress, economic development and man's well being, irrespective of the land in which he was born, the place in which he lives, the color of his skin, or the religion he professes.
203.	We know full well that in the time that has elapsed regrettable weaknesses have become apparent in our Organization; that there have been many frustrations and even, in given circumstances, a demonstration of the complete inability of the Organization to act, although the actions we expected of the United Nations were essential and urgent. Tins realistic recognition of the fact does not imply that we have lost the courage or the faith to which I have referred. It is indicative, on the other hand, of the differences that exist between our aspirations and what is feasible at present. It shows, too, the need to redouble our efforts to ensure universal respect for the Charter and to move forward decisively in our endeavor to make the world we live in perfect.
204.	Peace is the comer-stone on which the structure of international security rests. Its preservation is thus the first of the obligations of its Member States. It is almost unnecessary to emphasize that in speaking of peace we do not give this word or the concept it defines the narrow and limiting meaning of the absence of wars, but rather a dynamic and fruitful meaning that is inseparable from justice.
205.	On the other hand, the preservation of peace and the consolidation of the structure on which international security must rest is necessarily a collective task in' which each and every one must make a contribution. We are fully aware of the extraordinary value for the maintenance of international peace and security, of the nature of relations between the great Powers and, in particular, between the two super-Powers; but that importance, however great, does not mean, nor can it mean, that it is exclusive. The active and dynamic peace we have in mind, that we hope to see reigning in the world, can only be real and effective if all the members of the international community make their contribution, even though the contribution of countries whose political, economic and demographic potential is very limited by comparison with that of other States having much greater resources and having achieved a different stage of development and whose contribution therefore may appear to be small.
206.	It is this conviction that impelled us in 1970, when the General Assembly considered the item on its agenda relating to measures for the strengthening of international security, to join with other States in the geographic region to which my country belongs, to give our support in order to imbue the Declaration that was in th process of preparation with the true character of a historic discussion of singular importance. The result of that contribution, added to that of other Members of the United Nations, was the relevant resolution contained in document 2734 (XXV), which was adopted with a single dissident vote and a single abstention. Needless to say, it embodied ideas and principles that reflect the common thinking of Latin America. May we incidentally point out, without boasting but without false modesty, that we consider it an honor to have co-sponsored that resolution.
207.	It would be improper at this time and on this occasion to make a lengthy quotation of the provisions of the aforesaid Declaration. But as I come from and represent a developing country, I would be failing in an elementary duty were I not to express, or rather to reiterate, the view we have been upholding that there is a relationship, which is not merely close but indissoluble and inseparable, between international security, disarmament and the development of countries, so that, and here I quote the words of the Declaration: "... any progress made towards any of these objectives will constitute progress towards all of them". The aforesaid reference does not merely seek to recall the past. Were it so, it would be unwarranted. The ami it pursues is quite different.
208.	The preservation of peace, as I have said, is a collective responsibility. The Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security represents the will of the community of Members gathered in the United Nations. Its provisions range from a solemn reiteration, with a clear sense of re-dedication, of the cardinal principles of the Charter to pressing exhortations. We adopted the Declaration in good faith. In so doing, we undertook individually and collectively the obligation to abide by its letter and its spirit. Further, we assumed a duty to ensure its universal and strict implementation. It is this latter obligation that determines the need for a periodic and impartial examination of the degree of observance of its provisions. Let us do this each year, without hesitation or fear, conscious of the fact that the stricter we are in this examination, the better we shall preserve peace in justice and the better we shall serve both the collective interests of all and our own national interests.
209.	I have mentioned one of the most important resolutions of the twenty-fifth session. I must now mention another decision that is also truly historic. I am referring to the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade, unanimously adopted in 1970 by acclamation [resolution 2626 (XXV)].
210.	The 89 co-sponsors of the document submitted to the General Assembly, after protracted and difficult negotiations with the representatives of the industrialized States, knew full well that the Strategy that had been prepared so arduously did not constitute "an adequate expression of the aspirations of the developing countries. Nor does it contain an assurance that the policy measures contained in it constitute even the minimum that should be done in order to realize the goals and objectives of the Second United Nations Development Decade." But at the same time we were fully aware of the fact that the Strategy was and is "the best possible reflection of the present stage of the collective conscience of mankind in one of the most crucial areas of organizing human society."10
211.	The Strategy, which seeks to regulate relations between industrial States and developing States during the decade that has jurt opened, although it does not truly contemplate the legitimate aspirations of the latter, does constitute the first organic and systematic plan at the world level to establish principles and norms for international co-operation and effective mechanisms that will make it possible to reduce and eventually eliminate the great disparities that exist in our time in the two parts into which the world has been divided, taken from the standpoint of the degree of development and distribution of wealth as well as the living standards of the people and prosperity.
212.	Nothing would have pleased us more than to come to this Assembly, on this first anniversary of the adoption of the Strategy, with the specific hope that the dawn of better days had arrived for most of the Members of the Organization and, of course, for most of the world population; in other words, for those of us who constitute the great mass of underprivileged peoples; for those of us who aspire to break the artificial barriers that have been raised and that
separate the world into two fundamentally different groups of countries, those which have too much and those which have too little. We would have wished to find in this world panorama the signs of a reduction in those great differences which separate the States of the North from the States of the South; we would have wished to see the hope of better days in the development of relations between both sectors of the world; we would also have been happy to point out that, as political colonialism disappears, conditions had become propitious to eliminate from the face of the earth the economic colonialism to which our countries are subjected whether they have an essentially agricultural economy or produce	products. All these countries
are in the incipient process of industrialization, but lack the essential national capital for their economic and social development, and all of them suffer the consequences of an unfair system of trade exchange which makes it impossible to improve their living standards.
213.	But we come to this rostrum on the first anniversary with the profound and understandable concern, which stems from the recent events that we have witnessed in the * international monetary field, and in the field of trade. On this point I refer specifically to the 10 per cent tax on imports, wherever they may come from, that is to say, from the industrial or the developing world, which was initiated a while ago by the United States Government.
214.	We understand the reasons that determined this measure, in other words, the deterioration in that country's balance of payments. But we must point out immediately that our developing countries, and particularly those of Latin America, have no responsibility for that deterioration. To the contrary, our trade, individual or collective, with the great Power to the north has been characterized by a chronic unfavorable balance of payments. In other words, the Government of the United States, by imposing that surtax on manufactured goods and not taking into account considerations relating to the origin of such imports, has placed on an equal footing the developing countries and the industrialized countries. At a recent meeting held in Panama, the Foreign Minister of my country, in referring to this 10 per cent surcharge, said that the worst injustice that could have been done was to put on an equal footing those who did not have the same possibilities, and that under such a policy the powerful became ever more powerful and the poor became even poorer. Moreover, he said that it is essential to seek solutions which while being effective and legitimate were not harmful under the guise of a non-existent equality since the absence of discrimination among unequal States-in terms of economic power-was simply unfair.
215.	In the face of this dangerous situation for our economies which in themselves are so weak, the States of Latin America have found that their only possible strength lies in unity of thought and action; a unity that had its first important manifestations in the Consensus at Vina del Mar of May 1969 and which recently was reiterated unanimously in Bogota and Panama.11 Our only strength lies
in our unity ; we must recognize that individually we are too weak and that the possibility of our being heard and heeded lies in speaking with a single voice in the great international assemblies.
216.	These reflections apply especially to the new opportunity for dialog between the industrialized and the developing countries which will take place next year in Santiago, on the occasion of the third session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. We attach the greatest importance to the forthcoming ministerial meeting of the Group of 77 to be held in Lima at the end of 'this month, at which time the developing countries will seek mutually acceptable formalities which will enable them in turn to speak with a single voice in Santiago. Perhaps, as at no other time, this is the right time to say that in union there is strength. For us, the Latin American States, the meeting to be held also in Lima which will precede the meeting of the Group of 7713 will also be of paramount importance.
217.	I believe at this juncture I can speak with authority. To achieve that unity of action, on more than one occasion we have had to renounce legitimate aspirations. I must recall that my country is not only one of the developing countries, but also at the same time it is one of the only ones on this continent which, apart from its development problems and its lack of financial capacity or foreign aid, must suffer problems derived from its situation as a land-locked country. Throughout our national history our unswerving determination and our unceasing efforts in all organizations and in all assemblies have been directed towards our obtaining the establishment and recognition of certain principles of international law, in particular those which relate to the unfavorable geographic situation of States that do not have a coastline. We must recognize with regret that in this connexion international co-operation has not given the expected results. We do not of course want a system of this kind to continue and for that reason we continue to lay claim to certain rights for legal, historic and political reasons.
218.	In expressing these thoughts I have in mind too the special participation of land-locked countries in the exploitation of the resources of the sea-bed and the ocean floor and the subsoil thereof beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, which we believe would be fair compensation, which would in no way affect the interests of the coastal States.
219.	I have referred thus far to some of the items to be considered by the General Assembly under your guidance, Mr. President. I have not mentioned others because the position of my country has been spelt out repeatedly and is well known, and also because in the debate on each of these questions we shall have an opportunity to reiterate our views.
220.	I must point out that decisions adopted by the General Assembly have not always commanded our support. When we have had dissident views we have expressed them.But we wish to state that in our capacity as a loyal
Member of the United Nations in the past we have accepted and we continue to accept in the present the decisions adopted by the majority of the Members of the international community in accordance with the provisions of the Charter.
221.	Our Organization has been enriched by the admission of three new Members whose presence in this Assembly of free nations of the world we welcome joyfully: Bhutan, Bahrain and Qatar, to which Oman will be added shortly. My country extends to them the most cordial greetings and we offer them our most brotherly co-operation.
222.	I have only very little to add.
223.	U Thant has stated repeatedly in the past months and in categorical terms his firm decision not to continue in his lofty functions as Secretary-General after the expiration of his present mandate. We respect his decision and, although the time has not yet come for the tributes that this great man of universal stature deserves, I should like in a very few and sincere words to express to him the gratitude, recognition and appreciation of my Government and my delegation for the great task accomplished by him over a period of 10 years at the head of one of the most important organizations in the world, for his outstanding services in favor of the preservation of international peace and security and for his efforts in favor cf developing countries.
224.	In conclusion, and following the usual practice adopted by my delegation, I should like in summary to give an idea of the efforts made by my country in the domestic field. We are continuing our great task of consolidating our economic infrastructure, of improving social conditions and living standards and perfecting national institutions that are characterized by the free play of political parties in a climate of peace, order and respect under the rule of justice. There is obvious progress being made at all levels of our national life, and this progress is undoubtedly the result of a healthy government policy carried out by that great statesman who presides over the destiny of Paraguay.






===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
Mr. President, may I convey to' you my sincerest congratulations on your election to preside over the deliberations of the "current session of the General Assembly. In expressing to you our best wishes for success in the difficult task that has been entrusted to you by the unanimous decision of the Members of the United Nations, I should point out that in the brief period that has elapsed since you assumed the presidency you have already given us ample evidence to confirm the wisdom of your election. Once again my delegation wishes to offer you its fullest co-operation.
2.	As this is the first general debate that has been held since Mr. Kurt Waldheim was appointed Secretary-General of the United Nations and began to discharge his duties, my Government has expressly instructed me to confirm its full confidence and faith in the activities of the new Secretary- General, whose outstanding personal qualities of talent, wisdom, devotion to the cause of peace and justice, and deep-rooted knowledge of the problems of our era and of our Organization are a guarantee that through the years of his term of office he will guide the United Nations successfully to the achievement of the purposes and principles for which it was established.
3.	Once again my delegation comes to the General Assembly to express its wishes, its concerns, its hopes and disappointments. However, as we are well aware that the allocation of work to the various main Committees will permit of a full and detailed discussion of the items on the General Assembly's agenda in those bodies, my delegation will confine itself here today to making only a few comments on some of those items, especially those in connexion with which we should like to make our position abundantly clear.
4.	I should be derelict in the discharge of a fundamental duty, however, if I did not precede these comments with at least a brief review of the characteristic features of the current international situation.
5.	In the introduction to his report on the work of the Organization the Secretary-General has given us his views on the international situation:
"Over the past year three main trends two of them encouraging, one discouraging have been apparent on the international scene. The first is the process of detente among the great Powers. The second and discouraging one is the persistence of conflict in several key areas of the world and the failure, both of the Governments concerned and of the international community, to find acceptable solutions to the underlying problems involved. The third trend is the series of efforts by the international community to co-operate in tackling, through the United Nations system, some of the great long-term problems of our planet, such as trade and development, the environment and population." [A/8701/Add.l, p. l.]
6.	We are sincerely gratified to observe the relaxation of tensions between the great Powers and the consequent gradual improvement in their relations-all of which has led to an appreciable positive change in conditions. We know full well that for far too long a period of time the winds of the cold war raged all too forcefully, undermining or completely nullifying opportunities for constructive, fruitful common action. The impact of the new situation, which we witness with such satisfaction, is already obvious, even in regions of the earth geographically far removed one from the other, such as Eastern and Western Europe and the Korean peninsula. But the lessening of tensions does not mean that they have disappeared or that they have been completely eliminated, although we trust that a better day is about to dawn.
A/PV.2062
7.	We must of necessity be cautious in our optimism. Indeed, we have good reason not to let our hopes fly too high. There have been agreements on the limitation of armaments, the importance of which we cannot and should not underestimate, but the possibilities for general and complete disarmament under effective international control the ambitious goal of a decade-are still remote, and the sums spent by a few powerful States on increasingly complicated and costly armaments remain at such a high level compared with the volume of international financial aid provided by the developed countries to the developing nations that they immediately bring to mind the living conditions of most of the earth's population, which has thus far been frustrated in its desire to break down the artificially erected barriers which bar the way to a better life, to higher standards of living and a more equitable distribution of the fruits of its labor. 
8.	The efforts of the parties themselves and those of the international community have still proved unsuccessful in solving the conflicts in various key areas of the world, to which reference has been made by the Secretary-General. I am thinking of the Middle East and of Viet-Nam. In the Middle East, in view of the precarious present situation, a conflagration may erupt again the devastating flames of which not only would engulf the States located in the area but would also spread and intensify. I am thinking of Viet-Nam where a bloody, grim and destructive war is being waged such as we have seldom seen before. I am thinking of colonialism which, although dying out, has not completely disappeared and is still preventing many peoples from exercising their legitimate right to be the masters of their own destiny and to govern themselves. I must point out that the terrible scourge of racial discrimination still persists in some areas of the world.
9.	My delegation has repeatedly stated its position on all these questions and I need not do so again. But I should like once again to express our hopes that in the not too distant future we shall witness the dawn of peace, of prosperity and justice for the States in areas now beset by armed conflicts and for the peoples of areas where the unrestricted implementation of the right of self-determination is not yet at hand.
10.	At the beginning of my statement I said that my delegation, once again, wished to give voice to its hopes and its frustrations. The latter is an apt term by which to describe the tremendous and growing gap between the two parts in which the world of today is divided, viewed from the standpoint of their degree of development, levels of living and sharing of wealth. On more than one occasion we have said that under the prevailing conditions of international trade, with raw material prices at a standstill or declining and the costs of manufactured goods steadily rising, in the words of the Foreign Minister of Paraguay:
"The breach between over-developed and underdeveloped countries widens all the time and, although political colonialism may have ended, economic colonialism exercised over the agricultural countries will continue unless there is a substantial change in the present conditions of production and export of agricultural commodities."
11.	I should also remind the Assembly, as I have already done on previous occasions, of a known fact which none the less should be repeated because it influences many of the positions we take. My country is not only a member of the large group called the developing countries, but at the same time it is one of those which realizes that in addition to the problems of development without adequate national capacity for financing and without sufficient international financial aid, which are serious enough in themselves, we are also faced with problems which derive from the fact that we are a land-locked, inland country far removed from the sea and from all the benefits which possession of a coastline brings with it. This fact explains our firm determination and our constant fight in all forums and in all organs to obtain endorsement of the principles of an increasingly enlightened international law which, through international justice, compensates for the obvious disadvantages deriving from a land-locked position. To quote only one example among the many that I could mention, we should bear in mind that, in order to export goods which are the source of our income, and to enable them to compete successfully in foreign markets, land-locked States are compelled to reduce further the already low sales prices or somehow to absorb the higher transport and freight costs for goods shipped to the sea ports. Only thus can these goods compete on an equal footing with those from more fortunate countries that have the benefit of a coastline.
12.	These remarks apply not only to questions concerning world trade but they also have an impact on matters included in the scheduled Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and the reservation exclusively for peaceful purposes of the sea-bed and the ocean floor, and the subsoil thereof, underlying the high seas beyond the limits of present national jurisdiction and the use of their resources in the interests of mankind.
13.	I note the fact, which can easily be verified, that since the outset of the consideration of these questions in 1967 on the use of the aforesaid resources, one point has been very much in the forefront of our debates. This is the question of the extent or breadth of the territorial sea and the extent or breadth of the contiguous zone; and this area is increasingly being described as the patrimonial sea. The importance of this issue has been much more obvious in the current general debate, in the course of which very well qualified representatives of the riparian States have referred to the question in depth. I cannot forget that in these statements and with reference to the exploitation of the resources of the contiguous zone of the territorial sea, the speakers have emphasized that these resources should be used exclusively—I repeat, "exclusively" for the benefit of the coastal States.
14.	At the meeting held on 17 April 1971 at San José, Costa Rica, during the first regular session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of my country Professor Raul Sapena Pastor, referred to the question of the breadth of the territorial sea in order to make the following points on behalf of Paraguay:
"The Republic of Paraguay is an inland land-locked country, and geographical and historical circumstances have deprived it of the extraordinary benefit of having a coastline. Nonetheless, Paraguay has the right to enjoy freedom of the high seas and unlimited navigation and to have access to fisheries, the underlying resources and the airspace over the sea. To the extent that the States with coastlines arbitrarily increase their sovereignty by widening their territorial sea, they are also arbitrarily limiting the rights of the Republic of Paraguay and of all inland or land-locked States."
He went on to say:
"The breadth of the territorial sea can be fixed not by national precepts, whether they are derived from law or the Constitution, but through the consent of all States, including those that are land-locked and those that have coastlines, a consent expressed in the form of international agreements."
15.	The foregoing ideas apply equally to the contiguous zone. The sovereignty of nations over what is described as the territorial sea is an unquestioned concept of international law; but there is no generally accepted agreement on its breadth which, depending .upon the coastal State concerned, extends from 3 to 200 miles. While there may have been a time when the individual will of each riparian State could be exercised in establishing V breadth of its territorial sea, we cannot today condone u system which produces a variety of views derived from unilateral decisions or proclamations. With respect to the breadth of the so-called patrimonial sea, the existence of different criteria is even less warranted.
16.	None the less, we have been asked more than once to support the aspirations of States which wish to extend considerably their territorial as well as their so-called patrimonial sea, or the zone contiguous to the territorial sea. But we have already said that any extension of this kind automatically reduces the rights of the land-locked States. Therefore, there is an obvious contradiction in such requests, when they are made with no mention of any form of compensation. Certainly today's world is growing ever more interdependent; and certainly States-particularly those that belong to the developing world-need each other and are in duty bound to express mutual solidarity to each other in order to strengthen the defence of their common interests. But solidarity implies a certain amount of give and take. It cannot take the form of support by some States for the aspirations of others without corresponding concessions. Yet this is precisely the kind of one-sided situation which exists between the riparian States and the land-locked or inland States. Has the time not yet come, we wonder, to focus on these problems with a more decisive and enlightened sense of solidarity? This is the question that we are not called upon to answer alone.
17.	Turning to another group of matters, I would touch on the fact that the General Assembly is preparing to consider actions that might be taken as a result of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment. Among the decisions which sooner or later will have to be taken are the recommendations for the establishment of an administering board, a secretariat, a fund and co-ordination procedures for programs dealing with the environment, within the framework of the United Nations. In addition, the Conference adopted the text of a declaration, on its Principle 20, which was to refer this to the General Assembly for consideration, together with the proposed amendments submitted in the course of the Stockholm Conference.
18.	Owing to the fact that for various reasons my country was not represented at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, I feel it necessary to explain our position on Principle 20, which was the subject of many amendments. We are particularly interested in this Principle inasmuch as it affects international rivers.
19.	Our position is defined in the text of the Declaration of Asuncion on the exploitation of international rivers, registered as resolution No. 25 of the Fourth Meeting of Foreign Ministers of the countries of the Plata basin, adopted on 3 June 1971 in the capital of Paraguay. As this Declaration has already been quoted in this general debate, I think it my duty to quote verbatim the substantive section of that document:
"The Foreign Ministers consider it to be of real interest to record the fundamental points on which agreement has already been reached and which represent the basis on which study of this item should continue:
cl. In contiguous international rivers, since sovereignty is shared, any exploitation of these waters should be preceded by a bilateral agreement between the riparian States.
"2. In international rivers which flow into each other, since sovereignty is not shared, each State can exploit the waters in terms of its needs, always provided that it does not cause any considerable damage to any other State of the Plata basin.
"3. With respect to the exchange of hydrological and meteorological data:
"(a) Those already provided will be the subject of dissemination and systematic publication through documents and pamphlets;
"(b) Data to be processed, either simple observations and readings or graphic registers of instruments, will be conveyed or submitted in accordance with the judgment of the parties concerned.
"4. States shall in so far as possible attempt to exchange gradually the cartographic or hydrographic results of their studies in the Plata basin in order to facilitate the defining of the dynamic system of the basin.
"5. States will try as far as possible to maintain in the best possible navigation conditions the courses of the rivers under their sovereignty, adopting to this end the necessary means in order that the works will be carried out so as not to be prejudicial to any other current users of the river system.
"6. States, in carrying out public works designed for any purpose in the rivers of the basin, shall adopt the necessary measures to ensure that they do not damage or change in any prejudicial way the conditions for navigation.
"7. States, in the carrying out of public works in the river system involving navigation, will adopt any measures necessary to preserve the living resources of the basin." 
20. My country considers that this Declaration implies very clearly inter alia the lack of entitlement of any State in the basin to divert the waters from one geographic region to another basin or sub-basin.
21. I should like now to refer to agenda item 89 entitled "Need to consider suggestions regarding the review of the Charter of the United Nations: report of the Secretary- General". Two years ago I had an opportunity to state from this rostrum [1855th meeting] that my delegation did not believe that the time was then ripe to take up such a task, but I added that at the same time we considered that the item included in the agenda was an adequate instrument for proceeding to a real and effective evaluation of the predominant thinking among the Members of the United Nations concerning any possible review of the Charter. In the time that has elapsed since then a considerable number of States have been able to make known their views on the possible revision of the fundamental document of the United Nations. Some have done so through notes in answer to the questionnaire submitted by the Secretary- General. Others have done so in the course of statements made by their representatives at this session. We believe that the ideas suggested deserve most careful consideration. I am thinking in particular of the suggestions and proposals which refer to the composition and structure of the Security Council, and among these I should like to mention as an interesting example that which was put forward by the Foreign Minister of Mexico in the statement he made at the 2050th meeting of the General Assembly on 3 October last, to the effect that at least one permanent member of the Security Council should be a representative of the third world and should be on the same footing as the present permanent members. Certainly such an idea, as well as many other important ideas, has aroused understandable interest on the part of my delegation, and we shall examine these ideas, attributing to them all due importance.
22. I have reserved the last part of my statement for my comments on that scourge which has considerably worsened in recent times, and I refer to international terrorism. This terrorism, which with painful frequency makes victims of the innocent and is characterized by cruelty and absolute contempt for legal rules established to maintain harmony and for the common good, creates a general climate of insecurity and collective fear, breaking down faith in the effectiveness of law and order, and may even lead to a crisis in the rule of law.
23. Without ignoring the fact that in certain cases terrorism may be a reflection of underlying situations whose correction is essential and urgent, my country does not hesitate to condemn acts of international terrorism and considers that the time has come to proceed to joint action to eliminate this evil. First of all, we believe that every State should adopt measures, in the full exercise of its sovereignty, to prevent and punish this type of crime. Secondly, States, acting jointly, should seek ways and means to make certain co-ordinated and effective action to remove international terrorism from the face of the earth. For this action, for this search, there is no forum more suitable than the United Nations. On the basis of this conviction, we have been gratified to note the initiative taken by the Secretary-General in requesting the inclusion of this item in our agenda, and therefore we have supported this idea both in the General Committee and in the plenary General Assembly.


===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿154.	 On behalf of my delegation, and with the greatest pleasure, I greet the President of this Assembly, the most illustrious universal gathering, to assure him that Paraguay is happy to see this enlightened personality of a brother people, Ecuador, presiding over this session, so rightfully, so impartially and so brilliantly.
155.	We know what a difficult commitment this honour entails. We know what a responsibility it is to preside over this General Assembly. We feel sure that the vast experience of Mr. Leopoldo Benites, his talents placed at the service of his country and of the peoples of the world, and his recognized international erudition and sagacity will make it easy for him to discharge the task so honourably given to him. Paraguay, in congratulating him and wishing him every success in the task assigned to him by the world, promises him full co-operation.
156.	The United Nations was built on the ashes of a world in material and moral ruin 28 years ago. Not in vain have waters run under the bridges of life! in that period of history. The evolution of things has meant a logical and substantial change in the characteristics of the world, as compared with 28 years ago. Prosperity has reached some-relatively few — countries while the just aspirations of the majority to achieve development rise day after day like an uncontainable tide. The then warring nations, destroyed by war, have today recovered their economic splendour, their industrial potential and their possibilities for permanent expansion, and they forget the priority needs of giving integral assistance in creating a better and more humane world so that economic and financial relations with the developing countries may be organized through a just system of equity which will make possible the progress of all countries.
157.	All peoples and nations anxiously seek international peace and harmony. All men and women dream of a calm and fruitful world, where man will sing hymns in praise of labour, creative labour, with no asphyxiating clouds on the horizon. With the advance of technology in those 28 years the world has become small and relations between men and peoples have become so close that a conflict in one part of the world is a burning-point which touches one and all equally and undermines the desire for peace at its roots.
158.	The United Nations has become ecumenical and in the course of time many nations which have at last attained a free and sovereign life have joined it. This universality of the Organization's membership requires work which in the field of peace and its strengthening has not been completed. The man of our world knows that, despite all the labour of the United Nations in so many areas of concern linked to man and his habitat, peace is in daily and horrifying danger. And there is the daily sadness of the universal citizen at the inextinguishable hotbeds of violence and aggression which, while they may appear to cool down at times, require only two or three accidents for a return to the initial explosive stage.
159.	This world, so deeply concerned by the possession of nuclear weapons and devices, has not lost its faith in the Organization but looks upon it with critical eyes, permanently awaiting from it and from nations, especially the super-Powers, the definite resolution, through United Nations bodies, of all conflicts which may endanger peace.
160.	We do not believe that life and the world have left the Organization behind. We believe it still has a far-reaching role to play in creating peace and for the development of peoples; and in the ensuring of collective peace, which is the supreme desire of mankind, it has total responsibility. But this cannot be achieved successfully unless all nations beginning with the great world Powers, come to the halls of the Assembly in a suitable frame of mind.
161.	Multilateral diplomacy must be used, with bilateral diplomacy placing its sometimes spectacular achievements at the service of such diplomacy. All countries, starting with the super-Powers, must be definitely prepared to submit to the rules of international coexistence as required within the Organization. If is not fair or advisable to praise peace universally by every means of social communication when interests other than those which are strictly basic for just and lasting international harmony prevail, regardless of what pretexts are adduced. United Nations meetings must be attended without prejudices or mental reservations, without ill-will or objectives determined in advance which admit of no reconsideration. Without a genuine dialogue of communication and good will there will be no peace-or if there is peace it will be only a weak flame which the first gust of wind will extinguish, so that night will again envelop the earth. There will be no lasting light without the final elimination of hatred between men, races and nations.
162.	The multilateral action of the United Nations will never be a barrier to bilateral diplomacy. On the contrary, it is its indispensable complement. Any successful action by the Organization not only solves an international problem but gives greater prestige to the entity established so that man will have more faith in a world of peace, justice and liberty.
163.	To arouse happy hopes among men in this century which is so heavily laden with disillusion and disenchantment is in itself a start towards building a better future for our anxiety-ridden mankind.
164.	The world of today, rightly concerned by many collective problems, such as those of the environment, natural resources, improper distribution of wealth, both nationally and internationally, the conquest of outer space and the utilization of the resources of the sea, must still bear the asphyxiating fear of war or of an explosive lack of harmony between peoples and nations, when everything tells us that the integration of national economies and the obvious interdependence of countries are the basic resources to be used for a good future.
165.	We must mention some notable achievements with legitimate satisfaction. Positive contacts between the great Powers have brought about a page of relief demonstrating at the same time that the quest for new means for the good of mankind is never-ending, that there are steps which have always to be taken if we have a sincere desire to shorten distances without thinking of prejudices, seeking solely understanding between peoples and countries which appear at first sight to be spiritually far apart.
166.	Freezing the long and sad war of Indo-China has been another valid step on the rough road to peace.
167.	We hope that the countries involved in this problem will find a final solution based on respect for the substantive values of mankind, without which even life is not worth living.
168.	We must not seek a solution for its sake alone, sacrificing the moral values which perish in the attainment of an easy success. Peace needs form, solid and definitive foundations, for today, for tomorrow, for ourselves and for the children of our children.
169.	Let us hope that the solution of international conflicts will always be based on respect for the free and sovereign existence of nations, the self-determination of peoples, the impossibility of waging war for military, economic or ideological conquest and on the elementary principle of coexistence and non-intervention in the internal affairs of sovereign States.
170.	The unflagging work of the Organization in the quest for peace is praiseworthy. In all explosive places-Cyprus, the Middle East or southern Africa-its presence is an effective action which the world itself undertakes to find a solution to the problems which overwhelm it. As I said, this is a ray of hope on the difficult but irreplaceable road to peace.
171.	My country, Paraguay, wishes to make public a positive affirmation of its faith in peace and in the work of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. My country appreciates at its full value that daily, silent, sometimes thankless task, which has no substitute, in the common good of nations.
172.	The opening meetings of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe which were held in Helsinki are another milestone which is worthy of mention. A united Europe, above all one clearly aware of its vast international responsibilities, both political and economic, is of concrete assistance towards a just and lasting peace.
173.	We anxiously hope to see better horizons in the conflict, by now almost classical, of the Middle East. It is a thorny and closed dilemma which places on trial not only the United Nations actions but its very existence, because the layman in every region judges the reality of the United Nations by the positive achievements in situations of conflict which are daily in the news.
174.	Paraguay believes that, subject to two governing principles — express recognition of the full and sovereign existence of the State of Israel and the right of the Palestinian people to their own country-the application of resolution 242(1967) of the Security Council of the United Nations has to be the way to a happy solution which all men of goodwill hope for.
175.	There can be different formulas to win peace. All of course require a spirit of dialogue, that is to say, a simple willingness to be receptive to reason, even though it comes from the other side, so as to be able to understand the objective realities which constitute every human conflict, and even more obviously the cooling of passions which reveal shady corners of opprobrium and lack of dignity in the very place where only good judgement should prevail.
176.	Among our hopes, we have already pointed out the achievements of the great Powers and the relaxation of tensions among them. We hope that this will be final, so that they will co-operate among themselves in the solution of problems and in positive international action.
177.		Will these achievements eradicate the obscure and terrible problem of the accumulation of arms? Will mankind continue to invest thousands of millions of dollars in weapons of every kind? Will common sense and a lasting sense of responsibility finally prevail so that the multimillion figures will be reversed and used to improve the standards of living of the developing peoples?
178.	It is up to the great and powerful nations to set an example, so that the freezing of conflicts and relaxation of tensions will bring forth fruit in a real limitation in the manufacture and sale of arms.
179.	It is impossible to understand the arms race of some developing countries whose people so urgently ask for the satisfaction of their priority and elementary needs. Such attitudes defy the hunger and poverty of millions of human beings. There are developing countries which ask of the world more credits to give impetus to their progress. In the meantime, paradoxically, they invest millions of hard currency in the acquisition of ultra-sophisticated or obsolete weapons.
180.	The roses of peace and international understanding cannot bloom along the route of an arms race. Any excessive growth in the might of military installations arouses suspicions, fears and rivalries among nations. The mere accumulation of weapons and the rivalry among States for their possession are already a beginning of war, which can lead us to painful experiences. It is best not to play with the elements of death, hatred, pain and destruction.
181.	Paraguay has for many years struggled arduously while lacking greater financial assistance and, above all, more flexible and generous assistance, in an ardent quest for better days. The philosophy of labour and production prevails. The infrastructure moves forward at a rapid rate in every area. Education, housing, health, production, export promotion, energy-these are vital concerns of a Government which seeks only peace and thereby the progress of our nation. Its people, which in its history was viscerally torn apart several times by war and internal anarchy, embarks on these undertakings with faith and firmness. Its armed forces, which are subject to the Constitution, to order and to the law, have been placed at the service of communities and at the service of creating a better world for all without any kind of discrimination. The army, the navy and the air force are inspired by this desire for peace and development and work side by side with the people in works of national interest. Schools and public buildings, roads, new means of communication, telecommunications, the merchant marine, local and international air services, health centres and agrarian reform testify to the concern of the glorious armed forces of Paraguay, which are the legitimate pride of its people.
182.	My country and its armed forces invest in these patriotic and progressive tasks monies which could have been invested in the purchase of arms.
183.	Based on these convictions, my country will continue to advocate in this great forum the need to contain the arms race and to support a policy of an honest and honourable disarmament which would be the result of a fruitful dialogue between all countries, starting with the super-Powers.
184.	If there is one scourge which is characteristic of our times, it is the rise of terrorism. The hijacking of aircraft, the taking of innocent hostages, indiscriminate violence, horrible murders, the mutilation or killing of people without any valid motive constitute cankers which are a denial of civilization.
185.	This is the most cruel and heartless of crimes.
186.	In cold blood, in a calculated way, deliberately, in silence and in secret, terrorists prepare their destructive and nefarious activity which sometimes reaches, kills or destroys people who are tragically powerless before such refined evil.
17
187.	What have these innocent human beings to do with the causes which are cited as the reasons for such spurious criminal action?
188.	Where will our civilization go, and where will our ethical values go, if this dark and clumsy course continues?
189.	Is there really honesty when in every national and external forum we speak of peace, of tolerance, of justice, of collective well-being and yet do not put an end to or punish this heartless type of activity which is repudiated by all men throughout the world, regardless of their colour, language or religion?
190.	Paraguay wishes to affirm that this chapter of our memory must be added to the list of the major collective frustrations. The committee of our Organization which is studying terrorism  arrived at no concrete results in weeks of study and debate.
191.	The evil is everywhere. The illness stalks every day the entire geography of our planet. It is not from a definite country. At the current rate, terrorism has become international and its consequences explode in any place, at any hour, at any time, without respect for the life of anyone. There is not even any definite place for the activity, itself: today it is the point-blank assassination of a man in his home, tomorrow the painfully amputated hands of a modest employee of the post office.
192.	The basic solution is to be found in the eradication of the generating causes. Let us study the problem and find a prompt and final remedy. Here I have in mind: the oppression of peoples who seek their autonomy, their own independence and national identity; the pessimism of many men and women who see in the work of the United Nations no solution to the chronic problems which afflict their countries; the obsolete colonial status of communities which are ethnically different from the metropolis or their oppressors, which are not able to express themselves freely in order to state their sovereign will; the unjust and immoral exploitation by oligarchic groups of majorities maintained in racial or economic discrimination, or both at the same time, maintaining people in an inhuman status and persecution for ethnic, social, religious or political reasons.
193.	Without questioning the right of these peoples or communities to seek their own way towards liberation or autonomy, we should make practical efforts to put a halt to the present wave of terrorism which is making our own world impossible to live in.
194.	Mankind, in its perennial quest for greater well being, is setting its sights on and devoting its most advanced technology to the rational use of the resources of the sea.
195.	Food, energy and processing industries hope to find within the sea almost magic sources, the yield of which is as yet unknown but may reach unexpected figures and derivations.
196.	Without going into detail as to the value of the sea as a provider of resources and minerals, we must also mention its vast usefulness in the field of transportation and communications between peoples and men.
197.	Paraguay, because of an unfortunate historical determinism, not only has been deprived of a coast but is within the heart of South America bereft of the benefits which a sea coast would have given it.
198.	This fact explains, to quote my predecessor, Mr. Miguel Solano Lopez,
". . . our firm determination and our constant fight in all forums and in all organs to obtain endorsement of the principles of an increasingly enlightened international law which, through international justice, compensates for the obvious disadvantages deriving from a land-locked position.
At the meeting held on 17 April 1971 in San Jose, Costa Rica, during the first regular session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States [OAS], the illustrious Minister for Foreign Affairs of my country, Professor Raul Sapena Pastor, referred to the question of the breadth of the territorial sea in order to express the point of view of Paraguay. This is what he said:
"The Republic of Paraguay is "an inland land-locked country, and geographical and historical circumstances have deprived it of the extraordinary benefit of having a coastline. None the less, Paraguay has the right to enjoy freedom of the high seas and unlimited navigation and to have access to fisheries, the underlying resources and the airspace over the sea. To the extent that the States with coastlines arbitrarily increase their sovereignty by widening their territorial sea, they are also arbitrarily limiting the rights of the Republic of Paraguay and of all inland or land-locked countries.
"The breadth of the territorial sea can be fixed not by national precepts, whether they are derived from law or the Constitution; but through the consent of all States, ' including those that are land-locked and those that have coastlines, a consent expressed in the form of international agreements".
199.	Mr. Jorge Espil, who is a member of the Inter-American Council of Jurists, affirms:
"Within the American continent we must bear very much in mind the situation of the land-locked countries such as Bolivia and Paraguay, which have expressed their disagreement with the extension of the territorial sea to 200 miles, because this implies a limitation of their rights over the high seas. Without these two countries one cannot speak of a uniform regional agreement".
200.	In taking up the common elements in principles and rules on the question, the Inter-American Juridical Committee, on 9 February of this year, stated that:
"The coastal States shall authorize the land-locked countries which are part of the region to exploit the living
8 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-seventh Session, Plenary Meetings, 2062nd meeting, para. 11.
resources within the zone from 12 to 200 nautical miles and grant them preferential rights in comparison with third States and in accordance with criteria which will be stated in multilateral, regional or bilateral conventions".
201.	These common elements are the ones which the Committee recommends to the American States so that they can be taken into account and submitted to regional or world-wide conferences on a new regime for the seas.
202.	Elementary international justice requires that the land-locked or the shelf-locked countries have a right to exploit the living resources in the zone, whatever the name given to it, on a footing of complete equality with the nationals of the coastal States; and not only the living resources but also the mineral resources must be reserved for the exploitation of States in their respective regions, without taking into account their geographical location.
203.	In regard to frustrations, one chapter deserves special treatment, and developing countries continue to hope that the declarations and recommendations made at international gatherings and conferences will become a reality. Their economies continue to suffer from the continuous deterioration in the terms of trade in their trade with the highly industrialized countries, to the direct detriment of the future of their peoples.
204.	The countries supplying raw materials and exporting primary goods continue to suffer the unfavourable impact of the unstabilized prices of their export goods and the revaluation of certain currencies, which is a punishment impossible to foresee and one that has a harmful effect on the return of credits and international loans, with an increase in the prices of goods which our countries must of necessity import to satisfy their consumers and their plans for expansion and industrial development. The rich become richer and the poor become poorer.
205.	It is not possible that only a few countries should participate in reforms of the monetary system when the consequences have a repercussion on all nations and a special impact on the economies of the developing countries.
206.	Development is not an exclusive commitment of each nation; it is a responsibility for all nations and requires co-operation within the measure of the possibilities of each, with complete respect for the principle of non-intervention. Logically, the powerful and prosperous countries are obliged to co-operate more, quantitatively and qualitatively, in this ecumenical crusade. Technology, which is the key to expansion, can no longer be a closed club, the price of admission being the price of gold. Technology, trade problems, investments, financing and the opening of new markets constitute instruments which are essential for countries to progress.
207.	Peace is not only an absence of armed conflict; it is also an attitude of understanding on the part of the highly industrialized countries and just co-operation for the development and well-being of our peoples. Justice, in economic relations, monetary decisions, the policy of general preferences, the granting of credits and financial assistance, the use of technology and investment policy is the only possible vehicle by means of which to arrive at a world which will be more humane, fair and just.
208.	Disillusionment, discontent, extreme poverty, the rise in privileges, the unjust and unequal distribution of international labour and the scarcity of financial assistance for development will never be a help towards peace, stability or international understanding. If we wish for neither war nor conflict, let us see that the great countries, in the first place, put their shoulders to the wheel so as to change economic relations with a view to giving just treatment and genuine assistance to the developing countries. Their progress ultimately will be a triumph for our world and our institutions, a factor of good economics and harmonious and fruitful trade relations. The well-being and prosperity of all countries will ensure the well-being and prosperity of each.
209.	Paraguay, which is a founding Member of the United Nations, has long since emerged from a long process of political anarchy and lives under the guidance of a genuine patriot, General Alfredo Stroessner, and we live a life in which republican institutions are paramount. We have left behind us the cruel confrontations between brothers so as to devote our days completely to the tasks of fruitful labour. We have swept away hatred so as to march ever forward towards the goals of collective well-being and national development. We have superseded the provisional institutions and we work under the rule of peace and progress, with the powers of the State and public opinion functioning fully. Today, we are concerned with peace, egalitarian public education, health, housing, the opening up of new markets for exports, a policy to create employment and an efficient development of the resources of the country. That is to say, we are concerned with that which interests man and the development of peoples.
210.	Within that spirit Paraguay would reply to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Waldheim, that we wish to have a United Nations which is "more than a conference machinery and a forum for the pursuit of national policies" [A/9001/Add. 1, p. 8].
211.	Paraguay wishes this to be a dynamic Organization above the emptiness of verbalism, something far more than a simple forum: an entity of solidarity, a solidarity where the great and the powerful will genuinely assist in advancing the world and its peoples. Paraguay wishes the light to shine at every dawn for every man in every region, -with no privileged States and no countries cast into oblivion, with no foreign intervention, exploitation, economic dependence or ideological domination.

===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
On behalf of the delegation of Paraguay, we greet the illustrious President of this universal Assembly and express to him our most whole-hearted congratulations and our certainty that owing to his knowledge, vast experience, spirit of fairness and sense of service to the international community, this vast international gathering is assured of success from the very beginning of its work.
136.	To former President Mr. Leopoldo Benites, we express our appreciation for the manner in which he guided the past session of the General Assembly, lending lustre to the Latin American presence iii this world conclave with his valuable experience and skill.
137.	Our joyful and brotherly greetings go to the States which have recently joined the Organization. We are happy to have them with us and we wish them every success in their undertakings.
138.	We also greet the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, and on this solemn occasion we wish to say to him that Paraguay fully appreciates the assistance and support it has been receiving from the United Nations and which constitute a most important factor in our development.
139.	At the beginning of our statement we wish to express to the sister Republic of Honduras our deep and sincere solidarity, and our deep sorrow for the tragedy that has befallen it, to which all the preceding speakers have referred. It is our hope that United Nations solidarity will find concrete form in effective aid and co-operation, and not in these and other words, however expressive they may be.
140.	The world picture has not altered fundamentally since the twenty-eighth session, although it is true that some positive progress has been achieved in peace and in the general detente among the great Powers.
141.	Peace and development are and continue to be the main goals of our Organization, it being understood that, as has been said, there is no peace without development, just as there is no development without peace. Peace continues to be the guiding star and the hope of all peoples on earth, wherever they are. Above all, peace with honor, with human dignity, with effective justice, without dominance, or situations of force or obvious inequity, in whatever form. Peace resulting from a situation of scorn for the supreme values of justice has no foundation. Peace which is not based on the heart and mind open to brotherly greetings is built on sand, and has no real basis. Peace which is not the result of a positive effort to improve the economic and social situations for the majority of peoples, harassed by the grave problems of under-development, can have no firm footing or long life.
142.	Peace must necessarily be viewed from above, beyond all geographical, regional or ideological differences, beyond the desires of individuals, or of groups or subgroups. There must be only one peace for all, in a world made better for all, where distribution is just, with a sound economy and equitable international trade at the service of free man. Therefore, the only course, the only way to peace is the development of all peoples.
143.	Peace still suffers violent disturbances, an affront to mankind. In this Assembly and in other appropriate places it is customary to sing the praises of peace and vow to serve it unconditionally. Yet the passage of time brings us Jeep disenchantment and disappointment. How many times in the course of this year of 1974 have the communications media not brought us the sad news of hatred, of violence between brothers and neighboring peoples, the play of overweening appetites, of the criminal assault of man against man, of the velvet glove, at the propaganda level, concealing beneath it the greedy hand of domination or influence, in some part of the world.
144.	Terrorism continues to destroy lives and property in brazen defiance of civilization itself. Kidnapping intrudes its hated presence into our daily lives. It is time to think seriously about these ills, which disturb the development of mankind and make us doubt our own culture. In this ignoble work the men of violence admit of no reason and respect no values. At times they respond with further terrorist action to favorable treatment from governments and organizations which, in a moment of weakness, had tolerated their actions or tried to justify the use of such ignoble means.
145.	Terrorism is a boomerang which in the end strikes or threatens all in its mad frenzy and in its abysmal scorn for the respect for the life of another. Those who shelter, encourage, or are merely indifferent to acts of terrorism carried out in other countries are miscalculating. Sooner or later, terrorism will do away with its own protectors, and with those who are in-different, too.
146.	During the days when we are meeting here, violence and terrorism have seized new victims, as if they wished to take this opportunity for more wide-spread publicity, or more effective intimidation.
147.	Peace requires the purity of a noble spirit on the part of those, who govern and their peoples, of countries and of ideologies. We must do away with the hotbeds of war, violence and terrorism, in striving zealously for the spiritual disarmament. It would be of no avail to put an end to disorder, to armed confrontation, to the advance of armies and to the dread wave of terrorism, if we do not first seek with conviction to eliminate hatred, and the cult of violence and ideological extremism in the minds of men, particularly among those who decide matters on this earth.
148.	We still speak the language of peace, while the minds of men retain mental reservations which in advance set up barriers to the objective triumph of justice. We still speak the language of peace, but behind the scenes the resolve is only to look after selfish interests, without recognizing the right of developing countries to better conditions for their peoples. We still speak the language of peace when, in fact, we are seeking the triumph of one special interest over another.
149.	A false dialog is sought through confrontation without arms, but confrontation which after all seeks only the strengthening of certain groups, sects or ideologies which are determined to overthrow many established values because of their desire for immediate successes for their cause.
150.	The United Nations is expanding and is growing stronger as new Members are admitted to it. Its universality is a sign of the modern times and betokens the fact that the United Nations no longer, as of yore, accepts the isolation of peoples and nations from its own structure. The Organization seeks, through its universality, to represent all mankind without odious or unfair discrimination which, ab initio, reduces the chances of effective action seeking the well-being of all peoples.
151.	The world has not lost faith in the Organization. On the contrary , the world demands of the United Nations a realistic and vital attitude in order to enable it to meet every contingency, particularly at the political level, which is the most difficult but the one closest to peace and justice.
152.	The mere action of bilateral diplomacy, miraculous though it sometimes is, must be followed by United Nations action, since it is the United Nations which represents all countries on earth, at the later stage of concretizing the remedy to situations of conflict. A truce is not enough, nor merely maintaining the peace. We must go to the root of things, to definitive political agreements based on a real and general disarmament of minds.
153.	That is where the clarity of intentions of all countries of the Organization comes into play, starting with those countries which, for one reason or another, under the Charter have entered into commitments of broad, world-wide responsibility.
154.	We must mention with some satisfaction some other positive achievements. There are clear signs of detente in the world in which we live. The great Powers have taken a first step by eschewing war or confrontation. Yet, we are bound to say that in regard to dis-armament a long road lies ahead. Military expenditure continues to add up to astronomical figures, while the amounts available for development of the needy nations are, relatively speaking, risible. Here in this universal forum we move ahead step by step, but we do move forward in the formulation of rules which define aggression. Yet, so much has to be done to disarm minds, to get rid of the desire for predominance or sectorization of groups of countries, or the exporting, surreptitiously sometimes, of the ideology which one seeks to introduce like a Trojan horse.
155.	"Development is the new name of peace" is the marvelous definition of Pope Paul VI. There is a universal sign which floats in the air we breathe and which requires that, with the development of all countries, we seek better days for all mankind.
156.	We have no quarrel with the right of any nation to enjoy the riches of its territory, even though an unequal geographical distribution leads to privileged situations for some and irritating injustices for others. But it is intolerable that the mechanism which has arbitrarily been sustained and imposed for international trade, a mechanism of ridiculous prices for raw materials and high prices for industrial goods, should continually widen the gap between the developed and the developing nations. This gap is widening because at differences in infrastructures, in financial resources and, paradoxically, in the unequal possession of technology, of know-how.
157.	Hunger, housing, education, culture, agrarian reform, health and social security are problems which should have no abstract frontiers or limits. Besides a higher moral imperative, expedience itself requires that all countries, starting with the super-Powers and continuing with the developed ones, realize henceforth that mankind and its future cannot be built on the well-being of a few and the poverty of the majority to the essential detriment of the supreme values of justice. Given this elementary maxim, the figures provided by the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament are scandalously discouraging. While military expenditures amount to $220,000 million, of which more than 80 per cent is spent by the six countries with the largest military budgets, official assistance for development barely amounts to $8,000 million.
158.	Is it possible to build a lasting peace and well- being on the pain of this tremendous reality? Elementary logic tells us that it cannot be done and that this is a mistaken short-cut which will inevitably produce grave situations and may lead to the worst internally and internationally. On the pain and hunger of millions of human beings no peace can be built nor can human understanding be reached.
159.	Among the causes which arrest the development of most nations is world inflation, imported inflation. It is like a thief who surreptitiously breaks in and removes a substantial amount of the value of labor and of savings. My country, Paraguay, for example, because of a free, orderly economy has considerably raised its production, its exports and its monetary reserves. In these conditions how are we to explain to simple and humble workers that, although the Government has not erred or been mistaken, in future there are goods which they will no longer be able to acquire or which they will have to consume on a reduced or sharply curtailed scale?
160.	In this last year the substantial rise in the price of oil and its by-products has distorted the economy of most developing nations and also the economy of many industrialized, developed countries which do not produce oil.
161.	The oil-exporting countries certainly have a legitimate right to receive fair prices for such a vital product, but so do the consumer nations have a legitimate right, since in the contemporary economy there is no immediate alternative to buying. This is an extremely difficult problem to study, and one which it is even more difficult to solve, and the Organization should devote its best efforts to it.
162.	The world energy crisis, brought about by a reduction in the volume of extraction and sale of oil and its derivatives and by the increase in their prices, has consequences for industrial production, transportation, the cost of living and general inflation.
163.	In the Republic of Paraguay, the Government of General Alfredo Stroessner will first modify and later eliminate the economic impact of the world energy crisis by using our own hydraulic power sources. The thermal plant which formerly supplied the capital with power has already been replaced by the hydroelectric plant of the Acaray River, which supplies the capita! and 100 cities and exports its surpluses to the neighboring territories of Brazil and Argentina.
164.	Further, it gives me great satisfaction to announce that the Government of Paraguay, in equal association with the friendly and neighboring Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil, is already building what will be the largest hydroelectric power station in the world, Itaipu, at a cost of more than $US 3,000 million and with an output of 10,750,000 kilowatts. The first turbine will come into operation within less than eight years.
165. Similarly, with the friendly Government of the neighboring Republic of Argentina, Paraguay is to build, also on conditions of equality, the hydroelectric power station of Yacyreta, which will be able to produce up to 4 million kilowatts, at a cost which may easily amount to more than $US 2,000 million. Further-more, negotiations are well under way to build, also with Argentina, an even larger hydroelectric power station, that of Corpus.
166.	Paraguay, an internal or land-locked country, attended with confidence the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. There we again proclaimed before the whole world the irrevocable right of all land-locked countries.
167.	I expressed the essence of our position at the fourth regular session of the Organization of American States in Atlanta, Georgia, on 24 April, when I said:
"It will seem strange to you, Mr. President, and delegates, that the Foreign Minister of a landlocked country -whether it be termed an internal or a non-coastal State - should state its position on extending to 200 miles the maritime sovereignty of some nations. The fact is that the nations without a coast or without a maritime coast at present have a right to what are called the high seas, to their free navigation, to their riches, to their fisheries and to their subjacent wealth, as well as to overfly freely the suprajacent airspace. And, to the extent that coastal States increase their sovereignty by their own decision, they are automatically and arbitrarily limiting the rights on the high seas of more than 30 land-locked countries. Mindful as we are of international law, we maintain that such a decision cannot be the result of the will of a single nation: it must be the expression of the general will of all nations as stated in agreements or international treaties resulting from specialized conferences."
168.	Paraguay hopes that, in the coming international meetings dealing with this very difficult and complex problem, elementary justice, which requires that land-locked countries or countries at a disadvantage geographically should have their share of all the re-sources and benefits that the sea yields or may yield in the future, will be strengthened.
169.	The World Population Conference was another landmark in the work of the Organization. On balance, it gave only broad consideration to what is a matter of dispute at the universal level, but it paved the way for the future.
170.	We know that, if present population growth rates are maintained, the population will double in 24 years in Latin America, in 30 years in Asia and in 25 years in Africa. But these figures must be advanced with serious reservations. There are imponderable factors which deserve attention. A mere change in climate could radically alter the situation. Technical and scientific advances may render habitable in the future places that are today inhospitable, and may introduce an enormous series of changes in the system of agriculture and livestock production and in, the production of all kinds of food, not to mention the reserves of food in the sea.
171.	The Conference in itself gives a clear-cut impression that mere technical reports prepared by inter-national experts do not exhaust the subject or the innumerable possible points of view. Every country has its own view of the problem in accordance with its socio-economic structures, its ethical and religious convictions and the composition of its population. What must be emphasized is that any population policy must preserve intact the dignity of the human couple and the decisions which it alone can make: and, furthermore, that in this matter with which we are concerned widely differing views were expressed by the highly developed countries and by the developing countries. It is clear that the former are concerned about an increase in the number of possible consumers of world production. The others maintain that the major problems which are forecast from an increased population go deeper than this and are related to the unequal treatment which really exists today between wealthy countries and developing countries.
172.	The United Nations took another positive step when it convened the sixth special session of the General Assembly. In a realistic and objective frame of mind it considered the grave problems of raw materials and development and the most important economic issues which the international community faces. An attempt was made, with some reservations by some countries, to establish a new, more equitable world economic order, and it was agreed to take emergency measures to assist those countries which faced grave problems derived from the latest international economic events. The developing countries not only asked for more remunerative prices -which means better salaries- for their raw materials. We also asked for social justice, that is to say, autonomous development. We not only asked to exchange our raw materials for dollars but also asked to exchange them for the transfer of technology, financial aid and food.
173.	We hope that these noble demands receive a concrete answer; they must do so if all nations are to develop. We also hope that the emergency aid will be practical, effective and swift, because otherwise the avalanche of problems will lead to grave situations. A new rise in the price of crude oil on the international market could create situations which would be catastrophic for most of the developing countries which are not oil-producing.
!74. From now on the world community has an absolute duty to be watchful and on the alert so that its action can be immediate when disturbances in the economic order affect the least developed countries, to the obvious detriment of international social justice.
175.	Paraguay supports and will continue to support with renewed confidence the work of the Organization, which is useful in every direction and so vital to the affairs of the international community.
176.	Paraguay is pleased to see the spirit of detente among the great powers, but we are bound to repeat that the aspiration of the world is for a just and honorable peace for all with full dignity, a peace based on the supreme values of civilization, culture and true coexistence. 
177. Paraguay hopes once again that the seed> of violence and death which continue to germinate will' be destroyed through the compliance of all States with the principles of the Charter.
178.	Paraguay would wish to observe in the day-to-day activity of the Organization a faithful correspondence between what is proclaimed as a principle and what is done in the daily dealings of life.
179.	We want a better world without economic or political oppression, without ideologies of domination that stifle freedom; we want a world of respect where the supreme dignity of man as an individual will guarantee the dignity of nations, constitute the basis for coexistence and make possible a new international economic order; we want a world where self-determination and the sovereignty of peoples will be an incontrovertible fact; a world where the powerful, whoever they may be, will not try for whatever reason to interfere in the affairs of other countries; a, world where the international community will carry on its affairs in absolute obedience to the exemplary principles which we here proclaim, and where mankind will enjoy peace, employment, freedom and well- being.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====
I should like first of all to extend heartfelt greetings, on behalf of the delegation of Paraguay, to the President of this session of the General Assembly. We wish to congratulate him warmly on his election and to express our conviction that his wisdom and high sense of equity, as well as his devotion to the cause of the international community, are guarantees that we shall achieve excellent results that will be a credit to this world body and to his great country.
2.	Secondly, we should like to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General for his unfailing dedication to the cause of international peace and security and the unstinting efforts he is making towards the achievement of that goal.
3.	We wish to welcome cordially the newly admitted Members of the United Nations, the People's Republic of Mozambique, the Republic of Cape Verde and the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, and to offer our best wishes for the prosperity of those friendly nations.
4.	Paraguay is aware of the full meaning of the principle of the universality of the United Nations. It understands that principle to mean the concerted goodwill of all the nations in their constant quest for the attainment of lofty objectives serving peace, security, justice and development.
5.	Paraguay wishes to express its confidence that this gathering of ail the nations within this Organization will be not an assembly of rivalry and obdurate confrontation but a forum where negotiation and honest dialog will lead to the solutions demanded by the world, leaving aside all considerations based on regional groupings, political ideologies or petty selfishness.
6.	We have repeatedly stated from this rostrum that Paraguay attends these world assemblies with great expectations and gives its friendly support to all efforts towards ennobling justice, comforting peace and the encouragement of man in every corner of the globe.
7.	But we have also said that it is not enough merely to preach peace: we must make peace a fact and bring it down from the lofty place of intangible, charismatic values to the plane of fraternal dialog and harmonious and civilized coexistence.
8.	The kind of peace that Paraguay aspires to is a peace founded on the dignity and freedom of man, a peace based on the economic well-being of all nations; a peace based on strict compliance with the pledges given by peoples and Governments; a peace that will not silence the right that man has, simply because he is a man, to dissent and express the reasons for his personal dissent.
9.	Peace is not the mere absence of armed confrontation. Peace is not, and cannot be, merely silence where before there was the rattling of sabres, loss of life and open confrontation. Peace must necessarily be the strengthening of order in justice and mutual respect. Peace must be respect for the fundamental human freedoms, as well as the freedoms of the groups that man has created for his own ends and for the achievement of his own dignity.
10.	One cannot speak of peace when international agreements become dead letters. One cannot speak of true peace when we see entire peoples subjected by the force of weapons to warlike domination, a domination very often obtained with the support of the concealed or open intervention of neighboring countries, and it does not matter whether that intervention is camouflaged by other names or titles.
11.	We can speak of true peace when in international arenas and forums we seek to judge all situations with a strict sense of justice. That sense of justice and moderation is to be found above all in the minds and hearts of men, and only long after that in the facts of everyday life.
12.	It is in that sense of moderation, balance and equity in our judgment of all conflicts anywhere in the world that we shall gain the triumph of the United Nations and of mankind.
13.	The kind of peace that Paraguay seeks is based on the attainment of the supreme values, without which there can be nothing that is firm and definite in the coexistence of peoples, Governments and systems. These supreme values are the only goals that can ennoble the work of this Organization and make this body a serious forum worthy of respect and an invincible force for the triumph of the universal community.
14.	When all the Members of the United Nations truly share those views, to their fullest extent, regardless of the cost or sacrifice, then we shall be building a better world for future generations. We shall in fact be working for the strengthening of a wide international order which will truly allow for unity and coexistence. We shall be strengthening creative peace, the source of all good and all beauty, far removed from domination and hegemony on the part of sectors or groups with their own interests, ambitions and desires for economic, political, territorial or merely ideological conquest.
15.	We pay small service to the new international order that we should all aspire to and work for when we sacrifice the true dimension of spiritual values to specific considerations of whatever kind, considerations that are always transitory and changing.
16.	Nor do we believe in the magic effect of words which are used so much that they sound empty or arouse the suspicions of the peoples.
17.	Much has been said about detente, but the clouds of preparation for war keep on advancing, casting fear into the hearts of men. Much has been said about detente, but each day we read in the press about the tremendous increase in the trade in weapons, weapons designed solely for conflict, mourning and death. Much has been said about detente, but in international bodies petty and subjective interests are hampering the establishment of a better and more just world order.
18.	In the name of detente the sacrifice of the autonomy of entire nations has been accepted as a fait accompli. There are those who are unmoved by war, waged by any and all means, against peoples that deserve a better life, and with no consideration for the views of their national majorities.
19.	There is not nor will there ever be true detente so long as in the mass media and even in international bodies there are calls for verbal or ideological violence, appeals to the dangerous posture of claiming to be the universal and sole possessor of the truth at all times and on all questions.
20.	Peace is the reflection of the minds of men and nations. Let us disarm minds and thereby eliminate possible hotbeds of war and violence. If we do not loyally serve a philosophy of peace and tolerance, we shall not be serving the cause of peace and justice, or the cause of the consolidation of a more just and prosperous and happier world.
21.	Anything that we say about peace, troubled states of mind or hatred contributes in no .small measure to the efforts which must be made to achieve a new international economic order, the new economic order which is the very pivot of any progress in the future.
22.	The developing nations cannot continue to wait indefinitely for a new, equitable order at the international level. National frustration, the frustration of three quarters of mankind, may take us to incredible depths. This is the hour of truth, of peoples and of justice for all; it is the hour of the elimination of unjust situations of privilege, although this may lead to diminished consumption in the developed countries.
23.	Neither the Declaration nor the program of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order [resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202
(S-VI)], nor the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States [resolution 3281 (XXIX)] will make progress without the sincere desire of the industrialized countries, with their economies of abundance, for general prosperity and to help the less privileged nations achieve development.
24.	There is urgent need for negotiation and agreement, freely accepted, to become a reality in this quest for a new international economic order.
25.	After a very brief respite, once again the troublesome situation of the developing, commodity-producing countries is before us, and now there are further disturbing aspects. The problem has become more acute and obscure since, as well as the classical parameters of development and under-development, there is now galloping inflation in the industrialized countries and economic recession and stagnation in the strongest economies.
26.	The present period is fraught with great dangers which stem from possible hotbeds of international warfare and the dangerous economic situation confronting the world, which have their roots in the irrevocable quest for the well-being of the majority of its peoples.
27.	The time has come for serene reflection and for a spirit of understanding of the needs of the majority of the nations. The time has come for comprehensive negotiations, undertaken in a spirit of solidarity. The time has come for deeds, not words, which are gone with the wind or which peoples no longer believe. The time has come to narrow the differences imposed by the location of natural resources or the geographical location of countries.
28.	The gulf which divides the industrialized nations from the developing countries must be narrowed, not only for the benefit of the more needy nations, but also in the interests of the wealthy economies which will necessarily see their exports reduced in a world where the buyers suffer serious balance-of-payments deficits.
29.	The problems of hunger, food, shortage, housing and education crises, lack of opportunities for the majority, health, social security and land reform are challenges to mankind and to the survival of the world itself; challenges that cannot be met without the sincere desire of the industrialized countries, regardless of their name or social or political position, to make true sacrifices for the benefit of the developing countries.
30.	Paraguay wishes to repeat what it has always stated in this Assembly. We fully appreciate the part played by the United Nations in the field of the development of peoples. There may be doubts about the United Nations capacity to find permanent solutions at the political level. In the political field progress is elusive, difficult, slow and conflicting. But no one can deny that the United Nations, through all its agencies, is doing very laudable work in promoting the development of nations. Permit us to express here Paraguay's gratitude for the work of the experts in our Organization and for the co-operation our country has always received from the United Nations.
31.	The United Nations still has before it the serious situation which has been created for the oil-importing
countries. Producer countries have every right to protect their interests and to obtain legitimate compensation for this non-renewable natural resource. But, in the light of the new increase in the price of oil, we are faced with today's harsh reality of countries which, for that reason, are suffering and will suffer greater difficulties in their economies. The drama of the developing oil-importing countries becomes much greater when we consider the frustrations that accompany that drama: abortive development efforts, pitiless cuts in the ability to create new infrastructure, precarious conditions as regards imports of essentials for their own collective development, the maintenance of the sources of work and the basic needs of their populations.
32.	Paraguay hopes that the United Nations will be in the forefront of the search for equitable solutions to those terrible collective difficulties.
33.	There will be neither peace nor justice among nations without the resurgence of a healthy economy in which prosperity is not the privilege of a few compared to the painful situation of the many. And may we add that that privilege may stem from the greater integral development of countries or the exploitation of natural resources vital for the technological world of today.
34.	As has been rightly stated by the constitutional President of Paraguay:
"In the present international economic situation we must place every emphasis on the need to maintain peace among nations, on friendly relations, co-operation and unity, while tightening the bonds which, however far apart we may be, bring us closer, to the common sentiment of loyalty to the principles of civilization and culture."
35.	Paraguay, a land-locked country, followed the work of the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea with an open mind, jealous of its rights but hoping for the negotiations to continue linked as they are to development issues.
36.	So far the reality has been far from encouraging. Despite the request made by the President of the Conference, countries still make unilateral declarations concerning the extension of their territorial jurisdiction, thus placing even more obstacles in the path ot future meetings.
37.	Paraguay reaffirms what it stated publicly on 17 April 1971 at San Jose, Costa Rica, at the first regular session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States through its Foreign Minister, Raul Sapena Pastor:
"The Republic of Paraguay is a land-locked country which geographical and historical circumstances have deprived of the enormous advantage of having a sea-coast. However, Paraguay has the right to enjoy the freedom of the free sea, unrestricted navigation, fishery resources, the wealth underneath it and the air space above it To the extent that the coastal States arbitrarily increase their sovereignty by extending their territorial sea they are also arbitrarily limiting the right of the Republic of Paraguay and all other land-locked
States."
38.	Paraguay nurtures the hope that a permanent peace will soon be instituted in the Near East through compliance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). We believe that the latest agreement on the Sinai is an important preliminary step along the thorny road to sure peace. It is a step that we hope will be repeated in other areas of conflict. We would say the same with regard to the Cyprus problem, which still today represents a challenge to the prestige of the United Nations.
39.	Paraguay has always supported a process of gradual decolonization. In this regard it would favor the free self-determination of the Saharan people and the disappearance of the colonial enclaves of Gibraltar, Belize and the Malvinas.
40.	Paraguay shares the understandable concern of our countries about the need to achieve agreement on the delicate problem of the Panama Canal and also understands that the persistence of that problem decidedly affects relations in the hemisphere. For this reason, my Government wishes to co-operate in whatever manner it deems fit in seeking out the means that will ensure honorable and satisfactory settlement, for the Latin American community, which, at all times, seeks to defend its own sovereignty and security.
41.	Paraguay has also always supported the admission of new Members to the Organization, thus making it a universal body without discrimination or selectivity.
42.	It is therefore difficult for us to understand that the doors should have been closed on the admission of South Korea to the international community. If thus far only one of the two parts into which the peninsula has been divided has applied for admission into the United Nations, what valid reason could there have been to close that door on it? So doing has not furthered the universality of the United Nations. It is possible that the admission of one of the two Koreas would have speed up the entry of the other. It is difficult to believe that the presence of the two Koreas in the United Nations would make dialog between them difficult or hamper the process of peaceful reunification. The entry of the two Koreas would always represent a commitment in the right direction and along the right lines, as well as a commitment to peaceful action to achieve that end.
43	There must be no forced or capricious discrimination. We must apply to all these situations the sound principle of non-interference in internal affairs.
44	The people of the two Koreas alone can legitimately decide what they want for themselves, and Sen only by means of the free and democratic consultation of their peoples with no totalitarian groups claiming for themselves the representation of their people.
45	It is unbelievable that some countries that at one point in history hindered entry of the Republic of Viet Nam should now have become its champions. Those countries refused then to support its admission because South Viet Nam had a multi-party and representative regime as opposed to that of North Viet NamNow Sin the south, too a totalitarian system has been established with a single, all powerful party they do not object in any way to its admission, although Viet Nam, the country, is divided. Nothing has been
said of reunification, which it is sought to impose as an absolute prerequisite in the case of the two Koreas. And yet the unification of Viet Nam would eventually be easy to achieve in view of the existence of two Governments of similar social, political and economic structure, with the same ideology and the same place in the international sphere.
46.	Within the framework of the international balance of power, shutting out South Korea logically led to blocking the way for the two Viet Nams. Thus some Governments do not apply a broad and just yardstick of universality, but rather follow a strictly discriminatory line.
47.	Underlying all, these strictly sectarian an ideological criteria prevail. They were unblushingly voiced when the matter was brought before the Security Council. There, speakers indulged in the use of partisan epithets and! terms Chat revealed their bias and their discrimination.
48.	Let us consider these facts in the light of the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. The ink with which that document was signed is still fresh. And yet the everyday reality is far from the spirit according to which Governments should not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries so as to seek points of agreement rather than differences that draw us apart or bring us into confrontation.
49.	Terrorism and subversion still undermine the essential pillars of civilization. My country has denounced this state of affairs From this rostrum on repeated occasions. The international community has not given this painful human and ethical problem the attention it deserves, especially since terrorism and subversion are clearly connected with certain countries or transnational groups which overtly or covertly support, stimulate and sustain them.
50.	No one is free from the ominous threat of crimes of terrorism, not even those who protect the terrorists and favor them for reasons of political convenience or ideological favoritism.
51.	The time has come to make a clear stand at the international level so that planned terrorism and violence do not find in universal forums the kind of tolerance that, in the last analysis, weakens the rule of law, of what is right, decent, ethical and at the base of alt civilized society.
52.	International Women's Year was an outstanding event for the United Nations. In the wonderful history of Paraguay, women have occupied a place of honor in the hearts of successive generations. Women have always shown their greatness in love, in peace, in work and in the terrible days of pitiless war. As mothers, wives, indomitable fighters, men's companions at all times, as agriculturists, farmers, social workers and teachers, they built up a nation. And later, after the storm of the national holocaust, they built it anew. In my country, women enjoy full political and civil rights. The World Conference of the International Women's Year, which should have been a highly specialized event, fell short of expectations because of exaggerated and meaningless politicization.
53. Paraguay lives at peace with itself and with all the peoples of the earth. Its Government and people aspire
only to peace, order, and justice, and to true democracy through egalitarian education and through free and open elections.
54.	This month there will be municipal elections held throughout the country in which the Government party and the opposition parties will participate, some with open lists in order to win over those not already committed to the party concerned.
55.	The people of Paraguay looks to the future with great faith, placing its hopes in the fruitful labor and lasting peace that the republican and democratic institutions have given it under its great leader and patriot, General Alfredo Stroessner.
56.	The efforts made by Paraguay towards its growth and development are reflected in the fact that the national expenditure budget in 1975 is 26 times higher than in 1954, when the policy of monetary stability, still in force, was first introduced.
57.	The constant growth of hydroelectric power has made possible the progressive electrification of, and hence the modernization of. the whole country. Much is being done to bring in capital which mobilizes natural resources without selling out to anyone. A comprehensive program of land reform is being carried out based on the real well-being of the rural people. Major hydroelectric undertakings which we have established jointly with Argentina and Brazil, known to all the world, are going steadily ahead. Paraguay is already exporting electric power. A well-ordered economy, built on freedom, with the State intervening fully to serve its free citizens, is a strong backing for investment and productive work.
58.	In Paraguay today there is no room for unhappy strife between brothers. Its people has realized that the path of peace and civic tolerance is the only path to a promising future.
59.	Paraguay, an exporter of raw materials, still believes, with sincere faith in man and in the United Nations, that prosperous and powerful countries will understand their rote in the changing world of today.
60.	We still believe that peace means not simply the absence of armed conflict, but a realistic attitude on the part of highly industrialized countries in cooperating to ensure the growth and well-being of all peoples and justice in international trade; in the promotion of development; in meeting the basic needs of the country; in solving monetary problems with the participation of all; in technology, which should be open to all nations; or in the establishment of a new international economic order based on equitable treatment between unequal countries.
61.	These achievements will narrow the gap which today separates the rich from the developing countries. They will lay the foundations for that better world to which we all aspire, of peace, plenty and freedom. There can be no freedom without peace, and without freedom man's daily bread is bitter and peace is a mere fiction, while peace with bread but without freedom reduces man's dignity and turns peoples into mere flocks of sheep.
62.	Paraguay wishes to repeat what it stated two years ago: we want this to be a dynamic Organization above the emptiness of verbalism, something
far more than a simple forum. We want an entity of solidarity, where the powerful countries will help the progress of the world and all its peoples, where the same light will shine on all men, in all latitudes, where there are no longer some privileged countries and others that are consigned to oblivion, where there is no foreign intervention, no economic dependence or exploitation, no military or ideological subjection.1

===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
254. Since my appointment as Foreign Minister of Paraguay this is my first opportunity to address the General Assembly of the United Nations to express the view of my Government with regard to the extensive agenda for the discussion of which we are here convened. As is customary, may I begin by greeting all the representatives seated in this international arena: President Amerasinghe, whose efficient work in this normal climate, so well suited to his innate qualities deserves our praise; Prime Minister Gaston Thorn, whose keen clear-sightedness has left a shining imprint in the roster of those who have brilliantly presided over the deliberations of our Assembly in the past; and our Secretary-General, Mr.Waldheim who has, through the fruitful years of his activity, which we hope will continue in the future, shown constant and unequivocal proof of this great oecumenical vocation. I should also like to welcome most cordially the Republic of Seychelles, which has become a Member of our Organization, and in so doing places in it high hopes for its future, with a promise on our part not to disappoint them in this joyous undertaking to preserve peace and to act together to promote the economic and social progress of all the peoples of the planet.
255.	The balance of power is governed by well-entrenched patterns which hardly ever change for the simple reason that history has been weaving an increasingly complex fabric of appetites for prestige and domination. Thus those who do not have power are at the mercy and whim of those who use this power as the dreadful tool of their conduct. However, this Organization seeks, through the proclamation of its principles and objectives, to establish the rule of reason^, and under its protection we welcome those peoples to whom fate has denied the opportunities given to others of being the only lords of war and peace. It is with eagerness and uncertainty that we struggle, and our agony is a reflection of our faith in the principles laid down in Chapter I of the Charter.
256.	For this reason, although not always with encouraging results, we come here year after year to profess our persistent faith in the imponderable forces which govern mankind and without whose existence and assistance our planet would more than once have turned into a pyre of atomic madness.
257.	And thus, for countries like mine, and we are a majority here in this Assembly, the issue of world peace is only the repeated expression of a hope which we voice with some trepidation, since the political decision to establish it on firm and lasting foundations is beyond our control. However, despite our handicap, we realize that our unity is a powerful tool with which to destroy the frontiers of scepticism and thus Paraguay, in its association with the United Nations, contributes its enormous spiritual strength to the cause of peace.
258.	As in the case of human beings where somatic make-up and physical traits are merely accidental, we do not recognize some countries as being greater than others because of the size of their territory or their population, or some as being more deserving than others merely on the basis of computer data. For us, the peoples of the United Nations, there is only one criterion of dignity, and that is purity of blood gained at the service of great ideals. Because of its heroic past and its promising present my country, Paraguay, occupies its rightful place in this Assembly of the peoples and believes it is its urgent duty to play an active role in this contest where, in the final analysis, the fate of the universe itself is being played out. My country occupies a seat of honour in this Assembly because it has forged its ultimate shape, its features, and its personality through hard work and virtues difficult to acquire; and let this just patriotic exaltation stand in support of the voice of a nation which feels genuinely self-confident.
259.	Clearly, out of the many items on the agenda before the thirty-first session of the General Assembly, all important, there are some on which we should like to dwell, be it ever so briefly, because of their special interest for our country.
260.	We have the highest regard for the extremely important functions of the Security Council and those of the Office of the Secretary-General, and when we recall the crucial role which they have played in dealing with numerous crises, we can expect from them nothing less than the strictest, even heroic accomplishment of their lofty mission. Often they hold the thread of life itself in their hands, and Paraguay, like the overwhelming majority of the countries represented here, has full confidence in the vital mechanism of this world body, and we hope that the elections that will take place for several vacant posts will justify cur confidence in their sound and serene judgement.
261.	As the protagonists of this problem in days gone by, and because of our own experience, we have a well-defined position on colonialism, although this word, like many others in modern international parlance, often lends itself to regrettable misinterpretations. Accession to independence is a right which cannot be denied if the necessary requirements exist to meet the challenges of independent life; but the rupture of administrative links is not always the right solution. Indeed, there are cases where the process of self-determination should avoid giving the stamp of approval to former ownership of territories which, by history and by law, belong to other political entities. Thus my delegation will support all efforts made to find the right solution for each individual case.
262.	The Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea resulted in a number of valuable achievements. The 1958 Geneva Conventions did not fully meet the challenges offered by the sea at that stage in the history of technology. Countries that have from time immemorial derived profit from their seashores, as well as those which were deprived of them, turned to the ocean in search of wealth with great hopes and aspirations. For although trade is facilitated by the ownership of seaports, with modern means of communication and existing conventions on terrestrial transit, trade is no longer the only reason why nations want to have a coastline. Science and technology have discovered new wealth in the subsoil of the sea bed, a wealth which makes their possession especially desirable, and as the population explosion, which reduces our breathing space, creates new and urgent problems concerning food and the production of energy, the sea offers ever greater opportunities to overcome these crises through the efficient exploitation of fishing industries and the skilful utilization of petroleum as well as other mineral resources of the sea.
263.	However, the Third Conference does not seem to hold the promise of satisfactory solutions. The conquest of the sea will go the way of the conquest of the earth and although certain limits may be established now which seem to meet present needs, we seriously wonder whether in future the criteria and aspirations of this Conference will prevail.
264.	The proposal for an "exclusive economic zone" of 200 miles has given rise to serious differences of opinion, as land-locked countries still wonder whether they will be given what they consider to be theirs by right, namely the possibility to share in the benefits of the exploitation of the resources of the sea. Faced with this uncertainty and for political, historical and geographical reasons, Paraguay will continue to seek solutions to this fascinating and fundamental question of the law of the sea through bilateral negotiations.
265.	This is an extremely important undertaking not unlike that which has transported man from his planet into outer space. Those who with optimism and courage embarked upon this great adventure are in a manner of speaking the new conquerors of modern times.
266.	May I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Amerasinghe for his conduct of the Third Conference on the Law of the Sea, from which we continue to expect the positive results due to his great ability and enthusiasm.
267.	We are all concerned with the question of disarmament but we recognize with satisfaction the efforts made by the Ad Hoc Committees to ease the tensions caused by this old but persistent problem. We have crossed the half-way point in the Disarmament Decade and yet regrettably no effective progress has been made which could allay our fears. Many commendable efforts have been made to achieve denuclearization in various parts of the planet, designed to bring about general and complete disarmament, and yet we are concerned as we observe the beginnings of an arms race in the Americas. We hope that this existing war fever will soon pass, for it is the duty of our countries to seek integration rather than aggression.
268.	Paraguay is sensitive to the question of human rights and I mention this specifically because our country has been the target of a malevolent campaign designed to undermine its international prestige.
269.	Each nation has its own way of life and ours was shaped many centuries ago when the peaceful settlements of the Guarani Indians intermarried with Spanish soldiers. The result was the birth of a nation that has the highest regard for life, freedom and independence, which are rooted in our existence. My country has never had an ethnic, social, or religious problem which could jeopardize its unity or prosperity. There is no racial discrimination or other forms of discrimination in Paraguay. The Government of the Republic continues, as always, to make every effort to incorporate into society the few indigenous groupings in its territory which are still outside the mainstream of civilization.
270.	Certain modern philosophical and political trends, particularly certain Marxist philosophies, have tried to subjugate the will and the thoughts of the Paraguayan people to foreign interests. This ill-intentioned attempt to disrupt the harmonious development of our nation has been unanimously rejected by our people. However, this propaganda campaign has made allegations of violations of human rights, attempting to distort the meaning of the legitimate defence measures which our Government has taken and will continue to take in order to protect our nation against those who are plotting to subjugate us to Communist imperialism. Thanks to the political stability of the Government of President Stroessner, Paraguay can boast of a record of continued progress which has enabled it to maintain a stable currency, to exploit its natural resources, and to establish progressively the necessary infrastructure to bring about a speedy development of the country and the improvement of our democratic form of Government.
271.	For all these reasons, we, like others, are concerned with the question of human rights and our delegation will give its unswerving support to all initiatives designed to ensure their real protection.
272.	There is another item closely related to this one and that is international terrorism. This painful experience, together with the threat of nuclear war, is the inexplicable price of a better world. We strongly condemn all violence and, as the most brutal expression of a return to primitive animality, this infernal machine must be rooted out lest our so-called "civilization" be allowed to perish in misery. We are prepared to give our firm support to all drafts designed effectively to combat terrorism, this modern version of the Horsemen of the Apocalypse.
273.	The Organization has convened a United Nations Water Conference, to be held next year, a subject to which my country attaches special importance. The world's population growth, industrial activities, the expansion of farmlands, as well as other lesser problems make the existing sources of water supply inadequate. The large human settlements which have changed the landscape have also created an ecological imbalance which is reflected in inadequate rainfall and an alarming index of water pollution and erosion.
274.	There now exists an awareness of these problems among States and international organizations, and this is reflected in the holding of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, the International Hydrological Decade, the World Weather Watch programme, the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements and the studies prepared by various committees on natural resources and the environment. All these initiatives emphasize the importance of the forthcoming water Conference, to which we will give our special support and from which we expect encouraging results.
275.	These are the general guidelines which the delegation of Paraguay will follow in dealing with the questions to which I have specifically referred. I wish to express the hope that the deliberations of this session of the Assembly may contribute to strengthening our faith in a troubled world which, perhaps without quite realizing, continues to cling to certain irreplaceable values which will always serve to explain the wondrous daily miracle of life in this region of the universe, so dear to our hearts, which we call earth.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿260.	 Once again I am honoured to have this opportunity to address this distinguished international forum, and 1 wish briefly to put forward my Government's views on the extensive agenda before us.
250. In particular, I wish to bid welcome to the eminent diplomat presiding over this Assembly, Mr. Lazar Mojsov, whom I wish every success in his difficult tasks. We are confident that his well-known competence and skill will stand him in good stead.
260.	I wish also to extend our best wishes to Secretary- General Kurt Waldneim, to whom we are grateful for his tireless efforts in the service of the international community.
261.	At the beginning of my statement I should also like to bid welcome to the two new States that have just joined our Organization. We hope they will find here the broad and just path leading to their well-deserved prosperity.
262.	We have grown accustomed, from the news in the daily press, to hearing the word "detente", as if it could magically usher in a new era in international relations and in the balance of world power. However, our community is, at this very moment, gravely concerned over explosive situations liable at any moment to destroy the values of our civilization. We are not referring solely to those areas that show disturbing signs-whether real or potential-of disrupting peace and security, but also to a more indefinite, vague area where subversion, under the banner of certain ideals, has terrorized mankind in pursuit of evil designs to establish new, deceptive political systems that oppress the citizen, suppress freedom and subjugate nations.
263.	More than one eminent representative of the Latin American countries has in this universal forum brought out the fact that the world is faced with an unwarranted, painful choice: while the representatives of the major Powers who hold in their hands the responsibility of power and domination proclaim the end of the cold war and its replacement by the fragile reign of detente, entire peoples are confronted dramatically by subversion and terrorism encouraged from beyond their boundaries by omnipotent forces whose designs for impeccable domination know no bounds and even extend to our continent.
264.	Paraguay, which is experiencing an era of peace, security, tranquillity and order unprecedented in its turbulent political history, is concerned over this abdication of the universal conscience.
265.	Paraguay, one of the vast majority of countries that do not participate in final decisions of power or domination, firmly believes in the moral values that ennoble life within the framework of order and of civilized, harmonious international coexistence.
266.	My country has placed its hope in the work and historic mission of the United Nations, which is the only viable course in the search for a brighter pi object for a mankind yearning for peace and well-being.
267.	Hence we view with concern the emergence of certain threats to peace and security, wherever they may occur. Technology has performed prodigious feats, and has accustomed us to a leisurely existence; technology has also turned the entire world into a village filled with suspicion, where everyone warily eyes his neighbour. And our fear grows when those sources of friction are maintained, for reasons I need not mention here, beyond the framework of the United Nations and its bodies, with criminal disregard for the provisions of the Charter specifically designed to ensure the rule of reason and law.
268.	Nevertheless. Paraguay is confident that sound judgment and, above all, a spirit of justice will enable us to find proper solutions to the problems which are of concern to us all, such as the civil war in Lebanon, the situation in Cyprus, the perennial war in the Middle East, the burning issues that beset the length and breadth of Africa, and the other problems which thwart our legitimate desire to defend ideals worthy of our status as human beings.
269.	Paraguay will always be prepared to support whatever measures may be adopted by the international community to curb terrorism. Here I wish to recall that the protection of human rights should apply with the same earnestness and zeal to the innocent victims of the scourge of terror which has so pitilessly been unleashed.
270.	This noble concern for basic human rights, which my country shares and respects, has, however, been invoked in various United Nations bodies with narrow, biased "selectivity".
271.	It is paradoxical that, despite the chilling figures that have been adduced regarding the unspeakable acts of genocide that take place in certain countries, on the pretext of setting up new power structures an attempt has been made to deny other peoples their sacred right to defend their self-determination, freedom and traditional life style.
272.	Paraguay has taken, and will continue to take, whatever measures are needed, within a strict legal framework, to protect and defend its age-old traditions and its democratic, independent way of life. Ours is a democracy which knows no racial or other segregation, nor is there any distinction on the basis of class or wealth. Our independence is not limited by foreign or domestic forces.
273.	Paraguay does not wish to live in denial of those values, because, were that to happen, life itself would no longer have the meaning and dignity which is ours by virtue of our history, a source of pride that gives us strength in the daily struggle for existence.
274.	One of the more pressing items on your agenda is that of disarmament. The basis is now being laid for the convening of a special session of the General Assembly on that subject in 1978. Meanwhile, the specialized agencies tell us of the enormous sums being invested in armaments— and not only by the great Powers—in a race which cannot lead the world to an era of peace and tolerance but only to a period of doubt and great danger. Conversely, economic conditions in the developing countries are deteriorating daily, in a world where the challenge of progress and well-being in most nations depends on the very triumph of failure of mankind and on a true peace.
275.	Another session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea concluded recently in this very city without the land-locked countries, such as Paraguay, being assured that their just claims will be reflected in the final text of a future international convention.
276.	Paraguay believes in the inalienable right of the land-locked countries to the riches of the sea, the common heritage of mankind. It is in that spirit that we wish to negotiate bilateral solutions to this exciting fundamental challenge which concerns the right of all nations to the riches of the sea.
277.	My Government wishes to stress the useful and commendable efforts of our Organization as it holds plenary meetings on matters vital to man's environment throughout the world. I refer here to the United Nations Water Conference, which took place in Mar del Plata, and to the United Nations Conference on Desertification. The use of sophisticated and ambitious technology challenges nature, and it is well that the whole world should meet to deliberate these subjects which relate to the proper use of natural resources and to ensuring the healthy state of the earth's ecology; otherwise, all those who inhabit this little segment of the universe known as earth would run an even greater risk to their lives.
278.	As on other occasions, the Government of Paraguay wishes to voice its satisfaction at stressing the importance of the mission being carried out in our country by UNDP, and we would express our appreciation to those countries co-operating with it which have provided their technical and financial assistance and have performed truly worthy tasks closely linked to Paraguay's development.
279.	Countries like Paraguay are also concerned over the growing difficulties which, regardless of all the efforts being made inside and outside the Organization, make it particularly difficult to establish a more just international economic order wherein countries exporting raw materials and commodities can be encouraged in a way to promote their progress and the well-being of their peoples.
280.	The Government of my country is constantly devoting its efforts to the harmonious development of our entire country and to the steady increase of our exports in general, but there are certain factors beyond our country which disrupt our efforts. There is the well-known problem of the low prices of raw materials on international markets. Now there are also obstacles created by industrialized countries because of prices imposed on our exports. That is true of beef exported from Paraguay. For many years now we have not had access to certain traditional markets in the European Economic Community.
281.	Paraguay is also seriously concerned over another matter which has been raised at many international meetings and is a major problem within the United Nations system. There has been reference to a desire to reduce technical and financial co-operation extended to those countries that are economically "taking off', in favour of those that are in a less advantageous position economically. That would create automatically an intermediate level of countries which would be deprived of assistance they sorely need. In the light of views which have been put forward, one could expect that the countries involved would be practically all those of Latin America.
282.	Another fact which should be mentioned on this occasion and which is also of concern to the Government of my country is the meagre representation of our countries of the Latin American group in the higher bureaucratic positions within the United Nations system, including the specialized agencies. Reliable statistics show that among 26 high positions we have absolutely no representative. The least one can say is that this unjust situation adversely affects the foundation of the United Nations system, that foundation being proportionate geographical representation.
283.	Just three weeks ago in Washington the new Panama Canal treaties were signed. It was a momentous occasion in view of the presence of the Presidents or representatives of our countries, and it was evidence of our common faith and our identical hope. We welcome the fact that fruitful dialogue prevailed over sterile confrontation.
284.	In conclusion, I wish to express my most sincere hope that this General Assembly will make an effective contribution to the advent of a freer, more just and more humane world for our sons and the sons of our sons. There can be no substitute for that if mankind is to continue along the path of self-betterment.


===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿This thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly will have the singular privilege tomorrow of receiving His Holiness John Paul II and hearing his solemn statement in this forum dedicated to achieving peace and to maintaining and strengthening it among all peoples of the earth, whatever the political, ethnic or religious characteristics of the nations which constitute the Organization.
173.	Therefore, on the eve of such a solemn and exceptional event, the delegation of Paraguay associates itself with the expectations and hopes aroused among us all by the presence of the Supreme Pontiff. On behalf of the people and Government of my country, we offer to the Pope the respectful tribute of Paraguay, which remains faithful to the traditions of Christianity and its doctrines as an expression of a way of life which is in accordance with the innermost requirements of our national entity.
174.	It is true that the panorama offered by today's world is not encouraging, for it is engaged as never before in confrontations of every kind and on different scales both within and outside national boundaries. In spite of that, our inescapable mission is to preserve peace, going beyond its purely intangible moral values to the dialogue that is necessary to ensure at least a minimum of civilized coexistence. We wish for a peace built on the dignity of man, and we therefore categorically reject any system which constitutes a barrier to freedom.
175.	Thus, Paraguay does not admit the Communist philosophy of life, nor does it allow it to be preached within our territory. We are combating the Marxist doctrine, exercising the right of our own national self- preservation, and we repudiate its atheistic and materialistic concept of human life.
176.	In this respect, my country maintains a single and unswerving line of conduct. After many decades of political anarchy, of destruction of the public and private economy and of the downgrading of our civil and democratic values, Paraguay, under the serene and patriotic guidance of President Alfredo Stroessner, and with the support of the powerful political force of the Colorado Party, has succeeded in channelling the march of the nation of Paraguay along the paths of stability and prosperity.
177.	We practise a form of government which is in accordance with the temperament, the vocation and the very nature of the people of Paraguay and we believe that every political community has not only the right but the duty to provide itself with the institutions suited to its particular characteristics.
178.	In accordance with this line of thinking, we view with concern the attitude of certain Governments which practise interference in internal affairs which are exclusively within the competence and responsibility of other States. The affirmation, management and solution of its own national problems are matters exclusively within the sovereignty of the nation itself. However, it so happens that, invoking the principle of the defence of human rights, some would from abroad dictate to other Governments rules of conduct in specific cases, even going so far as to invade the area of order and internal security. Some even make so bold as to pass judgements and express opinions regarding measures or solutions which should be adopted only by those who are vested with the authority of the will of the people, by those who have acquired the necessary experience to confront local situations and by those who have taken on the unavoidable responsibility of preserving the principles and the substantive assets of each nation.
179.	Paraguay does not accept, nor will it accept, such interference, which at the level of bilateral relations is at variance with the mutual respect which members of the great international family owe one another.
180.	The pluralistic political regime of Paraguay is a living and permanent reality. Both in the national Parliament, consisting of the Chamber of Senators and the Chamber of Deputies, and in the municipal councils of all the main municipalities of the country, the opposition is represented by political parties.
181.	We are absolutely true to the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of States, and we strictly respect the self-determination of peoples. This attitude is not new, nor is it due to circumstances of the moment. It derives from our distant past, and has its unshakeable roots in the very history of Paraguay, which in the last century fought heroically in an exhausting five-year war to maintain intact the principle of what was then called the "policy of balance", and which in modern terminology is exactly what we now call the self-determination of peoples.
182.	The Government of Paraguay does not judge, either publicly or through diplomatic channels, the internal policies of other States. Nor does it by either of those means allow itself to give its views on matters or events which are related to the sovereignty of or political leadership displayed by other Governments.
183.	Nor do we acknowledge didactic leadership ac-cording to which other Governments, or those who arrogate their representation to themselves, dictate rules to us for exercising public authority. It must be known that for us the only sovereign in this matter is the people of Paraguay. By the only valid means, namely the ballot box, and by an overwhelming majority, that people has placed its destiny in the hands of those who now legitimately represent them. I am proud to say that Paraguay can boast of its people, who are dignified and noble, and who from the very first hours of their existence have given exceptional proof of their qualities as well as of their courage in defending the values for which the fearless struggle goes on in what we call "Western civilization".
184.	Since it is impossible, because of the time available, to dwell on other items which also offer much food for thought, and which are on the agenda of this session, I should like to report on the situation of my country with regard to a subject which is of general interest and concern.
185.	There is no doubt that shadows will loom over the future of the world because of a growing difficulty in obtaining two essentials for the well-being and progress of mankind: energy and food. With almost absolute certainty, this difficulty will bring about a substantial change in the economy of many countries by reversing relations which today seem to be logical and even unchangeable. I am pleased to point out, in view of this prospect, which in one way or another will affect the vast majority of the community of nations, that my country, Paraguay, will certainly be an exception.
186.	At this time, Paraguay lacks known sources of hydrocarbons or mineral carbon, but, on the other hand, we have an abundant source of water power with special characteristics, such as its considerable magnitude, and the fact that the ownership of this source is shared by two of our neighbours, Argentina and Brazil. This singular circumstance, far from having placed us at a disadvantage, has, on the contrary, become a factor in our favour, since the difference in the volume of the economies of my country and those of the neighbours I have mentioned, will for some time be converted into profits from the export of energy, until Paraguay, which is in a process of accelerated development, can, in turn, make capital investments to use its share of the potential energy.
187.	I believe it would be of interest to this Assembly to know of the guiding ideas which inspired the building of the hydroelectric stations which my country has undertaken with the Federative Republic of Brazil, and with the Republic of Argentina on the River Parana, on a mixed or binational enterprise basis, with full parity in their co-ownership. With Brazil, we are building the hydroelectric station at Itaipu, which will produce 70 billion kilowatt-hours, thus placing it at the head of the largest enterprises in the world in this field. And, likewise with Argentina, we are already in the initial phase of complete execution of another hydroelectric station, Yacyreta. That station will produce 18 billion kilowatt-hours per year, which, likewise, places it in the forefront among the major world utilities. Furthermore, an understanding between my country, Argentina and Brazil, which has just been concluded, will make it possible on that selfsame Parana river to build another hydroelectric station with a yearly production of the same order as the one at Yacyreta to which I have referred.
188.	The political and economic philosophy underlying these undertakings is based on the assumption that the energy produced will be distributed equally between the two partners—Paraguay and Brazil, or Paraguay and Argentina as the case may be. In exchange for the difference between our energy consumption and half the total energy produced—to which initially each of the partners is entitled—my country will receive an adequate compensation until we ourselves find it necessary to review this difference.
189.	I wish to emphasize, as a tribute to the spirit of understanding and perfect equality which prevails over the technical and diplomatic negotiations between my country and Argentina and Brazil, that the Paraguayan firms participating in the realization of these monumental construction tasks have demonstrated a high degree of efficiency which made it possible for countries at different economic levels to associate for enterprises of mutual benefit in conditions of reasonable equity. There has also been a sense of balance which fully reflects the atmosphere of peace and friendship which prevails in the region in which we live: the vast area of the basin of the River Plate, one of the prime areas of the world because of its social and political configuration as an inexhaustible source of economic possibilities.
190.	I would like to stress that, in addition to the vast volume of energy from renewable resources, such as hydroelectric energy, which does not have the problems connected with mineral or atomic production and its technology, and which very shortly will be available to Paraguay, we have the privileged condition of a fertile territory, which in my country can produce food over almost its entire area.
191.	In turn, the possibility of using electric power to produce fertilizers will raise the capacity of Paraguay to produce food-stuffs to a high level, thus transforming my country into a major centre of world interest in view of the acute and anxious problem of world food.
192.	Aware of its historic responsibility and its commitment to the present generation, the Government of President Stroessner is devoting all its efforts to place my country in the privileged situation it occupied in its early history and which it earned through the dignity of its people and because of its brilliant history.
193.	We have suffered much misfortune, due mainly to- international wars and attacks against our sovereignty and independence. The hard lesson of the past has strengthened us in our resolve to be steadfast in the face of any attempt at foreign interference, under whatever emblem by whatever method, from whatever origin or whatever arguments may be made use of to try to justify it.
194.	My country is open to all men of goodwill who wish to see with their own eyes and with an open mind the atmosphere of peace, democracy and freedom in which we are developing our republican institutions, which are the basis of our confidence in a brilliant future which we wish to share with the sister nations of America and with the other nations which, with us, profess their faith in better days for mankind.
195.	I wish to end this statement by reiterating the pleasure with which Paraguay, its people and Government, note today, 1 October, the celebration of an auspicious event: the coming into force of the Panama Canal Treaty. I congratulate you, Mr. President, your noble country of Panama and its Government, for defending the rights of your country so tenaciously and with such dignity.
196.	This is an obvious and happy sign of a better understanding among the Americas, the one in the north and the one in the south, called upon to agree on the level of absolute unqualified respect and without blameworthy ignorance.
197.	Paraguay would not wish America to succumb to a suicidal confusion of concepts, but would rather that, with God's help, "government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth".

===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿On behalf of the delegation of Paraguay, I am pleased to welcome the new Member States of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Zimbabwe to our community of nations.
205.	The long list of items on the agenda of the present session of the General Assembly contains a few of undoubted interest to my country, such as the United Nations Special Fund for Land-locked Developing Countries; the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea; the draft international convention against the recruitment, use, financing and training of mercenaries; the banning of nuclear weapons in Latin America and other continents, as well as related questions; development and international economic co-operation with all their implications; the draft articles on most-favoured-nation clauses and so on. The delegation of Paraguay will be setting forth its views on those and other questions. This should, of course, not be taken to imply a lack of interest—for of course we are interested to some degree—in all the other agenda items.
206.	Having offered this brief clarification, in the interest of the brevity that should mark what is termed the general debate, I am pleased to make mention of the positive contribution of my country throughout the long period that has passed since Paraguay, with 49 other countries, signed the Charter in San Francisco. Since then, we have watched this Organization grow and our words have never strayed from the ideals which attended its birth.
207.	We are a peace-loving people. In two world wars, we have defended our honour, our land and our rights with bravery.
208.	Our country is no improvisation. Our international identity has deep roots in the history of America, and the name of my country is synonymous with firmness, decisiveness and crystal clarity in its dealings with other nations. We have a keen sense of friendship and co-operation, as well as an inflexible and inveterate instinct for independence and uprightness.
209.	Thanks to those qualities of the Paraguayan people, the Government of President Stroessner has been able to give our country an unprecedented and unparalleled rate of growth in progress and prosperity, in a climate of peace, with guarantees for the essential rights of the human person. Paraguay, which is governed by a modern Constitution democratically adopted in 1967, enjoys the free interplay of political parties and, at the present time, boasts an annual growth rate of 10.5 per cent, the highest on the continent, and perhaps in the entire world; our foreign public debt situation is sound, our rate of exchange with the dollar having remained unchanged since 1960; we keep within our public budget in a satisfactory manner, and our unemployment rate is practically nil. Eighty percent of the population can read and write, and education and public health receive priority attention from the Government; indeed, sizeable portions of our budgets are allocated to those areas. The large projects in Itaipu and Yacyreta, the expenses for which we share with Brazil and Argentina respectively, will make Paraguay a leading producer of electric energy.
210.	I take the liberty of providing the Assembly with this brief outline of the general situation in Paraguay today because it is essential that we all get to know one another at first hand and in a straightforward manner, especially those of us who do not utilize the secrets of mercenary propaganda and who do not have the economic or political power to stop that kind of propaganda. This is a universal forum where there must be not only a legitimate desire for peace but also an honest desire to speak the truth. We are a responsible, respectable country which has rightly earned its place in the civilized world.
211.	Barely two weeks ago, the city of Asuncion, the capital of my country, was the scene of a barbarous act of terrorism in which General Anastasio Somoza Debayle, ex-President of the Republic of Nicaragua, was brutally assassinated.
212.	That heinous murder, so alien to the peaceful life that the institutions of Paraguay have enjoyed for more than a quarter of a century, elicited vigorous repudiation, quite apart from the question of who were morally or materially responsible, and quite apart from their motives.
213.	That infamous act of aggression had one novel feature typical of terrorism: the civilian population was placed on the brink of disaster of incalculable dimensions, for the savage and dastardly act was perpetrated in the full light of day, right in the middle of the city.
214.	In 1947, international communism, in league with opponents of our regime who had become docile instruments, attempted to set up a Marxist regime in my country. This resulted in an armed clash that lasted nearly half a year, but was put down thanks to the indomitable will of the Republican National Association and the Colorado Party, which closed ranks with the loyal and uncontaminated army. In 1959 and 1960 armed gunmen, who had been clandestinely infiltrated from abroad, once again tried by force of arms to impose Marxist dogma on Paraguay. No holds were barred in the bloody fighting which ensued, which was marked by the ferocity of the attackers. But it was all to no avail, because not only was there no response from the rural population of my country, but, more importantly, the perpetrators were identified and severely punished by the very peasants whose lives and property had been so heedlessly assaulted. Thus this is not the first time that my country has been the victim of aggression.
215.	On this last occasion the entire citizenry in a variety of ways condemned the crime perpetrated in Asuncion, and both Houses of the National Congress, in a genuine expression of the popular will, unanimously adopted pertinent legislative resolutions. The Chamber of Deputies expressed its "firmest determination not to compromise or falter in the struggle to preserve the immutable principles of Western Christian civilization". The Senate, for its part, after referring to the refugee status of the principal victim, declared that:
"... from the material evidence and the data thus far collected, there is ample reason to conclude that the assassination was conceived and decided upon abroad; that it was executed by foreigners, with weapons brought in clandestinely for this purpose, and that their motives, which are foreign to our country, were at variance with its customs, its respect for human rights, and the democratic nature of its political struggles. Therefore, irrespective of the cause motivating the crime, this criminal act constitutes a barbaric act of aggression by international terrorism against Paraguay. It disrupted the public tranquillity in our country with unprecedented bloodshed and has sullied our image, although it is obvious that it was nothing other than an act of political spite and vengeance on the part of other countries".
216.	By way of additional information, I should like to bring to the attention of this Assembly the fact that the Government of Paraguay has decided to suspend diplomatic relations with the Nicaraguan Government of National Reconstruction.
217.	This decision was based on a number of clues pointing to the participation of the Sandinista Movement of Nicaragua in the crime perpetrated on Paraguayan territory against the ex-President of Nicaragua.
218.	There was also presumption and obvious bad faith in the remarks made by a member of that governing Junta, Rafael C6rdova Rivas, who, in a statement on 17 September 1980, made grave threats against the chief magistrate of the Republic of Paraguay, which was a provocation of the Paraguayan people that had elected him, in free elections and by an overwhelming majority, as their chief of State.
219.	Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says that "Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person", and article 14 says that "Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution", while, under articles 10 and 11, only judicial action can impede that right; and article 30 says that no State, group or person has the right "to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein".
220.	Consequently, with justified indignation, I wish, on behalf of my country and in the name of human rights, to express in this Assembly our most vigorous protest and repudiation of that terrorist act.
221.	We must ask ourselves whether mankind, represented in this Assembly, has suicidal tendencies. A well- known military leader of the United States, Douglas MacArthur, once said that, in the final analysis, the reason for all failures is that one "arrived too late".
222.	May time not work in favour of barbaric acts and may God kindle a ray of common sense and hope in our consciences. That is Paraguay's hope, so that the current session of the General Assembly, guided by the well-known diplomatic experience and personal qualities of its President, Mr. Rudiger von Wechmar, will become a landmark in the difficult task of maintaining international peace and security.



===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
 For reasons of brevity, given the lengthy agenda of the present session of the General Assembly, the delegation of Paraguay will refer only to a few items that call for its immediate attention.
2.	Mr. President, we wish you success in the important functions entrusted to you, and we hope that at the end of your term we will be congratulating you, as we now congratulate Mr. Rudiger von Wechmar for the skill with which he conducted the thirty-fifth session. We also wish to thank the Secretariat and its distinguished and diligent head, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, for the assistance they have rendered to the Organization during the past year.
3.	We welcome the two new States of Vanuatu and Belize on their joining the United Nations, and we present our best wishes to them for the prosperity and wellbeing of their respective peoples.
4.	Peace, the raison d'etre and supreme purpose of the 1945 Charter, is a source of continuous concern for us, dominating our meetings and constantly challenging the ingenuity of our creative capacities.
5.	It is natural that it should be thus, for, without exception, we are all here to speak of peace: to praise it, to call for it, and to defend it. All of us, every one, are unswerving protagonists in this common effort, and all conventionalism vanishes before that inevitable equality. We all have the right to express our opinions on the state of the world, where peace is concerned.

6.	In this important field, the world is reeling from one shock after another. It is true that war, terror and crime cast shadows on our hopes, threaten them and even annihilate them. We need only go over the geography of our planet in order to find that every day violence reigns. We raise our voice here to denounce it, as in the case of Afghanistan, which has been trampled underfoot by the invasion of Soviet troops, or that of Kampuchea, which has been militarily occupied by Vietnamese forces. The Middle East and various regions of Africa are also hotbeds of tension jeopardizing world peace.
7.	It is because every effort must be made to preserve peace that my delegation favors a proposal made by President Chun of the Republic of Korea aimed at bringing about a resumption of talks, at the highest level, with the People's Democratic Republic of Korea with a view to reaching an honorable solution that would ensure a peaceful future for the peninsula in which, in the not too distant past, the United Nations made such great efforts. The Koreans themselves must, in an independent and peaceful manner, resolve the question of Korea which for 36 years has been divided through direct negotiations between the North and the South of the peninsula. Accordingly, it would be most desirable for the Secretary General to continue the efforts that began in 1979.
8.	The Americas are also feeling the scourge of violence. For more than two years the Republic of El Salvador has been prey to the ravages of a war of extermination, which is being encouraged by sinister designs of political domination. In keeping with its tradition of complete respect for the sovereignty of others, Paraguay rejects any attempt at bringing El Salvador under a power other than one that is freely and democratically chosen by the Salvadorian people themselves.
9.	Accordingly, because my country has consistently defended the principle of non-intervention and the Assembly will recall the case of Nicaragua, which in 1979 was notable for Paraguay's single and solitary vote we repudiate any attempt at foreign interference in that tormented sister Republic. It is a pleasure and a source of pride for me to say that the international position of my country in this regard has never wavered nor shifted one iota. We are faithful, loyal and convinced performers of our international commitments and the governing principles maintaining the dignity of nations.
10.	My country has understandably taken an interest in everything which has to do with the law of the sea since the start of the conferences on that issue almost a quarter of a century ago. We are a country without a coastline, but our situation as a landlocked country is a challenge which we must meet with dauntless will. We must overcome the obstacles that limit our access to the sea and seek other benefits from it; thus, protected by the future convention, my country will at the appropriate time request the legitimate advantages to which it is entitled.

11.	Our position as a landlocked country has for a long time adversely affected the development of our country, which today, fortunately thanks to the patriotic and extraordinary administration of the President of the Republic of Paraguay, General of the Army Alfredo Stroessner, and to the persevering efforts of my compatriots can point to highly significant indexes within the group of the countries of the American continent which accurately reflect the economic reality in Paraguay.
12.	An annual growth rate of 10.4 per cent, a rate of inflation lower than 16 per cent, a favorable balance of payments for 10 years, per capita income above $1,000, an exchange rate between the guarani and the dollar which has remained practically unchanged for 20 years, a national budget without deficit and a considerable increase in exports all are eloquent data which we in Paraguay can show today
13.	As has been so rightly stated by President Stroessner in his message last 1 April to the National Congress:
... our powerful reality is the fruit of peace, which we have been able to affirm and which we are willing to defend with all our energy, without ever giving up in the struggle against factors which oppose our national greatness. We have replaced the opprobrious regime of anarchy by freedom with order. We are not interested in any democracy which means the weakness of free institutions and sterile demagoguery, For us, democracy represents the rule of the popular will within a framework of law. For us, freedom means the reconciliation of all rights with a view to the common good."
14.	The Government of President Stroessner has a foreign policy based on full respect far the norms of international coexistence and the promotion of ties of solidarity with those countries which share the same ideals of independence, democracy and freedom.

15.	Paraguay has throughout its history maintained a well-defined American position, which in the course of this century has led it to take an active part in all political and economic organizations which have been established in the continent and to which we naturally belong by reason of geography or trade links.
16.	By reason of the same principles of solidarity and integration, Paraguay participates in the River Plata Basin System, in order to speed up the economic and social development of one of the potentially most wealthy regions in Latin America. With regard to specific achievements, my country has begun construction of two major hydroelectric plants on the Parana River one in conjunction with Brazil, which will have an installed capacity of 12,6 million kilowatts and the other with Argentina, with an installed capacity of 4.2 million kilowatts. These major sources of energy open up tremendous possibilities for the River Plata basin and will be true monuments to the fruitful and creative peace in which many million people will live. This is our significant contribution to the wellbeing and progress of mankind.
17.	I cannot, nor should I, end this brief statement without replying to the injudicious speech one more example of the truculent Castrist verbal diarrhea to which we are accustomed made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba yesterday [12th meeting].
18.	The policy of open criminal interference in the internal affairs of other States practiced by Fidel Castro, a kindred satellite of a superPower, was experienced by Paraguay in 1959 and in 1960 when international brigands who entered our country across the long border with Argentina were found to be in possession of weapons and equipment belonging to the Cuban army. That attempted invasion, the sinister design of which was to bring communism to my country, was severely repulsed by the Paraguayan people themselves taking up arms and by the regular army of the nation. Paraguay severed diplomatic and consular relations with Cuba in 1960 and ever since then has maintained unchanged its position of repudiation of Fidel Castro's bloody tyranny. My country never compromised by granting that regime concessions which proved fatal for other nations of the Americas. That is why we are not surprised or frightened by the bullying attitude of the arrogant Minister,


===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
On behalf of the delegation of Paraguay I should like to congratulate 
Mr. Hollai on his election to conduct the proceedings of the General 
Assembly, an honor that has been conferred upon him because of his 
personal integrity and his well recognized diplomatic experience.
We extend to the Secretary General our best wishes for success in the 
important work before him. We do so not only because of the esteem in 
which we hold him but also because as South Americans we feel 
gratified at his election. We are pleased to see that every day he 
gives clear proof of his skills and his unquestionable dedication to 
his work, as evidenced by his report on the work of the Organization, 
a report that concisely sets forth many creative suggestions at a 
time when, though there has been hesitant progress, efforts are being 
made to achieve survival in peace and dignity.
My delegation fully shares the deep anxiety of the Secretary General, 
who has urgently appealed to us for common sense and effective 
action. We note his hopes and offer him Paraguay's cooperation in his 
noble efforts to implement the Organization's mandate under the 
Charter to avoid the untold sorrow that results from war, to reaffirm 
faith in fundamental human rights and to establish conditions 
conducive to the general progress of all our peoples in a universal 
atmosphere of coexistence based on mutual respect, justice and 
freedom.
Perhaps more than any other year in the life of the Organization, the 
past year has been characterized by continued violence in different 
parts of the world. As the Secretary General has pointed out, we are 
apt to forget with suicidal single mindedness the six years of global 
agony and destruction that preceded the San Francisco Conference, and 
it is true that thus far we have not learned to operate sensibly the 
system of collective security that is the only instrument available 
to us to preserve our generation and succeeding generations from 
total disaster. We are haunted by far justified and healthy fear that 
alerts us and prompts us to understand the dangers that stalk us. 
With all the defects inherent in human endeavor, the Charter remains 
the only valid instrument Car the finding of solutions which, though 
provisional, can defuse the critical situation that confronts us. The 
different conferences on disarmament that have taken place since the 
days of the frustrated League of Nations have not thus far offered 
the Rope of a promising course of action. The so called major Powers 
and those that try to be major Powers bear the tremendous 
responsibility of giving the world an example of wisdom and of real 
and effective respect for life, the most important human right. 
Statements on the principle of the sovereign equality of States are 
meaningless if the destiny of mankind is linked to the interests of 
those who wield atomic power, with all its horrors. Equally 
meaningless are the intentions of promoting the overall well being of 
peoples if vast sums are earmarked to annihilate them, in a vicious 
circle of dissuasion which can last only so long. Moreover, the 
terrorism which is exercised in the internal sphere and exported 
equally criminally beyond their own borders by some Governments is an 
eloquent expression of a state of madness which can be compared only 
to the threat of an atomic holocaust. In spite of the inexplicable 
difficulties involved in the consideration of this topic in the Sixth 
Committee, my delegation would ask that the study of draft 
international instruments aimed at removing the apocalyptic scourge 
of terrorism, such as, for example, the draft Code of Offences 
Against the Peace and Security of Mankind and a draft international 
convention against the recruitment, use, financing and training of 
mercenaries be accelerated. Those and other legal instruments with 
binding force at the international level should, together with The 
Hague, Montreal and Tokyo Conventions, which my country has already 
signed, provide a body of provisions which can counteract that type 
of crime.
A/37/PV.23
Paraguay has heroic experience of wars. My country has itself 
suffered not only the incalculable loss of life of its sons and 
daughters in devastating numbers but also the hardships of foreign 
military occupation and the mutilation of its territorial heritage. 
Thus we repudiate and forcefully condemn the Soviet Union's 
subjugation of the sovereignty of Afghanistan, a country which is 
steadfastly struggling to defend its independence; we repudiate with 
equal force Viet Nam's intervention in Kampuchea; and we cannot fail 
to condemn the brutal genocide carried out against defenseless 
communities in Lebanon. All these and similar events of transitory 
notoriety seem to have the incredible purpose of lulling our 
consciences and anaesthetizing our sensitivities. Faced with this 
negative picture, which causes pessimism, my country welcomes the 
certain positive signs of understanding which have emerged in the 
international political sphere. We express the fervent hope for 
success in the efforts made by the Republic of Korea to bring about 
the unification of the peninsula through direct negotiations with the 
People's Democratic Republic of Korea, and we trust that, under the 
competent guidance of the Secretary General, the efforts which began 
in 1979 will continue. Paraguay has for more than a quarter of a 
century now enjoyed a climate of political, social and economic 
stability based on a system of sound democracy, administered with 
constant dedication to the higher interests of the Republic. In spite 
of the serious general deterioration which has dangerously affected 
the economic and financial situation of the world, my country 
maintains the conditions which make it possible for us to benefit 
from one of the highest growth rates on the continent, a very sound 
external public indebtedness record, a balanced administrative budget 
and a very low level of unemployment which is not in any way a social 
problem. None the less we are fully aware of the need and the 
obligation of the developing counties to remedy, through common 
action, the unacceptable shortcomings of an economic structure which 
affects the prices of our commodities, stimulates disorder in the 
monetary system and stultifies international trade. We have faith in 
the creative capacity of our nation. As far as we Paraguayans are 
concerned President Stroessner stated, at the beginning of his 
outstanding work of leadership that the people is the source of the 
spirit that has made Paraguay's Homeric record possible in the 
history of the nations of the world. The people is the substance that 
nourishes us, that gives us strength to react the summit without fail 
and to raise our flag as a lofty, lasting symbol of our national 
grandeur. My Government, together with those of other nations of the 
Americas, signed a request for the inclusion in the agenda for debate 
at the present session of the General Assembly of an item on the 
question of the Malvinas Islands. In doing so, Paraguay was merely 
endorsing the attitude it had already adopted at the two special 
sessions of the Assembly of the Organization of American States in 
May and June of this year in order to consider the armed conflict 
which broke out in the South Atlantic. Aware of the extreme 
seriousness of the military confrontation, which was then approaching 
our continent, my country joined hi the united action of the nations 
of the Americas to try to avoid the crisis, even though the situation 
resulting from the events that had taken place and from the ongoing 
negotiations aimed at reaching agreement, did not offer much hope of 
a negotiated solution. Now, in the same spirit of friendship towards 
the parties to the armed conflict over the Malvinas and with the same 
sense of responsibility regarding our duties towards the 
international community, the delegation of Paraguay is sponsoring, 
together with other nations of the Americas, a draft resolution to be 
submitted at this session of the General Assembly, with a view to 
achieving a just and honorable solution to the conflict between 
Argentina and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland. It is our fervent hope that the disputes over territorial 
delimitations between Argentina and Chile, Ecuador and Peru and 
Guyana and Venezuela will be resolved in a dignified and intelligent 
way. Throughout the difficult process of institutional consolidation, 
the nations of the Americas without exception found it difficult to 
delimit their respective territories. These difficulties stemmed 
mainly from the confusing administrative legacy received from the 
Spanish Crown in the political sphere in which the colonial Power 
exercised its authority. This is the reason for the armed conflicts 
that have taken place among nations in our continent to resolve their 
disputes. Paraguay, for example, has throughout its history as a 
colonial political entity seen the shrinking of a territory which 
originally included what is now the vast region of the Rio de la 
Plata in addition to a strip of land 200 leagues in extent on the 
Pacific Ocean. Hence, in the sixteenth century my homeland was called 
the Vast Province of the Indies and the ocean adjacent to the present 
coast of Uruguay and Argentina was in the seventeenth century called 
the Paraguayan Sea. I mention this merely to recall that the process 
of delimiting our American republics has in every case been the 
result of an accumulation of circumstances, fortunate or otherwise, 
which, in the final analysis, have been accepted as the rule of 
history, In the light of this, it is difficult for us to imagine that 
a breakdown in diplomatic negotiations aimed at resolving territorial 
conflicts between our countries should give way to the theory of 
Clausewitz and that there should be recourse to armed force. My 
delegation expresses the very fervent hope that the aforementioned 
territorial disputes will be resolved in a strong Americanist spirit, 
which would do honor to the sincere and irreversible desire to build 
together an effective system guaranteeing the future and the well 
being of our peoples. Since I have just recalled the process of 
delimiting the borders of our American countries, it is relevant to 
point out that Paraguay has been reduced to a landlocked country and 
in this respect has every right to lay a claim to the legitimate 
means provided by the international community to countries that are 
deprived of a coastline. There are agreements between my country and 
neighboring countries aimed at facilitating river and road 
transportation for access to the sea. At the present time, the 
Government of Paraguay is considering, on the basis of an already 
developed project, the construction of the facilities needed to join 
its national railway to that of Brazil, making available to us 
another important channel of access to the ocean.
Precisely because it is a land locked country, Paraguay has expressed 
its great interest in overcoming the limitations that stem from that 
condition. Thus, my country participated actively in the various 
conferences on the law of the sea held since 1958 and in the drafting 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of Sea, which will be 
open to signature countries in Jamaica next December. I should like 
to affirm my country's interest in obtaining through that Convention 
all the facilities for land locked countries provided for therein. In 
addition, situated as it is by geography in the Plata basin, my 
country is conducting a policy of genuine regional integration in 
order to exploit Ally the natural resources that we share with 
Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil and Uruguay. I am pleased to announce to 
the Assembly that, because of this, on 5 November 1982, at the border 
of our countries, the President of Paraguay, General Alfredo 
Stroessner and the President of the Federative Republic of Brazil, 
General Joao Baptista de Oliveira Figueiredo, will meet for the 
formal development of the Itaipu hydroelectric plant, the largest 
hydroelectric complex in the world, which will have an installed 
capacity of 12,600 megawatts and will produce approximately 75 
billion kilowatt hours a year. I wished to conclude my statement with 
an affirmation of what peoples can do when they are inspired by genuine 
cooperation and understanding. President Stroessner has said: Peace 
is the basis of all that makes it possible for us to progress with a 
calm vision of the future; this is reason enough to defend it from 
those who make of war an instrument of domination and of democracy a 
pretext for extinguishing freedom. For the sister nations of America 
and all the nations of our world we hope for days of constructive 
peace. We hope that the pain that has affected the fraternal 
countries of our continent will come to an end. We hope that the 
Americas will be a powerful and respected force in the international 
sphere, with a sense of life that does honor to the ideal of 
independence and freedom, a flame kindled by Jose Gaspar Rodriguez de 
Francia and Francisco Solano Lopez, Bolivar, Marti, Juarez, Jose 
Bonifacio, San Martin and so many other eminent individuals who gave 
our nations a lasting example of human dignity.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿238.	Mr. President, my first words will
be to express, on behalf of the delegation of Paraguay, the great pleasure with which we learned of the election of the Vice President of the Republic of Panama, Mr. Jorge Illueca, to preside over this session of the Assembly, which is undoubtedly the most important world forum, the proceedings of which will be so positively marked by the intelligent leadership which we are entitled to expect from his distinguished talents.
239.	The problems of the world are complex and a matter of concern, which makes the work of this forum a very difficult undertaking, if we are to keep the dialogue going and stimulate interest in solutions which will not only be just but will also strengthen confidence in the Organization and warrant the hopes and expectations of the peoples. The President has the most eminent and distinguished qualifications and comes from a noble background and we have every hope that his wise conduct of the proceedings will ensure the success of this thirty- eighth session.
240.	Thirty-eight years have elapsed since the San Francisco Conference and the world has not yet rid itself of problems, nor could it have been expected to, because, given the human condition, that would be Utopian. Nevertheless, we have to recognize that a solid moral scaffolding has been erected and that violations, negative facts, regressive conduct and opposition to the norms for coexistence within the global community have not gone unnoticed. They give rise to reactions, arouse criticism and condemnation, or generate solidarity, depending on the situation. As a result, there has been a definition and a deepening of a universal conscience in the future of which we must believe in order to increase our efforts on its behalf and to prepare the advent of a more coherent future, better structured around the ideals of justice, liberty, equal opportunity for all nations and an open spirit so that together we can reduce material inequality within the framework of co-operation and integration.
241.	One source of tension follows another, problems multiply and become more complicated, danger assures alarming proportions threatening to spark unforeseeable conflagrations. However, above this is the desire for peace and the determination not to slacken the efforts to reach agreements which can solve problems or conflicts with the least sacrifice. This favourable attitude towards peaceful understandings is confirmed even in a negative sense when these problems or conflicts drag on endlessly but are kept at controllable levels, awaiting an opportune moment to be rooted out. It is a reality worth studying because no situation can last indefinitely in this way, since the patience to hope and trust can be rewarded by cruel disappointment and frustration, which lead to desperate remedies.
242.	In the 38 years of the Organization's existence there have been many local conflicts which have disturbed an era which, in global terms, may be defined as one of peace and development, in spite of discrepancies and contradictions which have not always been merely anecdotal or superficial. Therefore, we must recognize that it is necessary to do much more to overcome local and regional conflicts, and at the same time promote co-operation, so that by multiplying our efforts, development in peace will become an encouraging characteristic of countries and regions, particularly those which need to do so much more to raise themselves to a decent level within the world community. In this process, which should not be delayed —and this will not be the first time this has been said— industrialized countries, particularly the super-Powers, which together form a privileged minority in the world family of nations, bear particular responsibilities, ranging from creating a climate of tranquillity and confidence to assistance and co-operation, to make up for inadequacies and shortcomings and to allow the developing world, which embraces so many nations in different continents, to embark on its liberation from misery, ignorance, disease, the daily grind of subsistence living, its economic dependence on primary commodities, so that they can put into effect their plans for integrated modernization with greater ease and with more economic support.
243.	With respect to Paraguay, we are not expressing ideas of frustration or dissatisfaction. Quite the contrary; in my country the process of economic and social development has been proceeding satisfactorily for several decades, so that if we must now face negative changes in the world situation, at least our country does not feel its paralyzing effects, because the momentum gained and the changes we have achieved have placed the country in a better position to face up to challenges. This is the essential merit of the Government of General Alfredo Stroessner, whose development policy has aroused the interest and participation of the citizenry, with the side effect of affirming peace and consolidating political stability. In this atmosphere governmental action and private initiative have worked in greater harmony and become more effective, leading to a better utilization of our limited resources. This reality, which is confirmed by facts and by the general atmosphere of the country— secure and confident, without ups and downs—is what has lent our situation credibility and attracted international co-operation, to which we attribute great importance. Indeed, we should very much like that co-operation to continue.
244.	But basically—and this too must be recognized— there has been a will to act and a decision to begin. That has won the sympathy and respect of the organizations of co-operation and development financing, both at the world and at the regional level. Economic growth in Paraguay has been the highest in Latin America, achieving a rate of 5.81 per cent between 1980 and 1982, but it has now come up against the world economic crisis. However, if the necessary assistance is still forthcoming, and with additional support from the development of our own economy, the Republic of Paraguay hopes to measure up $o its task and stand the test without postponing its expectations of a new stage of modernization of its 
infrastructure, with an increase in cattle production, the initial achievements of industrial development, new prospects of regional integration in the Southern Cone and the availability of abundant electrical energy from the binational hydroelectric station at Itaipu, being built with Brazil, whose first generators will go into operation next year. We know that even with these certain factors things will not be easy, but we are talking about positive achievements of permanent value, and it is our conviction that circumstances will change for the better throughout the world, which will mean for my own country the opening up of yet another stage, in better conditions and with better prospects.
245.	This capacity for peace, this dedication to development in a climate of political normalcy, free from the corrosive harassment of extremist violence and political and social disruption, make it possible for the Republic of Paraguay  to this body with full confidence to proclaim in this Organization and our certainty that v. Ah time, events and experiences will strengthen the peaceful instruments of its action, without which our illusive security would have been even more problematical; indeed it might have succumbed to the effects of some perfidious crisis.
246.	As a world Organization, it is becoming increasingly representative of the whole world and the number of Member States is constantly growing. Now we welcome the admission of a newly independent State, which in this way has quite rightly won a seat among equals in the Organization and the Assembly. I am referring to Saint Christopher and Nevis, to which we extend our best and warmest wishes, for two reasons: because a star has now been added to the constellation of the United Nations and because at the same time the family of American nations has been extended and strengthened.
247.	However, storm clouds are gathering and becoming ever more ominous. I am speaking about the arms race, which with modem technological advances can only give rise to very serious and well-justified fears. There is the possibility—which is reason for some hope although it has not been explicitly corroborated—that the two super-Powers desire to limit their nuclear weapons. That, of course, would bring relief to the rest of the world. For this is the reality and this is the place to say it, in the midst of the General Assembly: the reign of atomic science and its mind-chilling projections in the sphere of war and destruction are exclusive to the two super-Powers. A very small number of industrialized nations do have a share in this, but beyond that limited circle, all the other nations and the seething mass of humanity inhabiting them do not have enough resources to ensure their own survival if there were the nuclear catastrophe that we so wish to avoid.
248.	The arms race of some developing countries is equally senseless. Their programmes in this field do not seem to be inspired by purely defensive considerations. Conventional armaments—but armaments that are highly sophisticated—are piling up in the arsenals of countries whose primary needs are obviously in other areas. Although we do not wish to belittle the security and sovereignty of nations, which deserve great respect and the closet attention, we cannot possibly disregard the fact that in speculating with these values and trying to reach for priorities that are out of step with reality, countries are sacrificing to the acquisition of weapons which they cannot use efficiently, or even keep in good condition, the elementary needs of their peoples: the elimination of poverty, which is the first step for the mobilization of the collective conscience in pursuit of economic and social development.
249.	Whatever the level of armament, once it becomes the subject of an uncontrolled or frenzied or over- provocative arms race, it can only serve—as my delegation maintained on another occasion—to awaken suspicion, fear and sterile rivalry among nations. As was quite rightly said at that time, the mere accumulation of arms and competition between States for the acquisition of arms are already the beginning of war-mongering, which could lead us to painful experiences.
250.	The Republic of Paraguay, whose history contains bloody proof of the effects of two international wars, has a people that, while it does not fear war, loves peace and is incapable of bearing sterile grudges. Its constitutional Government, headed by a far-sighted soldier-statesman, General Alfredo Stroessner, interpreting these essential elements of the Paraguayan national spirit, has laid stress, in his leadership, on development, on the physical integration of the territory, on agrarian reform, on increasing cattle production and on democratic participation by the people in determining the direction of the country's policy. He has done this in an awareness that this is the best bulwark for peace, the first element in the development of nations—development being also understood as the strengthening of its international identity and the augmentation of its capabilities of winning international respect and consideration.
251.	With a legitimate constitution, the fruit of the free deliberation of all the political parties in the 1967 national constituent assembly; with a republican, democratic and representative Government, which periodically goes to the people so that they can exercise their sovereign right regarding the make-up and the establishment of a Government with a plurality of options and votes; and with all the momentum gained from a stage of fruitful coexistence, the Republic of Paraguay has in recent years achieved unprecedented development, through an effort in which there has been a significant aggregation of the initiatives and actions of the Government, the direct participation of the people in the most varied forms of co-operation, and civic action by the armed forces in the work of establishing the infrastructure, such as bridges, roads, communications networks, in campaigns for health and literacy and the settling of peasant families in regions recently included in development plans or in previously empty lands. Integration of the Gran Chaco of Paraguay, in the implementation of its development programmes, in support for new settlements for the formation of stable populations and cattle-raising homesteads, the civic action of the armed forces is of vital importance. We would highlight the specific participation of the navy along the banks of the River Paraguay, of the army in the various activities of our vast interior, and of the air force in anticipation of roads and telephone and even telegraph facilities to deal with the liaison and communications requirements of the new development centers.
252.	As permanent evidence of its position in the international community Paraguay included in its constitution of 1967 article 9, which provides that:
 The Republic recognizes the principles of international law; it condemns wars of aggression or of conquest and any form of colonialism or imperialism; it accepts the pacific settlement of international disputes by juridical means; and it proclaims its respect for human rights and the sovereignty of people. It hopes to live in peace with all nations and to maintain friendly cultural and trade relations with them on the basis of juridical equality, of non-intervention in internal affairs, and of the self-determination of peoples.  

253.	In keeping with that position, my delegation would like to state that Paraguay supports all efforts to smooth the rough places and facilitate contacts so that parties in an international dispute can deal with it on a bilateral basis, if possible, since that is the most direct and effective way, or so that resort may be had to multilateral action, which can never be an obstacle to direct settlement but, on the contrary, may facilitate it, because of the presence of a friendly and conciliating influence.
254.	In this sense it is only fair to emphasize the diligence, persistence and firmness with which the Secretariat, especially the Secretary-General, the illustrious Peruvian Mr. Javier P4rez de Cuellar, has promoted and stimulated all initiatives to bring the most difficult problems to the negotiating table and to recommend peaceful solutions through organs of the United Nations or with the good offices of a group of nations or through direct contacts with the object of narrowing differences. This is a task which is never easy and often seems impossible, but the Secretary-General has an indefatigable will in the interest of universal peace and concord. The delegation of my country wishes to express its gratitude for this and to urge the Secretary-General to continue placing his great talents and dedication at the service of the United Nations for the sake of a better and more just world.
255.	However, no matter how much faith and optimism there may be in projecting against a calm background the overwhelming responsibility of the United Nations and the delicacy and complexity of its functions, it is necessary to highlight the insistence with which new problems present themselves, the persistence of others in spite of considerable efforts to solve them and the complications which can so easily cause conflicts, although limited in their origins and apparently easy to settle, to become very thorny and dangerous.
25f. By way of illustration, to give evidence of the interest with which the Republic of Paraguay views the world's problems, my delegation would like to refer to certain questions which compelled it to take a stand in delicate, serious but always important circumstances.
256.	I refer first to the question of the Malvinas, over which the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland waged, in the icy land of the archipelago bearing that name and in southern waters, a brief but bloody war. The question was broadly debated, first in the Security Council and then at the thirty-seventh session.
257.	The Republic of Paraguay took part in the debate on the item in both organs of the United Nations. Nothing could better illustrate the position of my country than the statement made by Mr. Luis Gonzalez Arias at the thirty-seventh session:
 The long pacifist tradition of my country, as well as our feeling of solidarity with friendly nations, impelled my delegation to join those that requested the inclusion in the agenda of the item entitled 'Question of the Malvinas Islands', as well as to co-sponsor draft resolution 
He continued, referring to Paraguay:
 As a founding Member of the United Nations, and respectful as we are of the principles and purposes set forth in the Charter, we feel the responsibility and the duty to participate in the debate on this item in order to contribute to the search for a peaceful solution . . . 
The basis for voting followed:
 As is well known, the United Nations began its consideration of this item in 1965, during the twentieth session of the General Assembly, for the purpose of resolving in a peaceful manner the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas Islands between the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom, as was convincingly reflected in the terms in which General Assembly resolution 2065 (XX) was drafted.
 The invocation in certain paragraphs of resolution 2065 (XX) of the principles contained in resolution 1514 (XV), which is recognized to be the basic resolution on decolonization, clearly established that the principle of self-determination was not applicable in the dispute over the Malvinas Islands because those Islands are an occupied territory and thus the principle of territorial integrity is the overriding factor, although provisions must of course be made for protecting the interests of the British population inhabiting the Islands.
 The draft resolution before us today, submitted by 20 Latin American countries, contains almost the same arguments and terms that were used in resolution 2065 (XX). The draft resolution is an attempt to maintain the balance between the interests of both parties and to initiate negotiations under the good offices of the Secretary-General for the purpose of finding a peaceful solution to a difficult situation that has already existed for a century and a half. It does not seek to impose solutions contrary to the principles of the Charter, and it affords broad discretion for the negotiation of all relevant aspects of the question, as envisaged ever since the beginning of this initiative in 1965.  
Examining the nature of the problem, my delegation, with regard to its own vote, went on to explain:
 There can be no doubt that we are dealing not with a problem of self-determination, but rather with a dispute of a territorial nature between two States, and as proof of that statement, we have the adoption by a very large majority of resolutions 3160 (XXVIII) and 31/49.
 The historic facts of the possession of the Malvinas are known to all, and I shall not go into a detailed analysis of them, although they are relevant in the overall context of the negotiations. 
This was pointed out by Mr. Gonzalez Arias in formulating this conclusion:
 There can be no attempt now to change the basis on which the negotiations have gone on from the beginning, nor can we agree that time can compensate for the initial inadequacies of one party's title. My country has never recognized the use of force or military occupation as a means of acquiring territory. Nor can the passage of time change the illegitimate nature of such an act. To accept such acts would be to perpetuate colonial situations, and in so doing we would be denying the true meaning of resolution 1514 (XV), the scope and interpretation of which, I must repeat, have been fully clarified by United Nations practice, not only in the case of the Malvinas, but in other similar cases.
 We sincerely believe that the negotiations can yield positive solutions. We believe in the maturity of the two countries involved in this conflict. The bitter lesson of the military confrontation in the South Atlantic should serve to make it understood once and for all 
that the use of force cannot and with not lead to just or final solutions.  [72?Mf., /wrap. g/M? 723.]
258.	The Republic of Paraguay stands by the resolution for which it voted, which consisted of three points. First, it was requested that the Governments of Argentina and the United Kingdom resume negotiations in order to find as soon as possible a peaceful solution to the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas Islands. Secondly, the Secretary-General was asked, on the basis of the resolution, to undertake a renewed mission of good offices to assist the parties to find the solution called for in paragraph 1 and to take the necessary measures to that end. Thirdly, the Secretary-General was asked to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session on the progress made in the implementation of the resolution.
259.	I turn to the reunification of the two Koreas. By the very nature of this problem, which fundamentally affects the Korean nation, a single nation in the historic sense, it may be asserted that a successful, lasting solution can be found only through direct negotiations between the authorities of South Korea and North Korea, without outside interference. The Republic of Korea has taken this position officially and has repeatedly expressed its readiness for dialogue, so the solution should be sought through negotiations exclusively between Koreans. We regard as positive the response of the international community to this position, which has the merit of a conciliatory precedent for dialogue, but we must realize that the question has not been on the General Assembly's agenda for the past seven years. Whatever may have been the obstacles—and here we see a lack of interest by one of the parties—the problem should be dealt with in a way that its importance merits, and a solution should continue to be sought.
260.	From the human point of view we must bear in mind the sufferings of millions of Koreans who were separated from their families when the two Koreas were divided. It has been estimated that 10 million people are in this situation, which has not changed. The last initiative to alleviate the suffering of separated Korean families dates back a decade, to the conference of the Red Cross of South Korea and the Red Cross of North Korea. Begun in 1972, its proceedings were suspended in 1973, and since then there has been no progress towards putting an end to this distressing problem, whose major difficulty lies in the very fact of the division of Korea into two ideologically antagonistic States and the differences in their situation in the international community.
261.	For the sake of peace and of human rights, which embrace the Korean nation over and above divisions, the delegation of Paraguay believes that we should encourage the Secretary-General's initiative in his noble mission of good offices to promote dialogue between the two Koreas. This task has its antecedents in his visit to North Korea on 2 and 3 May 1979 and to the Republic of Korea from 4 to 6 May.
262.	Because of the persistence of the problem and the obstacles raised by other factors, a State with 40 million inhabitants and a volume of trade of $50 billion remains outside the United Nations, despite participating as a full member in 55 international organizations, including 14 specialized agencies of the world Organization. This situation, which is logically indefensible, is part of the problem, to which a comprehensive solution is the most desirable, since it would resolve everything. But the best way to bring this about, free from outside interests, can only be direct communication between Seoul and Pyongyang, with the good offices of the Secretary-General.
263.	The shooting down of a South Korean airliner is an event which profoundly moved the world. It was just one more link this year in the chain of dramatic events which have marked the life of the Korean people for years, sorely afflicting the Republic of Korea in particular.
264.	The shooting down by Soviet Air Force aircraft of the Korean Air Lines jumbo jet on a routine flight between New York and Seoul is still the subject of hot debate and categorical denials. From its absolute denial of any knowledge of or participation in the incident, the Soviet Union went to the other extreme of acknowledging the incident. At the Madrid follow-up meeting of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, the Soviet Foreign Minister stated that whoever violated the frontiers of the Soviet Union knew what to expect. The peremptory tone of that statement makes one think of a deliberate, horrifying act. But he went further with regard to this particular case, saying that the aircraft that committed the incursion did not obey orders to fly towards a Soviet airport, but tried to escape, and the Soviet interceptor carried out the orders from the higher command to put an end to the flight. Drawing from an indefensible situation general ethical and political principles, which require a different base to have any validity, the Soviet Foreign Minister threatened that if anyone raised his hand against the Soviet Union's spiritual, social and civic values, if there was any premeditated attempt to exacerbate international tension, such actions would receive he response they deserved. That is to put things in the passive, and no one summed up the thoughts prompted by the statements of the Soviet Foreign Minister better than the United States Secretary of State, George Shultz, who said that the Soviet Union's concept of defensive methods made one think that such acts could be repeated. He added, in a most impressive comment, that there were many ways of defending Soviet territory, but they must be compatible with human rights.
265.	Given the high level of technology achieved by the Soviet Union, it is inexplicable and unbelievable that it was unable to make a complete and correct identification of the South Korean commercial airliner in order to coordinate it with the schedule of its normal flights and with the number of passengers it normally carries. These data are not secret, but information which is routinely available.
266.	These circumstances make the various explanations provided unlikely and show the true value of the Soviet Foreign Minister's words. In the version which admits that the shooting down of the jumbo jet and the resulting death of 269 passengers of various nationalities were a  mistake , it was maintained that the Soviet pilots took the aircraft for a reconnaissance aircraft. According to Viktor Linnik, a counselor in the department of international information of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, in a statement published by the Madrid press,  They never thought it was a civilian aircraft. If they had known, the decision would have been quite different. I am absolutely certain of that.  That is not what the Soviet Foreign Minister says, nor is it what logic dictates, considering the sophisticated means of aerial and remote sensing at the disposal of a super-Power such as the Soviet Union.
267.	As soon as he learned of this incredible and terrible event, the President of the Republic of Paraguay, General Alfredo Stroessner, sent the following message to the Secretary-General:
 The people and Government of Paraguay join with me in rejecting and vigorously condemning the barbarous crime perpetrated against the peace-loving, free Republic of South Korea by the Soviet air force. We denounce before the highest world body, of which 

Your Excellency is Secretary-General, this new, infamous act of aggression against mankind. We ask you, Sir, to make public our denunciation and condemnation of the unpunished murder of the nearly 300 innocent passengers who were travelling on board the Korean Air Lines Boeing 747. 
268.	At the same time, President Stroessner sent a message to the President of the United States, Ronald Reagan, which read as follows:
 Communist barbarism has claimed further innocent victims, among them a member of the Congress of your nation, Mr. Larry McDonald, who was lost in the destruction of the South Korean KAL Boeing 747 passenger aircraft at the hands of the Russian air force. In the face of this heinous and unprecedented crime against humanity by the Soviet Union, and of the grief suffered by your people and your friendly country, I express, on behalf of the Paraguayan people and its Government, over which I preside, our most vigorous condemnation and rejection of this brutal act, as evidence in this tragic circumstance of our sympathy and solidarity with Your Excellency and with the noble American people. 
269.	A third message was sent by President Stroessner to his South Korean counterpart, M:. Chun Doo-Hwan. That message stated:
 The savage crime committed by Soviet communism, of which mankind itself was the victim, has filled the Paraguayan people with horror. In the name of that people and of the Government of which I am President, and on my own behalf, I wish to convey to you our solidarity and sincere condolences. We vigorously reject this new act of barbarism committed by Russian terrorism, and we condemn the murderous aggression which sacrificed so many innocent lives through the destruction of the peaceful commercial Boeing 747 aircraft of Korean Air Lines. 
270.	There is no need to make any further explanation of the position of Paraguay with regard to this horrifying incident, which is incomprehensible from any standpoint.
271.	With regard to Kampuchea, since Viet Nam invaded that country in 1978 very little progress has been achieved, either internally or militarily, towards the true liberation of that country.
272.	Since 1979, when the question was first considered by the General Assembly, at its thirty-fourth session, the Republic of Paraguay has taken an unswerving position, which may be summed up in the following terms.
273.	First, the current Government in Phnom Penh is illegal, because it was imposed by force by an invading army.
274.	Secondly, while Paraguay never recognized the communist regime of Pol Pot, it is that regime or its successor which is entitled to a seat in the General Assembly because of the simple fact that the Assembly has never revoked its decision to recognize it as the de facto Government.
273. Thirdly, the Republic of Paraguay supports the recommendation of the International Conference on Kampuchea, in which it participated, that a political settlement be reached which should provide, infer for the complete withdrawal of all foreign troops, the neutrality of the country and the holding of free elections under United Nations supervision for the formation of a new Government.
276. Fourthly, the Republic of Paraguay sees as a positive step the formation, in mid-3982, of a tripartite Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea under the presidency of Prince Norodom Sihanouk.
277.	Fifthly, the position of the Republic of Paraguay is consistent with its past record on the question, inasmuch as its delegation participated in the debate on it and was among the sponsors of resolution 37/6, which was adopted by the Assembly by an overwhelming majority.
278.	The Republic of Paraguay attaches to the question of Afghanistan a great political and even historical importance, because it concerns the first clear-cut case of invasion and military occupation by the Soviet Union of a neighbouring country whose tradition, culture, religion and race have very little in common with those of the invading State. The Soviet Union has been unable to show incontrovertibly that it has not violated, at the least, the principles of the self-determination of peoples and of non-interference in their internal affairs, principles which are the very essence of international coexistence and are a facet of the equality of nations in the eyes of the law— thus challenging the fundamental premises of the United Nations.
279.	The position of the Republic of Paraguay on the tragedy of the Afghan nation remains unchanged and may be summed up as follows: first, unreserved condemnation of the Soviet invasion and military occupation of Afghanistan; secondly, support for the demand for the immediate withdrawal of Soviet troops; thirdly, support for the world information programme on the Afghan question, in order to make public opinion more aware of this subjugation aspect of international communism, translated into action in the case of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union itself; fourthly, support for the good offices of the Secretary-General; and fifthly, support for a peaceful solution of the conflict.
280.	With regard to the question of the Middle East, my delegation believes that this conflict, by virtue of its complexity and the many clearly discordant elements which combine to make it more dangerous and explosive, poses a serious threat to world peace. Over the years, this problem has taken a variety of forms, and it is one of the oldest in the history of the United Nations. At its various stages or situations, the Republic of Paraguay has unfailingly contributed its views and its vote, remaining unswervingly true to the principles of the United Nations.
281.	In its present state, the Middle East conflict requires close attention and the utmost wisdom on the part of the Secretary-General in order to prevent the crisis from reaching the point of no return and to keep open the option of negotiations. It is of the greatest importance that the super-Powers too should proceed on these lines, for the sake of world peace and common security.
282.	In any case, with the problem evolving rapidly and in circumstances of highly justified expectations because of the turn taken by the conflict, the Republic of Paraguay wishes to restate on this occasion its support for any solution or solutions proposed that are in keeping with the principles of the United Nations, so that the peoples and nations concerned in this explosive affair can see their aspirations met, in keeping with the justice of their demands, so that international law can find new points of support for its valid and practical implementation in a world which so urgently needs to be kept safe from any bellicose inclination which could throw it into the abyss of destruction.
283.	There are many other situations. Some are as important as that in the Middle East, but for the sake of brevity my delegation will confine itself to reaffirming the unchanging position of the Republic of Paraguay in the defense of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We shall accordingly remain unswervingly loyal to the resolutions of the Organization and the efforts of 
the Secretary-General in the constant search for peaceful solutions which unite and strengthen, without leaving ill effects.
284.	I have already anticipated certain references to disarmament, but my delegation wishes to highlight certain further aspects, to make some comments and to confirm its position on the problem of arms and its ideal remedy, which is disarmament.
285.	First, it should be borne in mind that the Republic of Paraguay was a sponsor of General Assembly resolution 37/71, concerning Additional Protocol I of the Treaty of Tlatelolco to both of which my country is a party. That resolution contained an appeal to the nuclear Powers which have not yet done so to ratify Additional Protocol I. This year, consistent with its unchanging position, Paraguay was among the countries which called for the inclusion of a new item on the agenda for this session on the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
286.	The arms race, on which my delegation has already taken a stand, has reached outrageous proportions in the last decades. It has been stated that last year military expenditures exceeded the sum of $800 billion; we can imagine what a dizzying peak could have been reached were it not that the world is passing through a grave economic crisis which is internationally imposing drastic financial restrictions, a situation which affects even the basic priorities of most nations.
287.	This is a phenomenon which shows no signs of shrinking or receding but on which we must constantly dwell, appealing to and urging the super-Powers and the industrial Powers to give the easing of tension and disarmament a permanent place in their concerns and initiatives, so that achievements on this decisive level of world security can be reflected and have a moral influence at other levels, secondary, perhaps, yet still important to world peace and the tranquillity of nations. In particular, an end should be put to the paradox of countries which are devoured by elementary subsistence needs but are still squandering their resources in a frenzied arms race to produce the most sophisticated conventional weapons, a race which can only bankrupt them.
288.	The position of the Republic of Paraguay has been and remains one of supporting all efforts aimed at a rational reduction of arms expenditures, keeping them at levels compatible with defence and world security. Disarmament must be the result of joint efforts, proportionate and properly balanced among all parties which seek this objective, and consequently any proposals for unilateral disarmament, or disproportion disarmament, are out of order and would raise doubts about the good faith of those advocating them.
289.	On the problem of refugees, my delegation first wishes to say that for humanitarian reasons and in order to avoid further aggravation of this problem which has involved so much human suffering, it is concerned that the resolution adopted in 1981 has not yet been implemented. It was decided to set up a group of experts to make recommendations on this serious problem of refugees, but it has been stated that the regional groups have not been able to agree on the distribution of posts. That is deplorable, because it means that side issues are impeding the attainment of a higher aim which is in the highest interests of the Organization.
290.	My delegation urges the relevant parties to overcome the difficulties, which seem illusory or based on self- interest, so that the work of the group of experts can begin, work which can be of great help in solving the problem which, for whatever reason, has tended to get worse and may very well become an instrument of political speculation and international pressure, particularly when it affects territories neighbouring the countries from which the refugees flee, so that the resentments aroused are added to the humanitarian and economic problems generated by these situations.
291.	As to the world economic crisis, I would point out that we are advancing into the Third United Nations Development Decade without having achieved the aims which inspired, two decades ago now, the declaration of these Decades with specific goals and principles.
292.	In 1960, the need for an international development strategy was discussed. The General Assembly proclaimed the 1960s as the first United Nations Development 	during which period the greatest international financing efforts were to be centered especially on the underdeveloped countries. But that proposal did not include any effective plan to co-ordinate the different national policies and to bring about generally positive results. Ten years later, for the decade of the 1970s, the General Assembly, at the time that it proclaimed the Second United Nations Development Decade, also approved the International Development Strategy to serve as a guide for the plans and policies of Governments.
293.	At the request of Venezuela, there was included in the agenda of the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly an item entitled  Launching of global negotiations on international economic co-operation for development  and decision 35/443 was approved, in which the President of the Assembly was requested to continue unofficial consultations with a view to arriving at an agreement for the launching of these negotiations within the framework of the Third United Nations Development Decade. Up to the last session of the General Assembly no progress had been achieved on this, but regardless of what is reported this year, it is appropriate to emphasize the legitimate interest of the developing nations in particular in a more effective handling of this problem, since they are less capable of defending themselves against a prolonged world crisis. Efforts must be made to avoid any dislocation that would jeopardize what has already been achieved, if not in reducing the gap between them and the rich countries, at least in maintaining in operation the development plans which are vital for them and which should not be subjected to any further interruptions or postponements.
294.	My delegation has a particular interest in the subject of new and renewable sources of energy, because of experiences which place the Republic of Paraguay in a privileged position in the world in terms of the development of new and renewable sources of energy.
295.	First I should like to make some comments on the history of this item in the Organization. In 1978, under resolution 33/148, the General Assembly decided to convene an international conference on new and renewable sources of energy, which was held at Nairobi three years later, in 1981. Paraguay participated in that conference.
296.	Subsequently, at the thirty-sixth session, the General Assembly endorsed the Nairobi Programme of Action for the Development and Utilization of New and Renewable Sources of Energies and, among other things, decided to establish an interim committee to which was entrusted the initiation of that Programme. However, unfortunately, one year later, at the thirty-seventh session, in 1982, the General Assembly noted that nothing had been done, and therefore it established the Committee on the Development and Utilization of New and 

Renewable Sources of Energy, recommending the immediate initiation of the Programme to which I have referred. The Committee remains open to participation by all Member States.
297.	My delegation would like to emphasize the support of Paraguay for all the actions of the Organization for the establishment of machinery to ensure the securing o resources and technologies to promote the carrying out of specific projects within the Nairobi Programme. It is to be hoped that at this session the Committee will be able to offer something new with regard to the progress of its work.
298.	The Republic of Paraguay for years now has been carrying out with the utmost seriousness a programme of energy production to free itself from thermal factories, which are insatiable devourers of valuable forestry resources, whether wood or charcoal, or which, in a country that has no oil, require very expensive imports, greater each year, if they require oil to function. The experience of the country has been encouraging in these respects, and the Government decided in the mid-1950s to establish a hydroelectric energy project, using the different levels of an internal river, the Acaray. With financial assistance from the Inter-American Development Bank and with the generous support of Brazil in carrying out the project, the work was completed within the planned time limit and had the intended effects. Clean hydroelectric energy totally replaced that which had been produced by thermal means, and the gainer in all this was the ecology of the country. Sources of pollution were eliminated, and forestry was restored in the areas of Asuncion, which had been the most deforested. The original factory of Acaray was duplicated, and another dam was built at a higher level to increase the water reserve.
299.	Apart from the national hydroelectric energy programme, within which other projects are still being developed, the Republic of Paraguay, together with the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Argentine Republic, by means of treaties it has with each of them, participates on an equal basis in the gigantic project at Itaipu, which is almost finished, and a similar one at Yacyreta. The first, which is the largest of its kind in the world, is soon to begin energy production with the installation, which is now almost ready, of its first turbines, which will number 18 in all and will produce more than 12 million kilowatts. As regards the Yacyreta project, undertaken jointly with Argentina, after many difficulties and postponements and with a great deal of support work and infrastructure which has already been completed, the work now seems well on the way. It enjoys the political support of the parties, and it is necessary for the development of a broad region of the Southern Cone of America and will stimulate new forms of integration. Therefore it is to be hoped that it will have the support of the wealthy countries and international financial agencies, since such is well merited in view of the fact that its energy production will be approximately half that of Itaipu and the fact that when the work is completed and production begins it will constitute an invulnerable insurance against inflation and the passage of time.
300.	My delegation cannot omit a special reference, however brief, to the subject of trade and development, which it believes to be of great importance. In this connection, for obvious reasons, since it is a land-locked country, Paraguay awaits with interest and will follow with great attention the evaluation of the report of the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,'  held at Belgrade from 6 June to 2 July 1983, and the examination of the draft resolution entitled  Specific action related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries .
301.	On this subject, my delegation wishes to emphasize the good relations it maintains with its large maritime neighbours, which have made possible the satisfactory development of agreements which will give Paraguay access to the sea. The purpose is to continue improving understandings and bring about better means of integration through communications and river, rail and road transport, through which my country will have easier access to the ports of three countries: Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay.
302.	As for the report on the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the Republic of Paraguay confirms its position and expresses its confidence that the difficulties in arriving at concrete and satisfactory results will finally be overcome.
303.	Access to scientific and technological knowledge and mastery thereof are indispensable for countries' development. The Organization is understanding this more clearly, although the results are not yet fully satisfactory. Consequently it continues to be a subject of high priority, and therefore we would stress the need to broaden and intensify international co-operation in the area of science and technology for development and to give particular attention to the development of these technologies as they apply to the conditions of the developing countries.
304.	In order to put the programme into effect, the General Assembly decided in 1979 to establish an Intergovernmental Committee on Science and Technology for Development, but this Committee, as was to be expected from the nature of the problems for which it was to propose solutions, particularly those connected with financing, was involved in long and difficult negotiations. We still need to produce a plan with the consensus necessary to ensure that it is practical and viable, and in this regard my delegation trusts that the timely directives of the Secretary-General to stimulate the necessary studies will promote the success of this initiative, which will be to the credit of our Organization.
305.	UNDP is of great interest to the developing countries, and therefore priority should be given to solving the financial crisis which is hampering its development. The Committee of the Whole of the Governing Council has explained the position as follows. First, there is a crisis of expectations, since it had been hoped to reach an annual growth rate of 14 per cent, as laid down in 1979 by the General Assembly in resolution 34/106. Secondly, there is an accounting crisis, in view of the unexpected depreciation of the currencies in relation to the dollar. Thirdly, there is a crisis of remunerations, because of the high cost of providing experts for the developing countries.
306.	It is to be hoped that the report of the Governing Council on the problems facing UNDP will contain sufficient elements to provide for a viable solution to the problem at this session of the General Assembly.
307.	In connection with special economic assistance and help in cases of disaster, my delegation wishes to place on record the gratitude of the Government of the Republic of Paraguay, which on 27 May 1983 asked UNDRO to appeal for the solidarity of the international community to help those who suffered from the severe floods caused by the exceptional rise of the Paraguay and Parana Rivers.
308.	Through consultation with the resident representative of UNDRO and UNDP in Asuncion and the authorities of the Paraguayan Government, a list of necessities 
was drawn up and was duly covered by contributions from the Government and international assistance, not to mention the solidarity and co-operation received from the entire Paraguayan people in the emergency, because of which a disaster psychology did not spread at any time. The UNDRO representative sent especially to Paraguay had occasion to verify on the spot the operational capacity achieved for the necessary help to be given.
309.	With regard to the convention against mercenaries, whose preparation has been long and difficult, the item was included in the agenda of the General Assembly for the first time in 1979. Since then it has been considered every year, given the importance attached to it by various nations and groups of nations with often conflicting criteria.
310.	In relation to the various draft conventions submitted for the consideration of the ad hoc Committee created in 1980,  the position of the Paraguayan delegation, on express instructions from the national Government, has always been one of wholehearted support for the adoption of a legal text on the subject. In particular, with regard to the primary item of the definition of  mercenary , it highlighted the need for a more current concept of this word, bringing it more into line with the general realities of our time. Thus a mercenary will not be just a foreigner who participates for pay in a fight that has nothing to do with him, but also one who for ideological reasons enlists as a volunteer in the internal struggles of other countries. Such attitudes are contrary to the peoples' right to self-determination and the principle of non-intervention in their internal affairs. In support of this position of my delegation, I quote paragraph 1 of article I of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which reads as follows:
 All peoples have the right of self-determination. By virtue of that right they freely determine their political status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development. 
311.	With regard to the law of the sea, the Republic of Paraguay, which is situated more than 1,000 kilometres from the nearest port, has followed with constant interest the evolution of the law of the sea. As long ago as 1971, at the General Assembly of the Organization of American States, my country set down its position in the following terms:
 The Republic of Paraguay is a landlocked State, and geographical and historical circumstances have deprived it of the extraordinary benefits of enjoying a coastline. Nevertheless, Paraguay has the right to enjoy the freedom of the high seas, unrestricted navigation thereon, fishing resources and the subjacent resources and the air space over it. And, to the extent that States with a coastline arbitrarily increase their sovereignty by increasing their territorial sea, they are thereby arbitrarily limiting the rights of the Republic of Paraguay and all other land-locked States. 
312.	Therefore, my delegation considers that the year 1982 was of surpassing importance in the history of the development of the law of the sea. The Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, which began in 1973—a decade ago—concluded its work. On 10 December 1982 in Montego Bay, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the fruit of such arduous and long-drawn-out work, was opened for signature. Paraguay signed the Final Act, confirming its commitment to participate actively in the establishment of a more just juridical order for the seas.
313.	We have left the subject of terrorism to the end of our statement. Terrorism is one of the thorniest problems of our time and is frequently to be found at the root of other more serious conflicts because they have international implications. This is confirmed by the fact that in the face of the extraordinary resurgence of acts of terrorism in the 1970s, the General Assembly decided to include on the agenda of its twenty-seventh session an item on measures which could be adopted to prevent terrorist activities. Since that time—that is, 1972, the year which saw the setting up of the Roc Committee on International Terrorism—the item has come back to the Assembly every two years except for 1973 and 1977; but in fact there has been no clear-cut progress.
314.	In the Sixth Committee, in which this item is traditionally considered, there continues to be a strong divergence of opinion over the definition of terrorism and the emphasis which should be placed on suppressing this phenomenon and eliminating its underlying causes. With respect to the latter, the vagueness and the political propaganda are the factors making agreement more difficult. As we know, there are countries and groups of countries which believe that what the Assembly should recommend is that Governments take measures to eliminate the causes of terrorism, thereby implicitly justifying it as an element of political struggle for as long as these causes persist, causes which may be real but also may be pretended for propaganda purposes.
315.	However, we must recognize that this lack of agreement in arriving at an international convention on terrorism and ways of combating it adds another problem, which is all the questioning and criticisms encountered by the anti-terrorist struggle on the part of countries and sectors which allow it as a valid political element. Hence, for lack of clear and uniform criteria and for lack of a universally accepted agreement, the situation benefits terrorism, against which there are no sanctions, and is prejudicial to government authorities, so frequently accused of sinister violations.
316.	My delegation would like to set on record once again the categorical rejection by the Government of the Republic of Paraguay of terrorism and of all forms of extremism and violence as contrary to democracy and peace. Paragraph 3 of article 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights stipulates that:
 The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures. 
317.	This essential stipulation for democracy is incompatible with terrorism, whose pernicious effects frequently aggravate the causes on which it is based before these causes are eliminated.
318.	Finally, again with regard to terrorism, we may invoke, only to despair of its lack of effect, the norm laid down in article 30 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, since no person or group of persons can invoke it  to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein .



===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿I should like to begin by extending our most cordial greetings to Mr. Paul Lusaka, the representative of the Republic of Zambia, upon his election to the presidency of this thirty-ninth session of the General Assembly, the largest of all world forums. I wish also to greet the Secretary-General, whose effective work merits our country's full understanding and support, and to welcome the admission of Brunei Darussalam to the United Nations.
281.	Paraguay has worked unceasingly to achieve the goals and objectives of the economic and social development it has set itself. The economic crisis besetting mankind today, undoubtedly one of the most intense in history, has not seriously affected our economy thanks to the timely measures that our Government adopted.
282.	We have applied the achievements of science and technology principally to agricultural and livestock research, and this has led to excellent results in those fields, with a considerable increase in production that has directly benefited the great majority of workers in our country, namely, those engaged in agricultural activities.
283.	With regard to social issues, there have also been considerable achievements and this has been reflected in the stability and peace that prevail in our country.
284.	I can state with legitimate pride that the Republic of Paraguay enjoys true democracy and that the rule of law prevails in our land, where our citizens are developing and improving our democratic institutions. In Paraguay there are no political prisoners, nor are there any terrorist attacks to disturb our peace and, through the division, balance and interdependence of State powers, a healthy and active political life is guaranteed.
285.	Within this framework, periodic elections are held in accordance with the provisions of our national Constitution, with the participation of all legally constituted parties within an active, genuine, democratic multi-party system that reflects the political maturity achieved by the Paraguayan people and brooks no interference of any kind.
286.	Within the context of regional integration, Paraguay and Brazil are jointly constructing the Itaipu hydroelectric facility, which will be the largest in the world. On 25 October 1984, there will be a meeting between the President of Paraguay, General Alfredo Stroessner, and the President of Brazil, General Joao Baptista de Oliveira Figueiredo, at the construction site in order to mark formally the beginning of operations, and this will undoubtedly constitute a milestone of the greatest importance in Latin American relations.
287.	With respect to Argentina, another neighbouring country, we are continuing our work with it at a speedy pace, on the Yacyreta hydroelectric project. In August there was a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Paraguay and Argentina at the construction site, marking the political will of both Governments to continue and accelerate the pace of construction of the project.
288.	This, then, shows that the development policy of the Government of President Stroessner has fostered initiative and participation on the part of all of our citizens, leading to the optimum utilization of natural resources and creating the proper conditions for continued co-operation with friendly countries, countries of the United Nations, whose support is always useful, for it helps to give shape to the plans established by the Government to ensure sustained development as planned for the future.
289.	The agenda of this session of the General Assembly contains many items and serious outstanding questions that are endangering international peace and security.
290.	We are struck by the fact that the great problem facing the world in the political arena is the arms build-up, which has entered upon a truly dangerous and alarming stage. While at the same time economic problems beset entire peoples, expenditures on armaments consume billions of dollars every year in an arms race which may well lead us to very serious and irreparable situations in the future.
291.	The characteristic fact that regional conflicts or conflicts between specific countries are not submitted to the United Nations or to competent regional bodies is still the sad reality of our day. The side-stepping of the United Nations with respect to matters of international peace and security leads us to believe that very often the parties involved do not have the political will to request assistance from the United Nations.
292.	The proliferation of nuclear weapons is another burning issue which is horrifying for the peoples of the world. It is absolutely essential for countries that do not have nuclear facilities to be protected against any danger that might stem from the use of such weapons. The fear of collective holocaust is a daily reality which surely deserves the attention of this Assembly.
293.	The Assembly's agenda once again includes items of the utmost importance for the security of today's world, such as the issues of Kampuchea and Afghanistan. In the latter country, a major Power, in flagrant violation of the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, has been applying its full might. The time has come for the United Nations to succeed in putting an end, once and for all, to such interventions, which only bring about insecurity and instability and which are a clear mockery of justice and of respect for the sovereignty of entire peoples.
294.	The problem of the Middle East continues to be of great concern. There is only one option: that the United Nations will achieve in that part of the world the necessary atmosphere so that with its assistance, final solutions may be found for all the nations of the region, so as to satisfy their needs on the basis of international law and in keeping with their just aspirations.
295.	The conflict in the Persian Gulf is another manifestation of insecurity which endangers international peace. The countries involved must find by means of dialogue or through the United Nations a lasting solution to this problem which may, at any moment, lead to a serious world-wide conflict.
296.	We certainly cannot forget the problem of Central America. The undisguised intervention by a major Power from outside the continent, through one of the States in the region, results in imminent danger to peace, and insecurity and mutual suspicions have turned an entire area into one of serious conflict. We await with optimism the outcome of the efforts which are being made in the region to achieve lasting and stable peace and to avoid interference by interests from outside the continent which can gravely upset the stability of the American continent.
297.	In the economic field, North-South relations have not yet found the path of understanding and coexistence which we all desire. Any effort which nations may make regarding these questions not only will lead to an enhancement of the standard of living of millions of human beings but will also bring about international peace, for there can be no true peace when millions of children suffer for lack of food and other means.
298.	There has been almost no effective progress in the North-South dialogue despite the fact that various meetings have been held on the world economic situation. Developing countries feel the great weight of the external debt which cannot be paid and which keeps them from being eligible for new funds which they need to make social and economic progress.
299.	The payment of the external debt of the developing countries is one of the most urgent problems before the international community today. The United Nations cannot remain indifferent in the face of this real problem, which endangers dozens of countries and their respective economies. The raising of interest rates by the international banks compounds the situation and makes it difficult to find a solution to this problem, which is further complicated by world economic recession.
300.	Paraguay has administered the funds it has received and it is up to date in meeting its international commitments, and therefore this problem does not affect it directly. But we have feelings of solidarity for those Latin American countries which are making major efforts within the Cartagena group to solve this serious problem.
301.	The United Nations must strive to make use of all possible means in the search for a solution to this question, which endangers not only the economy, but the very existence and sovereignty of many countries with dependent economies. Various technical bodies have met, and their recommendations reflect agreement that this is a very dangerous question. The Organization should take direct practical measures and should obtain from creditor countries and banks, first of all, a containment of interest rates and, then, better conditions for the payment of the debts which affect so many peoples in the international community.
302.	The tragedy of countries which export raw materials persists in the face of the constantly increasing prices of manufactured goods. There has been so much talk on this subject that there is general scepticism on the question, but international solidarity and justice in relations among countries unquestionably demand that we strive to close the widening gap between the industrialized countries and the countries which produce raw materials.
303.	Along with concerns aroused all over the world by the global economic recession, which has resulted in unemployment, poverty and all sorts of other problems, there is another grave concern: the limitation or reduction of the contributions made by certain highly developed countries to international financial bodies and to specialized agencies of the United Nations to enable them to carry out their projects in the developing countries. A serious and humane re-examination of those contributions would result in an incalculable improvement in the progress and development of more than 100 countries which need funds and development programmes to raise their standard of living.
304.	The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea'6 is now a reality. AH developing countries hope that its provisions will come into force soon and that land-locked countries in particular will be able to benefit from their legitimate share of marine resources.
305.	The decolonization process being carried out by the United Nations is worthy of our consideration. The Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples deserves the support of all the world's free peoples, and from this rostrum we greet all the new countries which in recent years have joined the international community and the United Nations as a result of that process.
306.	We are pleased at the integration of East Timor into the Republic of Indonesia. To this question must be applied a basic principle of international law—the integrity of nations; no circumstances or outside interference can delay that decision.
307.	The international community continues to desire the peaceful reunification of the two Koreas; this must be achieved through direct dialogue between the authorities of South Korea and North Korea. The Republic of Korea continues to make tireless efforts to reunify a divided people, and it has taken important steps to reduce tension and promote reconciliation, steps which have been welcomed with satisfaction by world public opinion. Experience in earlier events shows us that it is important to have a prior understanding and a basic agreement between South and North Korea; thus, both parties should be encouraged to return to the negotiating table, and the United Nations should lend its support to such efforts.
308.	The solution of the problem of the two Koreas does not involve those countries alone. The breach of the peace and of the political-military balance in that area will affect that part of Asia, with serious consequences for many States Members of the United Nations. The international community knows that the Republic of Korea meets all the requirements set in the Charter of the United Nations for admission as a full Member of the Organization. Its admission would be a major step forward in the solution of the problem and would guarantee responsibility, and it could contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. The logical conclusion of this question would be the inclusion of the two Koreas without threatening to perpetuate the division of that nation.
309.	The question of the Malvinas Islands continues to be a matter concerning which the international community is searching for a solution that would preserve universal peace. In this connection, we reaffirm the pacifist tradition of our country and its solidarity with friendly nations, which lead us to support all initiatives with a view to achieving a negotiated solution, based on international law, to the dispute concerning sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands. Paraguay would be glad to see a resumption of bilateral negotiations between the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom, and to see the Secretary-General use his good offices for that purpose.
310.	At the beginning of the dispute, Paraguay was one of the sponsors of the draft resolution which the General Assembly adopted as resolution 37/9. At the thirty-seventh session, our representative stated the following:
"As a founding Member of the United Nations, and respectful as we are of the principles and purposes set forth in the Charter, we feel the responsibility and the duty to participate in the debate on this item in order to contribute to the search for a peaceful solution ..." 
311.	We stress the need to make progress along that path of negotiations, and we reiterate that Paraguay has never recognized the use of force or military occupation as a way of acquiring territory.
312.	Our generation has the absurd distinction of having turned man into a beast whose prey is man and of being a generation in which the unbridled and fanatical forces of terrorism act mercilessly and heartlessly in all countries and in all spheres. We refer here to both international terrorism and terrorism within countries. The United Nations must consider practical measures for putting an end to terrorism in all its forms. We know that study of the underlying causes of terrorism is necessary for the understanding and repression of the phenomenon, but we do not consider it acceptable for the fight against terrorism to be subordinated to the solution of its causes.
313.	While it is true that this picture of the world is not an encouraging one, since problems proliferate and disagreements among nations continue, the Republic of Paraguay continues to hope that the United Nations will find the right path that will lead mankind to a happy future, and we renew our faith in man as the subject and protagonist of history, in the certainty that man will win in the struggle for a better world in which we can live and coexist in peace.


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
I should like first of all to express on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Paraguay our most cordial best wishes to Ambassador Jaime de Pinies, representative of our motherland Spain, who is presiding over the fortieth session of the United Nations General Assembly, we are confident that under his leadership, the General Assembly will have positive results at this fortieth anniversary of the founding of the most universal forum in the world.
We also wish to convey our greetings to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Perez de Cuellar, whose fruitful work enjoys my country's complete support because of his dedication and fairness in dealing with delicate issues involving world peace and the future of mankind.
The adversity that has afflicted Mexico has aroused our complete sympathy and solidarity. In this difficult time, we are convinced that Mexico's traditional strength will prevail and enable it to erase the traces of this misfortune. As a member of the Latin American community, we offer our help, considering it to be a freely assumed obligation to stand by the side of our brother country, Mexico, in its time of distress.
Paraguay is attending this gathering of nations in the same spirit as ever. We hope that our Organization will grow in moral authority, that it will be able to play an effective role in the maintenance of international peace and security and that Governments will entrust the world's future to negotiation and dialog, eliminating for ever military conflicts, which constitute a blot on mankind.
We reaffirm our conviction that the negotiating power of the United Nations should be strengthened, because Paraguay hopes that the Organization will be the mandatory channel for settling the disputes within its jurisdiction. So far conflicts have threatened and erupted, and all the negotiations concerning them have taken place outside the framework of the United Nations, without regard for the Charter and the promises made here by Governments when they became Members of the United Nations.
This year we are celebrating the fortieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. Emerging as it did after the profound anguish of the Second world War, our Organization has played a guiding role in the international sphere.
Although there is need for improvement in its day-to-day work, a good opportunity is provided by this anniversary to point out the many achievements of the United Nations on the difficult path to peace and security.
Paraguay has always respected completely the individuality and independence of all States. On the basis of strict reciprocity in that steadfast course of conduct it has demanded of others the faithful observance of the same principles. For that reason, in no circumstances can it ever accept interference by other States in affairs that are exclusively the concern of Paraguay and that should be resolved by Paraguayans alone.
Paraguay maintains its constant position of principle. My country is a true democracy, based on a democratic multi-party and participative system with full enjoyment of civil liberties. Its Government has as its constant objective the development and progress of the country and the continuous improvement of the standard of living of its people. Whilst Paraguay experienced the pain and anguish of anarchy and of coups d'etat for decades, today it looks to the future with faith, because its Government's work is based on the peace of the nation and the stability of its institutions. The functioning and independence of the three state powers are a reality, and the work of progress of development carried out by the Government has been uninterrupted, nor does it have insoluble problems that could delay the progress of the country for the benefit of all Paraguayans and those foreigners that live among us.
In my country there is full enjoyment of the civil and political rights enshrined in the most demanding international legal instruments. Likewise, aware of the importance of these rights for the well-being of man, my country is endeavoring, in all the international forums in which it participates, to ensure full respect for them and it offers its sincere co-operation to that end.
Paraguayan women have a most important role in our society. They are the ones holding together the family and fostering its development, and they have dynamically extended their role beyond the family. Being equal with men under the law, they contribute to the further development of our nation. The presence of Paraguayan women in all the areas of human life is increasingly felt in our society, especially in the administration of justice and in the field of education, a key activity for the future of all peoples, where their presence is even most influential in some areas. We are aware that our country can play a useful role in the promotion of womens rights throughout the world, and therefore we are prepared to serve as an example and to support all legitimate aspirations that may be reflected in present or future international conventions on that subject.
My country has been the object of vast campaigns of vilification carried out abroad for unacceptable reasons. A short time ago one such campaign, which ran the gamut of international infamy, collapsed like a pack of cards, demonstrating that everything that had been said was merely the creation of distorted interests, designed to denigrate a country which is making constant progress and is living in peace and harmony with all others.
My country, with the solid support of foreign technical co-operation, as well as with the support of international and bilateral agencies, has in recent years benefited from the most modern technology in all fields, especially in agriculture. There is no area of human activity which is not being provided with the constant and unquestionable support of the latest technology, making the physical development of the country a most important reality and bringing constant economic and social progress to the nation. We maintain a spirit of friendship and fraternity with all our neighbors. Instead of a philosophy of doubt and suspicion among friendly neighboring nations, we have chosen harmonious coexistence and integration, desiring only the progress of our peoples. Thus it is possible for us to give the world the example of the Itaipu hydroelectric plant, the largest in the world, which represents the splendid result of co-operation and understanding between the Republic of Paraguay and the Federal Republic of Brazil.
This plant, which is producing energy for the development of our two countries and which will benefit the whole region, will this October set in operation the third great turbine, and on that occasion the President of the Republic of Paraguay, General Alfredo Stroessner, and the President of the Federative Republic of Brazil, Mr. Jose Sarney, will meet as a clear demonstration of the spirit of co-operation and friendship between our two peoples.
The shared use and development of the Parana River does not end with the ITAIHJ dam. In the same spirit of co-operation and friendship, we are building, together with the Republic of Argentina, the YACYRETA Plant which, like the first plant I mentioned, will provide energy for a number of regions, cities and peoples in an electrification process that signifies progress and a vast socio-economic revolution.
This governmental work has had a far-reaching effect on private initiative. There is a continuing increase in foreign investment in the establishment of major centers of agricultural production, and industry is becoming more flexible and seeking out the best technology. Meanwhile the State is making up for the lack of private initiative wherever the good of the country so dictates.
Many issues before us deserve the special attention of the representatives gathered here. To speak of disarmament at the present time may even seem superfluous. Everyone is aware that the priority problem confronting the United Nations and endangering international peace and security is the unending arms race. Billions of dollars are spent on weapons, while millions of human beings are dying or living a marginal and subhuman existence through lack of food. The most serious and pernicious aspect of this arms policy is that it involves not only the great Powers and the industrialized countries but also to the developing countries, to the detriment of other needs that are basic to the development of their peoples.
This crucial issue of the arms race is linked with another issue that endangers the very life of our planet. I am referring to the existence of nuclear weapons, to their increasing sophistication, and to the policy of many States which are trying in one way or another to join in a race which may lead us to a collective nuclear holocaust. It is essential that the nations which have no nuclear force and do not aspire to obtain it, but which undertake nuclear research solely for peaceful uses in development and in the health field, should have a guarantee of protection from the misuse of that scientific discovery that today threatens the very existence of the world in which we live.
There are agenda items that remain relevant because of their implications and the political philosophy behind them. I refer here to the questions of Afghanistan and Kampuchea. In the first case a super-Power, which feels free to use the most outright imperialism in any continent of the world, continues to subjugate by force the noble people of Afghanistan, in defiance of all the rules of international law and of the ethics that should govern relations among States. In the second case, a neighboring country with military and all other types of support from that same super-Power has been subjugating the people of Kampuchea, denying it the exercise of its free will and self-determination.
The conflict in the Middle East remains a matter of concern to all mankind. So many horrors have been committed and so much blood has been shed in that part of the world that it is essential for the United Nations, with the requisite support of the major Powers, to intervene and seek to establish peaceful coexistence among all the peoples in that part of the world, which deserves a better fate.
There is a principle which is fundamental in our Organization - universality. In this respect, Paraguay supports the just aspiration of the Republic of Korea to be admitted to the United Nations. The Republic of Korea is a peaceful and hard-working State which maintains cordial relations with all countries.
We should like to underscore the resolute efforts made by the Republic of Korea to seek unification of the two Koreas. In recent days these contacts have been fruitful and there seems every prospect that they will lead to a decrease in tension and promote a continuing dialog in good faith between the two sides. It is appropriate that the countries represented in this Assembly should support those steps towards reunification, which hold out the promise of being beneficial to peace in that part of the world.
Just as it is the fundamental duty of the United Nations to respect the free and sovereign application of the principle of the self-determination of peoples, the principle of the integrity of countries is also part of the structure of international law and of ethical behavior among countries.
Paraguay has always supported the process of decolonization. Our country, which was part of the Spanish Empire from which it obtained its independence on 14 and 15 May 1811, believes that at this stage in the life of mankind colonial possessions must disappear and yield to the self-determination of peoples and nations. However, sometimes, for political motives or for motives of world hegemony, decolonization is invoked in cases where the respective peoples, in free elections, have chosen a different course - as is the case of Puerto Rico, where the majority of its inhabitants have so decided.
The conflict in Central America is of concern to the Government of Paraguay. Our country takes an optimistic view as it follows the efforts of the Contadora Group to achieve a lasting and stable peace, as well as to eliminate the root of the problem, in that strategic region - that is, the intervention of a super-Power from outside the continent through a State in the region whose aims constitute a threat to the stability and freedom of the American continent.
We support a negotiated legal solution to the question of the Malvinas Islands, which remains a source of concern to the world public and a matter of considerable interest to the United Nations and the American continent. It is essential that a solution be found that preserves peace. The Republic of Paraguay with its pacific tradition and consistent solidarity supports any initiative designed to bring about a friendly negotiated solution, based on the principles of international law, to the sovereignty dispute a- connection with those islands.
In this context, our country would welcome the resumption of bilateral talks between the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom and the use of the Secretary-General's good offices.
The war in the Persian Gulf is another source of concern to peoples and nations. How is it possible that no solution has been found to this conflict? The issue is a challenge because of the political and economic interests involved, but for that very reason our Organization should intervene firmly in the quest for peace.
The same can be said of an age-old problem that has given our Organization much work: the question of Cyprus and its links with Turkey and Greece. Although this issue is not constantly in the headlines, it is a question that concerns all the citizens of our world who see the future of mankind in a constructive spirit of peace.
Economic issues command our attention and today constitute truly serious threats not only to the development of peoples but also to the very existence of nations and the preservation of social peace.
The most striking issue of the day is the foreign debt of the developing countries, which weighs on them like an unredeemable mortgage, since the amount of interest grows day by day and there are no resources from which they can be pay it, much less the capital involved.
The problem of the foreign debt is no longer an purely economic question that can be resolved through normal banking channels or organizations linked to the development of our countries. It involves factors of a political and social nature that require the active participation of the United Nations in order that the rescheduling of the debt can be accomplished without infringing the rights of the developing countries or retarding their economic and social development process. We stress this, because the Government of Paraguay has taken steps to ensure that our foreign debt is controllable and does not become a burden on our national economy.
The tariff and non-tariff barriers set up by the industrialized countries to exports from countries producing raw materials remain an obstacle to the right of the less developed countries to grow economically and thus raise the standard of living of their peoples.
This applies to the Latin American countries which export agricultural products. Given the common interests of the highly industrialized and the developing countries in the face of world problems, greater understanding of this problem is needed to ensure normal, unimpeded trade based on a just distribution among nations and in the interest of the well-being of the peoples of the developing nations, which make up the immense majority of mankind.
I need not stress the dramatic deterioration in the terms of trade between the countries that produce raw materials and the industrialized countries, while the latter increase the prices of their finished goods which are essential to the developing countries, the value of raw materials decreases, creating a balance-of-payments deficit, which is a sign of injustice and poor economic distribution.
Experts on these issues have reaffirmed the justice of the cause of the countries that produce raw materials. Their conclusions are unassailable and irrefutable. Those countries have to send ever greater quantities of unprocessed goods to the major purchasing countries in order to acquire the products they need, and to do so at an, intolerable rate that affect the very existence of millions of human beings.
Paraguay expresses its appreciation to the United Nations Development program for its co-operation in the various development programs undertaken in our country under its auspices. None the less, we regret that in each cycle the indicative figures decrease and for that reason opportunities to carry out new development programs are blocked. The solution is for the industrialized countries to contribute more generously to the funds of the United Nations Development program.
Experts have estimated that horizontal co-operation among the developing countries is the best solution to the problem of technical assistance. This means that national experts or experts from relatively less developed countries can work in technical assistance programs. However, this system faces the same problem as we have just mentioned in connection with the United Nations Development program, namely, the lack of adequate financing to create fluidity. Logically, that financing should come from the highly industrialized countries. Financial support for that program would help achieve the figures required by the United Nations Development program in present circumstances.
The Government of Paraguay welcomes the Convention on the Law of the Sea as a victory for all mankind. We are pleased that that Convention is being supported by more States and we hope and trust that its provisions will always benefit the less-developed land-locked countries.
In order to resolve the problem of its unjust land-locked situation, Paraguay has from the outset of its independent existence waged a struggle for the free navigation of international rivers on the basis of accepted principles of international law and norms and the need of the land-locked countries to communicate and carry on their trade free from undue obstacles.
The Government of the Republic of Paraguay is most pleased with the efficient work being done by the International Law Commission in expanding codification of all the practices and uses of international law. In this field anything that can serve to promote the codification of international law is an effective contribution to the free play of international relations in an orderly, just and egalitarian world.
There is a scourge afflicting mankind in all parts of the world. It endangers daily life and leaves no one exempt from fear. I am referring to terrorism and violence, which have written the most painful pages of the history of our day. The boldness and daring of those who perpetrate this violence know no limits or moral constraints. Nations have not reacted firmly to this negation of coexistence. It is urgent that an international convention on terrorism should be concluded to put an end to this scourge, so that those responsible may find no sanctuary anywhere. The time has come to speak clearly and to say that terrorism exists in present circumstances because there are governments that tolerate it, that provide training for terrorists and serve, when necessary, as places of asylum for them.
Paraguay repudiates violence and terrorism as inimical to religious and human values and to human rights, even though Paraguay has experienced no outbreaks of this criminal and murderous philosophy and is living in a climate of peace and work for the growing well-being of all its people.
The right to social and economic well-being of a society can never justify the sacrifice of the fundamental freedoms and rights of the individual. This is why we condemn totalitarian doctrines of any kind that repress those rights on the pretext of thus achieving alleged collective well-being.
We must sincerely say that the world panorama today is not very comforting, nor do we foresee favorable solutions, at least in the near future, which would be to the satisfaction of the less powerful.
The Republic of Paraguay places its trust in the moral authority of the United Nations in finding early solutions so that we bequeath to our children a world that is more free, just, equitable, humane and peace.

===== Session 41 - 1986 =====
 I wish first, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Paraguay, to offer a cordial greeting to the President of the forty-first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, the Minister for Foreign Affairs for Bangladesh, Hunayun Rashid Choudhury, and to express our most sincere hopes that the Assembly's debates will result in fruitful resolutions in the interest of international peace and security.
He also wish to extend greetings to the Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, to whom we express our whole-hearted gratitude for his commitment to the tasks of the Organization, which he serves faithfully as a man of international stature and the highest official of the United Nations.
Paraguay is present in the Assembly in the spirit it has always shown, in the firm belief that the role which the united Nations is called upon to play in the world should be one of most effective, pragmatic leadership, in the interest of the maintenance of international peace and security, in an environment of order and compliance with international law.
We cannot understand the equivocal conduct of some countries, large and small, which oppose the participation of the United Nations in conflicts, relegating the universal Organization to the position of a passive onlooker in the interplay of world or regional interests.
The Republic of Paraguay notes with growing concern the incorrect position of those that, ignoring the counsels of reason and international practice, are against the direct participation of the United Nations in the various conflicts throughout *.he world. Paraguay has confidence in the Organization and wants to see it become more active every day for the benefit of man in all regions of the world.
The Paraguayan people are celebrating this Inter national Year of Peace with festivals and other commemorative events. We enjoy peace and live in peace with our neighbors and brother countries. Ke enjoy peace, and the Government and people work together to achieve economic, social aid political development, seeking to ensure the continuous improvement of our democratic institutions and of the living standards of our people.
The Paraguayan people, which freely and democratically elected the constitutional President of the Republic, General of the Army Alfredo Stroessner, know that they have a strong, stable Government which, within a framework of loyalty to the Constitution and the law, is working for peace and the continued development of the country, without allowing any adverse forces to stand in its way. There have been no insurrections or fighting between brothers and fellow countryman.
The black legend about Paraguay spread in international circles has been laid to rest and even the most fanatical opponents of the Government of President Stroessner have to admit that under his leadership peace is a reality and that the country moves forward every day towards the goal of permanent well-being for the Paraguayan people.
The international press, in the past incorrectly or only partially informed, has now ascertained that there are periodic elections in Paraguay, in accordance with the Constitution, end that the legislative branch of Government comprises two houses, which include representatives of three political parties* legally registered, within a system of democratic pluralism and participation. The judiciary acts independently in accordance with the Constitution and within the system of the independence of the branches of Government.
The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization for the current year, apart from being a valuable document outlining the most important aspects of present world problems, is also a rigorous introspective analysis of the Organization itself, its accomplishments, its frustrations and, above all, its prospects for the future, which are viewed with quiet confidence.
The treatment of the various issues that relate to the primary objective of peace in all the regions of our troubled tor Id, which are increasingly interdependent, reflects a valuable effort of objectivity and balance and honesty of purpose and method that puts that effort above all interests that do not coincide with or could prejudice the positive future of mankind.
We commend the important work done by the Secretary-General and enclose his wise comments and conclusions, which carry for all nations a message of faith and hope.
We follow with particular attention the work and negotiations in the sphere of disarmament. We believe that it is an offense against the world to continue with the arms race, which involves many countries - not only those with high levels of economic development, but also those with limited resources.
This is one of the most urgent problems on our agenda, because while hunger and malnutrition cause the death of thousands of innocent children, all over the world multi-million dollar sums are spent to purchase weapons of death and destruction. The Republic of Paraguay devotes a large share of its income from the national budget to development in all areas, with the valuable co-operation of friendly countries and international organizations, such as the United Nations Development program, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.
Much has been said, both within and outside the United Nations, on limiting nuclear and conventional weapons and on disarmament in general. We fervently appeal to all the countries represented here to end the arms race so that peace with justice may serve as a basis for international life, in accordance with the hopes of all the people on earth.
There are some questions that seem to have heen left completely outside the work program of our Organization. It is time that the interests of certain countries and the ideologies of certain Governments did not prevent us from determining, for example, a precise definition of what is "aggression" in the field of international law. It seems paradoxical that while we continue to witness armed conflicts in various parts of the world, it has not been possible for United Nations bodies to arrive at an objective definition of the word "aggression".
Paraguay hopes that the United Nations will maintain and increase its effective role in the maintenance of international peace and security. To this end we agree that it must strengthen its negotiating capacity in areas where there are disputes. This must be the heart of the Organization's work if there is to be an effective peace in which men of good will can find a haven from war and destruction.
We continue, as in the past, to condemn the invasion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union. We also condemn the invasion of Kampuchea by Viet Nam with the help of a super-Power. In both cases our country has supported all the resolutions adopted by the United Nations calling for the withdrawal of foreign troops and supporting all the efforts undertaken in a spirit of good will to find a peaceful and rational solution to these contentious disputes.
The Republic of Paraguay is amazed to see that the war between Iraq and Iran, virtually undeclared as far as international law is concerned, is continuing the cruel confrontation between two nations which desire nothing but peace. We hope that the United Nations will be able to find a solution satisfactory to both sides. Similarly, we trust that there will be a just solution of the Cyprus problem, in accordance with the rules of law, a problem which remains on the list of serious unresolved problems. He consider that the problems of the war in the Persian Gulf and the question of Cyprus must be settled through direct negotaticns between the parties involved with the help of the Organization.
The question of the Middle East deserves special attention. The existing situation in that region is truly a cause for concern for the peoples of the world. The time has come for the State of Israel to live in peace and harmony with the Arab countries of the region. To that end the United Nations must intervene effectively and to practical effect, first of all eliminating the outside influences involved in this conflict. Resolution 242 (1967) remains the keystone of any solution to the conflict; it represents the only viable, humane and worthy course for all negotiation between the parties. Paraguay desires a harmonious coexistence for all the peoples of the region.
We have faith in the work of decolonization which the United Nations has long been carrying out. Faithful to our stand for freedom and for respect for the s elf -de termination of peoples, we support its policy, always provided that it does not seek any interests other than those of upholding the free expression of the will of the communities involved within the framework of respect for international law and the principles of non-interference in the internal affairs of states and the integrity of nations. Consequently we maintain that in accordance with the Charter and the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, Namibia has a eight to self-determination and independence.
The universality of the United Nations is one of its most important attributes. It is herd to see how the work of the Organization could have practical effect outside the context of universality. We therefore believe that the Republic of Korea has every right to be a Member of the Organization. This position is based on the peace-loving and progressive spirit of its people and Government and the respect which the Republic of Korea has always shown for the mandates of the United Nations in a volatile area of the world.
We advocate the reunification of Korea through the peaceful means of dialog and negotiation, and we regard as constructive steps towards the attainment of this final objective both the continuation of direct talks between both parties and their admission to membership of the United Nations.
This is also the case of the Malvinas Islands, where two friends of ours, the Republic of Argentina and the United Kingdom are confronting each other. Here we have maintained the urgent need for a negotiated aid friendly solution, in accordance with the principles of international law, on the basis of acceptance that this is a dispute about sovereignty. In line with this spirit we support all steps which may be taken to find, through negotiation between the parties, a just and lasting solution to this problem.
The Central American problem is of concern to the Republic of Paraguay and to
the American continent as a whole. We must state here that that problem has roots
outside the region and that the expansionist interests of a super-Power that has no business in this part of the world are playing a decisive role and provoking a logical reaction on the part of the other super-Power, which cannot allow the defense of the Western and Christian world to be endangered. In that regard we condemn, in the name of the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of States, the intrusion of the Soviet Union into the Caribbean and Central America, directly or indirectly.
Meanwhile, time passes by and matters become entangled and confused, resulting in the intrusion into the very heart of Central America, where North and South America are linked, of a country with a strong ideological and logistical commitment to the expansionist interests of a super-Power from another continent.
It is with legitimate concern that we roust state that the chapter on the world economic situation is an increasingly disturbing one and portentous of a serious situation capable of leading the world to a collapse of the financial and commercial order.
To the classic dilemma of the problem of North-South relations, rooted in the permanent decline in raw material prices and increase in those of manufactured goods, with the staggering result of a permanent deterioration in the balance-of-payment ratio of the developing countries, we are now faced with the burning question of foreign indebtedness.
That problem is not only economic or financial in nature. The renewal or recognition of foreign debt are not the only things at stake. It is not merely a matter of playing with figures, increasing or decreasing interest rates or amortization installments. The over-all problem of foreign debt has political and social implications of such far-reaching consequences for the third world that the
highly industrialized and rich countries have the unavoidable obligation to solve it as soon as possible in order *o avoid a more severe economic recession that could lead us to the brink of the abyss that already yawns in our path.
What can be done by countries whose exports do not enjoy stable prices on the international market, that have contracted debts to develop such exports and that, owing to lack of resources, are unable to amortize those debts? The problem challenges the right of all peoples to their very existence and calls into question the position of the rich and wealthy nations confronted with such poverty, such despair and such real hunger.
As in the past, the Republic of Paraguay continues to be concerned by a scourge that affects every continent and that, instead of gradually abating, is steadily on the increase. We refer to international terrorism, a tragic plague of the modern world, which criminally and without pity strikes at innocent lives anywhere in the world on the most futile pretexts and with goals that cannot be achieved.
We cannot agree that terrorism is justified by some underlying causes, even though we recognize the reality of some of them. It is time, however, that nations represented here unite to condemn the wave of terrorism from wherever it may come, without concessions to anyone, to any group or country. There is no action or phenomenon that can justify terrorism for its own sake, much less allow certain territories serve as training-grounds for terrorists or allow some countries to help such barbarians by selling or donating weapons and explosives.
In this area the prestige of the United Nations is at stake for, if this question is not solved once and for all, the Organization runs the risk of being left without legal or moral grounds for its existence and for the role it is called upon to play in alleviating the problems of the world.
The Republic of Paraguay, a land-locked State, recently ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. It did so in the context of its
confidence in the just cause of land-locked nations, since the Convention ensures that important group access to and participation in the resources of the oceans. It has also ratified its legitimate right to transit to and from the seas through the territories of neighboring maritime States.
He believe in the moral and legal values of our Organization and its work to achieve codification of international law, a matter that would have seemed Utopian a few years ago. We support the work of the united Nations and its organs, such as the Economic and Social Council, in the field of the advancement of women, the protection of children and all questions to safeguard the dignity of man at all levels, without distinction as to sex, religion or race.
Paraguay has always oo-opera ted with all agencies of the United Nations system, including the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, in a spirit of understanding and commitment to the cause of human rights. This year the Government of Paraguay received the visit of an independent expert on human rights, a representative of the aforementioned Commission. That expert worked freely and held talks with' persons he wished to see, traveling throughout the country without interference of any kind. He saw with his own eyes the freedom of speech and press that prevail in our country, freedoms that the biased, whose motives are unavowable, try to deny i.i international forums.
I wish to note our recognition of the co-operation we receive from the United Nations Development program. Unfortunately, that co-operation has been curtailed because of budgetary constraints that have their origin in the cuts in contributions made by the wealthiest industrialized countries. We urge the more developed nations to increase their generous contribution to that program to enable it to work towards its important objectives, which benefit the less-developed peoples.
Nuclear-weapon-free zones and denuclearized zones continue to be of essential importance for the future. He reaffirm the principles embodied in the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which stipulates that Latin America will be a region free from such dangerous weapons. On the basis of the recent disquieting experience that threatened not only Europe but the entire world, the United Nations must establish standards to regulate the compulsory maintenance of safeguards against the expansion of environmental pollution around thermonuclear stations or nuclear plants. All that can be done in this field will be precautionary and will avoid serious problems in the future.
We view with pleasure the proposal of the Government of Brazil on the setting up of a zone of peace and co-operation in the South Atlantic. It is a plausible initiative for all neighboring countries of the region, which are continuously in search of peace and which view with apprehension the events that took place in the region not too long ago. That initiative deserves comprehensive analysis by the Assembly.
The Republic of Paraguay, which lives in peace and co-operation with its neighbors, as proved by the joint construction with the Federative Republic of Brazil of the Itaipu Dam, the world's largest hydroelectric plant, which is already producing electric energy for development, and the Yacyreta Dam, undertaken jointly with the Argentine Republic and which is currently under construction, hopes that the United Nations will be the most fruitful means of bringing about peace and international security throughout the world and among all peoples of the Earth. We hope that the task of the Organization and of all its system and agencies will bring about the effective solidarity of those nations that can do the most to aid the developing and least developed countries economically.
Only in this way and within that spirit of co-operation, disinterest and altruism for the development of everyone will we be able to conquer the obstacles
that today still exist on the way to our goal - mankind living in peace, with social and economic justice and without any lasting danger to international peace and security.





===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿At the outset of my presentation to the General Assembly at its forty-second session, I should like to convey our most respectful greetings to the President, Mr. Peter Florin, representative of the German Democratic Republic, and to express our best wishes for the successful conclusion of our work under his presidency, and the hope that from this session there will emerge important resolutions that would effectively ensure international peace and security.
We also extend out greetings to the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, whom we ask to accept our appreciation for his tireless dedication to the United Nations goals of peace and development. This Organization is fortunate to have him, not only as its most eminent official, but also as a citizen of the world committed to achieving peace and development for all.
The Republic of Paraguay comes once again to this forum with the sincere intention of supporting every initiative that could assure mankind of a day of peace and full development. It does so in the firm belief that each State Member of this Organization, as a servant of international law, is convinced of the importance of the existence of the United Nations and of its role of protagonist in bringing about a time of peace and security for all.
In these circumstances, and considering the role the United Nations should Play in the world, we fail to understand the attitudes of many countries - whether they be super-Powers, permanent members of the Security Council or Members of this Organization - attitudes that undermine, that sap their support and reduce the level of their active participation, thus weakening the Organization's ability to intervene in critical situations. This problem, already one of long standing - the Problem of the lack of a leading role for the United Nations in world conflicts - is totally, the unwarranted. On the contrary, it demands of every country an effective attitude that could redound to the greater, the universal prestige of our Organization and the effective application of our entire legal and moral power for bringing about just solutions to conflicts that, at this very moment, beset humanity.
When we review those critical events that have taken place since 1945, we are obliged to say that, because of the aforementioned weakening of the role of the United Nations as a leader, every country should see to it that the decisions taken by the General Assembly, which are adopted to prevent or solve conflicts, are brought into line with true justice and contain positive formulas - pragmatic and fair formulas - capable of resolving crises by peaceful means and achieving effective peace through negotiation. Unilateral, partial decisions, or those that do not embody the immutable principles of international justice, do the United Nations system no good. By contrast, the adoption of decisions on the basis of different criteria - criteria based on world harmony and strict respect for the Charter - could promote a more effective way for our Organization to become involved.
The Government of Paraguay wishes to pay a special tribute to all bodies within the United Nations system, but in particular to the United Nations Development Programme, whose activities are related to the progressive accomplishment of all the vital projects that are being implemented in our country. This type of United Nations assistance is not only effective for developing countries like Paraguay, but also serves the ceaseless quest for a better standard of life and progress for all nations.
The Republic of Paraguay is continuing to make strides in peace and democracy. It has been doing so steadily since 1954, assuring justice and freedom for all our people. The nation is effectively governed by the rule of law, and thus enables its citizens to develop further and perfect our democratic institutions, guaranteeing a political life based on the widest possible participation and a multi-party system.
The Government of the Constitutional President of the Republic of Paraguay, General of the Army Alfredo Stroessner, is based on popular consent, freely expressed in fair elections. It has the popular and democratic support of the Colorado Party, a political organization which, on 11 September 1987, commemorated a hundred years of constitutional life in Paraguay.
Throughout its rich history, Paraguay has struggled and made sacrifices to defend the immutable principles of international law. We seek to ensure constant respect for the individual identity and the independence of all States and, in strict reciprocity in our international conduct, we have called on other States faithfully to observe the same principles, never, in any circumstances or in any way whatsoever, accepting interference by other States in the domestic affairs of Paraguay - affairs which are of concern to, and have to be dealt with, only by Paraguayans.
We wish to bring to the attention of the General Assembly the spirit of integration that has guided the regional policy of the Republic of Paraguay, a policy based on peace and co-operation with our neighbours. This has made possible the construction of the hydro-electric projects at Itaipu, under conditions of equality of rights and duties, with the Federative Republic of Brazil - projects that are already generating the electricity needed for the development of a vast region. The same applies to the Yacyreta project involving ourselves and Argentina. This project is in an advanced stage of construction. Both demonstrate the serious determination of the Government of Paraguay to make progress. These, added to the facilities provided by our Atlantic neighbours, such as the ports of Paranagua in Brazil, Nueva Palmira in Uruguay, Antofagasta in Chile and Matarani in Peru constitute favourable indicators of our relations with neighbouring sister nations. Our trade with Bolivia is expanding through the Transdhaco route, in harmony with the spirit of that same policy.
The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization deserves our fullest support. We know of the Secretary-General's unalterable determination to find a solution to international problems. This report schematically summarize! all the achievements in that difficult field, as well as the frustrations faced as the result of a wide range of intervening factors that are beyond the control of the highest-ranking official of the United Nations.
We highlight the work done by the Secretary-General and subscribe to his central, vital concepts, which lead the Organization towards fulfilment of the purposes laid down by the founders of the United Nations, in a changing world beset - by adverse factors, so that peace may be made a tangible reality and fellowship among nations may foster progress and efforts to achieve international justice.
We cannot fail to mention the sources of possible world conflicts that are of concern to the Republic of Paraguay and to all mankind - for example, the conflict in the Persian Gulf, which has reached such dangerous proportions that it could a any moment lead to a more widespread war, with incalculable consequences. We believe we speak for men and women throughout the world when we ask the United Nations to make every possible effort to put an end to that hotbed, which has its origin in the war between Iran and Iraq, compounded by a number of factors that imperil world peace. We call upon the States involved in that conflict to accept the decisions of the United Nations.
The regrettable escalation of events in Latin America confronts us with evidence of another source of conflicts whose outcome is unpredictable. In this area of the world, there is intervention by two super-Powers with broad interests in the region. The countries of the region that make up the Contadora Group and the Support Group have been working, with our encouragement, to bring about peace. It is essential that peace be achieved and that all the countries of the region refrain from adopting partisan positions. This applies particularly to those that are acting in the service of a super-Power, whether directly or indirectly. We condemn such action on the basis of the principle of non-intervention.
The conflict in the Near East does not seem to be of concern to the world at the moment, possibly because the region has for so long suffered the absence of the peace that is essential for nations, peoples and States. The Republic of Paraguay has proclaimed in all forums, the need to ensure implementation of Security Council resolution 242 (1967) in the search for effective solutions to the problems in this high-risk area of conflict. We believe that the Palestinian people have the right to a homeland, just as the State of Israel has the right to live in peace within its boundaries.
The Government of the Republic of Paraguay has condemned, in this forum, the intervention of a super-power in Afghanistan, in a clear-cut demonstration of that Power's lack of regard for international justice and the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. We take this opportunity to reiterate, on a universal basis, that the application of this principle, which is central to our Charter and to human rights, is the sole guarantee of peace and harmony among nations at differing economic and social levels.
We are also concerned by Viet Nam's intervention in Cambodia. That intervention, which is dangerous from all points of view, generates the intervention in that country by a super-Power on the one hand and by another country, also a permanent member of the Security Council, on the other.
The Republic of Korea has always worked for the peaceful reunification of the two Koreas. Unfortunately, its efforts have not been crowned with success, for reasons that cannot be attributed to that country, a defender of freedom. The Republic of Korea, a law-abiding country that respects the international desire for coexistence, has a legitimate desire to become a Member State of our Organization. We support that legitimate desire of the Republic of Korea, which is in keeping with the principle of universality of the United Nations and with an effective international order, and believe that the possibility of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea also being admitted should be kept open.
The problem of the Malvinas Islands has had a number of consequences, which once again, demonstrate that disputes should be resolved by effective, pragmatic negotiations. The Republic of Paraguay calls upon the two countries involved - Argentina and the United Kingdom - with both of which we have ties of friendship, to adopt this procedure so as to find an amicable, felicitous solution to the dispute over sovereignty, In this spirit, we advocate negotiations between the parties.
We cannot help but voice our concern when we turn to the subject of disarmament, a vital issue in the times in which we live. The arms race and the business of purchasing and selling conventional and nuclear arms themselves engender pressure and hostility and pave the way for armed conflict. Disarmament is a necessity for all States, and that necessity becomes even greater when we realize that many less developed countries that are in desperate straits because f the deterioration of the international economy are spending millions of dollars cm arms of various kinds. We live in peace and we believe in peace. In that spirit we call upon all States to end the arms race, which is a shameful affront considering the sad fact that thousands upon thousands of children are dying because of starvation and malnutrition.
The Republic of Paraguay, which won independence on 14 May 1811, values the work on decolonisation being done by the United Nations. We applaud this work since we support the principle of the self-determination of peoples as long as application of that principle is not linked with interests alien to the legitimate interests of the peoples meant to win independence.
On the basis of that position, we believe that the people of Namibia are entitled to independence. Further the Republic of Paraguay supports in all forums the principle of territorial integrity and the full sovereignty of peoples. We should like, on the basis of non-intervention in internal affairs, to see the withdrawal of foreign troops from the countries of Africa.
There is one scourge that horrifies all people the world over but none the less continues to undermine the moral and legal order of our world. We refer to terrorism, which afflicts various individual countries as well as the international community. The time has come to ask ourselves what has been done to cope with this irrational, inhuman monstrosity to ensure that it ceases to take innocent lives. Terrorism cannot be legitimised in any circumstances. Countries that encourage terrorism based on the fact that there may exist underlying causes that trigger so irrational a reaction must, even if some of those causes exist, change their views in keeping with the dignity that must govern the system of relationships within the international community.
We cannot tolerate terrorism because it is unjustifiable that certain territories should serve as training-camps for terrorists and still less that such territories should be used as sanctuaries for terrorists. The time has come to state categorically that the United Nations has two options: it can persuade all countries to condemn this irrational and inhuman conduct and to work together to eliminate the hotbeds of terrorism. Otherwise, our Organization will lack credibility in these matters and will be irrevocably forced to admit its inability to wipe out a practice that is a crime against mankind. But this is not to say that the United Nations should not continue to consider, with zeal and diligence, the elimination of the probable causes of this universal scourge. Those causes, however, can never explain the criminal violation of the right to life of its innocent victims.
The Republic of Paraguay supports the policy of the United Nations to end all forms of discrimination against women. It has been many years since the law enshrining the civil and political rights of Paraguayan women was promulgated in recognition of an established fact and of the active part women had played in our national life. In a spirit of fairness we must also recognize that the North-South dialogue has so far produced no results whatsoever. The rich industrialized countries continue to set Incredibly low prices for the raw materials produced and exported by the developing world. This ignoble policy is the root cause of many of the problems of the developing world. The deterioration in the terms of trade leads b the regrettable fact that many countries are unable to pay their debts and are not in a position to reach the stage of full development they require in order for their people to attain a life of dignity.
Although the Republic of Paraguay is not in the same position as other fraternal countries with regard to external debt, we express our solidarity with all those countries that are facing such a situation. This issue requires not only financial and economic solutions, which are of prime importance but also political solutions, because no country can resign itself to zero progress when there are collective needs to be met in order to forestall situations that may endanger not only the peace but the freedom of peoples in the developing countries.
Our Organization must identify itself fully with the legitimate requests formulated by countries in the unfortunate position of being unable to repay their debts. The rich industrialized countries must take a stand, not out of selfish and restrictive motives but in a common desire to consolidate peace and democracy through justice in the international economic arena.
All attempts and programmes formulated to resolve this disturbing problem of the burden of external debt in the world must inevitably be based on the recognition of the exporting countries' inalienable right to receive really fair prices for their raw materials exported to international markets.
In the face of the painful developments in economic relations between the industrialized North and the developing South, the real needs of developing countries have given rise to certain aspirations. We refer to economic and technical co-operation between developing countries. The United Nations, in all its forums, including the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), must use its prestige to back up this effort which is being promoted throughout the world, for the most part through specialized organizations on the regional level.
We must, finally, come to the conclusion that raising the standard of living of the developing peoples is a moral duty on the part of our Organization and of those countries that already enjoy high standards of life and enjoy fully the many benefits that are unattainable in the developing countries. In this context what is required is a carefully implemented effort to achieve a better economic position for the raw-material-producing countries or for those countries that are just beginning industrial development.
The Government of Paraguay is fully aware that there is an acute financial crisis at the United Nations. The developed countries, for reasons the developing countries cannot fully comprehend, have curtailed their contributions to our Organization, thus decreasing the total amount of moneys available. This financial crisis has an effective political dimension, since, in the short term, our Organization will have to make cuts throughout its system, cuts that will adversely affect programmes currently being implemented throughout the developing world.
This will obviously have an adverse effect on the scope of the activities of our Organization and work to its detriment.
We are fully aware, moreover, of economic stagnation and recession. We understand the scope of those problems, which are causing serious difficulties to the super-Powers in the commercial sphere and affecting the balance of payments. Nevertheless, the times in which we live compel the United Nations to depend on the contributions it needs for it to do its work throughout the world, contributions that must come from those industrialized countries fortunate enough to enjoy wealth and development.
The problem of Lebanon merits a special place in my statement. It can be considered to be included in the aforementioned serious conflict in the Middle East, However, in view of the conditions now prevailing, conditions which, if they were to persist, could spawn new and tragic developments, we feel that we must give it special consideration.
The principles of the self-determination of peoples and the territorial integrity of States have been set aside in Lebanon by the reign of irrational violence and have been replaced by political intransigence and the polarization of the conflicting parties. Paraguay holds unswervingly to the need for a peaceful settlement of disputes. It joins the concert of countries demanding this in order to ensure the existence and integrity of Lebanon on the basis of legal equality and peaceful coexistence among its citizens, to whatever ethnic group they belong.
As for the question of Cyprus, the Republic of Paraguay is hopeful that that problem, which is long standing in the United Nations, can find a just and balanced solution through negotiations, avoiding violent confrontation and any violation of international law. We hope that United Nations intervention may lead to just solutions that take into consideration the rights of the countries concerned in the conflict.
If all practical instruments to reach a happy conclusion in the current situation are not brought into play, the problem of Cyprus could well become yet another of the unending crises in today's world, which is truly and wholly interdependent. Armed conflict in one part of the world is not limited to that region but can have unpredictable repercussions and ramifications throughout the rest of the world.
The developing world has immense prospects in the new Law of the Sea. The Republic of Paraguay, as a developing landlocked country, firmly believes that that instrument, which has been given the world to redress irritating and dangerous injustices, represents a new step forward by mankind in its painstaking quest for a better distribution of the world's wealth amongst nations. On the basis of that belief, Paraguay has ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and will support that process, which redounds to the prestige of the Organization and which may, in the future, be a source of truly lasting satisfaction. The Republic of Paraguay has co-operated and will continue to co-operate with our Organization's Commission on Human Rights. In the course of that co-operation it welcomed the visit of an independent advisor in 1986, who travelled throughout our country and became fully aware of the actual situation in Paraguay. That same person, in pursuance of his work, which Paraguay continues to welcome, will visit our country again before the end of 1987.
This is a demonstration of Paraguay's co-operation with the United Nations, which is dedicated to the promotion of human rights. Our Government responds immediately to all inquiries received from United Nations organs dealing with human rights, on the understanding that with the co-operation of Member countries these organs will intensify their work to the benefit of our Organization.
We warmly support the loyal co-operation of the United Nations with the Organization of American States and the Latin American Economic System. We value such co-operation and we see it as having a positive and realistic significance in the interdependent world we live in - a world whose problems always requite global solutions. These assertions are valid in the political sphere, but their validity is even more apparent in the economic field.
My Government enthusiastically supports the proposal put forward in this universal forum by the Republic of Brazil for the declaration and establishment of a zone of peace and co-operation in the South Atlantic. This valuable initiative for world peace and for free and progressive interplay in the South American continent deserves the attention of all international organizations which must work out specific programmes for this vital area of the world, in the arduous tasks of achieving peace with justice, equal opportunity and economic growth for everyone without exception.
We can state with absolute certainty that men and women the world over look to the United Nations and its task with faith and confidence. They are at the very core of the efforts we make here on behalf of peace and progress for mankind; and they place their trust in our Organization and in the spirit of those who convene here to represent their Governments in order to foster the ideals and commitments of the founders and ensure for all the inhabitants of the globe the blessings of peace and the establishment of justice in international relations.
We bear witness to our sharing this noble spirit and to our commitment that e shall work United in order to achieve these objectives and ideals, without which life would have no meaning, and to ensure a future free of storm clouds obscuring mankind's vision.
We must freely shoulder our responsibility to bequeath to our children and our children's children the happy world future generations will expect - a world without discrimination without error, without injustice that engenders exasperation and dejection; and a creative atmosphere with joy, peace and moral fulfilment.


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿At the outset of this statement before the forty-third session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, we extend our respectful greetings to the President, Mr. Dante Caputo, Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship of the Republic of Argentina, and we sincerely hope that, under his wise guidance, this session will be crowned with success and result in meaningful solutions towards international peace and security.
Similarly, we hail our Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, to whom we express our gratitude for his tireless and fruitful efforts for peace at a time when his worthy endeavours have brought the world lofty victories that lend this Organisation a role of universal leadership. Just recognition of these efforts is clearly expressed by the recent award of the 1988 Nobel Peace Prize to the United Nations peace-keeping forces, to our great satisfaction.
Since 1945 the Republic of Paraguay has never doubted that the world needs an Organization respected by all States, based on international law and the noble principles of justice, peace and security, which would at all times guarantee the peaceful settlement of disputes, continuing social and economic development, respect for the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of States, and other no less important principles, such as the territorial integrity of States and the equality of all countries under the law.
We have never understood the position of those States which, forgetting their moral obligations to the Organization, do not take advantage of this forum for the settlement of international conflicts, thus depriving the United Nations of its leading role, which must be recognized because of the purposes for which it was founded.
Today our hopes are rising once more because the importance of the United Nations is being recognized with new understanding wherever problems of international law have to be solved, thanks to the productive work of the Secretary-General and his special representatives and to the change of attitude which at last seems to have occurred, so that States are  prepared to reach solutions to their disputes with the help of our Organization.
On behalf of the Republic of Paraguay, I wish to express our satisfaction at the good news that preceded the opening of this session of the General Assembly of the possibility of chronic conflicts being solved through the effective intervention of our Organization. We hope that time will prove that we are right, that what now presents itself as merely the glimmer of a solution will become an effective reality, to the benefit of all peoples, and that It may be said once  again that there was a moment in history when Governments gave the United Nations effective means of solving problems that had seemed insoluble. Such is the case with regard to the Persian Gulf war the gradual withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan, the possibility that foreign soldiers will be withdrawn from Cambodia·, the possibility of a peace agreement between Angola, Cuba and the Republic of South Africa; and the beginning of a dialogue, in auspicious conditions, between the two communities in Cyprus.
I cannot do better than recall here certain passages from the statement made in this forum by the President of the Republic of Paraguay, General Alfredo Stroessner, at the third special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament. We said: “I am honoured to bring to this lofty forum the voice of the Republic of Paraguay, the thinking of a nation truly dedicated to peace, which shares universal ideals of security, freedom, justice and development. The Republic of Paraguay firmly upholds the principles of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, the legal equality o£ nations and the self-determination of peoples. In all international forums we maintain clear positions in favour of relations between nations based on fair legal principles of mutual respect and co-operation.
In the United Nations and in the Organization of American States (OAS), we uphold the principles of friendship and co-operation, with full confidence in the beneficial results that accrue whenever relations between States are established with goodwill and in a spirit of solidarity. At all international events, conferences and meetings we speak the constructive language of peace, thus projecting the reality being led by the Republic of Paraguay. Paraguayan constitutional law takes as its essential principles respect for international law; condemnation of wars of aggression and conquest and all forms of colonialism and imperialism, the peaceful settlement of international disputes by lawful means; respect for human rights and the sovereignty of peoples; and the aspiration to live at peace with all nations." (A/S-lS/PV,e, pp. 3, 4)
The desire of the peoples for a genuine peace that will improve their relations with each other is universal. Nations, without exception, cherish international law and view with concern the unilateral decisions taken by certain States in their relations with other countries, which damage not only the prestige of the United Nations but also the essential principles of its Charter, the purpose of whose adoption was to banish the evil of war, injustice, the predominance of brute force, foreign intervention in the affairs of other States, and all the other evils that affect the relations between peoples.
My country takes this opportunity to express its gratitude to the whole United Nations system for the work it does in all areas, and especially for the efforts made on behalf of land-locked countries with a relatively low degree of development. We are grateful for the continuing assistance of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which has carried out and follows up so many projects all over the world to reset the need for technology to be at the disposal of less developed countries. At the risk of repeating ourselves, we must say that this victory of our times puts an inescapable moral obligation on the wealthiest countries at a time when extreme poverty robs men of their dignity in so many parts of the world. The poor in La tin America number 173 million. Of this number, in 1985, 61 million lived in extreme poverty. If this trend continues, the poor in Latin America will number 204 million by 1990, according to the UNDP. That body also says that there is a social debt of 3280 million - the sum that these countries would have to invest to eradicate poverty.
These really shocking figures must, of course, be seen in relation to the foreign debt problem of the countries of Latin America, at a time when development demands new investments, and the prices of raw materials from the developing world are not remunerative. Although the Republic of Paraguay, fortunately, is not in the same situation as many other countries of the region, we feel complete solidarity with all those who see their future jeopardized by this problem, which is so radically bound up with development and the improvement of living standards. This problem requires not only economic but also political solutions which recognize the moral obligation of the super-industrialized world to the less developed countries. In 1987 the regional foreign debt amounted to $410 billion, and in the last five years the continent has remitted 3150 billion to the international banking system just for debt servicing, amortization and interest, without reducing the capital debt, which in fact has increased because of new loans, in a dangerous race between attempts to improve the life of the majority of our peoples and the unfair distribution of income between North and South.
The problem of the foreign debt is so serious that recent United Nations reports advise creditors to reduce the amounts owed by up to 30 per cent, because otherwise there will be no possibility of fulfilling commitments or resolving satisfactorily the problems deriving from this troubling question. Highly specialized Latin American technical organizations have expressed the opinion that solution of the foreign debt problem is very closely related to an increase of trade in the region and a substantial improvement in the prices for commodities at which the debtor countries sell to the industrialised world.
The Secretary-General's report on the work of the Organization deserves our praise. We ate familiar with the Secretary-General's commitment to fulfil his difficult and noble responsibilities as a man of peace, conciliation und dialogue at the international level. There are always factors which undermine world order and peace and which are not precisely within the area of competence of the United Nations, but time has shown that selfish, unilateral decisions are becoming more rare, especially in the light of what is happening at the present time, which shows that the work of the Organization and the Secretary-General is having positive results, despite the many difficulties on the thorny path of peace, justice and the peaceful settlement of disputes. 
The Republic of Paraguay is experiencing an encouraging growth in its economy. For example, the rate of growth of our gross national product, which was 4.3 per cent in 1987, has reached almost 6 per cent this year as a consequence of good prospects, basically in the agricultural sector. Therefore, despite the adverse world economic conditions, the Republic of Paraguay - according to a report by the World Bank - is among the countries with the highest average rate of growth during the past two decades. Sources in the Economic Commission for Latin America confirm that the cumulative growth rate of the gross national product from 1980 to 1987 was 16.9 per cent - one of the highest rates among the Latin American non-oil-exporting countries.
This forward movement of the Paraguayan economy is the result of putting into effect a plan to give an impetus to the economy, that has been done with discipline and austerity, in a climate of peace and serenity.
The economic and financial strategy and the great efforts that have been exerted have had and still have the objective of achieving continuing development, to counteract the adverse trends in the terms of trade, the burden of amortizations and interest payments, and the low investment inflow. Those factors compel all the developing countries to take strong economic adjustment measures.
Nevertheless, despite the unsteady evolution of the world economy owing to restrictions on international trade and the Latin American external-debt problems, the Republic of Paraguay continues its efforts to promote a better quality of life, education and public health within the country; it also continues to encourage agricultural and industrial development as well as doing a great deal of work on the basic infrastructure. On the other hand, because of the brotherly ties of friendship between my country and its neighbours, we have in mind large-scale integration projects which will have a broad and favourable impact on development within Latin America. In that regard, it should be noted that, with the beginning of the commercial operation of turbines 12 and 13, envisaged for the end of this year, Itaipu - the largest dam in the world, built jointly with the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil - will generate 9,100,000 kilowatts. Similarly, there has been no interruption in the construction of the Yacireta hydroelectric dam on the Parana River, with a power of 4,050,000 kilowatts, or the construction of an international 2,600-metre bridge, which is now nearing completion. Both projects are being carried out in conjunction with the Argentine Republic. These large undertakings have already had the following positive effects·, the availability of abundant electric power·, possibilities for electro-intensive industries and the export of the energy from those industries·, the electrification of villages and towns in the interior of the country, from which 289 communities have so far benefited.
We should also emphasize the facilities that are granted to us by brotherly countries in free ports such as Paranagua and Rio Grande do Sur in Brazil, Rosario and Buenos Aires in Argentina, Nueva Palmira and Montevideo in Uruguay, Antofagasta in Chile, and Matarani in Peru·, the latter two are on the Pacific coast.
I mention those examples of growth, efforts and sacrifices in order to demonstrate the vigour of a Government that is aware of its responsibilities and is seeking a quality of life for its people that is in keeping with the progress of our civilization.
On 15 August this year, a new period in the life of the Government began, in conformity with the national Constitution. That Constitution was promulgated in 1967; it was the undisputed product of the National Constituent Assembly, made up of four political parties. The elections for the five-year period 1988 to 1993 were free and direct, in accordance with the provisions of the electoral law. The right to vote was exercised, as usual, with many options and within the specific time-limit established by the law. The three branches of State power are functioning freely, and the nation is moving towards the attainment of better goals of progress and development in a multi-patty environment open to all democratic political trends that are in keeping with legal rules that are the same for everyone.
The Persian Gulf war has been and still is a matter of concern to the Republic of Paraguay. It appears that the war has come to an end, thanks to the skilful negotiations carried out by the Secretary-General and to the moral authority of our Organization. We applaud the good spirit shown by the parties involved, who have rejected intolerance and chosen, instead, conciliatory dialogue. The Republic of Paraguay hopes that these efforts will succeed, so that world peace may be strengthened.
Another cardinal subject among the International conflicts threatening international peace and security continues to be the thorny question of Afghanistan. That question can be summed up as armed intervention by a super-Power that shows contempt for the principles of the self-determination of peoples and non-intervention in the internal affairs of nations. The news about the gradual withdrawal of the occupying troops indicates another extraordinary achievement by the United Nations. That is a source of satisfaction to the international community and a sign that international practice is again moving towards respect for the sovereignty of States, in accordance with another principle, the juridical equality of nations. We hope that the withdrawal of all the troops will soon be a fact, for the sake of the institutions on which the ethical order of international life and respect among nations is based. 
We note with interest the developments in the informal talks that were held recently, at the request of Indonesia and other members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, to consider the serious problem of Kampuchea in the context of the search for a long-term political solution in keeping with the resolutions of our Organization. The withdrawal of the foreign military forces remains the pre-condition for the restoration of Kampuchea's sovereignty, independence and self-determination.
The problems of the Middle East and Lebanon persist. There has still been no positive response to efforts by the international community to restore peaceful and tolerant coexistence to that region. In response to the call for a peace conference concerning the region, dissident voices have been raised alleging that such a peace conference would be useless; but no suggestions have been made for an alternative under which the parties could give up their radical, conflicting positions. The Republic of Paraguay repeats that any arrangement that is reached must be in accordance with the provisions of Security Council resolution 242 (1967), and that two fundamental principles must be respected in any resolution that may be adopted full recognition of the sovereign existence of the State of Israel, and the Palestinian people's right to exist and to have a homeland. The problem of Lebanon continues to be of concern to all men and women in the world. It is time to end this irrational war that has destroyed a country which was a centre of peace and progress but in which today these is an ever-increasing spirit of belligerency and destruction.
The recent events with regard to the Cyprus question open up encouraging prospects for the solution of the problem, as the Secretary-General points out in his report. The parties have resumed their talks, and with the good offices which the Security Council has requested the Secretary-General to exercise, commitments to co-operate have been made. The Republic of Paraguay very much hopes that through direct dialogue between the parties, and with the Secretary-General following up the progress achieved in the preliminary stages, the fundamental objective desired by the international community can be achieved - that is, to see the people of Cyprus living in peace and harmony within the concert of nations.
The Government of the Republic of Paraguay, in accordance with a tradition that has not varied since it participated in the founding of the United Nations, will lend its solidarity and co-operation to any initiatives that obtain the required consensus to be put into effect, for the good of the Organization and the international community - initiatives ranging from the financial strengthening of the institution to the peaceful solution of the various problems with which it is confronted. The position of Paraguay on human rights has always been one based on justice without giving offence, with a view to maintaining the highest levels of coexistence between Governments and nations. Similarly, the right to life, liberty and property are and will continue to be guaranteed by the terms of the Constitution and by law, in keeping with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Republic of Paraguay has in all forums always rejected both the nuclear and the conventional arms race, since it entails wasting billions of dollars while there is an urgent need for economic and social development. International security, the process of development and peace based on respect for the dignity of all nations, law and the right to life can be achieved only by the cessation of the arms race both in the rich industrialized countries and in countries that need these resources to promote their development.
Another scourge on mankind that negatively affects the very structure of human life is terrorism. This practice continues to undermine the moral order of human existence and its fatal consequences have shocked nations that cherish peace, order and respect for human life without distinction of any kind, such as nationality, colour, origin or opinion. It is time to be frank and ask ourselves whether our countries and our Organization have done enough to put an end to this horrendous scourge, for there is nothing so cowardly in the world and in the history of mankind as the murder of innocent human beings under the pretext of calling attention to certain issues that cannot be resolved in this way, by destroying man and his social institutions. The Republic of Paraguay, which has not experienced this madness that is terrorism or armed violence, urges all Member States which usually blame the existence of this evil on underlying causes to change their attitude and unreservedly support all initiatives to eliminate terrorism from the world. There is only one alternative for our Organization; either all countries agree to combat this cruel and bloody practice with all the force of morality and law or the Organization will lose its prestige and credibility before the peoples of the world, who see in the United Nations a valuable and irreplaceable instrument for putting an end to international terrorism.
My country's Government is combating the scourge of drugs with all its legal and moral strength. As the President of Paraguay, General Alfredo Stroessner, said before the General Assembly.
"With the Constitution and the laws, we are confronting those who are trying to weaken our free institutions, the detestable agents of that social cancer, the drug traffic." (A/S-15/PV.8, p. 11)
Our country has joined world efforts to terminate this pernicious activity. It took part in the last Vienna Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking and is giving full effect to the Declaration and broad plan of action which emanated from that international conference. Our legislative branch is currently engaged in preparing a new law to suppress drug trafficking, for we know that our legislation must reflect this sad moment for mankind which is destabilizing its free institutions and corrupting the human person.
Vie firmly believe that our Organization has now readied a high point in its activities for international peace and security. We trust that its valuable co-operation with the Organization of American States (OAS) and the Latin American Economic System (SBLA) will continue to increase in the quest for a better future for our region and for all the world, for no one doubts the need for the existence and activities of regional organizations. The Republic of Korea has always been a country under international strict juridical order, respecting the law, ethical norms and international law. My Government understands that there is no obstacle standing in the way of its admission to the Organization, while keeping open the possibility for the People's Republic of Korea to do likewise. This request is justified by the fact that the United Nations must become increasingly universal, without any exceptions.
We fully appreciate what the law of the sea means to the world in the context of an increasingly interdependent and participating international community where countries are seeking agreements on improving the use of the resources of the sea without discrimination. My country firmly believes that the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is proof of the progress made by mankind towards fairer goals. The Republic of Paraguay ratified that international instrument and will support its applicability in all forums of the world.
The world is closely following the work of this session of the General Assembly in this crucial time for the peaceful coexistence of peoples, when the media are reporting the activities of the Organization with regard to well-known hotbeds of conflict, death, desolation, misery and pain.
It is necessary to redouble our efforts in order to promote peace and security and overcome understandable differences and existing ideologies, united in our desire to serve mankind, making sure that the terror of war and the next war could indeed be the last if nuclear weapons are used - will never again grip the world. Let us continue together in the search for a future of love and understanding between men and peoples where no room is left for the hatred that kills, the hunger that undermines the dignity of the King of Creation, the terror that petrifies and converts us into wild beasts, and the intolerance that denigrates the moral quality of life in society. That is the only hope left to us in view of the arsenals that have been built up in the world. It is up to us, through conciliation, to convert this aspiration into reality.
We trust that the Supreme Creator will enlighten us and give us the necessary moral strength to continue to work for a world of peace and justice.


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿May I begin my address to the forty-fourth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations by expressing my heartfelt pleasure at being present in this forum, which holds such a deep significance in today's political world. I wish to pay my respects to you, General Joseph A. Garba, President of the General Assembly, representative of the Republic of Nigeria, and to extend my best wishes for the success of the proceedings conducted under your expert and competent leadership. I also wish to convey my most cordial greetings to the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, a brilliant representative of the Americas who has done so much to unite the nations of the world and who deserves our admiration and gratitude.
On behalf of the people of Paraguay, and for myself, I wish to pay homage and respect to all the peoples so honourably represented here. I also extend our very best wishes to their leaders and express our hope that by following the broad highway of liberty and justice they may bring peace and prosperity to all mankind. Since the day in 1945 when the United Nations was founded, Paraguay has striven to remain faithful to the lofty principles of the Charter, and above all to those actions that guarantee the peaceful settlement of disputes, the unfailing advance of social and economic well-being to the benefit of every country in the world, the equal standing of all States under the law, self-determination for all peoples and the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other nations.
We are pleased to note that in the past year, and so far this year, it has been possible to bring to an end hostilities in the Persian Gulf, to sponsor the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan and to promote the peace accords involving Angola, South Africa and Cuba.
With such happy outcomes to strengthen our faith in the ability and will to bring into being an international community based on reason rather than force, we trust that, as Article 1 of the San Francisco Charter provides, all nations in the world will abide by the decision
"To achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion." That is why we view with such deep concern the violence prevalent in various parts of our planet, violence provoked by racial prejudice or by theories leading to harmful and dangerous discrimination. We fervently hope that we can put an end to wars, conflicts and pitiless persecutions which have become permanent afflictions in some parts of the world. There is no time to waste before reason comes into its own and efforts are made to eliminate from our civilization the last vestiges of institutionalised hatred that threaten to nullify Article 1 of the Charter, to which I have referred.
In this context we wish to support the efforts to bring about the unity of Korea and we hope for a solution to the long-standing conflict in Namibia. We are saddened by the fact that in America, a continent so closely tied to our emotions and so constantly in our thoughts, we have found it difficult to stop this endless fratricidal fighting that destroys everything, filling the land with ruin and desolation and casting a dark shadow on the history of brother nations. Our thoughts turn in particular to El Salvador. No effort - large or small, simple or genial, temporary or permanent - will be tried in vain if we are to stop the bloodshed in that noble nation and in others where the loudest sound nowadays is the sound of gunfire.
Just as grave as conventional war between nations or between fellow citizens is the horror provoked by modern acts of terrorism. Today the scourge of terrorism can arise anywhere to tarnish the traditions of honour of any nation. Terror knows no boundaries, and even at the risk of leaving unmentioned the suffering of other countries I must express our deep sympathy to Spain, Peru and Colombia. We fully appreciate the just and painful sacrifices made by the Governments of those countries to combat by lawful means and with due respect for human rights the inhumane and abominable practices of terrorism and to put an end to them.
Our heartfelt solidarity goes to Colombia. Deeply moved, we wish to express our warmest support for the courageous and resolute decision taken by its eminent President, Doctor Virgilio Barco, to proceed in the struggle without quarter that his country is facing at this time when it is fighting for its very survival.
Let me make it clear that, just as we condemn the terrorism of the armed bands that are out of control, we also heartily condemn the terror imposed by the State. The tragedy of Tiananmen Square and the executions ordered by people's courts also deserve our most sincere and heartfelt repugnance. We stand unconditionally by Colombia and other nations in condemning with all the strength at our command the infamous trade in narcotics. 1 take this opportunity to declare before this General Assembly that Paraguay supports, and will continue to support, as matters of the utmost priority, all the initiatives and measures that may be necessary within the international community to destroy Without mercy the nefarious traffic in drugs.
In my country, which has not escaped this scourge, my Government proceeded to destroy fields where marijuana was being grown just as soon as information on its clandestine production became known, by fumigating from the air, with the help of aircraft supplied by the United States Government. We took immediate steps to eradicate every indication of trade in narcotics. My Government will not permit Paraguayan soil to be used for the transit of drugs and drug dealers and, within the limitations imposed upon us by economics, we will use every possible means to Prevent and eradicate this development.
I take this opportunity to request the broadest and most positive cooperation of all Member States to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. I also wish to declare that we share, with optimism and sympathy, President Bush's firm decision to lead the fight on drugs on a world-wide scale.
Before I continue to address other international issues that have come to our attention and which we are bound to discuss, I must refer to my own country, Paraguay, where certain developments that are public knowledge have changed the political channels since 3 February 1989. Those changes have a direct bearing on some of the fundamental principles of the United Nations, principles that are at the heart of the major objectives of the United Nations and perhaps point the way of destiny itself, it is a well-known axiom that the history of a nation seldom follows the demanding postulates of political science because situations arise in unfortunate circumstances that are difficult to correct. In Paraguay we were fully conscious of the need to bring about substantial changes in our internal policies.
While it is true that in recent decades economic developments had the effect of easing changes in my country's infrastructure, especially in connection with important public works, it is also true that the prolonged exercise of personal power and the prevalence of special interests arising around the seat of power did noticeable and progressive damage to the political institutions of Paraguay and did much to tarnish the international image of the nation.
Any strategy designed to bring about the downfall of the dictatorship that had taken over the Government needed careful thought and planning if it was to achieve the proposed objective at the least possible cost to society. Thus it came about that on 2 and 3 February this year a military operation conducted by the armed forces of the nation under my immediate command removed the oppressive and totalitarian regime and dissolved the Parliament that was part and parcel of the power structure dominant at the time.
Immediately, and without exceptional measures of any kind to affect the Political and legal structure then in effect we proceeded to build as fast as we could and with the means available to us a new framework for democracy. That is the path being folded at present by the Republic of Paraguay with the unanimous support of every shade of political opinion and of the armed forces.
The first and most important development came about when, in the initial days of my Government, fellow citizens, many of whom had heretofore been compelled to live abroad for political reasons, returned to our country as they wished and without restrictions of any kind. All constraints on press and freedom came to an end. Those that had been closed down recovered on that same day, 3 February, their constitutional right to inform Paraguayan public opinion. 
After the events of 3 February elections were called under the Constitution to elect the President of the Republic and members of the National Congress. The electoral law was amended to allow all political parties to participate in a just democracy. Twelve political parties responded to my Government's call, some of them formed under the new political situation, and no fewer than eight parties ran for the office of President of the Republic and to serve in the Chambers of Senators and Deputies.
The general elections were held on 1 May this year. The election campaign was hard fought but every candidate enjoyed full guarantees under which to run for office without constraints of any kind. That election brought to our Paraguayan horizon a new era of democracy allowing all my fellow citizens to join in building a modern Paraguay.
In the initial phase of the constitutional term the executive branch together with the National Congress proceeded to repeal all repressive or restrictive laws bearing on the political freedoms of citizens. In this connection the first legislation enacted by my Government served to ratify the San Jose de Costa Rica American Convention on Human Rights, which my country had signed 20 years ago.
In the same context of compliance with international agreements, so closely bound to the recovery of Paraguay's image, I have submitted for approval by Congress the Convention against -torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the Inter-American Convention to Prevent and Punish Torture signed in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, on 9 December 1985, and the Convention on the Political Rights of Women.
Within the framework of its intention to consolidate democracy the national Government intends to call for direct elections for local municipal authorities. Another priority project is to call a national constitutional assembly to amend the present Constitution so that the people of Paraguay in an atmosphere of serene and rational debate may adopt a new Constitution that will guarantee the democratic and republican system and eradicate for all time any attempt to bring back autocracy.
A policy of the highest priority adopted by the present Government of Paraguay is to bring about effective and real integration with its neighbouring countries within the Plata Basin and a more ambitious plan to involve not only the southern countries but the entire South American continent. In this connection I have had the honour to meet on several occasions with my illustrious colleagues the Presidents of Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Peru and Uruguay. I cherish the hope that I shall be able to establish fraternal relations with other American Presidents so that they may come to understand the true dimensions of the political changes brought about in Paraguay in its frank and irreversible advance towards democracy.
Within the framework of this dynamic policy in search of integration based on the treaties signed by the countries in the Plata Basin and the Latin American Integration Association, some encouraging results have already been achieved, even though there is still a long way to go. We are improving upon the terms of our reciprocal trade, we are trying to integrate our industries, we are seeking a better understanding of our mutual interests, and above all we are increasing communications among our territories.
The bi-national hydroelectric projects at Itaipu, built jointly with Brazil and already in operation, and the dam at Yacyreta, being built jointly with Argentina, are eloquent examples of this spirit of integration. Furthermore, within the past week, the Presidents of the Plata Basin countries have agreed to build an international waterway on the Paraguay, Parana and Plata rivers so as to direct their powerful waters to facilitate waterborne traffic bearing the produce of the vast areas bordering those rivers towards the Atlantic Ocean.
This vital project is now under study by skilled technicians and has attracted, in principle, the support of the Inter-American Development Bank. This waterway will without doubt serve as an instrument of exceptional usefulness for the countries that will benefit from its development. Paraguay and Bolivia will be strengthened substantially from this improved access to the sea. At the same time I cannot fail to point out that Paraguay and Bolivia are landlocked countries. They are the only two such countries in the entire American Continent afflicted by this disadvantage. This condition should be fully acknowledged not only by the community of States in the Americas but also by the rest of the world.
In this connection may I recall that the law of the sea is a legal accomplishment that does great credit to the ingenuity and political will of people that may now benefit in so many ways from their sea coasts.
Nevertheless, true international solidarity among all nations will achieve its real meaning only if so-called landlocked countries, numbering not more than 20, can share equally in the law of the sea, which has been justly named the common heritage of mankind. The economies of landlocked countries, although they benefit from existing international accords dealing with transport, need the resources of the sea, whose rich treasures cannot remain the exclusive property of those situated along the coastlines, but rather should benefit entire continents bathed by its waters. My country daily experiences the problem of being landlocked and believes that perhaps it is time to reach agreements towards international action in concert with other landlocked countries in Europe, Asia and Africa which, like my own country, aspire to find not only easy access to the sea but also to receive from it the bounty that Providence has placed in its waters.
I now wish to refer to the foreign indebtedness of our nations. The weight of the external debt continues to threaten the economic recovery of vast areas where the population is struggling on the very threshold of survival. The economy of the developing countries, in spite of wrenching efforts at internal adjustments which always exact a high social cost, have witnessed dramatic reductions in income levels, where the index of poverty and dashed hopes are increasing, while the international financial community often looks on indifferently.
May I take this opportunity to remark before this highest forum on the enormous risk run by the nascent democracies in our hemisphere if they remain unable to solve the social and economic problems faced by the large majority of their populations. The solution to these problems will require the unstinting co-operation of the most highly developed societies on our planet, it would be dangerous and fraught with unpredictable consequences to bring about a backward step in the march towards democracy owing to the indifference or neglect of those who are honour-bound to impose a more just international economic order because of the eminent levels of economic growth they have already achieved.
The 1980s has been a troubled decade for Latin America, which now finds itself faced by drastic declines in the level of foreign capital investment that weakens the incipient economic strength of the region and burdens the debtor countries with an additional heavy load when they are faced with the problem of financing its stabilization and subsequent growth out of meagre domestic savings. There has been time enough since the initial structural adjustments took place in a number of debtor countries for us to be able to say that internal sacrifices alone will not Provide a final solution to the economic crisis which still holds many countries in its grasp.
While Paraguay is not in an extreme situation, we also face debt problems. In this respect we have recently renegotiated an important sector of our external debt with another Latin American debtor nation, the Federal Republic of Brazil. Our terms of adjustment could well be taken as a demonstration of the fact that solutions can be found if there is political will to cooperate towards that end. We perceive hopeful signs of a renewed dialogue in search of solutions to the Problem of foreign indebtedness. We call upon the international financial community and on the Governments of industrial nations to press on in a joint effort designed to strengthen the structures of production and finance in the developing economies. This joint effort will be of benefit not only to the debtors but also to the creditors who wish, as indeed they should wish, the world to be awash in prosperity rather than poverty. Generalised poverty will not bring legitimate prosperity to anyone.
 We are largely a farming and cattle-raising country, and the vigour of our economy still awaits the support and driving power of investment. We offer in exchange our bountiful soil, our gentle climate, and the strength of the Paraguayan people. Our nation opens its doors to productive investments by foreign enterprises. They will enjoy the support of a Government that follows clear policies to bring about a social market economy, to provide protection for private property and to secure for them the legitimate benefits they earn. We offer to them an adequate guarantee for their investments within a climate of absolute honesty and administrative probity.
I am encouraged to make this announcement in this highest forum in the presence of such qualified personalities. I place my trust in the intelligence and the natural goodness of my fellow Paraguayans, who are anxious to achieve an improved quality of life. United in strength, with a practical approach, we can put together concerted action embracing debtors and creditors, multilateral financial organizations and prosperous nations, in a quest for solutions founded on socially acceptable and politically viable terms and conditions, thereby putting aside the dangers threatening the promising democratic processes of so many countries.
The economics of production, especially in a country such as mine, that places its trust in agriculture and cattle-raising, run the grave risk posed by the deterioration of the environment. In this connexion, I wish to place on record the concern of my Government over the preservation of a physical environment as bountiful as that of my country. We call for international co-operation so that the resources and experience may serve to defend the fertile valleys, dense forests and bountiful rivers of Paraguay, so that the many millions who will, in the future, share with us the soil of one of the most beautiful regions of America may find a natural environment that can provide for a way of life which is healthful and un-contaminated. Paraguay finds itself at the very moment when it can seek a balanced combination of industrial progress and clear skies in a land that can be even more generous in its gifts. 
Paraguay is headed irrevocably towards political democracy and is facing the challenges of social and cultural deprivation that affect youthful majority of its population. Sixty-nine per cent of the people in my country are under the age of thirty. We suffer from a high level of illiteracy; we lack the means for adequate higher education; we are behind in the area of public health and we face increasing unemployment levels. We look with hope  to the interest shown by the United Nations Educational, scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO)  and the World Health Organisation co-operating with us to solve the deficiencies of our social make-up. We look forward to further and increasing assistance in the coming years so that before the next century begins my country may leave behind the disturbing condition, we inherited from the political system displaced on 3 February this year.
My Government also wishes to voice its concern over the constant erosion in the funding of the United Nations Development Programs assigned to the Latin American region. As the time approaches for consultation on the funding and appropriation of resources for the fifth program cycle for the United Nations Development Programme, 1992-1996 we wish to make a clear statement of our position. We feel that the share assigned to our region by the program, must remain at least at the same level as today, so as to reverse the process of constant deterioration in technical assistance. We need such assistance for our development, especially in our countries that are economically weaker. On behalf of my Government may I also express our satisfaction with the flexibility and speed shown by the United Nations Development Program in responding to the high priority requests of my Governs, such as those in the field of land reform and job creation in small enterprises. We are confident that, with international cooperation, we shall move forward in the field of social and economic democracy as an inescapable component of the auspicious political transformation now taking place in Paraguay, with the broadest practical guarantee of freedoms the Government and the people of Paraguay have set about consolidating.
An Organization such as ours, which proposes to establish the conditions for permanent peace, must logically include on its agenda every year the subject of disarmament. The topic has been taken up with special emphasis and concern by the so-called great. Powers; but it is none the less true that all of our countries, however modest their resources, must also limit their levels of armaments to the strictest minimum. Either the rule of reason or the balance of terror will ultimately decide the level of armaments, whatever our terms of reference.
Fear of a nuclear holocaust has driven the super-Powers to take the path of reason. We who lack the power to destroy our planet must be comforted by the hope that true brotherhood will reign in the world.
Most recently Pope John Paul II, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War, summarized in memorable words the entire issue of disarmament when he said "war itself is irrational and the principle of the peaceful solution of conflicts is the only alternative worthy of mankind-. 
Risk is seldom far from human existence, but risk can be controlled by intelligence and judgement. This is my understanding of the greatest challenge facing this increasingly important organization, which we support and will continue to support fervently and loyally in our quest for indestructible solidarity among all human beings.
I shall return to ray country with the image of this memorable occasion
imprinted in my mind, as I have had the honour of addressing this Assembly and in a few words expressing my Government's views on some of the issues we face in our time, as well as the hope cherished by the Paraguayan people that every dawn will bring, together with the light of the tropical sun, the promise of a more fraternal and happy world.
 May these hours never be wasted as we embark upon the long road to peace, justice, liberty and the brotherhood of man.


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿At the outset I should like to congratulate the President on his election to his high office at the forty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Because of his great intellectual and moral qualities we are convinced he will be able to conduct our work with the utmost competence and resolve.
We extend the greetings of our Government to Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and express our satisfaction at his excellent performance with regard to the task entrusted to him.
We also wish to join with those delegations that have expressed satisfaction at the admission to membership in the United Nations of the principality of Liechtenstein and the Republic of Namibia. 
We have come to this forum convinced of the continuing validity of the major purposes and principles set forth in the Charter. The important changes that have taken place in the world make it possible to predict an era of peace and good will among people and of increased understanding between the super-Powers and co-operation, and assistance among all nations.
In this international context the United Nations is acquiring new importance as a forum for the co-ordination of national and regional activities and as an instrument indispensable to world peace and security. The work done by the Security Council has been essential to the strengthening of the Organisation, and its recent action has reaffirmed the need for multilateralism.
The Republic of Paraguay shares and fully supports the thrust of the Security Council resolutions clearly and categorically condemning the invasion of Kuwait and adopting measures to deter the aggression.
The rights of independence, territorial integrity and free exercise of sovereignty by a State are essential to the very existence of the international legal order. Without full and complete respect for such rights, peace among the community of nations is inconceivable. For that reason Paraguay has not only publicly condemned that aggression against a Member State of our Organization but, in strict compliance with the provisions adopted by the Security Council, also has taken measures we have already reported. We take this opportunity to encourage the Secretary-General to undertake new efforts to solve the conflict within the framework of the United Nations.
Paraguay, which has always had very close links of co-operation with the Federal Republic of Germany, cannot fail to express its satisfaction with the decision of the German States to reunite in a single great nation. 
We hail the trend towards the normalization of internal relations in the Republic of South Africa and we support any reform which, with the consent of the various sectors that stake up South African society, will lead to the full integration of all of its citizens without discrimination.
We note with concern that solution of the problem of the Middle East .is not yet within the grasp of the Organization. Paraguay will endorse any initiative that will lead to the peaceful solution of the differences separating the peoples of Israel and the Arab States and that takes account of the Palestinian people's right to its own homeland and the State of Israel's right to live in peace within its own borders.
Signs of a possible negotiated end to the long-standing conflict in Cambodia have been strengthened by the decisions of the parties to accept a peace plan and a broad solution with the help of the United Nations. Paraguay is pleased to support those steps and urges the parties concerned to take advantage of this historic opportunity for peace and reconciliation for the Cambodian people.
We also wish to take this opportunity to express our Government's solidarity with the constant efforts of the Republic of Korea to achieve through dialogue reconciliation of the Korean people in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. We hope that in the near future the people of Korea will be represented in our midst.
The question of disarmament continues to be a priority issue for our Organization. The new climate of confidence and dialogue established between the super-Powers gives us hope that part of the resources used for the production of armaments can be redirected towards helping development. 

Peace and security can be achieved only by taking the needs of people into account and considering the causes and sources of violence. Given the dimensions of various world problems, we are all very much aware of the dangers of nuclear confrontation. The need to give full effect to human rights and fundamental freedoms has been one of the main concerns of the democratic Government of my country established after the elections of 1 May 1989. Political will has made it possible for our country to be counted among those States Members of the Organisation that fully respect human rights. My country's Government is making great efforts to adapt its legislation so that it may be among the most advanced in this respect and to disseminate fundamental principles in order to train its people in knowledge of a respect for human rights. To that end we are being assisted by the Organisation. For the first time, with the co-operation of the United Nations, we held a seminar on human rights last July. Our national Government attaches the greatest importance to the well-being of children and therefore welcomed with satisfaction news of the convening of a United Nations summit conference at which practical measures can be discussed and decisions adopted with a view to solving problems affecting children. 
On the national level end in our bilateral relations, specific measures are being adopted to strengthen our country's legal and institutional instruments in order to control the illicit production and traffic of dangerous drugs more effectively. At the same time, co-operation programmes are being established within the legal framework of the agreements we have recently signed with neighbouring countries and with the United States for more effective joint action. Along the same lines, Paraguay ratified the United Nations Convention against illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances.
We believe that in our country and the world at large, tangible progress has been made in the struggle against the illegal traffic and consumption of drugs. We will continue our struggle to ensure that by educating our youth and creating better social conditions, the consumption of drugs will no longer be attractive. Our Government, committed to a better future for mankind, is bent on helping to adopt all measures to preserve our natural resources for future generations, and expresses its determination to adopt and implement all measures necessary towards that end.
In 1992, 500 years after its discovery, America will once again express its hopes for a better world for humanity when the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development is held in Brazil. Thirty years ago, in 1960, we launched the first United Nations Development Programme and we prepared an action strategy. Nevertheless, the problems of the developing countries are far from being solved. We still have serious obstacles to the expansion of our trade. Instead of a growing transfer of resources from the industrialized nations to our countries, the opposite is true. The prices of our commodities are declining in real terms and all our efforts to capitalize are thus fruitless. Technical assistance and the transfer of technology assists countries of average development, which need it most, our ever-dwindling financial resources and external debt are some of our problems that seem unsolvable or only partially solvable.
We are fully convinced that it is indispensable to deal with the social and economic problems of our international society in a global fashion by adopting measures that will effectively change the very structure of the world economy, thus creating a new, more just international economic order. No future strategy can have definitive results if it does not include structural reforms.
With the end of the East-West conflict we can conceive of a community of nations investing all its strengths in a new type of struggle, in which North and South, united in common ideals, will strive to put an end to the main causes of human suffering» We aspire to a world of integration, co-operation, assistance for development, and not merely a world of peaceful coexistence.
For Paraguay integration is a comprehensive factor for development as the best political and economic means to achieve a future for Latin America. That is why we have accepted an invitation to participate in a process begun by Argentina and Brazil, and also involving Chile and Uruguay. Paraguay's pro-integration position is expressed not only in the declaration of principles set forth in our national Constitution, but also in our deeply rooted links with our neighbours on the American continent, both in commercial enterprises such as power-generation and infrastructure, as well as in joint efforts such as the Paraguay-Parana waterway. We hope that this decade will be known in America as the decade of integration, and we are sure that it will benefit our peoples. America must comply with the historic mandate of unity.
President Bush's America’s initiative has been welcomed by the countries of the hemisphere, and expresses the spirit of unity and continental solidarity and the intention the Government of the United States to help developing countries. In that respect, the countries of the South American common market region have adopted a joint position with regard to arriving at a specific agreement with the United States Government.
Since the advent of democracy, a freely elected Government was established in my country under the leadership of President Andres Rodriguez, with full respect for human rights and legitimacy. One of our first tasks has been the reform of legal and institutional instruments, allowing us to ensure full exercise of democracy in our country. We can thus point to the repeal of repressive laws; the adoption by our National Congress of a new electoral code incorporating Paraguay's legislation in institutions appropriate to modern participatory democracy; the convening in 1991 of the first direct municipal elections in the history of Paraguay; and the restoration of a sincere climate of tolerance and dialogue in our country between all political parties, without ideological prejudice. We have respect and guarantees for the right of assembly. Workers' associations are free to express themselves through trade unions, and there are no political prisoners in our country. In the economic sphere, the Government has accepted the responsibility of redressing the country's imbalances by adopting the necessary economic, financial, monetary and exchange policies.
The solution to some problems makes it possible to solve other problems that were overshadowed by the first. The major political and economic reforms that allow us to see a new Paraguay, one filled with hope for greater well-being and happiness, have made it possible to better appreciate the existence of problems that the national Government is today determined to resolve. For that, we need the co-operation and understanding of the United Nations and of friendly nations at a higher level of development.
The major changes that are taking place in the world reaffirm our faith in the destiny of mankind. With the fall of walls and the opening of borders, humanity is moving towards a future in which it can exercise its inalienable rights. The changes that have occurred, in America and Europe in particular, constitute above all a triumph of liberty and the right of people to choose their own future and to enjoy the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
America, our America, is experiencing a unique time of democratically elected governments that answer to the demands of the people and have begun to move towards integration. America would like to have a single homeland, the fulfilment of its hopes and dreams.
We reaffirm our confidence in the United Nations. It will continue to be the primary instrument to preserve world peace and, above all, to guarantee the liberties, independence and integrity of peoples and nations, enforce the law, and achieve acceptance of the solution to all disputes.


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿Perhaps never before have we heard such optimistic words spoken here. Concern has been expressed for the future, of course, but faith in the future of mankind has also been expressed. There is renewed trust in this Organization and in its ability to fulfil the purposes and principles of the Charter. The President has been entrusted with leading the General Assembly at this crucial stage in its history. His wisdom and ability ensure a fruitful session. My country congratulates him and the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, whose name will be inscribed in the pages of the history of the United Nations and the history of the struggle for peace on Earth.Hopes for lasting peace have been strengthened by the admission of the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to membership of the United Nations. Paraguay is glad that the Republic of Korea has seen its dream come true of taking its seat in the Organization, as it has long wished to do. We hail and welcome the Republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which have now become Members in well-earned recognition of their long struggles for freedom and independence. We also welcome the Republic of the Marshall Islands ana the Federated States of Micronesia.As I have said, mankind is now experiencing an extraordinary reaffirmation of its fundamental values. Peace, respect for inalienable human rights, freedom and democracy are no longer words with no meaning for most of the countries that are now preparing to embark on the adventure of building a new world. Building a new world requires new attitudes. Let us not replace ideological confrontation by economic confrontation. It would not be worth eliminating the threat of military conflagration if the threat of death from lack of medicine and food remained.We trust that the end of the cold war will mark the beginning of the quest for a fairer social and economic order. It has been said time and again here that peace is more than the absence of war. To ensure true and lasting peace, the underlying causes of conflict must be eliminated. The end of the arms race, the relaxation of international tension and the rebirth of democracies and freedom will mean something only if they are accompanied by a firm resolve to help the most needy countries in their struggle for development. Liberalisation alone will not put bread on the table of the poor. This is the time for world solidarity.This session is taking place against the backdrop of an international atmosphere that has never before existed in our Organization. It has had an extraordinary impact on international relations. This situation made it possible to react decisively to the Persian Gulf crisis, the most serious threat to international peace and security faced in recent times by the Security Council. He believe that an important lesson has been learned from the conflict. There is an awareness of the need, on the one hand, to control and limit all kinds of weapons; and, on the other, to strengthen the ability to take preventive action in order to discourage anyone who might be tempted to have recourse to the use of force.This improvement in the international political climate shows that it is now possible to achieve appropriate solutions to challenges that earlier appeared out of reach; in our view, these include the conflict in Cambodia, the problem of Cyprus, Western Sahara and the Middle East, to name only the longest-standing and most serious problems.On Cambodia, recent events in the context of the peace plan of the five permanent members of the Security Council make it possible for that country to move forward to peace, national reconciliation and the restoration of sovereignty.We are concerned at the continuing tense situation in the Middle East. Paraguay reiterates its support for the initiatives for a peaceful negotiated solution including the right of the State of Israel to live in peace within its own borders and the right of the Palestinian people to a homeland of its own. Paraguay endorses the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and urges their implementation.We reaffirm our support for the work of the Secretary-General that has enabled us to see the glimmer of a solution to the conflict in Western Sahara.We voice once again our earnest hope that the good offices of the Secretary-General will lead to a solution of the Cyprus problem. The efforts of the Secretary-General and of the international community must be matched by the parties to the conflict if they are to come closer together and achieve a peaceful solution of the problem.Progress in South Africa towards the solution of that country's political problems is a harbinger of better days ahead in that region.Peace in El Salvador deserves a special, deeply emotional mention. All of America welcomes the good fortune of the Salvadoran people, and is glad to see the elimination of the few remaining conflicts in the region.Paraguay looks forward to enthusiastic participation in the 1992 Rio de Janeiro Conference on the environment. Five hundred years after its discovery, America once again holds out the hope of a better future for mankind. My country will adopt concrete measures and will sign agreements on protection of the environment; we shall set aside a large quantity of our territory as a protected zone.Today the notion of development is indissolubly linked with that of preserving the environment. How is the time to create the conditions for more sustainable development. Our Government shares mankind's common desire for economic growth without destruction. Protecting the environment shows love for mankind.He want a world without pollution, a world where nature is preserved, just as we want a drug-free society. Like the other countries of the hemisphere, Paraguay is committed to a frontal attack on drug trafficking.One of the fundamental pillars of Paraguay's foreign policy is cooperation with, and support for, the endeavours of the various international organizations that are working to protect human rights. It is not economic or military power that lends prestige to a country; rather, it is the way in which its inhabitants enjoy to the full human rights and fundamental freedoms.Since the morning of 3 February 1989, when President Rodriguez declared the beginning of the democratisation of Paraguay and respect for human rights, my country's transitional process has been based on achieving democracy and on laying the foundations for the full enjoyment of human rights.A year ago in this Hall Paraguay spoke optimistically about its future. Time has proven us right. In the process of consolidating our democracy and our freedoms so much has been constantly achieved that we venture to believe that obscurantism and repression are things of the past; we look to the future with optimism. It is an undeniable fact that we are once again a part of the world of free nations; that encourages us to participate in the search for a fairer world social and economic order in which free enterprise (with a clear social component), democracy and freedom will promote sustained development with a view to ensuring a better life for our peoples.We are pinning a large part of our hopes for development on integration, The Asuncion Treaty, which established the Common Market of the South (MEBCOSUR), was signed in our capital en 26 March 1991 by Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and ray country. It reflects our common goal of achieving development through, integration. I can announce today that the parliaments of these four countries have now endorsed the Asuncion Treaty; 30 days after the deposit of the instrument of ratification the Treaty will enter into force. Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay will go down in history as countries able to take up the challenge of integration in a joint effort to secure better economic and social conditions and to strengthen freedom and democracy.MERCOSUR is not just a development strategy. It reaffirms the determination of our peoples to live in peace, cooperation and harmony. It responds to the call of history. It is the rediscovery of our political, economic, social and cultural identities.In the contest also of international cooperation. President Bush launched the Enterprise the Americas plan, which is aimed at fostering better understanding among American countries through trade. The spheres of development, trade, investment and debt can help us promote equitable and beneficial relationships. To that end, and as part of a new relationship with the United States, the MERCOSUR Foreign Ministers and the Government of the United States signed the Rose Garden Agreement last June in the White House garden.MERCOSUR also has hopes for assistance and cooperation in its relations with the European Economic Community. At the Luxembourg meeting between Foreign Ministers of the European Community and the Rio Group, and at a later meeting in Brussels, foundations were laid for genuine rapprochement; there are plans for a joint cooperation agreement between MERCOSUR and the European Community.The European Community's experience with integration, its economic and production capacity and, above all, its declared good will towards MERCOSUR augur well for a better future in our relations. For its part, Paraguay is near to signing a third-generation agreement in the context of cooperation with the Community.Talks with Japan and other Asian countries also promise better relations between Latin America and those countries. I must not fail to highlight the traditional friendship and spirit of cooperation that links Paraguay with the Government and the people of Japan.In order to establish and maintain economic relations and to encourage in our country investment that stimulates development, we are negotiating agreements for the promotion and management of investments. In that context, Paraguay has entered into an agreement with the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, an organ of the World Bank, to protect international investments.The investment opportunities that Paraguay offers and the cooperation and participation of the more developed countries will help us to have a more effective presence in the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR).The new winds of democratisation and the profound enthusiasm for freedom reached Latin America before they reached other parts of the world. The 1990s.ad America made up as never before of countries with democratically elected Governments. Integration and the spirit of continent-wide solidarity seen in the Rio Group arouse hopes for a great homeland. We congratulate the Governments of Argentina and Chile on the success of their agreements on the demarcation of their borders, and we again express our happiness at the prospects for peace in El Salvador. We very much hope that our America will once again be the continent of peace and hope.Next year Ibero-America and friendly countries will be getting ready to commemorate the five hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America. It took five centuries for the countries that make up the Ibero-American community to get together in a summit conference, in the hospitable city of Guadalajara. It was the first of a series of meetings of countries with the same cultural, political and religious identities, eager to work together for a common future.We hope that there will be a successful outcome to the Uruguay Round negotiations. A policy of subsidies and protectionism is not compatible with a free-market economy not with the new international economic order that is supposedly being established.We desire equitable trade negotiations and a better price for our products, as the proper way to bring about development. Democracy and peace cannot last where man lacks the minimum conditions for a dignified life.Nowhere is more appropriate than the General Assembly of the United Nations for invoking continent-wide solidarity, good will and peace between nations. A United Nations ready to meet the challenge of new times is mankind's best means of bringing about the promising future that we see opening up before us. If we join forces and have good will, God will help us.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
First 
of all, permit me to express to you. Sir, my congratulations and best wishes 
on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly in its work at the 
forty-seventh session. We are sure that under your intelligent guidance, our 
endeavours will achieve the results we all desire. 
Also at the outset, allow me to extend to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, 
Secretary-General of the United Nations, cordial greetings from the Government 
and the people of the Republic of Paraguay, and to express our commitment to 
support him at all times in the difficult task of leading this Organization in 
its efforts for peace and international security. 
In welcoming the admission to membership of the United Nations of 
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, 

Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino, Slovenia, Tajikistan, 
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, we hail the triumph of freedom and of mankind's 
universal desire to live in peace and democracy, while retaining the 
individual's own identity. Ancient banners have come to wave proudly again 
over their homelands. 

A new order is emerging in our universe. On the one hand, we see the 
rebirth of old nationalisms. On the other, we see plans for the integration 
of countries which are seeking, by this means, the right direction for 
achieving better economic development and trying to find, as in the case of 
the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), the proper response to the 
requirements of their peoples for a better quality of life. 
The integration of our countries Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and 
Paraguay through MERCOSUR is something more than a mere strategy for 
development: it is a commitment of peoples with the same origin, with common 
cultural, historical, linguistic and religious identities, to share the common 
destiny of nations that were born in a territory of equality and hope. 
The timetable for our fledgling integration process is being met. The 
Las Leilas meeting of Presidents on 26 and 27 June 1992 approved and is 
implementing a programme of measures which sets out a process of alleviating 
and eliminating customs duties and non-tariff barriers and of requiring the 
gradual coordination of macroeconomic and sectoral policies. The recent 
signing of an agreement with the European Community is an important element of 
extraregional cooperation for MERCOSUR. 
As part of this same commitment to integration, Paraguay is moving ahead 
with the necessary legal instruments for making better uses of the 
Paraguay-Paran waterway. This communications link, which has the support of 
the Organization and other international communities, is designed to be one of 
the major river transport routes and an effective instrument for development 
by the MERCOSUR countries and our sister Republic of Bolivia. 

The danger of a nuclear conflagration that would jeopardize the very 
existence of mankind has disappeared. Common sense and moral values have 
prevailed. Today there are very few cases of armed confrontation in the 
world. Never, perhaps, in its history has mankind enjoyed so much peace as 
now. But history has not come to an end: hunger, disease, lack of education, 
intolerance and prejudice continue to affect most parts of the world. If we 
love liberty, if we love democracy, we must find a solution to these 
problems. No state of politics can endure when people do not have the minimum 
they need for a life of dignity. If there is no tolerance, there will be 
hatred and resentment. If there is no education, the future of the world 
cannot be certain. 
Now is the time for continental solidarity. Now is the time for doing 
away with prejudices and egoism. Now that the arms race is over, it would 
seem that the most powerful countries are preparing for another war, the 
economic war. Alliances are forming; they are trying to improve their 
competitiveness. The winner will be the one who produces and sells the most, 
without regard to the social cost, without regard to the fact that the 
products of the less developed countries are constantly losing value and that 
as a result it is more and more difficult for them to achieve development. 
The expectations the developing countries had for free trade are being blocked 
by the barriers of protectionism set up by the industrialized countries, 
which, paradoxically, are proclaiming the triumph of the free market. 
We need to .seek solutions that will alleviate the tragedy of the 
countries suffering the scourge of poverty. We are confident that, thanks to 
the welcome initiative of Chile in calling for the holding of a summit 
conference for social development, this will be a suitable opportunity for 
achieving world planning to promote the development of the poorest countries. 

The hatred, the intolerance and the constant violation of human rights in 
former Yugoslavia, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in Somalia 
remind us that the battle for peace has not ended. Peace is a gift, and its 
preservation requires constant work. Paraguay will support in the strongest 
possible terms any action by the Security Council designed to seek a final 
solution to this grave situation, as indeed we voted in favour of resolution 
46/242 of the General Assembly. Exacerbated nationalisms, racisms, religious 
hatreds and prejudices must disappear from the world if it wants to be more 
fraternal and humane. 
We are regarding with particular interest the continuation of 
negotiations to find a final solution to the Palestine question. It is our 
hope that these talks will contribute positively towards finding a peaceful 
and negotiated, final and lasting solution which would provide, as we have 
already said, for the right of the State of Israel to live in peace within its 
own borders and the right of the Palestinian people to its own homeland. 
The United Nations has lent its assistance to the peace process in South 
Africa through the Security Council. It is now up to the Government and the 
opposition to find appropriate solutions which provide, courageously and 
realistically, for the possibility of coexistence in a climate of peace, 
justice and security. 
As the United Nations enters the new world order that is the fruit of 
East-West detente, its structure and agenda must be reorganized. Social 
development and the maintenance of peace must be its major concerns. It will 
be vital for it to find appropriate machinery to fulfil these aims, and for it 
to have the unreserved support of those who can provide their decisive 
cooperation. 
 
The "Agenda for Peace" proposed by the Secretary-General deserves all our 
support: it could be the starting point for the search for new structures and 
new paths towards lasting and constructive peace. 
We believe, along with the Rio Group, that international peace and 
security will be truly guaranteed only in so far as the underlying causes of 
conflicts are eliminated. We therefore reaffirm the vital importance of 
economic and social development in the process of consolidating peace. The 
gap reflected in the disparity in wealth between the North and the South must 
be narrowed if we want to avoid a chain reaction of unsatisfied needs leading 
to profound crises in developing countries, with the danger of returning to 
systems which we have abandoned and which have caused our peoples so much 
suffering. 
We cannot talk about a future of peace or of sustained development 
without total respect for human rights. The dissemination of these rights and 
their constant observance is also a task for the United Nations. Respect for 
human rights must underpin any process of change. Hence, we welcome the World 
Conference on Human Rights, to be held in June 1993 in Vienna, and are pleased 
at the timeliness of its convening. 
Flagrant violations of human rights, such as terrorism, still persist. 
Once and for all we must accept that terrorism is on of the most serious 
violations, attacking as it does fundamental human rights such as the rights 
to life, security and patrimony. 
Just a few days ago, in this very Hall, we were moved by the words of the 
President of Colombia about the battle being waged by his people and 
Government against drug trafficking. Murder, extortion, kidnapping and 
corruption all have their - roots in the traffic in drugs. Magistrates, civil 

servants and anyone opposed to this criminal traffic are under constant 
threat, and many have paid for their ideals, their courage and their dignity 
with their lives. 
We agree with stress laid by the President of Colombia on the 
responsibility of the major consuming centres, and on countries' obligation to 
participate in a total war against drug trafficking. As the President said, 
we must have determined, collective international and multilateral action to 
combat this scourge on all fronts. 
Five hundred years ago, the imagination and daring of Columbus ushered in 
a new era. America, a continent of hope, was incorporated into the adventure 
of mankind, and it was destined to have a profound effect on the future. 
Today, as a coincidence, the world is entering into a new stage that is also 
promising and full of hope. It is for this generation to consolidate the 
future, and for our Organization to ensure that there is peace and to promote 
social development. 
To mark the quincentenary, the countries of Ibero-America met last year 
in Guadalajara, Mexico, determined to make the strength of our community count 
in the future. The response was positive, and at the second summit of Heads 
of State and of Government of Ibero-America, held this year in Madrid, 
effective projects designed to help the Ibero-American peoples were approved. 

Joint efforts such as those we have mentioned and those promised in the 
Americas Initiative, as well as the solidarity and support that my country has 
received from other countries such as Japan and Germany, give us hope for a 
future of concerted effort for the development of those who need it most. 
In the course of this year, my country attended the Earth Summit in Rio, 
eager to add its efforts to those of the other countries committed to 
preserving the environment. We announced measures adopted in this area, such 
as the declaration as a protected ecological zone of an area covering about 
60,000 hectares of woods, with an indigenous population and natural fauna. 
But what is more, we are currently studying a draft project for the 
development of the western region of my country, with the support of the 
European Community, paying particular attention to the preservation of the 
environment in an area of more than 240,000 square kilometres, which 
represents more than half of our territory. 
The Rio Conference made it possible for the whole world to become more 
aware of the relationship between development and the environment. It will be 
difficult to achieve lasting success in the endeavour of bringing about 
sustainable development of the Earth if the countries that bear the major 
responsibility for polluting the planet do not make available the necessary 
resources. 
The process of democratization in Latin America in this new era was, in a 
sense, what triggered the liberation movements in other parts of the world. 
Today, in America, with a few exceptions. Governments enjoy a legitimacy 
conferred upon them by free and unchallenged elections. The last flickers of 
violence are dying out, and peoples are living in freedom and democracy, with 
respect for human rights. 

The civil war in El Salvador is now history. That country, together with 
Honduras, has set an example for the international community by taking its 
international conflicts to the International Court of Justice for settlement. 
Peru is once again taking the path of restoring its constitution. In 
November, it will be holding constituent elections with the participation, at 
its request, of an observer mission from the Organization of American States. 
We hope that Peru will find solutions to the grave problems it is confronting 
and that we will shortly be able to welcome it back to the Rio Group. 
The Rio Group showed that it is a reliable mechanism for political 
consultation and cooperation, as it demonstrated when the crisis which 
endangered the constitution of Venezuela occurred and when it sent a 
delegation which took an active part in seeking to restore full democracy in 
Peru. 
Furthermore, through the Rio Group, meetings were held and a treaty of 
cooperation with the European Community was signed, and meetings were also 
held with countries of the Persian Gulf, Japan, China and Canada. 
The process of regional integration, whose ultimate objective is that of 
creating a vast common economic zone throughout the American continent, has, 
in addition to MERCOSUR, made great progress in the form of the Andean Pact, 
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and, first and foremost, the North American 
Free Trade Association (NAFTA), which is a blueprint for integration that has 
already been agreed upon by the United States of America and by Mexico and 
Canada. On behalf of my country, I should like to extend my congratulations 
and best wishes for success to those countries. 
 
Permit me to speak to you, however briefly, about Paraguay, my own 
country, which was reborn to democracy and recovered its freedom just four 
years ago. Our President, Andres Rodriguez, in this very Hall, addressing the 
General Assembly during the forty-fourth session, said: 
"Paraguay has set its feet firmly on the path of political 
democracy." (A/44/PV.6. p. 21) 
Today I can say, with legitimate pride, that the Government of Paraguay 
is keeping its promise. My country is living in a legitimate, genuine and 
fruitful democracy based on boundless respect for human rights and fundamental 
human freedoms. 
A new national Constitution, effective since 20 June 1992, is now 
governing the destiny of my country. This is the result of a democratic 
debate in a constituent national convention elected by popular will in free 
elections with the participation of all political forces, and was observed by 
members of international organizations, both governmental and non-governmental. 
In the economic and social realm, my country has continued to make 
progress in consolidating its economy through the process of adjustment and 
stabilization. We have liberalized trade, and we are giving priority 
attention to regional integration. 
Our whole policy of consolidating democracy, accompanied by the necessary 
process of stabilizing the economy and finances, has been made possible by the 
determination of the Paraguayan people, who made clear to their rulers that in 
their country there is no longer room for dictatorship or totalitarianism. 
But just as the Paraguayan people have become the masters of their new 
democratic and free destiny, we must recognize the determined support of the 
international community for our process of democratic consolidation and 

economic and financial stabilization. In particular, we should like to thank 
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Organization of American 
States (OAS) and the European Community for their cooperation and confidence. 
In conclusion, a few words about the United Nations. As it reaches what 
we might term the first stage of its existence, the balance sheet is 
favorable. Its work for peace has been effective. The near-unanimous opinion 
in recommending structural changes to strengthen it and to endow it with 
greater dynamism has as its sole cause the profound changes occurring in the 
world, which call for an Organization more in keeping with new requirements. 
To preserve peace will continue to be its principal task, but with a more 
responsive structure that will help reduce the causes of conflict. The whole 
world, longing as it does for a future of liberty, justice, peace and 
security, has placed its trust in the United Nations and its effectiveness. 


===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
This is the first occasion on which I have had the honour to
appear before this lofty international body to speak on behalf
of my country, Paraguay. I do so with the profound
satisfaction of representing a genuinely democratic
Government that has emerged from free elections, and as the
first civilian citizen who has held the presidency of the
Republic in 39 years.
I wish to congratulate you, President Insanally. Your
election, based on your solid professional knowledge and
your long political career, is a tribute to you personally and
to your country, Guyana, which you so worthily represent.
I am pleased to recall in this context that Paraguay, since it
entered the United Nations as a founding Member in 1945,
has always championed the right to the self-determination of
peoples and the independence of political communities
which, like Guyana, came to self-government in fulfilment
of the obligations imposed by the Charter of the United
Nations.
I welcome very warmly the new Members that have
just been admitted: the Czech Republic, the Republic of
Slovakia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco, and Andorra. This
welcome is not simply a matter of protocol; it involves the
recognition of their respective Governments that I am
expressing on behalf of the Paraguayan Government.
A little more than a month ago I inaugurated my
Government with the firm resolve to strengthen our foreign
relations with all the members of the international
community, within the natural limitations set by domestic
financial circumstances and contingencies. I would now
venture to offer some thoughts for the consideration of the
General Assembly.
The new world order broke suddenly upon the world.
The bipolar structure of power has now ceased to exist, and
the change has taken place peacefully. Paraguay has
changed in the same way and with the same rhythm. Today
the Paraguayan people is the champion of its own destiny
and the will of the people prevails. We live in a condition
of respect for human rights, a market economy and State
reform. We have successfully and peacefully carried out
extraordinary reforms in the political, economic and social
fields without external assistance, relying solely on our
citizens’ faith and aspiration to live in peace, with justice
and freedom.

The Government of Paraguay respects freedom and
promotes justice; it is striving to widen the opportunities for
human development and well-being.
Economic activity, and in particular the market
economy, cannot exist in an institutional vacuum. On the
contrary, a security system must be established that ensures
the fiscal integrity of all persons, individual initiative and the
inviolability of private property, through a stable monetary
system and efficient public services.
The priority of the Paraguayan Government is to
guarantee this security, this stability and these services, so
that those who wish to work and produce can enjoy the
fruits of their labour and feel motivated to do their work
honestly and efficiently.
The Paraguayan people is now aware that it has
triumphed over its many vicissitudes. We have heard many
promises about the advent of the new man. We have
witnessed many tragedies and dashed hopes.
Today, we believe that the only path towards the great
triumphs of collective well-being is that of democracy and
freedom. The men and women of Paraguay wish to live in
their own way, respecting the law and prospering in
harmony and concord.
I would consider my activities of strengthening and
consolidating democracy incomplete if in future my
compatriots could not continue freely to form political
parties and to elect governments without coercion, if they
could not live in peace with their families and enjoy the
honest fruits of their work, if they could not live fruitful
lives and at the end of their days reflect proudly on their
successes and achievements.
But as we view the Paraguayan future, we must reflect
on a situation fraught with dramatic realities. We have
overcome a domestic political situation which for three
decades had been met with indifference, marginalization and,
ultimately, condemnation by the international community.
We endured that situation because of the labour the
ingenuity and the great sacrifice of the Paraguayan people.
Today we must consolidate our victory and institutionalize
democracy as the only possible choice.
We have run into two main obstacles to the attainment
of that objective: an increasing rate of population growth
and a lack of resources to finance our development with the
rapidity required by the rapid increase in our population and
the pressing need to raise the standard of living and the
well-being of all Paraguayans.
We believe that we must be able to count on the
cooperation of the industrialized countries in order to ensure
the continued primacy of the values we share with the
community of nations.
To accelerate our development we call for an extension
of the magnificent collaboration of the United Nations
system and its many institutions, such as the United Nations
Development Programme, which now has a new, dynamic
Administrator and in which the developing countries place
great hopes; the effective traditional programme of the
United Nations Children’s Fund, which champions the rights
of children and adolescents; and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities, which plays a very important role in
regard to the crucial question of population.
We call also on the specialized agencies of the United
Nations system - each of which has in its field greatly
assisted in our countries’ development plans - to redouble
their efforts, increase their effectiveness by means of greater
creativity, and lower their expenditures by exercising greater
control.
This cooperation should go hand in hand with domestic
efforts to attract assistance on favourable terms and greater
flows of private foreign investment.
The financial institutions, especially the World Bank
and the Inter-American Development Bank, should speed up
their assistance by reducing their bureaucracies and should
provide the fullest possible support to developing countries’
projects and programmes. We recognize the great assistance
they have provided in the past, and we urge them to exceed
even their past achievements in order to ensure a better
future for all our countries. If the developing countries do
not receive such cooperation, the consequence will be, on the
one hand, a prosperous and democratic world with freedom
and an abundance of goods for all and, on the other, a world
corroded by ignorance, poverty and the enslavement of the
poor. It will be difficult for democracy to survive if poverty
persists.
Establishing economic progress with equity in Paraguay
means strengthening democracy. My greatest desire as Head
of State is to establish the democratic system once and for
all in my country.
In order to achieve that aim, my Government will act
very responsibly, ensuring that its administration does not
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 3
engage in irregularities, and it will be very strict in enforcing
the law. We wish to have the greatest possible transparency
in the whole of the governmental process, in both domestic
and international affairs.
We believe that the stability of democratic countries
lies, among other things, in the integrity of their civil
servants, in the independence of the judiciary, in individual
and collective security, and in the State’s efficiency in
promoting development. That is why my Government will
pursue and punish anyone who engages in corruption. In
that way we intend to eradicate corruption.
We have undertaken to fulfil these purposes in the
certainty that the international community will be prepared
to support us in so doing.
Nationalistic passions have flared up in many parts of
the world, challenging borders and jeopardizing international
coexistence. Age-old conflicts still seethe, as can be seen
from the terrible bloodshed, and havoc in former Yugoslavia.
The United Nations has set up more peace-keeping missions
in the last three years than it did in its first 45 years of
existence.
At the same time as we are witnessing these events
with distress and sorrow, we are rejoicing in the signing of
the statement of principles between the Government of Israel
and the Palestine Liberation Organization. This valuable
contribution to world peace is due to the courage and the
clear-sightedness of the leaders on both sides, who have
been able to overcome the burden of ancestral prejudice to
enter into a new harmonious relationship. We also applaud
the participation of countries as mediators in these
negotiations. They all deserve the world’s admiration.
My Government believes that, in compliance with the
San Francisco Charter, the Organization will accept as
Members all those States that fulfil the requirements set out
in the Charter.
We congratulate the United Nations on the tremendous
work that is being done in its peace missions. This
demonstrates not just that the Organization is alert to the
need to find a solution where any event may cause a breach
of the peace but also that, in doing so, it tries to realize the
hope of peace for suffering peoples, meeting their basic
needs and alleviating their difficulties.
The peace to which we aspire cannot come from sterile
immobility or from armed respite. It cannot be imposed. It
must be dynamic, sincere and generous and must be based
on the principles of solidarity between nations.
Let me refer to a contribution from my country,
reflected in our universal feeling of friendship. A few years
ago, in a small town called Pinasco, a doctor who was a
distinguished member of the community proposed that 30
July be designated as a day dedicated to friendship. This
idea spread throughout the Latin American continent and to
other regions of the world. For this reason I am pleased to
suggest that the United Nations adopt that date as the world
day of friendship.
Events are giving rise to a higher and higher level of
world and regional interdependence. With the Treaty on the
Integration of the Common Market in the Southern Cone,
known as MERCOSUR, we in the southern cone -
Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay - are seeking an
improvement in our economies.
The purpose of MERCOSUR is to harmonize
economies, to reach better and broader understandings with
other economic groups through the provision of mutual
facilities. We hope that the negotiations that have begun
with the European Economic Community, the future North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the AsiaPacific countries will bear fruit.
Paraguay gives its fullest support to the creation of this
Common Market of the South. We hope fervently that there
will be frank and full cooperation in all the negotiations
between the four countries involved. All our actions should
be really consistent with our aims. It is our sincere desire
that we may reach an understanding that is just and fair and
of benefit to everyone.
While dealing with economic affairs, I should like also
to express our desire and hope that full agreement will be
reached in the Uruguay Round negotiations. We hope that
the markets will open up increasingly. We wish to see trade
flowing more freely, without any tariff or other barriers and
without subsidies, which undermine the competitiveness of
our MERCOSUR products.
We fully support the principle of free trade. One
cannot hamper trade by protectionism while professing belief
in the principle of free trade.
I have just visited Bolivia, a sister country with which
we have signed joint agreements and I made an offer to its
Government that Paraguay would serve as a link for its entry
into MERCOSUR. I also requested that they themselves, in
their turn, shall serve as a link between MERCOSUR and
the Andean Pact. Through the system of MERCOSUR and
through the Andean Pact, we have established a fresh and,
4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
we hope, promising arrangement. Today - 29 September -
we commemorate the battle of Boquerón, a symbol of the
valour of both peoples which we hope will be a landmark
for the future in our search for cooperation, understanding
and peace.
This new era represents a challenge in relations
between nations. In the process of the globalization of
economies, countries must avoid selfishness. They must
share their prosperity and technological advances in order to
ensure effective progress for all mankind. The European
Community, the NAFTA countries and the Asia-Pacific
countries should be a dynamic force in economic relations,
and should not set new limitations on world trade.
International coexistence requires that we seek to
establish mutually supportive understandings and agreements
that will strengthen the collective economy and, thus, every
country’s individual economy.
North America provides a very promising example of
this. Mexico, Canada and the United States are proposing
a zone of free trade between countries that have different
cultures, histories, languages and lifestyles. In spite of these
differences they have taken a praiseworthy decision to make
their economies complementary.
NAFTA represents an undertaking to ensure shared
prosperity through collective arrangements. As we enter a
new century, these three countries realize that economic
prosperity depends, as never before, on the opening of new
markets across the world and increasing the volume of world
trade. We hope that when this arrangement is established it
will be of great benefit to the whole of Latin America and
the Caribbean.
Economic development should not run counter to the
preservation and protection of the environment. Both
concepts are valid for everyone, irrespective of differences
in countries’ levels of economic development.
Environmental degradation will continue if we keep on
applying such ambiguous criteria as "environmental
conditionality". The great meeting on the environment held
at Rio in 1992, after very lengthy deliberations, points us in
the direction of "sustainable development" - development
that can be made compatible with protection of the
environment.
We need to fulfil the agreement that was reached at
Rio. We must not go back on the commitments undertaken
there. Neither should there be double standards - different
standards for industrialized and for developing countries.
The latter need the cooperation that was promised at that
memorable international meeting.
With regard to social problems on a world scale, drug
trafficking threatens the economic and political stability of
some countries. In this area too the United Nations should
take the lead in order to combat the scourge of drugs, with
all its disastrous consequences for young people and the
money laundering and terrorism that are its ramifications.
Paraguay is totally committed to the battle against drug
trafficking, the money laundering resulting from it and all
the other crimes that are associated with drugs. This
struggle requires total international cooperation if drug
trafficking is to be eliminated. It has to be recognized that
responsibility for this undertaking must be shared by
producers, consumers and also intermediaries.
The United Nations is preparing for a conference in
1995, which will be a special landmark in the whole of
international coexistence. I refer to the World Summit for
Social Development that will be held in Copenhagen. The
Government of Paraguay applauds this initiative and offers
its fullest cooperation at the preparation stage and in the
studies. We are also willing to take an active part in the
event itself.
Initiatives of this kind and the 1994 Cairo Conference
on Population and Development deserve our fullest support.
Although, as I have said, the issues to which I referred
earlier are of great significance to my country, I wish to
make the point that the raising of educational standards in
my country is my obsession. For this reason, we are trying
to improve human resources so that we may make use of the
new technology which we sorely lack.
Education is not simply a commitment on the part of
the State; it is a challenge shared by all the productive
sectors of the country. Technology may provide fresh
economic opportunities resulting in new sources of labour.
That is why Paraguay believes that the Bolívar
Programme is a good precedent for what can be done
between countries determined to face the future by sharing
technologies, innovations and industrial competitiveness.
We also hope that the industrialized countries, or those
that have achieved a high technological level, will show the
necessary will to promote the presence of their companies in
our countries, so that their capital and new technology can
accelerate progress in our developing countries.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 5
We shall always stress the need for a more balanced
treatment of the social and economic issues on the
international agenda. Attention must not be given to socalled new global issues at the expense of the problems of
development, the struggle against poverty, the defeat of
ignorance, and the promotion of international cooperation.
After 48 years, men and institutions are able to concede
their mistakes and can strengthen their convictions in order
better to achieve their purposes. The United Nations has
demonstrated such abilities by renewing and adapting itself
to the demands of our changing world. Paraguay is in
favour of this and supports the necessary reforms to adapt
the Charter to the challenges of a new age. In this way will
the United Nations be able to live up to the high ideals and
hopes with which it was created.
To that purpose, it is vital that it redistribute functions
and responsibilities among its bodies, increase coordination
and streamline its processes. The United Nations should be
the forum for the genuine expression of the aspirations of all
Member States and the primary instrument for genuine and
peaceful understanding among all peoples of the world.
We must confront and settle the financial crisis which
weighs so heavily on our Organization. It is not logical to
assign it tasks without providing adequate means to carry
them out. Let us avoid being moved by political motives to
transform that inadequacy into administrative negligence and
financial paralysis. Let us do the opposite - let our
Organization be the great forum of the international scene.
Let it be renewed, better, more effective and more equitable.
With timely intervention, the United Nations has
brought lengthy conflicts to an end and achieved their
settlement. This praiseworthy work must be recognized and
if, in some cases, the success has not been great, that has
been due to struggles between different power centres. But
today we are all equally ready to work to achieve more
effective disarmament and to establish new international
standards for the use of nuclear energy to benefit mankind
and not to destroy it. We have made considerable progress
but there remains a long way to go before we have full and
complete security in this area. Paraguay will support a
disarmament policy as a commitment to the international
community.
We continue to believe and have always maintained that
the United Nations should assume leadership, with the
support of all Member States, in carrying out the necessary
changes to establish the rule of peace and the human
development to which we all aspire.
My country wishes to underscore the outstanding work
of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to
express its appreciation for his activities aimed at making the
United Nations and its entire system more efficient.
Paraguay has faith in these positive solutions. We
pledge to uphold the legal principles of international
coexistence and appeal to the loftiest sentiments and the
highest sense of responsibility of all leaders of the world.
My country believes that this can be achieved and urges that
it be made a reality.
No more fratricidal wars. Let us all unite in the war
against underdevelopment, against unemployment, and
against ignorance, which is the worst of all slaveries.
Reiterating our commitment to full support for the
United Nations, we also reaffirm our resolute cooperation
with the international community and express our deepest
desire for peace, prosperity and development for all the
peoples of the world.
I should like to conclude with a message in my native
language, Guaraní:
"Ja johayjhú, ñaño pytyvó, icatú haguaicha ñasé
ténondé oñondivepá. Aguiyéveté."
This means: "Let us love one another, brothers. Let us help
each other to move forward together".


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====
I wish cordially to greet you, Mr. Amara Essy of Cote d’Ivoire, and to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I pledge the fullest cooperation of the delegation of Paraguay.
Nor can I fail to echo the congratulations offered to Ambassador Samuel Insanally on the way he guided the work of the last session of the General Assembly.
It is my pleasure also to hail the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and convey to him well- deserved congratulations on the excellent manner in which he has carried out his tasks. On behalf of the Government and the people of Paraguay, a founding Member of the United Nations, I pledge to him our full support for the Organization. It is our hope that he will visit our country as soon as he can; this would be further testament to our support for the United Nations and to our expectations as to what the United Nations can do to assist Paraguay in its current process of full democratization. That democratization has been under way in Paraguay since February 1989; it is now being consolidated under the Administration of Mr. Juan Carlos Wasmosy, President of the Republic.
In this Hall one year ago, the President of Paraguay committed himself to consolidating the democratic process, with the support of the vast majority of Paraguayans from the different political parties and organizations that demonstrate the pluralism of our society, which is irrevocably determined to defend freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. Today, the name of Paraguay does not appear in the dossiers of human rights violations. Not a single United Nations or other agency of the international community has failed to note the undeniable progress in our country in every area connected with dignifying the human person, and the efforts we have made in the social sector.
Hence, as I pledge on behalf of my Government and my entire society that we shall never, under any circumstances, diverge from the democratic ideal, I cannot fail to observe that problems remain in achieving a level of development with social justice; we shall keep trying to solve them resolutely, and in many cases with international cooperation.
We shall not be satisfied until we secure for our inhabitants - Paraguayans and foreigners whom we have welcomed into our land - living standards considered adequate according to United Nations indexes. In view of the magnitude of the task, we again stress that the burden cannot be borne by one people alone. For us to be competitive, conditions in the international system must change: markets must be more open; credit must be more readily available, and at lower interest rates; and technology must be more accessible. We therefore believe in global solidarity, especially of the developed nations.
The people of the developing countries cannot be asked to make greater sacrifices than they are already making unless they see a similar trend towards the transformation of the international community. If democracy and freedom are to exist and endure, peoples must enjoy development and better living conditions.
I should like briefly to refer to our economic recovery, which began in 1989 and has produced very
favorable results, even during a period of transition and major structural changes.
Paraguay has been pursuing a policy of free trade and floating exchange rates, coupled with total freedom of movement for financial services and capital. The external debt has been reduced to $1.26 billion, almost the same as our current reserves of $1 billion. Paraguay offers a variety of tax incentives to both its own and outside investors for investment in production activities. These incentives place our country among those offering the best and most attractive terms in Latin America.
Our privatization policy, which started with money-losing national industries, is already enshrined in our legal code. Furthermore, we project a growth in gross domestic product of 4.5 per cent this year.
Education and training are a major priority of our Government, because it feels that accelerated development depends on well-trained people.
As regards economic integration, the Treaty of Asuncion was signed in the capital of Paraguay in 1991, establishing the Common Market of the Southern Cone (MERCOSUR). At the recent meeting of the Presidents of the MERCOSUR countries, held in Buenos Aires on 5 August, they took a decisive step forward by agreeing by consensus to establish a common external tariff.
In connection with this economic integration, we are pleased to confirm that Paraguay firmly and enthusiastically supports the negotiations on the entry into MERCOSUR of the fraternal Republics of Bolivia and Chile. Paraguay has suggested to its MERCOSUR partners the establishment of essential supranational machinery, such as the office of secretary-general and a court of justice. That would allow us to hold joint negotiations with the European Union, as has seemed feasible since its Council's Corfu meeting, and with the signatories of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
The summit of American nations convened in Miami by President Clinton will be an event of great significance for relations in this hemisphere in our common search for ever greater understanding among countries of this continent on political, economic and trade matters.
At the subregional level, only a few weeks ago we were able to set in motion the first of 20 turbines of the huge Yacyreta hydroelectric dam, built jointly by Paraguay and Argentina.
 

The Government of Paraguay has worked hard to develop ties with the outside world in order to break out of the isolation arising from its landlocked condition and, until 1989, its deliberate marginalization by an authoritarian Government.
In bilateral terms, though it may seem redundant to say this, it is appropriate to recall that Paraguay benefits from a vast hydroelectric capacity already in place: the Itaipu station, shared with Brazil, with an output of 12.6 million kilowatts; and that at Yacyreta, shared with Argentina, with an output of some 4 million kilowatts. There is therefore no question but that Paraguay is now, and will remain, an ideal place for major foreign and domestic investment and for implementing a policy of industrialization, based on our abundant, low-cost energy.
It must be remembered, however, that Paraguay suffers a structural limitation that would appear to limit its development potential: its lack of a seaboard. We wish to turn this handicap, which has had a very negative impact on Paraguay in the past, into an advantage. I refer to the fact that Paraguay, being at the center of MERCOSUR, can act as a hinge or pivot par excellence, together with Bolivia, between MERCOSUR and the Andean Common Market.
At the regional, Latin American level, I wish to refer first to Paraguay's involvement in the Fourth Ibero- American Summit of Pleads of State and Government. The presence of our entire Ibero-American community, together with Spain and Portugal, strengthened us all, because of the cultural, historical, political and other ties that bind us closely. I should like to stress that Paraguay regards this conference as an essential link in its ties with the European Union and as a major forum with great potential.
Another important event this year, again at the regional level, was the Eighth Conference of Presidents and Heads of Government of the Rio Group, which ended a few weeks ago. Paraguay fully endorsed the Declaration of the Rio Group, particularly with regard to the situations in Haiti and Cuba and the problem of drug-trafficking.
Paraguay actively participated in producing the declaration in regard to the fraternal Republic of Cuba, which expresses the strong hope that it will introduce significant political and economic reforms in accordance with the people's will, and stating that we respect the self-determination of peoples and the principle of non-intervention. Paraguay lent its fullest support to the Rio Group's decisions, including its declaration on lifting the embargo against Cuba.
With regard to the new post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Paraguay wishes to state that his great efforts with regard to individual rights must be complemented by the promotion of social and collective human rights.
We have throughout fully endorsed the principle of the peaceful resolution of international conflicts, including the case of Haiti. In this, Paraguay is strengthened by its traditional commitment to peace. In 1923 we contributed to international law for the Americas with the Gondra Treaty of conciliation and arbitration, which has become one of the pillars of Latin America's juridical system.
Along these lines of thought and practice, Paraguay enthusiastically welcomes the recent progress in connection with the United Nations Decade of International Law. Paraguay supports the codification of this branch of law; it will be one of the greatest achievements of the United Nations. In this connection, Paraguay has signed and ratified the main agreements that constitute the legal structure created through the United Nations.
Paraguay is keenly following and promoting mankind's urgent demand for international cooperation for development. For it is just as important to build peace through development as to maintain it through law. Here I want once more publicly to express our deep thanks to the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), whose timely and effective work we have seen at first hand. We also acknowledge the fundamental importance of the development work of the World Bank, the Inter-American Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
We hail the Secretary-General's recent decision to seek better coordination within the United Nations system on technical cooperation and to make the Administrator of UNDP fully responsible for coordination system wide, including with the regional commissions and all other program. From this decision the United Nations will gain in efficiency and in the impact of its world-wide activities.
Paraguay also backs the entire process for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade and the opening of negotiations on international economic cooperation for development, which appears on the agenda of the General Assembly.
 

Yet, in a spirit of honor and fraternity, I wish to repeat what I said here in New York at the June 1994 session of the Economic and Social Council - namely, that:
"We feel that the distribution of funds for United Nations programs and projects world wide is imbalanced; as Latin Americans, we believe that the proportion allocated to our region, by UNDP for example, is unfair: only 8.66 per cent is allocated for programs in Latin American countries, while other regions are allocated 50.42 per cent and 40.67 per cent respectively".
UNDP contributes only 17 per cent to Paraguay's program; Paraguay pays the rest. But we appreciate and wish to continue to count on UNDP’s support.
Paraguay looks forward with keen interest and commitment to the World Summit for Social Development, to be held at Copenhagen. We are preparing to participate in that conference and have high expectations about the positive results it can achieve. We have promised that the President of the Republic of Paraguay will attend that great event. Paraguay is so enthusiastic about the conference because the three basic items on its agenda are very closely connected with today's social problems: social integration, particularly of the most marginalized and disadvantaged groups; relief and reduction of poverty; and an increase in productive employment. As the draft agenda points out, all of this must be in the context of a propitious economic environment - and, we would add, with international cooperation. Here, Paraguay cannot fail to note that a characteristic of our times is economic growth without job-creation, a situation that must be corrected, since one of today's problems is indeed unemployment.
Paraguay earnestly supports ongoing efforts, will support future efforts, developed by the United Nations in all areas of disarmament: nuclear, chemical and others.
The Assembly should know that in the area of social development Paraguay has established a special commission to prepare for the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held at Beijing. The commission brings together State and private bodies, which are drafting a final report on the situation of women in Paraguay.
As a full member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), Paraguay hopes that the results of the Uruguay Round will have beneficial effects for us. We are convinced that the Uruguay Round is the beginning of a process of downscaling policies of subsidy and protectionism. Paraguay confidently looks forward to the follow-up to GATT and to the work of its complementary successor body, the World Trade Organization.
Paraguay fully shares in the entire international community's anguish at drug trafficking, and at the evil effects of that phenomenon. Notwithstanding our meager resources, we are doing whatever is necessary to root it out wherever it is hiding, and to fight it head on. But, with the strength derived from reason, Paraguay affirms that the consumer countries, transit countries and producer countries alike must undertake an equal commitment to adopting vigorous measures. Unilateral efforts, however vigorous, to combat drug production and trafficking can never be successful without gradual shrinkage of the markets that give rise to production and trafficking in the first place.
Linked with this universal scourge, which we condemn with all our strength and conviction, is the phenomenon of corruption, a human failing that is seen in varying degrees in all four comers of the Earth. Corruption spreads its tentacles as a reflection of a civilization that is prodigious in economic, financial, scientific, technical and industrial terms but is, we must admit, often found wanting in the firm ethical underpinnings and the genuine human values that strengthen and give vitality to a culture.
Paraguay is following with great attention all United Nations efforts with respect to agenda item 142, "Measures to eliminate international terrorism". Recent grave events in certain parts of the world, indeed on our own continent, clearly show that the international community needs a new approach, through well-coordinated action, to overcoming this serious problem, which, as we know, sometimes links drug-trafficking mafias with terrorism.
On the question of equitable representation on and an increase in the membership of the Security Council, Paraguay believes that in today's changing world we must attune the Organization to the requirements of the times and current circumstances. Hence, my country believes it just to democratize the representation of States on the Security Council, and for the Council's decision-making to be transparent. The world situation has changed, and the United Nations must adapt to those changes. We repeat what we said at the last meeting of the Rio Group - namely, that
"because of its legal tradition and its contribution to
the cause of peace, the Latin American and
Caribbean region must be considered in any
expansion of the Security Council".
Paraguay also firmly supports parallel efforts to revitalize the functioning of the General Assembly.
I want to mention and to highlight our great satisfaction at the obvious, sustained advance of democracy in Latin America, and at the consolidation of the various processes that are under way.
We should like to reaffirm that the United Nations must continue to apply the principle of universality, making room within its ranks for all peace-loving States that meet the requirements as set forth in the Charter and that are prepared to honor its principles and purposes. We believe that the entry of the Republic of China as an independent country should be considered, along with the case of any other State that meets the conditions I have just mentioned.
I should like officially to declare that, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, Paraguay pledges even now to have its President take part personally in the session of the Assembly. The President of our Republic will make the voice of my homeland heard on that most welcome occasion.
Meanwhile, my country has established an ad hoc commission on the commemoration of that major event.
The environment, the subject of the magnificent 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, is a matter of the greatest concern to Paraguay, which is prepared to support any and all initiatives aimed at preserving the environment through sustainable development, as well as to enact any appropriate measures that do not undermine economic growth.
By the same token, Paraguay declares its deep concern at the situation affecting the Pilcomayo River, which is an international waterway inasmuch as its source is in Bolivia and it forms the border between Argentina and Paraguay.
We are now facing a major environmental problem since that international river springs from the mountains and is now growing shallower in its course because of sedimentation build-up. Moreover, the Pilcomayo, owing to works undertaken on Argentine territory, has had some 

70 per cent of its volume absorbed in the territory of our neighbor. These facilities are doing a great deal of damage to the Chaco region of Paraguay, especially to its livestock and to the population.
Paraguay hopes that matters will return to normal, that is, that the course of the Pilcomayo River will resume its balance, irrigating both border areas in an equitable way. We fully trust that we will manage to reach complete agreement with the Republic of Argentina to restore this balance at the earliest possible time.
To that end, we will have to go to the very source of the Pilcomayo to seek a rational and comprehensive solution which, inevitably, will require a trilateral agreement in the form of a law governing the confluence of interests of Bolivia, Argentina and Paraguay in respect of the river's course.
As Paraguay is a land-locked country, it has an especially keen interest in the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which our country ratified as early as 1986. The provisions of the Convention allow for the mitigation of disadvantages for those States that have no direct access to the sea and, for Paraguay, this will open up the possibility of sharing in the wealth of the deep seabed, or "Zone", which the Convention calls the common heritage of mankind. We view with optimism the entry into force of that Convention on 16 November this year. In the same context, Paraguay has signed the Agreement amending the Convention.
All developing countries aspire to sharing in the scientific and technological progress of the modem world. It seems to me that, together with the other measures the United Nations has already taken or is preparing to take, serious thought should be given to creating a global fund for scientific and technological development that would deepen the relationship between the major research centers in developed countries and the universities and research centers in developing countries.
I should like to express Paraguay's deep satisfaction at the demise of the apartheid regime in the Republic of South Africa and at the observance of human rights for all the ethnic communities of the country. Paraguay has not forgotten the sister nations in Africa, which are striving to overcome immense difficulties in their quest for sustainable development and which deserve wide international support.
Paraguay is similarly disposed towards the sister Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with which we enjoy
fraternal ties. We wish its people peace and brotherhood, and will strive to commit the United Nations towards that end.
We are very pleased to congratulate the State of Israel, the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Kingdom of Jordan on their having strengthened the foundations of fraternal and constructive coexistence in the region, initiated in the agreements between Israel and Egypt. We trust that, given the help of the United Nations and of other major actors, the peace and security process in that part of the world will make steady progress, with the cooperation of other major countries in the region itself.
I should like to voice a few thoughts with regard to the recent Conference on Population and Development in Cairo. Paraguay joined in the Conference Declaration and Program of Action, while clearly and explicitly placing on record its demand for the defense of life and agreeing, in broad terms, with consensual and voluntary family planning. For that reason, Paraguay lodged two reservations similar to those expressed by other countries that share our view.
As I bring my statement to a close, allow me to voice a personal reflection that arises from my many years in international life. I have been active in diplomacy since 1936. Apart from some time spent in academia, I have served my country or the United Nations. I lived through the beginning and the end of the Second World War. My generation was indeed moved when the United Nations Charter was signed. We were filled with hope, and the world seemed to be on the right path in reordering its affairs. We have traveled a long way since then, but we remain all the more convinced of the crucial need for this world Organization.
I have personally known each one of the Secretaries- General of our Organization. I have worked closely with a number of them and shared their problems, their fears and their concerns as we struggled for a more just world.
It has been a privilege to be both a United Nations official and a diplomat accredited to this Organization. Now, in my capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I feel I have been granted an opportunity to renew the commitment of my nation and my own personal commitment. That commitment is genuine and unadulterated support for the effort to keep the peace through law and to build it through development.
The United Nations ideal today compels us to adopt a new way of thinking and living. Indeed, we are not merely representatives of sovereign States or members of a world Organization. We are protagonists and agents who share the same planet, which is in many respects both very similar and very different.
We have to show greater solidarity and regain our universal vision.
As human beings, we all have an interest in whatever makes us more human, in all senses of the term. The vital force that springs from this vision helps us in our mission of saving our common home, the Earth.
Mankind and the Earth:	therein	lies	the	key
motivation for our commitment and for our endeavors, beneath the majestic gaze of the Creator.







===== Session 50 - 1995 =====
At the outset, allow me to express my best
wishes to you, Sir, and to congratulate you on your
election. I assure you of Paraguay’s most complete
cooperation.
I also wish to express my appreciation and gratitude
to Ambassador Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for the way
in which he guided the work of the General Assembly at
the last session.
At the same time I am pleased to convey to the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the
congratulations that I bring on behalf of the Government
and people of Paraguay for the commendable efforts that
have been made. I wish to express once again, on behalf
of Paraguay and the President of the Republic, Juan
Carlos Wasmosy, our full support for the United Nations,
of which Paraguay was one of the founders.
We are living in an exceptional year, an important
one, marking the first 50 years of the United Nations.
I myself was one of the fortunate witnesses of the
birth of the Organization after the Second World War.
Life then led me to work for 25 years as a staff member
within the structure that was created. I believe that the
United Nations has essentially fulfilled the aspirations
placed in it for peace, security, efforts to establish a more
equitable international legal order, and the commitment to
development for all the peoples of the world.
Undoubtedly, we must admit that in spite of the
efforts made, we cannot say that we have been as
10


successful as we would have wished in the sphere of
political achievements.
On the contrary, in the economic and social fields, in
which the Secretary-General and the different agencies of
the United Nations system can take their own decisions,
there is an immense wealth of great achievements, some of
which are truly extraordinary. By way of example we
would like to mention the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea, successes as regards decolonization,
invariable and universal support for individual and
collective human rights, the openness and liberalization of
international trade, the immense mass of statistical data
collected and published in the fields of demography,
economics, health, education, and so on.
Without attempting to be exhaustive I should like to
emphasize our admiration for the world summits — for the
defence and protection of the environment in Rio de
Janeiro; the International Conference on Population and
Development in Cairo; the World Summit for Social
Development in Copenhagen; the World Summit for
Children; the recently concluded Fourth World Conference
on Women in Beijing; and the equally hoped-for and
awaited United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(Habitat II). The contribution that these summits have made
to mankind is truly historic.
I should also like to highlight my Government’s
appreciation for the report of the independent Working
Group on the future of the United Nations, many of whose
observations and recommendations we share.
Without attempting to elaborate on the immense
agenda of this session we would like to emphasize the need
that Paraguay feels for a greater adaptation of the United
Nations to the new and changing realities at the same time
we support, where possible, the greater strengthening of the
entire system, not only to preserve peace through law but
also to strengthen security with a view to the harmonized
and integral development of all peoples the world over.
In this context Paraguay continues to support the
reform of the organs of the United Nations, strengthening
the General Assembly, democratizing the Security Council
with the presence of more non-permanent members and
restricting the power of veto. Among the new permanent
members it would be vital to ensure that there is equitable
representation for Latin America and other continents
among whose representatives we mention by way of
example Japan, Germany and Brazil.
All this would be impossible if States in accordance
with agreed contributions were not to confront positively
and conscientiously the serious problem of financing the
system. In keeping with its means Paraguay is up to date
in the payment of its assessment and we would like to
emphasize the need to rationalize resources and improve
the administrative efficiency of the United Nations.
We have also said in the past that the allocation of
funds for programmes and projects in the world by the
United Nations is unbalanced in that only 8.66 per cent of
the programmes are allocated to countries of Latin
America whereas other regions have 50.42 per cent and
40.67 per cent respectively.
Paraguay is following closely the enormous efforts
being made by the United Nations concerning peace and
development.
As regards the maintenance of peace, Paraguay
wishes to refer to a few specific points.
Regarding agenda item 27, I am pleased at the
continued economic openness in the sister republic of
Cuba. It is a pleasure to recall that the great hero, poet,
political leader, writer and teacher, José Martí was Consul
General of Paraguay in New York and that his
contribution to my homeland was at the time, and
continues to be fruitful.
In this context Paraguay reiterates its full support for
the Rio Group as regards its declaration in favour of
lifting the embargo on Cuba and we repeat our support
for the changes required in accordance with the will of
the people and with respect for the self-determination of
peoples and the principle of non-intervention.
Regarding the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Paraguay supports the different courses of action
promoted by the General Assembly and monitored by the
Security Council through the efforts of the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and
other related agencies.My country has not lost hope that
the strength of reason and the inspiration of human
compassion will, in the near future, alleviate the
enormous suffering and sacrifices of those peoples that
are separated now by hatred and violence.
Paraguay shares the concern of the international
community regarding the conflicts in Rwanda and
Burundi and other parts of the African continent.
11


The very diverse actions of the United Nations in
other parts of the world deserve our respect and our
support. Without being exhaustive in our listing we would
like to refer to the problems that have existed in El
Salvador, Haiti, Iraq, Kuwait, Angola, Mozambique,
Somalia, Western Sahara, Liberia, and in Lebanon, Cyprus,
Cambodia, Georgia, Tajikistan, and so on. The United
Nations is contributing or has contributed actively with
observer missions or assistance missions and with peace-
keeping forces in a world that is experiencing so much
upheaval.
We continue to be hopeful as regards the peace
process between Israel and its Arab neighbours in the
Middle East. Paraguay is gratified by the recent agreements
between Israel and Palestine and we hope that new progress
will soon be made in those lands which were the cradle of
three universal religions and their magnificent cultures.
Of course Paraguay supports the work of the United
Nations with a view to achieving disarmament, whether it
be in regard to conventional, biological, chemical or nuclear
weapons. In the same context, Paraguay expresses its
concern also at the nuclear tests being conducted in
different parts of the world.
The struggle against the terrible scourge of terrorism
is one shared by Paraguay in an increasingly united
framework of international cooperation to eliminate the
problem at its very roots.
Paraguay would like to mention its hope that as a
result of the talks between the two parties, a just and
equitable understanding will be reached to resolve the
situation of the Republic of China, in keeping with the
principle of universality enshrined in the Charter.
Regarding agenda item 27, I am pleased at the
continued economic openness in the sister republic of Cuba.
It is a pleasure to recall that the great hero, poet, political
leader, writer and teacher, José Martí was Consul General
of Paraguay in New York and that his contribution to my
homeland was at the time, and continues to be fruitful.
In this context Paraguay reiterates its full support for
the Rio Group as regards its declaration in favour of lifting
the embargo on Cuba and we repeat our support for the
changes required in accordance with the will of the people
and with respect for the self-determination of peoples and
the principle of non-intervention.
Regarding the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Paraguay supports the different courses of action
promoted by the General Assembly and monitored by the
Security Council through the efforts of the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and
other related agencies.My country has not lost hope that
the strength of reason and the inspiration of human
compassion will, in the near future, alleviate the
enormous suffering and sacrifices of those peoples that
are separated now by hatred and violence.
Paraguay shares the concern of the international
community regarding the conflicts in Rwanda and
Burundi and other parts of the African continent.
The very diverse actions of the United Nations in
other parts of the world deserve our respect and our
support. Without being exhaustive in our listing we would
like to refer to the problems that have existed in El
Salvador, Haiti, Iraq, Kuwait, Angola, Mozambique,
Somalia, Western Sahara, Liberia, and in Lebanon,
Cyprus, Cambodia, Georgia, Tajikistan, and so on. The
United Nations is contributing or has contributed actively
with observer missions or assistance missions and with
peace-keeping forces in a world that is experiencing so
much upheaval.
We continue to be hopeful as regards the peace
process between Israel and its Arab neighbours in the
Middle East. Paraguay is gratified by the recent
agreements between Israel and Palestine and we hope that
new progress will soon be made in those lands which
were the cradle of three universal religions and their
magnificent cultures.
Of course Paraguay supports the work of the United
Nations with a view to achieving disarmament, whether
it be in regard to conventional, biological, chemical or
nuclear weapons. In the same context, Paraguay expresses
its concern also at the nuclear tests being conducted in
different parts of the world.
The struggle against the terrible scourge of terrorism
is one shared by Paraguay in an increasingly united
framework of international cooperation to eliminate the
problem at its very roots.
Paraguay would like to mention its hope that as a
result of the talks between the two parties, a just and
equitable understanding will be reached to resolve the
12


situation of the Republic of China, in keeping with the
principle of universality enshrined in the Charter.
United Nations cooperation in development implies an
enormous restructuring and revitalization effort in the
economic, social and other related spheres. In this context
we view as very fruitful the cooperation between the United
Nations and the Latin American Economic System and
cooperation between the United Nations and other regional
groups. Particular emphasis should be placed on horizontal
cooperation.
We consider the question of convening an international
conference for development to be of vital importance as
one of the measures needed to ensure long-term economic
growth in all countries, particularly the developing
countries.
Recent financial disturbances on our continent, where
debt, loans and speculative capital combined to create a
widespread and only recently resolved crisis, oblige us to
reassert the fundamental demand for sustainable
development and for effective and broad international
economic cooperation, as was highlighted in the
conclusions of the Rio Group at its recent meeting at Quito.
Paraguay is pleased to affirm before the Assembly that
its democratic process is continuing to grow stronger day
by day. In accordance with the National Constitution, the
Government has guaranteed and will continue to guarantee
all freedoms and compliance with the covenants on civil
and political rights we have signed.
We cannot fail to note that the United Nations
Commission on Human Rights, in its 1995 conclusions with
regard to our country, has recognized Paraguay’s
achievements in this field. At the same time, we cannot
deny the enormous needs to which we must respond.
Democratic transition in our country has not received
the hoped-for material support. Apart from the contribution
of the European Community and Japan, we have had to
deal with our social and economic problems out of our
resources. That alone explains why we have been unable to
resolve all social conflict.
In shouldering the task of coming up with answers, we
repeat that we shall be doing so without digressing from the
moral principles of fairness and the principles of the United
Nations, but we do ask for greater support for our
development from the international community. For that
reason the people of Paraguay were shocked — and, we
must say, indignant — to learn of the attempts by certain
European and United States banks to bring before the
Swiss courts claims of debts that were never sanctioned
by Paraguay authorities and that arose out of fraudulent
operations that were carried out in Italy and that are now
being investigated and judged in those countries.
Paraguay has honoured and will continue to honour
each and every one of its international commitments, but
we can never agree to the payment of debts unrelated to
our legislation and contrary to every principle of law.
The recent Conference of the Rio Group at Quito
came out vigorously in favour of productive investment
and discouraged speculation, which does not create
employment and which is unfortunately characteristic of
today’s climate. In this connection, our Government is
continuing with its plans concerning the Paraguay-Paraná
waterway. This waterway is not a new project or design
to be created from scratch but, on the contrary, something
that already exists as a work of nature and that must be
improved, without curtailing it, by means of river
channels that will be suitable for open navigation at all
times for the transit of goods and persons. The ecological
Summit at Rio de Janeiro strengthened Paraguay’s
awareness of the need to protect the environment, and
since this waterway already exists in its natural state, the
environment — and I would emphasize this — will in no
way be damaged.
As of 1 January 1995 the Southern Cone Common
Market, MERCOSUR, which is a customs union, has
complemented and integrated the economies of Argentina,
Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay into a market covering
over 200 million persons and 12 million square
kilometres, the world’s fourth largest regional entity. The
Treaty of Asunción, which brought MERCOSUR into
being five years ago, is based on two key principles,
namely, international democracy and international
solidarity. It is a flexible system of integration that seeks
to include the economies of the sister Republics of
Bolivia and Chile and that may eventually be joined with
the Andean Pact.
Paraguay is very enthusiastic about the fruitful
negotiations under way with the European Union aimed
at establishing a broad zone of free trade that would cover
Europe and MERCOSUR. Under the outstanding
presidency of Spain a broad framework agreement is now
being studied in the European Union, and we hope it can
be signed in Madrid at the end of this year.
13


Paraguay is firmly convinced of the need to move
forward with the process of creating in MERCOSUR such
supranational entities as an administration commission and
a law tribunal.
Paraguay’s pro-tem presidency of MERCOSUR saw
the entry into force of a customs union that has undergone
steady development, as well as the initiation of the
understanding with the European Union. We have just
handed the presidency over to Oriental Republic of
Uruguay.
Within MERCOSUR, Paraguay is carrying out a free-
trade policy, the most open such policy in South America,
corresponding as it does to article 8 of the Charter of the
International Monetary Fund, which provides for the totally
unrestricted movement of capital.
Paraguay is aware that it must reduce the size of its
armed forces so that the sums invested in it can be
transferred to the social sector, but without losing sight of
its need for security and without impairing the efficiency of
those forces. Fortunately, there is understanding of the
various mandates and the cooperation needed to make this
change. In Paraguay at the present time we are examining
the possibility of participation by our armed forces in
United Nations peace-keeping operations, and we have
begun to send officers to participate in training courses.
We appreciate the financing of the programmes and
projects in our country by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), the World Bank and the Inter-
American Bank for Development. We are grateful to the
International Monetary Fund for its very effective guidance.
Drug trafficking is not a problem in Paraguay, which
is neither a centre of production nor a consumer market.
The only problem it causes is created by the transit towards
the industrialized countries, which is facilitated by our long
border. Through its own efforts, and without external
assistance, Paraguay is combating this scourge and has
achieved significant successes. Public and private corruption
is the scourge of the whole world today, and it is being
tackled by our Government. In this connection, Paraguay
firmly supports the draft inter-American convention against
corruption submitted by the Government of Venezuela to its
partners in the Rio Group.
Paraguay is proud of its contribution to and
membership in the Rio Group. This is a flexible organ
created as a way to resolve a precise conflict, and it has
provided such good results that it has continued to exist as
a framework for broad, political dialogue that is becoming
increasingly relevant and important. Its establishment by
founding members of the Organization of American States
(OAS) has given it a particularly coherent and timely
political standing. We are encouraged at the practical turn
taken by the Summit Meeting of American Presidents at
Miami, especially at the Ministerial Meeting at Denver,
Colorado.
Before concluding my statement I wish to say that
the Government of Paraguay wants to highlight the
positive understanding achieved with the Republic of
Argentina for solving the ecological problem of the
Pilcomayo river. The sister Republic of Bolivia has now
joined us in a tripartite agreement to redress this problem
in an area ripe for regional development, thanks to the
cooperation of the European Union.
Last year we mentioned the need to create within the
United Nations system a fund for progress in science and
technology, particularly for the developing countries. In
this regard we would like to appeal especially to our
partners from the South. Without science and technology
for our economic, social and political elites, development
is impossible. The gap between the industrialized
countries and our own countries in this respect is so large
that it is a matter of fairness and necessity to reduce it.
Above all, it is question of bringing about a free transfer
of agricultural and food technology that can make it
possible for us to live in social peace.
As the United Nations completes its 50 years of
existence, it has passed many milestones in human
history. Knotty problems that seemed insoluble yesterday
have now been left behind.
A nuclear crisis, which threatened almost two
generations of the human race, now seems unthinkable.
The world can no longer be explained from the standpoint
of two ideologies whose triumph or defeat could be
decided only by a major war, which was fortunately avoided.
The contest between authoritarianism and freedom is
over. Although there are large areas of the world where
fundamental rights are not enjoyed, the benefits of
freedom enshrined in the declarations and covenants of
the United Nations are not at issue.
We cannot forget that since 1819 there have been
353 wars, but none of them has been between well-
established democracies.
14


There is a widespread and growing awareness that
many major issues can be resolved only by pooling our
efforts. The issues of the environment, women, education
and children, as well as a large majority of the other issues
on this grand Assembly’s agenda, are impossible to resolve
through the efforts of one nation-State. This fact is
confirmed every day. Today we forget that not long ago,
when our Organization already existed, there was no debate
over the internal affairs of countries and that no
international intervention was allowable. If the Charter were
rewritten today it would be startling to see the changes
Article 2, paragraph 7.
All this happened in the era of the United Nations. We
still lack the perspective to assess it, but we are sure that
the result is positive. We have not gone backwards; we
have not even stopped.
We are again hearing voices that emphasize the
defects of the Organization. The criticism would seem true
if we lost sight of the major changes for the good of
mankind that have come about with the existence and the
help of our institution. Through me, my country reiterates
its support for vital and necessary reforms. This is our
responsibility, and it is the best tribute we can pay to those
who conceived, shaped and developed the Organization.
But these changes will be valid only if we remember
the principle of the sense of history, as Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali pointed out. In recent years we
Paraguayans, in setting out anew on the path of democracy,
believed that we were impelled not only by a desire to
improve our living conditions, obtain the benefits of
progress and ensure well-being for all. We understood that
we were part of a shared adventure with universal roots,
that we were a nation that, in order to understand itself,
needed to understand others.
For this reason, we stand before you with a conviction
that I hope will last for ever: that the great majority of
people believe that with the United Nations it will be
possible some day be possible, perhaps very soon, to find
new forms of cosmopolitanism. That sense of history
obliges us to think once again in terms of the world — this
will, of course, be our new activity — so that morality may
triumph in politics and that the separation of the two will
have been but a moment in the history of our race.
To paraphrase Hegel, we can say, “What are we?
What shall we become?”


===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
﻿It is an honour for me, on behalf of
Paraguay, its people and its Government, to wish the
President of the General Assembly, Ambassador Razali
Ismail, every success in his endeavours. We wish also to
emphasize the excellent work accomplished by President
Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who tirelessly led the proceedings
of the past session.
For Paraguay, the United Nations is a form that has
guaranteed the free debate of ideas and the participation of
all without discrimination or exclusion. For a long time, the
United Nations has been the mandatory beacon of our
nations when their essential rights were threatened. For
Paraguayans, the fundamental rights of men and women,
one of the pillars of the United Nations, are today vital —
and not just rhetoric — in the search for world peace,
freedom and security, which only democratic civilian
Governments can guarantee.
The new historical reality we face — knowing
immediately what happens elsewhere in the world and
within or countries — means that we all must share a
greater responsibility and solidarity. The globalization of
today’s world is such that a problem besetting one nation
is not an isolated matter, but rather one that must be
considered by all.
This is why we will have to rethink the age-old
question of what path all men and women should take.
While we belong to diverse ideologies and cultures, we
must nevertheless secure equality, rights and freedoms.
Our contributions and suggestions for strengthening
the Organization and adapting it to the new realities of
today’s world therefore are made in the spirit of
cooperation. This is why we request that the reforms to
be adopted in the framework of the United Nations be
aimed at reducing its fragmentation in order to make it a
more functionally integrated structure. Such reform will
make possible more fluid communication and much more
efficient coordination. This is why we insist on reform to
eliminate unnecessary costs through the consolidation of
the programmes aimed at the harmonious development of
our peoples, and to rationalize and optimize existing
resources in order to avoid the duplication of human or
economic efforts.
The Government of Paraguay, aware of its
international commitments, has made enormous efforts to
fulfil its financial obligations to the United Nations. In
this regard, we send out an appeal for payments of
assessed contributions to be made within established
deadlines in order to ensure the operation of the
Organization. The principle of equity so requires this.
We must also state that Paraguay’s position on the
reform of the United Nations is clear with respect to the
General Assembly. We consider this body not only a
model of democratic decision-making, but also — given
its high degree of universality and free exchange of
ideas — the most important organ of the system. We
support the expansion of the Security Council, which
requires a larger number of permanent and non-permanent
members on the basis of equitable geographic distribution.
In this connection, we support the view that Latin
America should be represented among the permanent
members, in addition to countries such as Germany and
Japan. Paraguay maintains that the exercise of the veto
should evolve towards innovative mechanisms that would
be used more objectively.
Programmes that make sustainable economic
development possible constitute another aspect the system
must take into account. Our country is promoting a social
13


market economy, free and respectful of private initiative,
but without disregarding the share of responsibility borne
by the Government. We therefore view with satisfaction the
leading role of the United Nations in the field of sustainable
human development. In this connection, we wish to
underscore the binding conventions on the environment, the
commitment made by 118 Heads of State and Government
to put an end to poverty, unemployment and social
marginalization, the important results achieved at Habitat II
and the Midrand Declaration of the ninth session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
We particularly endorse paragraph 17 of that
Declaration, which states that
“The lack of territorial access to the sea,
aggravated by remoteness and isolation from world
markets, imposes serious constraints on the overall
socio-economic development efforts of the land-locked
developing countries.” (TD/377, para. 17)
As such, those countries require sufficient international
cooperation to maintain and improve their transportation
and commercial-exchange infrastructure.
Having signed the aforementioned conventions and
having participated in the aforementioned conference, the
Paraguayan national Government adopted concrete measures
to implement the provisions of the plans of action that
emerged from those meetings. Thus, following the mandate
of the World Summit for Social Development, a secretariat
for social action was established at the ministerial level,
reporting to the presidency of the Republic. Its fundamental
purpose will be to prepare public policy on social projects
and to coordinate the actions of the Government and civil
society in order to improve our people's standard of living.
We have also prepared a strategic plan to improve
education, in conjunction with the educational reform
currently being implemented by the national Government.
We have also devised a map of basic needs — which is
also known as poverty mapping. We have carried out a
household survey covering not only urban, but also rural
areas. We are at the moment preparing a system of social
indicators and social expenditures.
Furthermore, a year after the holding of the Fourth
World Conference on Women, the public and private
sectors at large have been made keenly aware of its
Platform for Action, thus fortifying policies relating to
gender.
I wish to express my Government's deep gratitude to
the United Nations system, and particularly to its
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has
constantly and tirelessly helped us work towards the well-
being of the people of Paraguay.
We are aware that our age is marked by unusual
characteristics. Contemporary history defines us
differently. Concepts have changed. Today we speak more
positively and effectively about integration, cooperation
and complementarity. The time of sterile confrontation is
behind us. This is a time of solidarity and of reciprocal
and diverse cooperation; constructive and creative
interdependence is the key to our daily coexistence.
Today's world needs not only a new economic order,
but also a new international cultural order. Science,
knowledge and technology must be our universal heritage.
An awareness of solidarity is the way for which human
beings to understand themselves and others. We should
see that without this understanding of others we are
insufficient, incomplete and lacking in humanity. Genuine
comprehensive development requires the cooperation of
all the men and women who inhabit this world. Only in
that way will development as a human right, with the
blessing of the Organization and with our strong support,
find its full meaning and its place in history. Either we
remedy our circumstances or we sink in them.
However, the disappearance of the rivalries of a
bipolar world has, unfortunately, not meant the end of
conflict. Throughout this year, we have seen ethnic and
nationalistic confrontations that have given rise to
overwhelming human crises that have cut down innocent
lives, destroyed property and — still more seriously —
brought about the loss of the value of coexistence. In this
state of affairs, Paraguay hopes that the military
confrontations that spill the blood of nations and violate
the right to live will very soon come to an end. We
encourage the consolidation of the peace process in the
former Yugoslavia and the resumption of the peace
process in the Middle East in order to find a just and
lasting solution in that region.
Our country also hopes that efforts will continue
towards the resolution of conflicts in Rwanda and
Burundi in order to bring about peace and stability in the
Great Lakes region. Paraguay views with satisfaction the
achievements made in Angola, and we hope that the
Organization of African Unity will continue to play an
important role in the prevention and settlement of
conflicts in Africa.
14


Paraguay notes with great satisfaction the results
achieved by the United Nations through its peace-keeping
Missions in Haiti, its observers in Nicaragua and
El Salvador and its verification Mission in Guatemala,
which has achieved major success recently. Paraguay is in
favour of continuing increasingly to promote the
mechanisms of preventive diplomacy and, above all, of
peace-keeping. Similarly, the Republic of Paraguay
welcomes the spirit of reconciliation manifested by the
Government of the Republic of China. We hope that a
dialogue will be established to resolve the situation with the
People’s Republic of China.
Now more than ever before, stability and peace are the
challenge. It is imperative to build a multipolar world to
guarantee the equitable development of nations and peoples.
Equity should be the cornerstone of universal harmony. In
this spirit, we trust that our Organization’s actions for
disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons will
prove effective and will strengthen our battle against all
threats to peace and world security. Faithful to this purpose,
Paraguay co-sponsored the resolution on the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which was adopted by the
General Assembly last 10 September. We encourage all
Member States of this great Organization to sign the Treaty,
as I did a few days ago as Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Paraguay. We urge that the Treaty be promptly ratified so
that it may enter into force.
Almost 50 years ago, on 10 December 1948, the
General Assembly adopted and proclaimed the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. Thus did mankind achieve
one of its most precious goals: a Declaration of rights for
which peoples and nations, individuals and societies, had
always fought. In Paraguay today, we firmly believe that
we have learned the hard lesson of living in peace,
democracy and pluralism. The era of oppression and of a
lack of basic freedoms, economic backwardness and
cultural isolation is past. It is part of a sad history that we
will remember only so as not to repeat it. The democracy
we are building today, with the active participation of our
citizens and the solidarity of the international community,
is part of an irreversible process.
Of course, barely four months ago, a small group,
nostalgic for authoritarianism, tried to turn back the clock.
But thanks to the prompt support of friendly nations and to
the spontaneous and courageous action of young people
who took to the streets to defend the democratic process,
we were able to abort a military adventure that could have
caused irreparable damage to our country. Fortunately, our
country is today moving straight towards a strengthening of
all its freedoms and towards democratic stability in its
political system.
We are greatly pleased that Paraguay was able to
overcome its institutional crisis with the weapons of
democracy. The threat of force against our institutions
was combated with our democratic beliefs. The
Government averted the danger without resorting to any
measures in violation of the Constitution or our laws.
Even at the most difficult times, we maintained freedom
of the press. No citizen was imprisoned and no
emergency laws were decreed. Our victory was based on
our belief in political pluralism and the right of dissent.
Thus, the calm and decisive action of the President of the
Republic of Paraguay, Juan Carlos Wasmosy, restored the
autonomy of civilian rule. We stopped being a democracy
under the protection of military power and became a
civilian democracy, free from interference or pressure
from outside forces.
Having made this historic, political step, the
Government and the people of Paraguay are deeply
grateful to the Member States of this Organization for
their support during that delicate crisis. In particular, we
are grateful to the Security Council for its clear and
unflinching support of Paraguayan democracy. This
support further strengthened our faith in the United
Nations efforts to maintain democratic political
institutions, freedom, peace and international security.
Paraguay's foreign policy is based primarily on
regional economic integration, at the centre of which is
the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). We
are convinced that the Latin American integration process
is the key to our country’s integration into the world
economy and to the consolidation of our democracy.
Following this policy, we have undertaken many activities
with a view to expanding the links between our internal
market and international economic processes.
Another important element has been the frontal
attack on international organized crime. The task is not
easy. For years political and economic corruption were
the modus operandi of the dictatorship. None the less, the
Government of Paraguay is committed to fighting the
scourge of drug trafficking and money-laundering. We
encourage the public, national and foreign alike, to report
irregularities worthy of investigation, inspection or review
so as to eliminate the sources of corruption. With its new
attitude of political transparency, the Government has sent
a draft bill to the National Congress which defines and
aims to suppress the crime of money-laundering,
15


including the laundering of profits from the illicit sale of
narcotics, psychotropic substances and dangerous drugs. A
national drug-control plan is also being drawn up.
Fifty years after the establishment of the International
Court of Justice in The Hague, my country — fulfilling the
promise President Wasmosy made last year to the General
Assembly — yesterday deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations the instruments of acceptance
of the jurisdiction of the Court. This decision is one further
commitment on my country’s part to the universal society
in which we believe. As Minister for Foreign Affairs of my
nation, I will always remember having been the vessel of
this historic decision. We also reiterate, as a land-locked
country, the importance of the Convention and the reforms
to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We express our
faith in the principle of the universal heritage of mankind
through our presence as a member of the council of the
International Seabed Authority.
Here at the beginning of the fifty-first session of the
General Assembly of the United Nations, as Minister for
Foreign Affairs I would like to take the liberty of making
a declaration of faith. Too young to have known the
founding, the first achievements, the main crises, the
changes and the development of the institutions of the
United Nations, I belong to a generation destined to play a
role in the twenty-first century.
When I was born, the human rights covenants had
already been written, the environment was already a
concern for all peoples, and the universal diplomatic
conventions and legal system of treaties were already in
place. Such is our world at the end of the century. Thus, in
supporting reform, Paraguay believes that it is necessary to
mention through me that there is one thing that we will not
be able to change: our purposes and goals, which we must
preserve for future generations.
We will reaffirm time and time again the equality of
nations, large and small, and the importance of creating
conditions for the rule of international law. Here in the
General Assembly, the soul of the United Nations,
representing a young nation which has yet enjoyed 200
years of independence and speaking before age-old peoples
and cultures, I reaffirm mankind’s utopia: a common belief
renewed that we can affirm this forever to be our home.








===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿It
is a great honour for me to address this great Assembly in
my capacity as President of the Republic of Paraguay. I
take this opportunity to express my deepest thanks to the
President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second
session, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine,
Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko. Also, I would note the excellent
work done by Ambassador Razali Ismail, who so efficiently
guided the work of the last session. In addition, I should
like to extend my best wishes to Mr. Kofi Annan, in
connection with his responsibilities as he exercises his
functions as Secretary-General of the Organization.
For the people of Paraguay, throughout the long
struggle to acquire and strengthen their democratic
institutions, the United Nations has always been a
universal forum that ensures the free debate of ideas and
the participation of all the peoples of the world, without
exclusion or discrimination, the vital issues involving
development, equity, the maintenance of peace and the
preservation of the environment.
Because of the great importance my country attaches
to this forum, we recognize the urgent need to support the
institutional reform of the United Nations by
strengthening the General Assembly and democratizing
the Security Council — adding both permanent and non-
permanent members — so that this institution will be able
to respond appropriately to the new challenges facing the
international community.
Last August last I had the great honour of chairing
in Asunción the eleventh summit of the Heads of State
and Government of the Permanent Mechanism for
Consultation and Policy Coordination — the Rio
Group — the members of which are Argentina, Bolivia,
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Guyana,
Honduras, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and
Venezuela. There a Declaration was adopted on the
strengthening of the United Nations and the reform of
Security Council, stressing certain principles and
guidelines that I shall now describe.
The Declaration of Asunción expresses, first, full
support for multilateralism, sovereign equality of States
and steadfast respect for the rule of law.


Second, it expresses support for the Secretary-
General’s initiative in putting forward a broad programme
for reform, presented on 16 July of this year, particularly
reforms designed to strengthen the effectiveness of the
Secretariat and to emphasize activities to promote economic
and social development.
Third, it notes the relevance of the process of
increasing the membership of the Security Council and to
reforming it to correct the imbalances in its current
membership, improve its decision-making mechanisms,
make it more transparent so that it will reflect in a more
legitimate and representative manner the overall
membership of the Organization.
Fourth, it states that, because of its legal traditions and
contribution to the cause of peace, the Latin American and
Caribbean region should be given special consideration in
any proposal to increase the membership of the Security
Council.
Fifth, it expresses the conviction that reform of the
Security Council must respect the principles of equitable
geographical distribution and the sovereign equality of
States, and that any reform that entails discrimination by
developed countries against developing countries would be
unacceptable.
Sixth, it expresses the ideal of moving towards the
total elimination of the veto and, as a first step, limiting its
use to actions taken under Chapter VII of the United
Nations Charter.
Seventh, it expresses the importance of transparency
in management and decision-making in the Security Council
and increasing the number of open meetings and orientation
meetings at which the Secretary-General or his special
representatives present reports.
Eighth, it considers that the increase in the Security
Council’s membership, the reform of its working methods
and the question of the veto are integral parts of Council
reform and must be addressed in the same agreement.
Ninth, it expresses the explicit resolve of our
Governments to continue to participate actively in the
Working Group in order to reach general agreement on this
matter.
Let me say once again that this increase in the
permanent and non-permanent membership of the Council
must necessarily envisage the presence of Latin America
and the Caribbean and other geographical groups without
any form of discrimination whatsoever. In this connection,
Paraguay reaffirms its support for permanent membership
for Brazil, Germany and Japan.
It is also important to note that the process of
reforming the Organization must include a plan to
eliminate unnecessary expenditures and an attempt to
merge programmes designed to further the development
of our peoples, which will lead to an optimum utilization
of available resources as well as to the elimination of
duplication in the use of human, technical or economic
resources. The serious financial problems of the United
Nations deserve sincere and determined consideration.
I am pleased to say that my country has always, in
so far as it has been able, honoured its international
commitments, aware that the Organization’s proper
functioning requires the appropriate and equitable
distribution of its administrative costs among all Member
States.
This moment in history is indeed a very special one.
Alliances are now being replaced by complementarity.
Isolationism and confrontation have given way to
globalization and cooperation. We no longer speak of
rivalry and struggle but, rather, of honest and creative
competition. The asymmetries in the world order that
have historically meant that some nations have been
subordinate to others are now themselves being
subordinated to this influx of solidarity and mutual
assistance.
It is of course true that many serious conflict areas
continue to exist, but Paraguay is pleased to note the
commendable efforts that the United Nations has made in
the maintenance of peace in various areas of tension, and
we have followed closely the Organization’s initiatives in
such new areas of conflict as Cambodia and Sierra Leone,
for whose peoples my country most sincerely wishes the
immeasurable benefits of peace and harmony.
We have also followed with keen interest the
disturbing developments in the Middle East situation, and
we urge the parties there to redouble their efforts to seek
a lasting and stable peace. We warmly welcome the
actions taken by the mediating nations, which untiringly
continue to participate in all negotiations.
With regard to the particular case of the Republic of
China on Taiwan, Paraguay welcomes the attitude adopted
by that country’s Government and expresses its hope that
2


there will be movement towards reconciliation and that it
will be possible to resolve the differences with the People’s
Republic of China.
In keeping with the principle of the universality of the
United Nations, all States that meet the requirements set
forth in the Charter have the right to seek admission or
membership. In this respect, we believe that it would be
advisable to reconsider General Assembly resolution 2758
(XXVI), which completely denies the 21 million inhabitants
of the Republic of China on Taiwan the fundamental right
to participate in international organizations and their
activities.
The challenges of peace, security and equilibrium are
more relevant to us today than ever before, and they are an
absolute imperative for building a world that guarantees
development to nations in a context of universal harmony.
On the crucial issue of world disarmament, allow me
to reiterate Paraguay’s position of support for United
Nations efforts in this sphere. My country welcomes
optimistically the preparatory work for the Review
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to be held in the
year 2000, hoping that by then the Treaty will have become
universal. That Treaty, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty, the efforts of States to reduce their arsenals
and the establishment of new nuclear-weapon-free zones are
all important elements that will help prevent the
proliferation of nuclear weapons and eventually achieve
general and complete nuclear disarmament.
True to its pacifist principles, the Republic of
Paraguay has been following the Ottowa process with great
interest. We recently took part in the Oslo Diplomatic
Conference, which adopted the definitive text of the
Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling,
Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on
Their Destruction, and we supported the majority position
of the principal States to seek appropriate and effective
legal mechanisms to prohibit the manufacture, use and
distribution of the cruel devices of death and pain that are
anti-personnel landmines.
We congratulate the international community on that
decisive step, and we reaffirm our unswerving decision to
sign the Convention. We urge other Governments to do the
same without any doubt or delay, so as to ensure its earliest
possible entry into force.
I should also like to reaffirm my country’s
unswerving commitment to continue the struggle against
terrorism, a destabilizing force that negates human rights
and threatens to undermine the very foundations of
security in our regions.
It is fitting here to stress that Paraguay, along with
the entire international community, is concerned about the
growth of drug trafficking. We therefore firmly reiterate
the Paraguayan people’s determination to combat that
scourge and its resolve to take integrated and concerted
action, within the context of international cooperation and
in conjunction with producing, transit and consuming
countries.
In this connection, I am pleased to inform the
Assembly that in October 1996 my country’s Parliament,
at the initiative of the Executive, adopted a law that
establishes norms and punishments for the crime of
laundering money or goods derived from illicit traffic in
narcotics, psychotropic substances or dangerous drugs,
thereby significantly improving the legal framework for
combating such crimes head on.
On 10 December 1998 we shall celebrate the fiftieth
anniversary of the proclamation of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, a major landmark in the
history of humankind and its endless struggle to ensure
dignity and reciprocity among human beings. Much of
what we have achieved along the way has been the
product of blood and pain, but with due satisfaction we
can now confirm that the principles and objectives of the
Declaration are increasingly being put into effect and that
the concept of a State based on the rule of law is
gradually becoming part of our national realities.
Moreover, the new culture of democratic solidarity has
managed convincingly to combat any aspirations for a
return to anachronistic times in our political history
characterized by authoritarianism and the denial of human
rights.
For Paraguay, the road to freedom and the
establishment of an institutional basis which sits well with
our republican ideals has been long. During this journey,
my Government has helped make the dream of every
Paraguayan a reality: the establishment of a system
guaranteeing full freedom and a strengthened democracy
allowing the peaceful transfer of the presidential mandate
to another candidate, elected by the people, who will take
up the office of President of the Republic in August 1998.
3


This is in keeping with the undeniable
achievements of the World Conference on Human Rights
held in Vienna in 1993, which reaffirmed the universality
and indivisibility of human rights, while recommending that
greater attention be paid to the links between democracy,
development and the satisfaction of the basic needs of the
most disadvantaged sectors of the population.
My Government has therefore tried to strengthen the
interrelationship between democracy, development and
human rights, thus combining these democratic
achievements, through a plan for social action designed to
create opportunities so that all citizens, through their own
efforts, can enjoy all the benefits of human development.
Obviously, a central feature of democratic governance
is concern for social problems. If our democracies do not
adapt to these new realities, not only will they be
impossible to govern, but they will remain on the sidelines
of history. Even worse, that all the sacrifices made to
strengthen our institutions may have to yield to populist and
Messianic pressures.
I am pleased to state today that my Government has
been able to lay the foundations for true development,
without making any Messianic promises or pandering to the
populists. I should highlight the significant progress made
in the institutional framework of this process, with electoral
reform that has enabled us to move satisfactorily through
all the stages of the democratic schedule. Equally historic
is the balance achieved in civil and military relations,
following the successes of April 1996, when popular
pressure and the enormous weight of solidarity on the
continent thwarted attempts to take us back to outdated
forms of autocracy.
I am convinced that our fledgling democracy has
gathered new strength since those events and that it will be
an insuperable obstacle to any attempts to bring down our
institutions. Furthermore, the changes to the administration
of justice, with a multiparty Supreme Court, prevent any
manipulation or distortion of the mechanisms laid down by
the Constitution and the laws of the Republic.
Management by parliament has become part of the
process of joint cooperation in government, and this has
been an enriching experience in the democratic life of the
country.
Paraguay has a young population which is eager to
learn. Current and future generations must be able to equate
a free economy with democracy and democracy with a
State based on the rule of law, with guarantees for human
dignity.
During the Eleventh Summit of Heads of State and
Government of the Rio Group, which was held in my
country, I spoke enthusiastically about the need for a bold
strategy to back up the ideals of democracy, sustainable
development, equity and integration, and placed particular
emphasis on what I called “education for democracy”.
The training of young people in this emerging world
must include guidelines based on sound ethical and
doctrinaire principles. The young must be given
experience in how to handle modern technological tools,
so that they can deal with the requirements of the new
political, economic and social processes which are
defining the current and future development of our
nations.
Further thought needs to be given to the
environmental issue. Five years after the Rio Conference,
the Republic of Paraguay is building on the increasing
awareness of the need to preserve the ecosystem, whose
priority nature is reflected in the 1992 Constitution. But
I must also emphasize how urgent it is to give full effect
to the principle of common but differentiated
responsibility put forward in Rio. If it is to be valid, this
principle must enjoy the support of richer countries in
terms of financial and technical assistance, so that we can
put an end once and for all to the “ecology of poverty”
which forces many sectors of poor countries to destroy
their environmental basis with the simple and tragic aim
of ensuring their subsistence from day to day.
I have every reason to be satisfied that my
Government has been able to institutionalize various
instruments to improve the quality of the environment in
our country — in particular, the strategy for managing,
using, preserving and protecting natural resources in the
context of the programme for change in Agenda 21,
whose basic aim it is to strengthen the process of
sustainable development.
Highlights of the new environmental legislation now
in force include laws on evaluating the environmental
impact, on wildlife, on protected rural areas and on
penalties for ecological offences. In the context of the
Agenda for Change, we are ratifying international
agreements, and taking account of the importance of
international cooperation on the environment. With regard
to the United Nations Convention to Combat
Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious
4


Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa, we
submitted the legal instrument for ratifying the instrument
in January this year. In this context, the countries that share
the Gran Chaco Americano — Paraguay, Bolivia and
Argentina — have entered into a new relationship based on
a model of cooperation for sustainable development in this
vast region.
There is an old saying that nobody is so rich that he
does not need anything and nobody is so poor that he has
nothing to give. In line with those words of wisdom, every
Member State of this Organization has given and received.
In the particular case of Paraguay, I have to point out that
international cooperation has played a decisive role, and its
true dimensions can therefore be assessed and appreciated.
For this reason, I am particularly grateful to the United
Nations, whose presence in Paraguay, through its various
specialized agencies, has been and continues to be so
positive and dynamic.
Just over six years ago the Argentine Republic, Brazil,
Paraguay and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, and later,
the Republic of Chile and the Republic of Bolivia, as
associated members of the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR), decided to cooperate in a spirit of solidarity
in order to gain an increasingly advantageous position in
this globalized and dynamic world. In that context we have
reached undeniably relevant milestones for the present and
future of our peoples.
Today, it is recognized that in MERCOSUR we are on
the right path, and we are receiving an encouraging
message from the outside world concerning our integration.
Our efforts are focused on trying to establish a common
market, within a gradual and continuous process in which
the basic stages still need to be rounded off, improved and
studied in depth.
MERCOSUR’s experience is expanding. This is an
important regional bloc. We have opened negotiations with
the Andean Community and the United Mexican States, and
we hope that by the end of this year agreements will be
signed allowing for trade preferences in the region.
Moreover, MERCOSUR participates in the Free Trade Area
of the Americas, and there are proposals to conclude shortly
a hemispheric free trade initiative involving the 34 countries
of the Americas.
MERCOSUR is also expanding towards the European
Union. We are making progress in defining political
decisions which would encourage the establishment of a
free trade zone between the two customs unions.
This has been my third address to the General
Assembly as President of the Republic of Paraguay. I am
here today to reconfirm on behalf of my country — a
founding Member of the United Nations — our
commitment to the lofty ideals that inspire us. Our
Organization needs to be adapted and reformed so as to
be able to respond effectively to the major challenges of
the next millennium. Paraguay undertakes to make its
contribution to attaining those noble objectives.
At this very special moment I warmly embrace the
Assembly, not only in the name of my people, but also on
behalf of myself, Juan Carlos Wasmosy, a citizen with
faith in democracy, struggled for his country’s freedom
and won.









===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
It is with great pleasure that I speak today, before this
esteemed forum for international dialogue, on behalf of my
country, the Republic of Paraguay. First of all, I would like
to congratulate the President of the General Assembly and
to extend to him my best wishes for success in the
important task of guiding the work of the fifty-third session
of the General Assembly of this Organization.
I also have the pleasure to greet the Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, and to extend to him, on behalf of the
people of Paraguay, our congratulations on his excellent
fulfilment of his important mission.
As the century comes to an end, so does a decade that
has been for the world, and particularly for nations such as
mine, a period of far-reaching and vertiginous
transformation.
In 1989, after almost four decades of authoritarian
rule, Paraguay regained its democracy. Since that time, a
great number of profound and dramatic changes have taken
place in the process of reaffirming our democracy, a
process that today, I am pleased to announce, may now be
considered definitively consolidated, since for the first time
in 50 years a civilian President has transferred the
presidency of the Republic to another democratically
elected civilian. This is an essential milestone in the
recent history of our freedom and a striking testimony to
the Paraguayan peopleâs firm and irreversible commitment
to this system of government.
We took over the administration of a country with
major economic, social and moral problems, but, faithful
to the peopleâs mandate, we will make the decisions that
we deem appropriate and fitting to reactivate our
economy, restore international confidence in Paraguay
and, finally, ensure the sustainable and equitable
development of its people.
This, today, is my commitment, and I will dedicate
all my devotion and labour to it, though I am aware that
this effort would be in vain without the understanding,
solidarity and support of my people, as well as the
involvement and cooperation of friendly countries.
In this regard, my Government has pledged to carry
out a State agenda that is pragmatic and realistic. Its
priorities will include restoration of the peopleâs faith in
their leaders through transparent, coordinated actions
whose immediate effects will, in the short term, result in
greater well-being for the population. We will also carry
out an all-out war against poverty by doing away with the
privileges that engender injustices and intolerable
inequalities.
Another priority will be a rapid economic recovery
through the implementation of social programmes and the
construction of an infrastructure of all-weather roads,
which will expedite and reduce the cost of the rapid
transport of goods produced in rural areas to trade
centres. We will also initiate programmes to provide
inexpensive housing for a large sector of the population.
We will give priority to the fight against crime in all
its forms, focusing on the elimination of the scourges of
drug-trafficking and the piracy and illegal appropriation
of intellectual property. The concrete actions we have
taken during our first month in office have clearly shown
our firmness, determination and commitment in this
regard.
Another priority will be combating impunity, one of
the ills that eats away at our society. We will be
assiduous in the rigorous application of the law, which is
the inevitable framework for ensuring confidence and
development, particularly against those who profit from
State resources, depriving the rest of the community of
their legitimate chance to aspire to a better standard of
7


living. Exemplary measures will be adopted to address
premeditated crimes in the economic and financial sphere.
We trust that these measures, along with those for the
protection of private property and an adequate framework
of incentives and security for foreign investment, will assist
us in recovering Paraguayâs international credibility and
will bring in the flow of cooperation and investment
necessary for our desired development.
The reform of the principal organs of the United
Nations â€” the General Assembly and the Security
Council â€” is of the greatest importance to us.
We have participated in the work of the Working
Group on Security Council reform, and once again I wish
to emphasize the importance we attach to the expansion of
the Council in both of its categories; if the number of
permanent members is increased, the number of non-
permanent members must be increased as well.
This increase must include Latin America and the
Caribbean and the other regional groups, without any
discrimination.
We believe that the effort undertaken by the United
Nations with regard to item 155 on the Assemblyâs
agenda â€” â€œMeasures to eliminate international
terrorismâ€ â€” is of the greatest relevance.
Paraguay vehemently condemns and rejects such acts
of international terrorism as the attacks on the American
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
In this respect, we wish to express our conviction that
any international action to prevent and subdue terrorism
must be carried out in full and complete compliance with
international law.
Another scourge, generally related to terrorism, is that
of drug-trafficking, to which I have already referred. In this
context, I must add that we are convinced that this is a
problem of shared responsibilities among all countries
involved, producing, transit and consuming countries. Our
position on this point was clearly stated in the Declaration
of the Twelfth Meeting of Heads of State and Government
of the Rio Group, held in Panama City.
We welcome initiatives such as resolution 49/96, on
horizontal economic cooperation and other modalities for
cooperation among developing countries. We must also
mention last yearâs Declaration and Plan of Action of San
JosÃ©, Costa Rica, which defines specific modalities for
dealing with sectoral problems relating to cooperation in
the spheres of trade, investment, finance and business.
However, we feel that the United Nations system
should identify mechanisms, such as economic and
technical cooperation, that will enable it to strengthen
integration more effectively, and adopt decisions aimed at
providing increased assistance. In this regard, my country
will support such measures as will, in a more effective
and coordinated manner, interest all participants â€”
particularly private-sector participants â€” in the
development process.
We also endorse strengthening the United Nations to
increase efficiency within the institutions of the
Organization.
If our Government programmes focus on supporting
development with social justice we can give our peoples
democracy, freedom and respect for human rights.
However, we cannot ask our peoples to fight for
development, to make greater sacrifices, if they do not see
similar trends towards change and a unified commitment
on the part of the international community.
Complying with our commitments made at the
Summit for Social Development, Paraguay intends to
achieve the goals set there. In this regard, I am pleased to
state that the priorities of our Administration include the
social development of the country; reduction of the
unemployment rate; the eradication of poverty;
preservation of the environment â€” a commitment to our
future generations; heeding the demands of our youth; and
supporting the advancement of women and of integrated
societies.
Based on the fundamental principle of universality,
the Republic of Paraguay feels that the United Nations
system must welcome, without exception, all States that
meet the requirements of the San Francisco Charter.
Given this, and bearing in mind the elements that make
up a State as well as other essential considerations,
Paraguay feels that the proposed participation of the
Republic of China in the United Nations and all its
related bodies must be considered. This is what we would
do with any other State that met the requirements of the
Charter.



I would now like to refer to one of the most important
strategies for the socio-economic development of my
country: its participation in the Southern Cone Common
Market (MERCOSUR), which is a fundamental objective of
our foreign policy. The achievements of MERCOSUR,
which was created in 1991 through the Treaty of AsunciÃ³n,
as part of the process of integration, are a matter of pride
for our four countries â€” Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and
Paraguay â€” as well as for Bolivia and Chile. These
achievements have encouraged us to renew our efforts,
certain that the political will that has guided us so far will
lead us to achieve the goals that we have set for ourselves:
to strengthen and consolidate the Customs Union and to
move towards a greater level of integration.
Moreover, it is encouraging to note that the path we
chose in 1991 has attracted more and more interest from an
increasingly globalized world. In this regard, MERCOSUR
has shown its openness to dialogue, in particular with the
sister countries of Latin America. We are not a closed
community, but, rather, are open to initiatives that will
promote economic, political and social cooperation. In this
spirit, we are giving particular attention to the negotiations
initiated to establish a free-trade zone for the hemisphere
and to the negotiations we intend to hold in the near future
with the European Union.
The recent crisis in financial markets in South-East
Asia and Eastern Europe, which have in turn threatened the
stability of the financial markets of emerging economies,
are a disturbing feature of todayâs international scene. It
was mentioned in the Declaration of the Twelfth Summit of
the Heads of State and Government of the Rio Group, held
in Panama City, in which the position of the signatory
countries is clearly expressed.
A great deal of hope has been placed in the work
carried out by this Organization. We are on the threshold of
a new millennium; the twenty-first century looms on the
horizon, rich with opportunities and challenges. Our
societies are suffering from the crisis of the birth of a new
era, a new order, because we are not all yet adequately
prepared to confront it.
Therefore, our societies demand leadership from the
United Nations. The conclusions, recommendations and
actions that may come from this Assembly could be of
fundamental importance for our immediate future.
The problems emerging from the increase in
globalization and interdependence, as well as the dizzying
speed with which changes are taking place in the world,
affecting all aspects of the human condition, force us
inexorably to confront the challenge of finding the most
ideal mechanisms for dialogue, understanding and
effective and united international cooperation. We trust
that the United Nations will be capable of meeting this
challenge.









===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
At
the outset, I wish to greet the President of the General
Assembly, His Excellency Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Namibia, whom I congratulate on his
election and offer all the cooperation of the delegation of
Paraguay in his work.
In greeting Secretary-General Kofi Annan, I
congratulate him on his excellent work for the
Organization and reaffirm the full support of the Republic
of Paraguay for his efforts on behalf of world peace.
At the same time, the delegation of Paraguay wishes
to welcome the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the
Kingdom of Tonga to membership of the United Nations.
We are convinced that their work will contribute to
international peace and development and that their
presence among us is further evidence of the
universalization foreseen under the Charter.
This regular session of the General Assembly finds
Paraguay at a crucial moment in its political life and for
its expectations for economic and social development. The
Paraguayans have very recently overcome internal
destabilization. However, a rapid, broad and heroic
mobilization of the citizenry, in particular the members of
Parliament, youth, workers and peasants, formed an
impenetrable barrier against an attempt to foment a
constitutional collapse and provided support for the
resistance to this attack on democracy.
As a result of the crisis of March 1999, the gravity
and importance of which caused it to be followed by the
media throughout the world, a Government of national
unity was established in the framework of the National
Constitution. That Government, which I have the honour
to represent before this Assembly, is composed of all
political parties through democratically elected
parliamentarians. Today, it faces the great challenge of
5


pulling Paraguay out of chronic economic stagnation and
great social inequity.
In various international forums, and yet again in this
arena of brotherhood among the States of the world,
Paraguay appeals for the solidarity and cooperation of the
multilateral and bilateral organizations in carrying out its
economic reactivation programme and the implementation
of social and anti-poverty policies. This activity will be the
basis and guarantee of the survival of our democracy.
In this context, for the first time in my country's recent
history, the political parties, the authorities of the State and
the representatives of civil society have agreed in a patriotic
consensus on policies and strategies to rechannel economic
growth, alleviate poverty, combat social exclusion and
achieve well-being for our people. Democracy, as an ideal
form of organization and coexistence, will be insured for
history by sustainable development, which will guarantee
the material well-being of the impoverished majority.
In this respect, my country has subscribed to and fully
supports the principles, objectives and measures adopted at
the United Nations Conferences on social development,
population and development, and women. We are
unswervingly committed to political democracy because we
know that we must consolidate it with justice, social equity,
economic growth and sustainable development. My
Government is firmly decided to participate and act jointly
with other countries of the world at all levels to enhance
natural resources and preserve the environment as an
irreplaceable framework for human development.
In a significant response to the requirements of the
Cairo Conference, Paraguay has adopted a national plan and
a Council for Reproductive Health. With the establishment
of the Women's Secretariat, we have strengthened women's
presence in government and made available a programme
for women's equality in education. This measure has
allowed us to incorporate gender equality into educational
reform and to adopt a women's equal-opportunity plan.
We have attributed equal importance to the
Convention on the Rights of the Child and to the
commitments made at the Children's Summit. In this
respect, the Executive Power has submitted a code for
minor's for parliamentary approval.
Clearly, these important steps have had a positive
effect. Paraguay today, according to the most recent report
of the United Nations Development Programme, is in a
comparatively improved position that favours its human
development indicators.
The dynamic of today's world is an unavoidable
challenge demanding not only domestic democratic
cooperation, but also negotiations that will raise countries
to a level of development at which they can work with
other regional and multilateral partners.
Convinced of this, Paraguay, freely and in full
sovereignty, has decided to join the great Southern Cone
Common Market (MERCOSUR) project, a regional
experiment that has proved to be a useful instrument for
addressing the challenges of an ever-changing world
economy. Thus, we look forward to the opening of
negotiations to establish a free-trade zone between
MERCOSUR and the European Union. Similarly,
Paraguay is actively participating in the ambitious Free
Trade Area of the Americas, an undertaking that will
have enormous repercussions for the American continent.
In its decisive struggle for comprehensive progress,
my country is participating with renewed hope and great
faith in the ideals that formed the basis for the
establishment and existence of the United Nations. We
therefore reaffirm our full commitment to the principles
of multilateralism, equal sovereignty of States and respect
for the legal order that support the essential principles of
the Organization.
In this respect, Paraguay is examining the process of
change and the strengthening of this Organization. We
will support all efforts to improve its efficiency and
operational capacity to maintain peace and contribute to
the human development of all peoples.
Nevertheless, my country believes that the structure
of the United Nations must be made less costly and more
efficient. The Organization should strengthen the
Economic and Social Council, continue to streamline the
Secretariat and reduce the overlap of its specialized
agencies, through efficient rationalization of the flow of
resources for cooperation for sustainable development.
Given the challenges facing the United Nations, we
attach considerable importance to the adoption of
measures to ensure the good financial functioning of its
organs, and we therefore urge Member States, particularly
the most developed, to meet their financial obligations as
an essential prerequisite for the reform of the
Organization.
6


Similarly, the Government of my country does not
consider that the present composition of the Security
Council reflects the presence of all the main actors of the
international community, nor that its numbers are in
proportion to the totality of Members. Only an increase in
the number of permanent and non-permanent Members will
ensure more equitable participation within the Security
Council and, thus the necessary political balance. In that
respect, the progressive process of international
democratization must conclude with the elimination of the
right of veto of its permanent members.
Therefore, Paraguay supports the aspiration of Latin
America and other continents to have greater representation
in the Council, where the presence of Brazil as a permanent
member, could represent the great interests of our region.
Paraguay is convinced that maintaining international
peace and security must continue to be one of the priorities
of the United Nations, in particular in those areas of
conflict where its intervention can contribute decisively to
stabilizing the situation on the ground and achieving peace.
As proof of its commitment to these noble purposes,
the Government of Paraguay has officially offered the
Secretary-General the participation of members of its armed
forces in United Nations peacekeeping operations, a
decision which will contribute to this noble humanitarian
purpose. To that end, a battalion of elite officers of the
Paraguay army is receiving special training to participate in
those operations, in accordance with the memorandum of
understanding to be signed between the Republic of
Paraguay and the United Nations.
However, we truly believe that the best guarantee of
peace, together with the monitoring of human rights and
equal opportunity for development, is to reduce armaments
progressively and in a sustained manner until they are
totally eliminated.
Paraguay strongly condemns terrorism in all its forms,
regarding it as one of the most serious threats to our
societies. In that respect, we have supported all the United
Nations initiatives to counteract this scourge, making clear
our resolve to prevent it, combat it and eliminate it. It is
timely to recall that my country has itself suffered from the
effects of this terrible scourge; in this very year we have
suffered the horrendous assassination of the Vice-President
of the Republic, Luis Mar'a Argaña. I take this opportunity
for the President of the Republic of Paraguay to thank the
General Assembly for the tribute which was paid to him.
Paraguay will not cease its struggle to eradicate terrorist
bands, which are alien to our tradition and our history.
With regard to other scourges which afflict our
societies, I must emphasize with great satisfaction the
efforts which my country is making in the crusade against
illicit drug-trafficking and related crimes, a struggle which
is carried out with the greatest cooperation. The twentieth
special session of the United Nations, on the question of
drugs, held in New York in June 1998, conveyed in its
decisions that spirit, which should lead us inexorably to
the final destruction of the merchants of death, a victory
which will be achieved with the shared responsibility of
the nations committed to the crusade.
These purposes will be achieved with the faithful
fulfilment of the commitments undertaken with regard to
human rights and fundamental freedoms. In this respect,
my country has followed the recommendations of the
United Nations with regard to signing, adhering to and
ratifying those commitments, whose purpose it is to
strengthen the framework for the promotion and
protection of the rights of the individual. International
legal instruments in this regard form part of the law in the
Republic of Paraguay.
For that reason, my Government accepts verification
and monitoring by organizations concerned with the
protection of human rights, thus complying with the
provisions of the covenants which it has ratified, as a
commitment of its will to fulfil them. We must note here
that Paraguay has just received a visit from the Inter-
American Commission on Human Rights, which arrived
in the country in response to an invitation by the
Government.
With regard to the priorities of justice concerning
crimes of international scope, we find it very satisfactory
to note a most promising event: the approval in 1998 of
the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, to
pass judgement on individuals accused of the crimes
which most offend the human conscience. Paraguay,
being one of the signatories, has submitted this document
for parliamentary approval.
Furthermore, Paraguay, whose population includes
15 per cent of foreigners, the majority of whom live in
border areas, free of segregation or discrimination, notes
with satisfaction that the problem of the Balkans is
moving back to its natural ambit, the United Nations
Security Council, which must necessarily approve any
decision.
7


Our permanent, determined support for the Conference
on Disarmament is one of the pillars of our international
policy. Paraguay, which supported the process of
decolonization and the autonomy of peoples from the time
the United Nations was established, has followed with great
concern the events in East Timor. I sincerely hope that with
the efforts of the United Nations, the best solution will be
found to the problem, with the consecration of the rights of
this people, legitimized in the referendum and encouraged
by our Organization.
My country has firmly decided to keep to the essential
principles of coexistence and civilization; this is a necessary
result of its belonging to the international community.
Following the principle of universality, Paraguay supports
the right of all the peoples of the world to make their
voices heard at the United Nations.
Paraguay believes that the situation in the China Strait
must be resolved within the framework of international law,
non-aggression and peaceful coexistence of nations.
I cannot fail to state here that we share the sorrow of
the people of the Republic of China at the catastrophe
afflicting its territory. We must all commit ourselves to
offering cooperation and help to achieve its full recovery.
In my country there is an unswerving commitment to
democracy and the belief that this can be consolidated only
through justice, social equity, economic growth and
sustainable development. That is why my Government has
resolved to participate and act together with other countries
in all efforts aimed at preserving natural resources and the
environment, an indispensable task for comprehensive
development. For the same reasons, in this year when
humanity will achieve the surprising figure of six billion
inhabitants in the world, we, the Heads of State and
Government and political leaders and officials have the
historic responsibility to respond to the needs and
expectations of this huge world population. But let us not
do it with hunger, thirst, wars, terrorism, discrimination,
genocide, tyranny and injustice — let us do it with
responsibility, with positive actions, and with security for
the human person.
On the threshold of the new millennium, Paraguay is
prepared to participate in this urgent task of improving
human civilization.











===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
Before I begin, I should like to make a
personal comment. As a former official of the United
Nations Population Fund, I should like to express my
great pride and personal satisfaction at being able to
speak to the Assembly today and to address those
countries with which I have worked, together with my
other colleagues in the United Nations. All of us, of
course, share a hope that our dream of a better world
will come true.
It is a great source of satisfaction to see the
President preside over the work of this Assembly,
familiar as I am with his great personal and
professional skills, which guarantee the success of our
work. I should also like to express to his predecessor,
Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab, our gratitude and
recognition of the efficient work he has done.
Similarly, I would like to thank the Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, for the detailed report on the work of
the Organization that he has presented. It describes the
important work carried out by the United Nations over
the past year as well as the challenges for the future.
I should also like to express on behalf of my
Government our pleasure at the entry of Tuvalu as a
new Member of our Organization. This is an important
step forward along the road of universality, which is
the aspiration we all share.
The recently concluded Millennium Summit was
a useful instrument for reflection by our Heads of State
upon the present and future of the Organization. This
Organization must adapt its structures and mechanisms
for action to the new challenges facing humanity. I am
certain that the numerous suggestions that have been
made will help establish clear lines of action so the
United Nations can operate more efficiently and
effectively.
At the last summit of the Rio Group, which took
place in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, the Heads of
State who comprise this political consultation
mechanism endorsed the Cartagena Declaration as our
singular contribution to the Millennium Summit and to
the future of the United Nations. It is our intention to
ensure appropriate follow-up to the initiatives and
aspirations expressed in this document in order to make
certain that they become a reality in the future for the
benefit of all humanity in terms of democracy, trade
flows, better dynamics in international relations in
terms of human security and the pursuit of multilateral
solutions.
I fully agree with the Secretary-General of our
Organization when he says that the conclusion of one
century and the turn of the millennium provide us with
a unique vantage point for reflecting upon our common
destiny. Fifty-five years have passed since the creation
of the United Nations, and during that period we have
seen many auspicious as well as many worrying events.
Let us pause for a moment and think about all the good
that we have done and the good that we have failed to
do, as well as upon what we have done wrong or
should not have done.
The conclusion of the cold war, of which this
Organization was one of the most important theatres,
seemed to herald a period of peace and prosperity for
humanity, in fulfilment of the Biblical mandate to beat
our swords into plowshares. Nevertheless, humanity is
still facing terrible threats, not only to its security —
because war and violence persist in new and more
sophisticated forms — but also threats to its very
existence, in light of the prospect that our planet may
become uninhabitable as a result of human activities.
Consequently, in the new millennium the United
Nations will be equally if not more important than it
was in the previous millennium. Our Organization must
of course adapt to new times. The reform of our
Organization cannot be postponed any further. The
structures of its main organs must adapt to the new
characteristics of the international community, with the
increasing number of nations which belong to it. We
must adapt to the increasing role of civil society, the
spread of the system of representative democracy, the
globalization of our world markets and the intolerable
persistence of serious social deficits in most of our
States.
23

In particular, our Organization must adapt so that
our efforts towards development are rendered
appropriate for each individual wherever he or she may
live and wherever his or her community may be
located, and wherever we want to see our families
grow.
The human being as the centre of development
will continue to be at the centre of our mandate, as well
as the commitments assumed by each and every one of
our countries at summits of the United Nations over the
past decade. The efforts made by each man, woman or
child to take advantage of the opportunities offered by
global markets and new economic trends is first and
foremost a local and community effort and secondly a
national effort, which can create opportunities for
growth and ensure participation for each man and each
woman.
The reorganization of the United Nations, and in
particular its system of development, must ensure that
it can respond creatively and flexibly to these
community and national efforts. This will make it
possible progressively to improve for each individual
daily access to health, education, sanitation services,
technology and reasonable credit, as well as the
equitable participation of women in productive
activities. In that way, we can ensure the integration of
all our citizens into the global market and make certain
they can benefit from this process.
It is vital that the cooperation activities of the
United Nations be well structured and have a real
impact on our populations, in particular women,
children and adolescents. It is essential that these
activities create an environment of national dialogue in
each of our countries with a view to harmonizing views
on development and creating consensus on the means
for achieving growth, in order to give true meaning to
social and productive investments and to meet the
qualitative demands of civil society.
National consensus must necessarily be the basis
for global consensus, and today more than ever it must
be the basis for consensus among integrated groups
that wish to negotiate with each other. However, a
reorganized and renewed United Nations, in the
ultimate analysis, must be the guarantor of the
well-being of each of our citizens. The United Nations
exists so that all of our citizens can benefit from new
trends in trade, development and technology in order to
achieve growth as individuals and as families and to
improve their quality of life and feel that they live in a
better world where their sons and daughters will be
able to continue to grow, in peace.
Turning to another subject, we are concerned
about the delay in the adoption of a decision about the
future composition of the Security Council, because we
feel that its enlargement cannot be postponed. Its
composition must become more equitable and
representative and allow for a better political balance.
This gradual process of democratization must begin
with an increase in both categories of members,
permanent and non-permanent, and it should also
include both developed and developing countries.
Special attention should be given to the fact that the
developing countries are now under-represented in that
very important body. Paraguay also believes that this
reform should include the gradual elimination of the
veto rights of the permanent members.
We welcome the Brahimi report, which
establishes a valid framework for the reform and
strengthening of United Nations peacekeeping
operations. Paraguay has always supported such
operations as a fundamental mechanism contributing to
world peace and security.
I should also like to refer to the regular budget of
the Organization, in connection with the aspirations of
some developed countries to reduce their contributions
to a lower percentage. We believe that this should not
mean that the assessed contributions of developing
countries would increase to unprecedented percentages,
even though the figures involved may seem to others
modest or insignificant. It is paradoxical that some
developed countries would have their contributions
reduced precisely when they are enjoying excellent
economic growth, while other countries that are
experiencing difficulties would see an increase in their
contributions.
It is in this context that we must seriously study
the scale of assessments so that when we adopt it this
year we will achieve a fair and equitable distribution of
the financial burden of this Organization. We hope that
together we will find balanced solutions and equitable
formulas and timetables for redistributing the
budgetary burden so that we can promote and
reactivate the participation of large and small States in
our Organization.
International relations have acquired a new
dimension as a result of the revolution in computer
24

technology, telecommunications and communications
in general. The effect of this is what we call
globalization, which has both positive and negative
consequences. On the one hand it has produced a
change in the consciousness of human beings, who for
the first time feel they are part of a whole — that is, of
humanity in its entirety. On the other hand, it has
increased the divide between the poorest countries and
the more advanced countries owing to the advantages
accruing to those that are better prepared for the
dismantling of national barriers. In these conditions,
solidarity takes on a new urgency. It is an act of justice
for those peoples who see all their potential progress
subordinated to this process.
In this regard, we fully agree with recent
statements made by the representative of the Holy See
during the special session of the General Assembly on
social development, to the effect that the benefits of
great scientific advances must be shared by all peoples
and should not be enjoyed exclusively by the few.
Otherwise we will merely be perpetuating differences
and widening the gap between rich and poor countries.
We know that decades of development assistance
under past conditions have not succeeded very well in
eradicating poverty and cultural backwardness in vast
regions of the world. Nevertheless, this should not
become a pretext for reducing the amount of
development assistance, especially multilateral
assistance, nor should we see any increase in
conditionality. We believe fully in the multilateral
approach, and we should totally reject conditionality
when determining how to provide development
assistance. Nor do we wish to justify the lack of good
governance in many nations, which has meant in some
cases that efforts were wasted to a great extent and
only fuelled corruption and caused the loss of age-old,
noble traditional practices.
In the recent elections for the vice-presidency of
the Republic, my country demonstrated once again the
preference of our region for representative democracy.
In the elections, which all observers considered
exemplary because of the discipline, civic spirit and
participation shown by the citizens, we saw the
election of the opposition candidate, of the radical
liberal party, Mr. Julio César Franco. The fact that two
parties, until now adversaries, can share power is far
from negative. Rather, it constitutes an opportunity to
establish lasting political stability through the
establishment of a Government of national unity that
can efficiently foster the institutional and economic
reforms needed in our country in order to achieve
sustained progress.
I would like to take this opportunity to express
our gratitude — to the international community, to our
friends in the Southern Common Market
(MERCOSUR), the Rio Group, the European Union
and the Organization of American States, and to the
United States of America, Japan, the Republic of China
and other countries around the world — for their
constant support for our process of democratization. I
would like to say to all of them that thanks to their
efforts Paraguay is continuing along the road to
democratic growth.
We are certain that the spread of democracy and
the increasing exercise of its freedoms by peoples will
bring greater effectiveness to our State institutions in
the short term. This, together with the increasing role
of the private sector, can create fertile ground for
investment and the transformation of productive
activities in a large part of the world, leading to a
reduction in unemployment and poverty.
International cooperation, for its part, must
establish clear priorities and offer what each of us
needs. It cannot be simply humanitarian aid, although
humanitarian aid is fully justified in emergency
situations. Instead, international cooperation should be
aimed at the integral, sustainable development of
peoples. These are two words that are used and
misused — “integral” and “sustainable”. When we say
“integral”, we understand it to mean that aid must try
to come to grips with the entire set of development
problems of each country and of each individual, in
order to guarantee respect for human rights — not only
political rights but also economic and social rights; and
merely partial solutions should not be offered.
When we say “sustainable” we mean that
assistance must not become an addiction for the
beneficiaries. It should empower them to continue
along the road to progress relying on their own efforts
and should guarantee growth for future generations.
Combating poverty means building peace. The
security of the world must be based on the elimination
of the underlying causes of violence, two of the
principal causes being ignorance and poverty. This
does not exempt us, however, from taking effective
measures to limit the use of the instruments of
violence, from their most deadly form, such as
25

weapons of mass destruction, to the more conventional,
including small arms. In the latter case, my country
supports the initiative to establish an international legal
instrument with specific measures to check the illegal
trade in such weapons.
The preservation of our natural environment is a
great source of concern and a subject for reflection.
Paraguay, like many other developing countries, gives
extremely high priority in its national policies to
preserving the integrity and diversity of our natural
heritage, handed on by our ancestors. This is not only
because on it depends our current and future wealth,
but also because we are fully aware of our grave
responsibility to all humanity, since we are the
guardians of resources needed for its very survival.
Paraguay reaffirms its resolve to continue
respecting and implementing the principles established
in Agenda 21. In this regard, we attach high priority to
the participation of the States parties in the legal
framework developed during the implementation phase
of the Agenda. With great pride I report that Paraguay
is a fully fledged party to the most important
international agreements on the environment.
In this area, finally, it is important to mention the
need to come to grips with the grave problem of the
unsustainable use of water resources. It is necessary to
intensify scientific cooperation and research in order to
reduce the effects of environmental disasters, both
natural and man-made.
We believe that an equitable and fair trade system
is vital for our development. In this regard, we reject
any intent to perpetuate protectionist measures in the
developed countries, particularly subsidies for
agricultural production and exports, as well as the use
of technical regulations as trade barriers against
manufactured products. We claim our right to free
access to the world's markets for those goods in which
we are competitive.
On this occasion, as we highlight the importance
of reaffirming our commitment to this Organization, I
believe it is appropriate to stress the essential role that
the international legal framework can play in the
achievement of our common objectives. In this regard,
the Government of Paraguay has paid special attention
to the invitation by the Secretary-General to all
Member States to take advantage of this opportunity to
strengthen our support for the international legal
framework by signing, ratifying or acceding to treaties
deposited with him that bear a special relationship to
the spirit and objectives of the Charter of the United
Nations.
In this respect, I am very pleased to announce that
on behalf of the Government of the Republic of
Paraguay I have signed the following international
instruments: the Optional Protocols to the Convention
on the Rights of the Child — on the involvement of
children in armed conflict, and on the sale of children,
child prostitution and child pornography; the
International Convention on the Protection of the
Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of their
Families; and the International Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. I
should also note that the Rome Statute of the
International Criminal Court, of which Paraguay was
one of the first signatories, is in the process of
parliamentary approval.
I conclude by reaffirming the conviction of my
country's firm belief in the United Nations, which is
more necessary than ever in order to meet the great
challenges of peace and development, which, despite
significant progress, continue to be an urgent need of a
great part of humanity.













===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿As I begin my statement in the general debate, allow
me to express to you, Mr. Han Seung-soo, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea, the pleasure
of my delegation at seeing you preside over the work
of this session of the General Assembly. Your personal
and professional qualities, with which we are familiar,
will ensure the success of our work. Your election is
also recognition of the sisterly Republic of Korea, a
country with which we have close links of cooperation
and friendship. You can be sure of the steadfast and
determined support of the delegation of Paraguay as
you carry out your duties.
Likewise, I would like to take this opportunity to
recognize the work being done by the Secretary-
General of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, who was
recently honoured with the Nobel Peace Prize for his
dedication to the cause of the United Nations, which is
peace itself. We are certain that under his leadership,
the efforts of the United Nations will reach all peoples
and the Organization will adapt itself to the new reality
and important challenges imposed on us by the context
of international politics.
Allow me today, two months after the tragic and
condemnable events of 11 September, to reiterate the
solidarity of my Government and of the people of the
Republic of Paraguay with the Government and people
of the United States and state our unswerving
commitment to the fight against terrorism in all its
manifestations. The Republic of Paraguay is not neutral
in the face of such a cowardly crime, and it will
continue to support all the efforts of this Organization
and the international community to put a definitive end
to these crimes against humanity. We must not confine
ourselves exclusively to demonstrations of solidarity
6

and condemnation. We must make definite
commitments to the international consensus that has
been built in order to face this grave threat to humanity.
This general debate is taking place in
circumstances that would have been unimaginable to us
and that have reminded us of our vulnerability to
individuals and groups of individuals that commit
indiscriminate violent acts that are totally unjustified in
the minds or feelings of civilized human beings. We
must also recall that the theme of international
terrorism has been on our Organization’s agenda since
the twenty-seventh session of the General Assembly,
and since then to date we have not been sufficiently
diligent in taking the legal and collective security
measures necessary to prevent events such as those we
are belatedly regretting
The urgent fight against terrorism in all its
manifestations, which should not be interpreted as a
clash of civilizations or of religious beliefs, is the top
priority on our international agenda, and we cannot
assert that any country is free of the danger posed by
international terrorism. Rarely in history have there
been such grave challenges to international peace and
security like the one we face today — a fact which
forces us take clear and firm positions that are in
keeping with the provisions of the Charter and the
prevailing norms of international law. Not only is
international security at stake today, but so is the
democratic system itself, which represents victory and
universal good in its constant aspiration to and struggle
for freedom and justice.
Immediately after these events, my Government
strengthened internal measures required by the
circumstances so as to be able to exercise greater
control and security over movements into and out of
the country, while respecting the principle of the free
movement of persons.
Mindful of its responsibility and consistent with
the commitment made as a Member of this
Organization, the Republic of Paraguay, by a decree of
the executive branch of 24 October 2001, established
an inter-ministerial commission to implement
resolution 1373 (2001), recently adopted by the
Security Council. The Republic’s judicial and
legislative branches and the Attorney General’s office
were called on to designate various governmental
division representatives. The commission was installed
on 6 November 2001, under the coordination of the
Ministry for Foreign Relations.
A draft law is also currently under consideration
by the judicial branch, which defines and sets penalties
for the crime of terrorism, and it enjoys the full support
of the executive branch.
On 12 October 2001, Paraguay signed the
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism, which is being referred to the
National Congress for adoption. The national
Government has embarked on constitutional procedures
so that the other conventions on this matter to which it
is still not a party will be signed and ratified or adhered
to as soon as possible.
We also expect the early adoption by the General
Assembly of the two conventions on terrorism, which
are under discussion in the Ad Hoc Committee created
for this purpose in the Sixth Committee. We must not
wait for a replay of the events of 11 September in order
to accelerate our strengthening of the international
legal framework. The time we delay in strengthening
our legal framework will be an opportunity for the
terrorists to increase their capacity and expand their
criminal activities to other countries.
Within the framework of the Organization of
American States (OAS), we have participated with full
conviction in deciding on actions and formulating
decisions that were recently adopted during the
consultative meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs.
In the context of our regional association — the
Common Market Southern Cone (MERCOSUR) — on
28 September 2001, it was decided to undertake the
broadest possible cooperation among its members in
order to carry out information exchange, studies,
concerted actions against terrorist acts and the
establishment of an open-ended working group to
appraise and devise common policies in the fight
against terrorism.
In recent weeks we have experienced once again
a new terrorist threat, and I am referring particularly to
the use of biological agents, whose effects could reach
a planetary level and threaten humanity itself as a
whole. This new criminal practice compels us to react
as rapidly and energetically as possible and be
determined in all our efforts to uncover the perpetrators
and their sponsors, who are acting in anonymity.
7

International concern and actions generated by
the events of September must also prompt us to reflect
and evaluate other themes of transcendental importance
on our agenda, such as the fight against poverty, the
need to strengthen international economic cooperation
for development, access to markets and information
and communication technologies by the developing
countries so that the imbalances that still characterize
international relations may become less severe.
Achieving the goals set in the Millennium
Declaration, along with other commitments entered
into in the context of development in the various
forums of our Organization, must continue to be one of
our greatest and urgent challenges in coming years.
For this reason, we fully concur with the point
made by the Secretary-General in his report on the
work of the Organization that the most difficult battle
facing the international community is the eradication of
poverty — which is exactly why we must speed up the
economic growth of the developing countries. We trust
that the International Conference on Financing for
Development, to be held next year in Monterrey,
Mexico, will achieve the desired results. To this end,
we believe that consideration must be given to the
clear-cut differences among existing levels of
development, to the unevenness that prevails in the
capacity of countries to participate in international
processes and, in this regard, to the special situation of
landlocked countries, which, because of the nature of
their territory, face greater difficulties in engaging in
external trade, thus putting a brake on their economic
development.
It is our hope that the final outcome of that
Conference will not be confined solely and exclusively
to a mere political declaration or expression of wishes.
We hope that it will set clear objectives and goals to
ensure that the globalization process, rather than
widening the existing gap between rich and poor, will
promote the development of all nations within an
inclusive and equitable framework.
Given the new challenges and changes that have
arisen since the beginning of the new millennium, we
reaffirm our commitment to the urgent need to
strengthen our Organization, underscoring first and
foremost the central role that should be played by the
General Assembly as the most representative, universal
and equitable deliberative organ. We should not allow
the General Assembly to become a mere meeting place
where we participate in order to fulfil a routine
function within a pre-established timetable of work.
Speeding up reform of the Security Council is
another of the key aspects in strengthening the United
Nations. The Council should become a more
democratic, representative and transparent organ so
that it can strike a better political balance. This process
should provide for an increase in both permanent and
non-permanent members, so as to secure a better level
of participation for developing countries which, at the
present time, are under-represented. Likewise we
believe that, in the area of transparency of the
Council’s activities, it is appropriate to establish
interactive machinery involving the other Member
States of the Organization so that they will have greater
access to the Council’s work. For this reason, we have
welcomed the briefing meetings that the Chairman of
the Special Committee established pursuant to Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001) is giving to other
Members of the Organization.
Another outstanding issue that needs to be
resolved by our Organization, and one that gives us
utmost concern in view of the recent increase in
violence and loss of life, is the situation in the Middle
East. We believe that both the General Assembly and
the Security Council should redouble their efforts to
arrive at a solution that will respond to the rightful
aspirations of the parties concerned. It should include
recognition of Israel’s existence within secure and
well-defined borders and the Palestinian people’s full
enjoyment of the right to have its own homeland. We
need to tackle this issue firmly and resolutely, ensuring
that we work together with the necessary political will
to contribute to international peace and security.
My country, Paraguay, also hopes that other areas
of tension in the world may be settled. In this regard,
mindful of the principle of universality enshrined in
our Charter, we advocate a solution to the question of
the Republic of China and Taiwan within the
framework of the norms of international law.
The current economic and social state of affairs,
and its consequences, obliges us to mobilize efficiently,
with the greatest possible degree of responsibility and
solidarity, the cooperation required from the developed
countries and the international financial institutions to
tackle the challenges that we, as leaders, face when we
try to create conditions of equal opportunity for paid
employment, and when we seek to eliminate income
8

inequities that undermine social stability, and to
provide for basic care and services for our peoples and
for the sustainable development of our countries.
In conclusion, we are aware today, more than
ever, of the need to begin a process that allows us to
work together in a rational way to build a more
supportive and participatory new economic world
order, the ultimate purpose of which would be to
promote development and well-being for all of our
peoples, once and for all. In this regard, I wish to
express my Government’s utter conviction that the
current international situation underscores the
importance of this process beginning and ending within
the sphere of the United Nations, thus ensuring full
participation in it of all Member States.






===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
﻿First of all, I wish to express my thanks to the
Assembly for having come to hear Paraguay's position.
Secondly, I must apologize if I am interrupting your
luncheon.
Let me begin my statement in this general debate
by expressing my delegation's gratification at seeing
you, Sir, preside over the work of this Assembly. Your
personal and professional qualities will guarantee that
our work is successful, and you may rely on the
constant and resolute support of the Paraguayan
delegation. We also wish to take this opportunity to
express our thanks to Secretary-General Kofi Annan
for the report that he has presented on the work of our
Organization, which confirms how essential this work
is in the context of today's world. There is a need for
all States members not simply to support that work, but
also to make it even stronger and more flexible in
responding to fresh challenges.
Allow me also to welcome and express my
country's satisfaction at seeing the accession to this
Organization of the Swiss Confederation, as well as the
upcoming addition of Timor-Leste. With these new
Members we take an important step forward towards
achieving the universality to which the Organization
aspires.
The events of the last year, some auspicious,
others discouraging, have given us resounding proof of
the role of the United Nations and the fact that the
Organization's reform is now, more than ever before, a
pressing and urgent challenge. I am thinking of the
need for a thorough reform of its organs and structure,
as well as of its functions, and of changes that would
equip this Organization to respond more effectively to
the fresh challenges that are emerging with unexpected
speed on the international scene.
Who would have thought, when this Organization
was founded more than 50 years ago, that at this
current General Assembly session we would be
extending a welcome in the United Nations to two new
Member States: Switzerland, a State that has always
held its place and played its role in history and on the
international scene; and Timor-Leste, whose birth we
witnessed just a few months ago, thanks to a large
extent to United Nations intervention? Nor could we
have imagined just a few decades ago that this year we
would have witnessed one of the most important and
2

anticipated events in the area of human rights  that
is, the establishment of the International Criminal
Court. Who would have thought that one year ago, on
11 September 2001, we would have been eyewitnesses
to one of the most tragic and incomprehensible events
in history  the history not only of the United States
of America, but also of the whole of humankind  and
that immediately thereafter the international
community would unite and respond most decisively in
combating international terrorism?
Those events show us that today's world is not
the same as that of the Organization's founders. Among
other reasons, they determine and require reform of our
institution. That is why it is necessary that we give
priority to the work of the United Nations, not only so
that the Organization responds efficiently to political
events, but also to ensure sustainable development so
that its benefits reach every individual, wherever he
may live, work and have a home.
Undoubtedly, a renewed and reorganized United
Nations will ultimately respond to the well-being of
every one of our citizens. The decisions that we take in
that regard over the next months will define and guide
our countries and humanity in the future. Thus we
cannot limit ourselves to superficial or simply
procedural actions; we must achieve a genuine
transformation.
In that regard, we must reaffirm first of all the
central role to be played by the General Assembly as
the principal organ of the United Nations, since it is the
most representative, democratic, universal and
equitable deliberating organ. The Assembly should
become the world's parliament, in which all
countries  regardless of their size or position  can
expound, debate, dissent, express their views and share
positions on the most important current issues. It
cannot continue to be the arena where we come to
participate merely to carry out a routine function based
on a pre-established and repetitive agenda, and in
which our statements are mere rhetoric that is scarcely
listened to by any other delegation. Therefore, we
firmly support the process of revitalizing the Assembly,
which should continue and should focus in that
direction. The changes must be genuine and profound
so as to enhance the Assembly's effectiveness and
efficiency.
No reform of the United Nations will have the
effect that we all wish for without the much-awaited
reform of the Security Council. Until that body 
responsible for maintaining international peace and
security  is reformed, we will not be able to speak of
an Organization that is in accord with the time in which
we live. That is why we should expand both categories
of members  permanent and non-permanent  and
include both developed and developing countries,
taking into particular account that the latter are
currently under-represented in such an important body.
At the same time, reform should include the gradual
abolition of the right of veto for permanent members
until it disappears, making the Council fairer and more
democratic. We believe that the time has come to
assume our political responsibility in the settlement of
this matter.
One year after the tragic events of 11 September,
we need to ask ourselves what implications they have
had, as much for this Organization as for each country
domestically. Paraguay took a firm position of
condemning international terrorism, fully
implementing the measures imposed by the Security
Council and promoting the validity of the numerous
relevant international agreements. My Government
responded to the requirements of Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001), and to date it has presented two
reports to the Committee established pursuant to that
resolution. I here reaffirm our commitment to continue
to cooperate with the Committee in its efforts, as we
have been doing on the regional and subregional levels.
Moreover, I should like to report that Paraguay, in
keeping with its constitutional process, is becoming a
party to the 12 international agreements on terrorism
and was one of the first countries to sign the Inter-
American Convention against Terrorism, adopted in the
framework of the Organization of American States.
We firmly support the strengthening of an
international legal basis for combating terrorism. That
is why we hope that during this session of the General
Assembly, negotiations on the comprehensive
international convention against terrorism  a
proposal presented by India  will be concluded, as
well as the Russian Federation's proposal for an
international convention for the suppression of acts of
nuclear terrorism.
One achievement of far-reaching importance this
year was the entry into force of the Statute of the
International Criminal Court on 1 July, and we are
gratified to be one of the first 66 countries whose
ratification of the Rome Statute made this possible. We
3

are convinced that the Court will be a deterrent to
unacceptable human rights abuses and crimes against
humanity. Likewise, we are certain that the work of the
Court will not be tarnished or manipulated by any
political influence and that its independence,
impartiality and purpose will be preserved. Paraguay
appeals to all countries that have not yet signed or
ratified the Statute to do so as soon as possible, since
the Court's universality is fundamental to its
effectiveness. My country has followed very closely
the recent debate on the Court's competence to judge
hypothetical offences, committed in the course of
United Nations peacekeeping operations, in which
personnel in the service of countries that have not
signed or ratified the Statute might be involved.
We welcome the Secretary-General's appointment
of the new High Commissioner for Human Rights. We
are certain that, as a Latin American, he will do honour
to that appointment, which was confirmed by the
Assembly. We share his desire to build a human rights
agenda that will not divide peoples and States, but
rather unite them more. Paraguay will provide all the
support necessary to ensure that his mission is
successful.
For the first time, Paraguay will become a
member of the United Nations Commission on Human
Rights, as of January 2003, and I should like to take
this opportunity to reaffirm my Government's
commitment to cooperate with and contribute to that
body's important and altruistic work. We are prepared
to work with the other members of the Commission as
well as with other States and entities.
Today we face a complex world that is still far
from forming a stable international order. We continue
to witness confrontations in various regions of the
world. That is why we must devote all our efforts and
resources to the reconciliation of humanity. The
Republic of Paraguay will always invoke and support
the peaceful settlement of conflicts through dialogue,
mutual understanding and international law.
In that regard, we see grounds for grave concern
in the serious worsening of the situation in the Middle
East: the spiral of violence, the alarming humanitarian
situation and the violation of the fundamental rights of
the civilian population as well as the loss of innocent
lives among both the Palestinian and Israeli peoples.
We resolutely support the work of the `quartet'
and of the international community in general in their
efforts to secure a resumption of negotiations and thus
bring about much-desired peace in the region. At the
same time, as a country that abides strictly by
international law, Paraguay regrets the fact that the
resolutions adopted by the Security Council on this
question this year, which contain clear terms and
references, have still not been implemented by the
parties.
Paraguay would underscore once again the urgent
need to achieve a just and lasting peace in the Middle
East on the basis of Security Council resolutions,
especially 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002), in
order to pave the way for the peaceful coexistence of
two independent States, Israel and Palestine, within
secure and internationally recognized borders.
My country, Paraguay, has been following closely
the situation in Afghanistan. We welcome the presence
in this general debate of President Karzai, who
deserves our recognition and our firm support in his
efforts to fulfil his responsibilities and to carry out the
tasks that lie ahead of him. The international
community is committed to continuing to support
Afghanistan so as to enable it to achieve the stability
and development that its people so desire.
The Government of Paraguay, in keeping with the
position it has been maintaining and expressing
concerning the question of the Republic of China on
Taiwan, would once again reaffirm its strong wish that
this issue be considered within the framework of
universality embodied in our Charter and on the basis
of norms of international law, in order to achieve a
satisfactory solution through dialogue among the
parties concerned.
This year has been marked by important
conferences. The World Assembly on Ageing in
Madrid, the special session on children, the Monterrey
Conference, the Johannesburg Summit and the World
Food Summit took place in a context of increasing
deterioration in the socio-economic conditions
affecting many of our peoples, thus heightening
frustration and despair because of the lack of tangible
and concrete results. In order to prevent the situation
from persisting, what is needed on the one hand is
urgent political resolve on the part of all Member
States to implement and fulfil the commitments
undertaken at those conferences and, on the other hand,
an increase in the participation and integration of
developing countries in the process of global political
decision-making.
4

Consequently, Paraguay has been striving to
channel the limited resources at its disposal into areas
of pressing priority in the social and economic fields,
particularly in the areas of education and health, to the
point where now they represent a majority of
Paraguay's national budget. We have also reduced
military expenditure to below 1 per cent of gross
domestic product, the lowest level in our history. We
have also been giving priority to State expenditure
directed at building road and energy infrastructure,
which will make it possible to integrate Paraguay into
the transport and energy corridors that will link the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans in South America.
Sustainable development in its broadest
definition, as we addressed it at Johannesburg,
increasingly requires shared solutions in a globalized
world as well as differentiated commitments. For this
reason, we deem it essential that the industrialized
countries share in and support our development plans.
Official development assistance should play only a
complementary role that will enable us to incorporate,
in a timely manner, the available financial resources 
from both internal and external sources  so as to
enable smaller countries to be properly incorporated
into a competitive and independent world.
One of the instruments that is constantly touted as
a producer of development is free trade. The
developing countries want to see free trade on a double
track. We want to have access to the markets of the
developed countries, and we wish to see the
elimination of measures that distort trade, such as
agricultural subsidies, domestic export assistance and
the abuse of anti-dumping measures.
If these protectionist practices persist, they will
delay our countries' participation in the supposed
benefits that, we believe, stem from free trade and will
also considerably worsen the social divide in all its
manifestations. Combating poverty is not just a
political commitment but, above all, a moral one.
Paraguay welcomes the General Assembly's plan
to devote a day  16 September  to considering
ways and means of providing support to the New
Partnership for Africa's Development. High-level
plenary sessions and interactive round tables will be
held. We trust that the outcome will make a decisive
contribution to promoting renewed commitments to the
social and economic development of the whole of the
African continent.
The International Ministerial Meeting of
Landlocked Developing Countries and Transit
Developing Countries will be held next year. It will
address the problems that beset countries such as my
own, such as integration into international markets,
excessive costs related to transit transport, customs
delays, restrictions and technical barriers to trade, as
well as the need for financial support and the requisite
investment in infrastructure and capacity development
in order to overcome the disadvantages that stem from
being landlocked.
Paraguay has offered to host the subregional
Latin American preparatory meeting for the Ministerial
Meeting, with a view to defining clearly all of the
necessary measures to establish our country's
requirements, in particular with respect to the
differential treatment to be given to landlocked
countries, through tangible commitments in the areas
of transport, customs and duty-free zones and in the
area of opening markets through reduced customs
tariffs, the elimination of special excise duties and
other measures that hinder the competitive
participation in international trade of landlocked
developing countries.
Paraguay, in the context of its democratization
process, to which all citizens are committed at the
State, regional and municipal levels, will be holding
elections in April next year, which will once again
confirm the consolidation of our democracy.
Unfortunately, as in many other countries of the world,
and especially in Latin America today, the democratic
system is threatened by heightened poverty and the
serious economic situation, which has caused the living
conditions of our citizens to deteriorate. For that
reason, our country must also receive the consideration
that it deserves in the context of efforts to find
solutions to these problems.
I trust that the Organization and the financial
agencies and their principal members will respond
appropriately at the right time.
In concluding my last address to this plenary as
head of State of the Republic of Paraguay, my term
of office, according to the Constitution, ends on 15
August 2003, I wish to reaffirm my country's
commitment to this Organization and its trust that it, in
turn, will respond to the hopes and expectations of a
better future for our peoples.











===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
﻿Two hundred years after the first cry of freedom in
Latin America, our peoples are propelled by new winds
of emancipation. A fresh generation of leaders has
taken up the old flags of our heroes to demand real
global interdependence through an economic order
inspired by solidarity and by the building of a lasting
peace.
I would like to take this opportunity to
congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
for the commendable work that he has done to uphold
and promote the principles that were enshrined in the
Charter 58 years ago.
For too long, Latin America had been on the
margins of history. It had been reduced to playing the
part of providing inexpensive labour and raw materials
to more developed economies, while its most brilliant
minds were lured away and absorbed by large urban
markets. Our region has also fallen victim to
mercenaries, soldiers of fortune and heartless people
representing dehumanizing and destructive transnational
corporations that overthrew Governments, provoked
wars between friendly countries and squandered our
countries’ resources.
Nevertheless, we are not here to complain about
those ignominious days. Nor are we here to cling to the
glories of the past. On the contrary, we have come to
express our firm will to work together for a dignified
present and a secure future for those who are now
dying from hunger, thirst, cold and easily preventable
and treatable diseases. Our voices today arise from our
roots, cultures and traditions, and proclaim a Latin
America that is integrated into the world, with a fresh
sense of fraternity, to make the lives of our peoples
more humane and enriching.
We must seek a multipolar world in which
cultures enhance rather than confront one another and
regional production promotes peace and prosperity in
the world to save present and future generations from
the terrible scourge of new major conflicts. Let us
make a renewed commitment, without scepticism and
with the intrinsic dignity that God has bestowed on
every human being.
In Paraguay, a small but dignified country, we are
making a major effort at capacity-building with respect
to national and international communities. A sine qua
non is to revive production, attract investors back and
sell our products on world markets.
Although our peoples have suffered long years of
recession and deprivation because of the foreign debt
burden, my Government has managed to redirect public
resources towards education and to coordinate the
efforts of civil society and the State to democratize
young people’s access to the world of knowledge. Only
effective human capital, with ethical principles, will
enable us to survive and grow in a climate of
globalization. Towards that end, we fervently hope for
a globalization that involves not simply economics but
also justice, science, technology and development. Our
challenge is to achieve global progress.
I come from an island surrounded by land, as
Paraguay’s renowned writer Augusto Roa Bastos so
aptly described the country. But with the advent of
democracy, to the credit of the people’s self-sacrifice,
our country has restored its identity, memories and
dreams. We Paraguayans accept our geographical
disadvantage as an opportunity to be creative and
industrious, as our development requires. For this
reason, we appeal for international solidarity to help to
implement the plan of action of Almaty, which is
designed to overcome the limitations of landlocked
developing countries, including Paraguay.
We have a strong ethical belief in this historic
objective. The inequality that impoverishes most of the
world is immoral. There is not a trace of Christianity in
the lack of solidarity with the destitute. In that regard,
the individual must be treated as a whole person, so
that he may in turn bring well-being to his family, for
the sake of all society. If leaders do not provide a moral
example, it will not be possible to advance towards a
democracy that is embraced by the people and fosters
true participation in a society that is distinguished by
its moral capital, the essential basis of a humanistic and
humanizing economy. A world in crisis requires
humanism, not humanitarianism. The world seeks
solidarity, and not mere charity.
We must understand that the impoverishment of a
large share of humankind jeopardizes world balance. It
is true that many countries have become impoverished
not simply as a result of outside influences but also
because of corruption and impunity on the part of local
leaders. But it is equally true that without an ethical
belief in the international order and the strong will of
5

leaders to praise God and renounce historical patterns
of greed of rich countries, the world that we leave to
our children will not be fit for living.
Unfortunately, while we are shaping a future
based on ideals and utopias in this hallowed chamber
of world peace, we have not figured out how to end
war, since in various parts of the world the arms race
continues, as does growing poverty. It bears repeating
that, as leaders of our respective countries, we must
cease speaking in terms of friends and enemies, which
has a weakening and destructive effect. We must use
that energy and those resources to ensure just social
development in economically less-developed countries.
Without pluralistic and equitable participation in
crucial international policy decisions discussed here in
our Organization and a commitment to multilateralism,
the United Nations and, in particular, the Security
Council, will inevitably fail in its noble objective of
maintaining peace in the world.
In this context, Paraguay supports the aspirations
of Latin America and other continents to be
represented in the Security Council, where the presence
of Brazil as a permanent member would fulfil the great
and legitimate interests of our region.
Paraguay would like to reiterate here its full
support for the efforts and aspirations of the Republic
of China on Taiwan to become a fully-fledged member
of the international community through the United
Nations. In this regard, we appeal to the principles of
universality contained in the Charter so that this long-
overdue and heartfelt desire of the sister Republic of
China on Taiwan may be fulfilled.
As I said some weeks ago in my own country —
and as I reaffirm here — the ethics of fraternity and
mutual respect must govern international relations
today if humanity is to make progress towards lasting
peace inspired by the rule of law and reason.
With the same vigour with which we advocate
worldwide peace, we condemn terrorism in all its
manifestations and sources. In Paraguay, we have
pledged — a pledge we are resolutely fulfilling — to
combat the breeding grounds of terrorism and its
financial support, drug trafficking. We shall not deviate
from that commitment. Likewise, we energetically
denounce the terrorist action against the United
Nations headquarters in Baghdad that occurred
yesterday and that of 19 August. We mourn the death
of outstanding United Nations staff members, including
the distinguished Brazilian and Latin American citizen,
Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights. In that same line of
action, in Paraguay we are dismantling organized crime
and money-laundering, regardless of who promotes,
conceals or commits those crimes.
I reiterate that our country will no longer be a
bridge, corridor or end point for such criminal
operations. With the same energy with which we
combat crime and illegality, we reaffirm our
unwavering commitment to respecting human rights,
which is an increasingly important part of our domestic
and foreign policies, promoting full enjoyment of
public and individual freedoms for the peoples of the
world.
The fight for freedom, democracy, social equity
and world peace will be of no avail if we do not more
responsibly face the challenges for the preservation of
our environment. Let us seek the well-being of our
peoples today but not forget that our children will live
on this planet tomorrow. In Paraguay and Latin
America, we are determined to be the protagonists and
architects of a shared destiny of responsibility, justice
and equality.
Finally, may the new global order be more
human, supportive, responsible and participative, and
may its essential purpose be to promote development,
progress and the well-being of all the peoples of the
Earth in an environment that is truly more just, fair and
balanced. May God bless us and may we build together
the peace that our children and future generations need.


===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
Today our continent is experiencing a time of great
opportunity, yet it is also beset by serious threats,
including a falling standard of living for the masses,
radical adjustment measures, the globalization of
financial capital and a lack of access to markets in
developed countries - all of which have not
contributed to generating sustained economic growth,
and even less to reducing poverty and inequality. The
great challenge before us is to redouble our efforts
daily to eradicate this cancer by strengthening public
institutions and forging a new social ethic, as well as a
new international order with multilateral bodies that
truly contribute to peace throughout the world, human
development and the sharp reduction of poverty, social
inequalities and the exploitation of man by man and
nation by nation.
The United Nations, this noble institution, must
not lose sight of its historic memory, its raison díÍtre
and the objectives that led to its creation, if its efforts
currently under way are to result in healthy attitude
changes and a greater political capacity to institute
regulatory frameworks that can put a stop to economic
Darwinism and conflicts throughout the world.
Today, more than ever, the possibility of building
a more just world, free from such painful
contradictions, depends upon the inclusion of the less
developed countries in the globalized economy and the
political will to overcome pure market forces. The
industrialization of the United States, Germany and
Japan in the nineteenth century could be described in
similar terms, as could their emergence from their
relative backwardness compared with Great Britain,
the pioneer nation of that time.
The failure throughout almost all of Latin
America to overcome its backwardness, poverty and
dependency is frequently due to selfishness and
historic impediments to advantageous connections
between our national economies and the worldwide
market. If this seems to be a recurrent condition, then
we should constantly keep in mind the message of the
Consensus of Brazil: we must govern globalization if
we are to turn it into a source of opportunity for all, if
globalization is not to be what it has become ó a force
synonymous with marginalization, exclusion or
conquest, dependent on markets and cheap labour,
which leads to a form of semi-slavery in many
countries.
I wish to propose to the General Assembly joint
action that can be taken in four areas.
First, social investment throughout the continent
must reach levels that will make it possible to attain
the Millennium Development Goals. To that end, the
poorest countries, which clearly cannot obtain such
levels of investment, could have recourse to a
counterpart fund for social equity with soft financing
coming from international organizations and unilateral
contributions.
Secondly, we realize that not everything can be
solved with money. Money, when it is misused,
weakens and corrupts. Accordingly, we must also
commit ourselves to carrying out the necessary
institutional reforms to ensure the proper formulation,
implementation and assessment of social policies. And
we must be ready to ensure that access to the
aforementioned funds will lead to wide-reaching
innovations in the management of public
administration, demonstrable by means of indices on
efficiency and transparency.
Thirdly, international organizations must
increasingly realize that economic and social reform
must flow from the experience and wisdom of those
countries themselves, with their own formulas that are
in keeping with their cultural standards and that
involve all the representatives of civil society.
Fourthly, with growing levels of poverty it is
impossible to meet the burden of external debt
servicing. There must be a new, realistic policy that
will put forward rational terms on future payment of
debt, terms that will make it possible to lay the basis
for sustained and equitable development, terms which
allow us to meet our commitments without pushing our
19

people into irreversible poverty. It is important to place
the needs of the poor and dispossessed over the
repayment of the debt.
That is why we must imaginatively and skilfully
devise alternative financing mechanisms for the fight
against hunger and extreme poverty. That task requires
greater intellectual resources and technical expertise
and a new and fair financial architecture, not the
accumulation of wealth, worship of the market or the
promotion of globalization that does not allow the just
distribution of the wealth produced by all of us
throughout the world. We need a new financial
architecture that enables us to reduce poverty and to
work for the stability of the worldís emerging
democracies.
One year ago, my Government inherited a
situation characterized by economic stagnation,
recession and spreading poverty and by weak and
unreliable public institutions, resulting in timid social
policies that could hardly tackle the Millennium
Development Goals.
Two major challenges face my country. First, the
indigenous population - which in Paraguay is not
large, totalling no more than 100,000 - lacks access to
its most vital needs and faces the disintegration of
much of its natural lands owing to the historical rule of
indolent landowners, and most recently to a type of
agrarian modernization that was insensitive to human
dignity.
Secondly, the unconscionable face of extreme
poverty in my country is that of the peasants. Today,
two out of three Paraguayans continue to belong to that
social sector. Likewise, one of the most significant
causes of that critical national problem is the very
unjust distribution of land that has existed for many
years in Paraguay. That is not only an urgent and very
shocking social problem, but also a political and
ethical problem that is manifested in a repeated and
increasingly grave struggle for land.
In the light of that situation, we propose a State
with social, fiscal and environmental responsibility:
social responsibility in the sense of guaranteeing
health, education and basic services and avoiding
concentration of profit and wealth; fiscal responsibility
to avoid a deficit and chronic indebtedness, which
ultimately punish social investment; and environmental
responsibility to preserve natureís reproductive
capacity and to ensure for future generations the right
to enjoy resources not created by man.
We also propose the implementation of a national
anti-poverty strategy that will channel the domestic and
external resources necessary to meet the Millennium
Development Goals. The national Government has
defined as a top budget priority an increase in social
spending to resolutely address the problems of poverty,
destitution and inequality, with the objective of
reaching 40 per cent of the central administrationís
total public spending for next year, 2005.
For development, cooperation is not enough;
there must also be access to markets on preferential
terms, liberalization of the agricultural product markets
and special treatment for the landlocked least
developed countries, such as Paraguay, punished by
history and geopolitics, which make our foreign trade
more expensive and significantly reduce our
competitiveness. There needs to be a compensatory
framework to place my country, Paraguay, on an equal
footing with other nations in terms of international
trade.
In the international context, we join in the appeal
for a more just and humanized international order in
which the least developed are not always condemned to
discrimination, indifference and backwardness. With
that objective, we must move towards an inclusive
multilateralism that will offer equality, rationality and
justice in international relations.
Similarly ó and in keeping with Paraguayís
position on Taiwan in the United Nations ó we once
more reaffirm our conviction that the brotherly
Republic of China, Taiwan, should become a full-
fledged Member of the Organization, in accordance
with the principle of universality and with norms of
international law.
Today we have heard more of the same things we
hear every year in the Assembly. But we hope that this
time we can return to our countries and share with our
peoples the news that finally, in New York, the worldís
leaders have taken important steps forward in
alleviating - even if just a little - the pain, sorrow
and hopelessness of the millions of human beings who
live on Earth. I am confident that God will give us the
wisdom and the strength necessary to lead our
countries on the path of freedom, peace, development
and justice.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
At the outset, I would like to express the condolences of
the people of Paraguay over the tragedy caused by
Hurricane Katrina. I express my Government's
solidarity with the victims and with the Government of
the United States, and I ask God to swiftly assuage the
grief of so many families.
We are gathered here to commemorate the
sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. Six decades
is time enough to reflect on the historical process of
this Organization and, above all, on the debate
concerning the relevance of reforming it. This reform
is absolutely crucial and must be directed not only to
set up standards that would regulate the capacity of
Powers to make war; it is of primary importance that
the reform promote equitable economic development,
because in a selfish world, where the number of
societyís orphans grows daily, it will be very difficult
to have global peace.
Changes cannot be partial or superficial and must
not merely satisfy the hegemonistic ambitions of a few.
We need to govern globalization with democratically
17

agreed legal norms and bodies that, through their
inherent legitimacy, would have the authority to ensure
compliance with their regulations.
It must be a desire for world balance, not
financial clout within the Organization, that should
determine the direction to be followed in the United
Nations; otherwise, the power of money will prevail
over the power of justice and the rights of peoples,
which would dangerously thwart the noble mission of
the United Nations. This means that reform cannot
deepen divisions; that would be illogical. The Charter
must reassert the role of unity among diverse nations
which, in spite of their differences, must live together
and share their resources and values, which give
dignity to the lives of men and women and of our
peoples.
Development in equity and democracy is the
formula. But to reach this stage, we need more
international trade and cooperation. Lately a wall is
rising to block our exports, while cooperation is being
watered down ó or the little cooperation that remains
is undertaken unjustly or according to the mood of
those involved. The old promise taken on by the richest
nations to devote 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic
product (GDP) to less developed countries has not been
respected thus far, except for the honourable
exceptions of Norway, Luxembourg, Denmark, Sweden
and the Netherlands. But it is a hopeful sign that the
President of the United States has said in this forum
(see A/60/PV.2) that his Government is in a position to
eliminate all the subsidies that cause backwardness and
poverty for peoples with emerging economies insofar
as the other rich nations do likewise. That would be of
great benefit to people who are experiencing shortages
due to the unfair international order that the President
of the United States himself mentioned, so that our
peoples' democracy can be stable and sustainable.
It is important to point out that between 1990 and
2003 the rich countries increased their per capita
income by $6,070, while during the same period, their
assistance per capita fell to one dollar; this reflects the
great stinginess that prevails in the current
globalization model. The United Nations has a primary
role to play in humanizing that model.
The subsidies granted by rich countries to their
agricultural sectors, as well as the assistance that they
give to each other, are a cruel paradox. That assistance
amounts to a little more than $1 billion annually and
the subsidies to a little less. That global policy - weak
in terms of cooperation and perverse in terms of
trade - will end by undermining the emerging
democracies in developing countries.
We in Paraguay are deeply convinced of those
tenets. Our wish is to cooperate so that our noble
purposes will govern the new world order. In our
domestic affairs, we have managed to reverse a long
process of deterioration to achieve macroeconomic
stability and political institutionalization. We are
working to increase growth and to strengthen
democracy through good governance, thereby tackling
and resolving our social problems in a way we had
never done in the past.
Today my country, Paraguay, is becoming a
nation in a predictable situation and one worthy of
international trust. We are not bound by any political or
economic dogma. Rather, we are seeking to liberate our
people from crude fanaticism, from ideological
prejudices, from political violence and from fatalism,
because we believe we are capable of forging our own
destiny in a world of greater brotherhood.
Indeed, Paraguay is rich in development
potential. We have abundant natural resources: land,
water and energy. And, even more important, we have
a young population that is highly motivated to grow, to
learn and to work. Even though our economy is still
small, we are adopting policies and plans to expand our
production, increase employment, improve domestic
purchasing power and increase exports. We are moving
towards an economy that can compete in terms of both
quality and innovation.
Our country is among those States that lack direct
access to the sea. Tragically, Paraguay is landlocked,
which is a considerable obstacle to our aspiration to
build an economy based on production and
international trade. For that reason, we need to create
special lending arrangements for landlocked
developing countries, ensuring them differential
treatment in areas such as lower interest rates and
longer grace periods. Such measures could attenuate
the comparative disadvantages we feel as a result of
our geographical situations.
Another dimension I would like to touch on is the
importance of new information and communication
technologies and of biotechnological and other
scientific research. The knowledge and use of those
resources cannot be concentrated in the hands of the
18

few. They must be made universally available.
Paraguay believes this to be a necessary prerequisite
for the growth of global competitiveness.
Two years ago my Government inherited a
situation of economic stagnation, recession, sterile
political antagonism, violence, growing poverty and
weak and unreliable public institutions that led to timid
social policies that were a long way from addressing
the Millennium Development Goals. Today we are
recovering political and macroeconomic stability,
democratic governance and, above all, trust in the
Paraguayan State and in our business sector. We have
great challenges ahead of us, but, with faith in the
capacity of our people, we are tackling them to build a
more just international order.
The major challenges in my country are tackling
extreme poverty and health care, which affect the
neediest sectors of the population: indigenous people
and small farmers. To address those issues we have
promoted a rapid increase in spending for social
services to put a stop to growing poverty. We are
financing new programmes: a social protection
network for vulnerable groups, with financial subsidies
linked to school attendance; in the field of health care,
a nutrition programme for pregnant women and for
boys and girls at risk for malnutrition; large-scale
shipments of seeds for subsistence crops; the purchase
of land for small farmers, with a view to ensuring
social peace; free medical care for all children under
the age of five; concessional electricity rates; and a
scholarship programme for students from the most
vulnerable schools. With humility, but also with great
faith in the future and in the international community,
democracy and freedom - we in Paraguay are
building a socially, fiscally and environmentally
responsible State.
In the international context, we join the appeal
for a more just and humane world order in which the
less developed nations are not condemned for all time
to discrimination, indifference and backwardness. In
order to achieve those goals we have no alternative to
an inclusive multilateralism that offers balance,
rationality and justice in international relations.
We also condemn terrorism in all its forms. We
believe that terrorism is a threat to civilized processes
and to the imperatives of resolving conflicts and
establishing peaceful coexistence in the world in order
to ensure the development and prosperity of our
peoples.
Similarly, we reiterate, as we have done year after
year, our formal support for Taiwanís inclusion in the
United Nations, so that the brotherly and supportive
Republic of China can have a place and become an
integral part of our Organization as a full-fledged
Member, in accordance with the principle of
universality and the norms of international law.
In addition, my country is deeply concerned by
the instability and high prices in international oil
markets, which militate against our hard-won
macroeconomic stability. Our country has not escaped
the harmful impact of that phenomenon, given the most
unjust burden on society: inflation. We are making
every effort to control inflation, because we know that
high oil prices have a negative impact on economic
growth and poverty reduction. Today, our Government
is significantly subsidizing the price of oil, thus
depriving the State of major financial resources for
necessary social programmes.
I would like to say at this meeting that Paraguay
is suffering from a misapplication of international
justice. There is an attempt to prohibit payments to our
State from financial transactions carried out by
representatives of a corrupt dictatorship which, with
the complicity of a group of international banks, wants
to deprive us of resources that we desperately need for
social peace in our country. We hope that the
appropriate United Nations bodies will not permit the
peoples of developing economies to be deprived of
major resources through devious legal procedures. We
hope for justice in this area from international
institutions.
The United Nations must either change to lead
and to take up the challenges of our time, or it will hide
behind a superficial change in order to survive and will
become an accomplice in the regression of our peoples
and the perpetuation of backwardness. This is a crucial
moment that we are experiencing as leaders of our
countries, sixty years after the creation of the United
Nations and five after the Millennium Development
Goals. We find ourselves at a crossroads with two
paths before us: one of injustice and indifference that
leads to a world that is increasingly poor, unfair and
insecure, and the other the path of far-reaching change
that leads to peace and global well-being.
19

I would like to express my hope that this historic
session of the General Assembly will obtain the
commitments and actions required to reduce and
eliminate the suffering, abandonment and frustration of
thousands of millions of people and that our efforts
will yield its expected fruits for the well-being of
mankind.
I trust that God will give us the necessary wisdom
and strength required to lead our countries along the
path of liberty, peace, development and justice.

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
Madam President, may I tell you how happy Paraguay 
is to see you presiding over the sixty-first session of 
the General Assembly. Your personal and professional 
qualities ensure the success of this session. 
 I wish to reiterate what I said at the earlier 
summit meeting. For Paraguay, peace and security, 
development with social justice, democracy and human 
rights are the fundamental pillars on which the world 
must be based, because they are interconnected 
principles that mutually strengthen each other. We 
cannot consider ourselves to be in an airtight 
compartment, because if pride of place is given to one 
over another, this Assembly will not be a pluralistic, 
representative body. Rather, the single-voiced will of 
Powers will continue to be imposed on others. 
 My delegation thanks the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Kofi Annan, for his detailed annual report on the 
work of the Organization (A/61/1). Ideally, the 
 
 
41 06-52737 
 
Secretary-General would not travel only to those places 
where barbaric warfare is destroying cities and killing 
innocent, defenceless people. Perhaps something would 
change if he were also to go to see the vast universe of 
poverty and social exclusion resulting from worldwide, 
profoundly unjust disorder, and then propose solutions. 
We urgently need to build a global partnership of 
solidarity to supplement the efforts made by our 
countries. Only in this way will we be able to deal with 
the problems of poverty, hunger and the lack of access 
to education and health care. Clearly, every country is 
responsible for achieving its own economic and social 
development by applying the proper policies to 
mobilize domestic resources. But those national efforts 
should be supplemented by explicit commitments by 
the developed countries to promote and facilitate 
access to international markets and more balance in 
economic relations and in the price of products. 
 The experience of developed countries 
themselves shows that, without external cooperation, 
they would have had difficulty in prospering or in 
restructuring their economies. 
 The reciprocal increase in production and trade is 
a driving force for development. However, the trend 
towards more concentrated productive expansion and 
insufficient participation in the benefits of world trade 
condemn the majority of countries to marginalization 
from development. For this reason, Paraguay calls once 
again for the right of all nations to more even-handed, 
equitable treatment, including the right to build a new 
form of solidarity among States which are capable of 
promoting progress on a global scale. 
 Agricultural subsidies, protectionism, the lack of 
technology transfers and the distortions in international 
trade, together with ethnocentric control of 
information, knowledge and science, postpone 
development and punish countries on the periphery 
with a pre-modern and wasted life. Because of those 
recurrent circumstances, we are convinced that the 
tariffs and non-tariff barriers that are applied not only 
by developed countries but also by our own regional 
partners must be removed. Only in that way can we 
quickly overcome asymmetries and unjust 
discrimination. 
 Society expects more of democracy and of 
politicians. It expects the system that guarantees liberty 
and equality before the law also to be a system which 
promotes and ensures the well-being of all and puts an 
end to exclusion. Unfortunately, this basic conception 
of politics is not reflected in the behaviour of many 
actors. In practice, petty interests, selfishness and party 
faction are considered more important and have greater 
priority than the interests of the nation. Democracy as 
government in the service of the common good is being 
bastardized. That gives rise to the lack of prestige and 
devaluation of politics and democracy, particularly in 
Latin America. 
 This erratic direction that politics is taking must 
be corrected in countries which do not have a 
democratic tradition: we have only just built low-
quality democracy, a pseudo-democracy laced with 
conspiracies against good governance and the exercise 
of power based on legitimacy and the will of the 
majority of the people. 
 In any event, in Paraguay, we are making a great 
effort. School attendance is showing exponential 
growth. Educational reform, now extended to higher 
education, has practically universalized basic 
education. The secondary school population is 
following the same trend, while university enrolment 
has doubled through the institutionalization of equal 
opportunities and conditions. According to the United 
Nations itself, Paraguay is in a position to achieve, for 
example, the Millennium Development Goal related to 
education. One of our key objectives here is to gain 
certification of zero illiteracy for our country by 2008. 
 Together with improving and significantly 
expanding public and private health-care services, our 
environmental policy is recovering the great ecological 
sustainability which characterized Paraguay. This is 
taking place in the midst of silent agrarian reform. In 
addition to the massive purchase of land for orphan 
peasants — which is still insufficient to alleviate the 
unfair distribution of land in Paraguay — we are 
implementing a policy aimed at rural settlement and 
increased production and productivity as a way of 
giving fresh significance to peasant life, its 
sustainability and its dignity. 
 Positive action is also taking place with a view to 
modernizing the State through simplification, 
transparency and making its services effective. We are 
seeking to improve public safety, combat corruption 
and eradicate piracy, drug trafficking and smuggling. If 
one looks at the crime index, Paraguay has one of the 
lowest rates. Nevertheless, we are obliged to improve 
legal security, and to do that we must implement a 
  
 
06-52737 42 
 
policy of professional qualification and establish ethics 
in the judicial system. 
 Development financing continues to be limited in 
terms of fulfilling national development plans and 
programmes, both those which are the result of 
international mobilization and those which result from 
the domestic mobilization of financial resources. This 
situation reflects the viability of various projects which 
are directed towards expanding productive 
employment, improving basic social services, 
education and adapting productive infrastructure and 
other areas of action which are essential for 
development. 
 We are aware that the main task begins within our 
countries. It is we who bear the main responsibility. 
However, with the increase in domestic savings, good 
macroeconomic policies and a predictable country, we 
in Paraguay are reducing poverty and are moving 
towards development. Therefore, our country continues 
to focus on rationalizing public expenditure and on 
social and productive investment. This fiscal discipline 
makes us worthy of increased support from 
international financial institutions. But what we need in 
Latin America, as the President of our sister Republic 
of Bolivia said earlier today, are markets and partners, 
not bosses or others who would continue to seize the 
wealth and natural resources of the peoples of our 
region. 
 On the subject of human rights, we welcome the 
fact that, through a process of focused consultations, 
the General Assembly, in March, adopted resolution 
60/251, which established the Human Rights Council. 
That Council will have a mechanism for the periodic 
and universal review of States’ compliance with their 
obligations in this important area, a review based on 
dialogue and cooperation. What we want is that the 
criteria for assessing human rights be applied in the 
same way and using the same principles both to 
developing countries and to developed countries. The 
assessment of human rights would thus not affect only 
developing countries and countries with emerging 
economies, which are making great efforts at 
institution-building and at consolidating democracy 
and freedom. 
 The fight against terrorism should unite people 
who love liberty and seek respect for human rights and 
the rule of law. While it is true that fundamentalism of 
all kinds is anachronistic and dangerous, terrorism 
should not be the only item on the international 
agenda, excluding or relegating to the back burner the 
equally crucial debate on poverty and development in 
countries with peripheral capitalism and those with 
emerging economies. Civilization means respect for 
diversity and differences. Combating terrorism thus 
requires that any repressive action be carried out within 
the jurisdiction of international law and not through 
mere administrative procedures. 
 With regard to the question of the representation 
in the United Nations of the 23 million inhabitants of 
Taiwan, Paraguay, consistent with the position it has 
long held, confirms its support in favour of their 
admission to the United Nations. Their inclusion is 
consistent with the principle of universality embodied 
in our Charter, as well as with the norms of 
international law. 
 To address the problems and conflicts now facing 
the international community, it is necessary to create a 
multipolar world and to make it function. The 
equilibrium of our twenty-first-century universe replete 
with uncertainty, depends on multipolarity. For that 
reason, my country and the Common Market of the 
South (MERCOSUR) place their hopes on that 
approach, and in particular on the reform of the 
Security Council. It is shameful that what occurs in the 
Council should be seen as more important than the 
United Nations as an Organization which promotes a 
culture of peace, global development and the 
universalization of science and technology. 
 In Latin America, as was said by my friend the 
President of our sister Republic of Bolivia, we have a 
culture of peace and brotherhood. We seek harmony 
with our fellow human beings and with nature. 
Unfortunately, at other times in our history, we have 
experienced warfare — not because our peoples 
wanted it, but because of manipulation by imperialists 
thirsting to destroy our wealth and fragment our 
peoples. We have put that history behind us. Today we 
look to the future to see how we in our region can pool 
our efforts to deal with poverty and recover our 
peoples’ political, economic and cultural sovereignty. 
 In addition, the hierarchy and institutional 
structure of the United Nations depend on a world 
where equilibrium prevails, ensuring fairness in 
decisions and action. We do not need sermons about 
education for peace and the megamillions spent on the 
arms build-up. We are not naïve and were offended to 
 
 
43 06-52737 
 
see that in 2004 alone, the super-Powers spent sums of 
money on rearming that could have put an end to 
poverty and ignorance in the world. 
 Certainly military belligerence, which is so 
destructive and so threatening, is not unrelated to the 
scandalous rise in the price of oil today, which is 
causing insecurity, economic slowdown and stagnation 
in the developing countries. Inequality for our peoples 
should not mean that we must take bread out of the 
mouths of the poor in order to waste millions of dollars 
on fratricidal weapons. 
 Over and above the events that threaten world 
peace are the daily lives of people. In our region, life is 
good only for the minority and miserable for the 
majority. 
 Therefore, we urgently need a United Nations 
that makes a contribution to the development, well-
being and freedom of all peoples. Likewise, it is our 
duty to build an entirely prosperous, fair and united 
society so that the countenances of our citizens reflect 
their happy lives. May God illuminate our path, so that 
there can be brotherhood among all nations and 
individuals, and so that our history can truly embark on 
the path of peace. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
The  Government of Paraguay comes to the Assembly to 
reaffirm its importance in examining the world 
situation. We have also come in order to further 
strengthen the United Nations as a body fit to represent 
the interests of all countries and ensure the 
effectiveness of international law. 
 For that reason, Sir, I express my support for your 
successful presidency of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-second session. It is urgent for us to contribute 
not only to meeting the objectives of the United 
Nations, but also to ensuring that the principles 
governing its functioning truly find expression. The 
world needs a better, more just and brotherly world 
order now. 
 From this lofty universal rostrum, we customarily 
speak with eloquent urgency, but the practice of States, 
in particular of the most powerful, has not always been 
one of cooperating in order to overcome the 
uncertainties that overshadow our future.  
 In recent sessions of the Assembly, we have 
focused on the challenges of the new millennium, but 
while we have been looking far ahead, in the first 
decade of this new century alone, relations among 
civilizations have clearly been marred by an absence of 
peace and harmony.  
 It has not mattered that more than half of the 
world’s population continues to live in poverty. Of 
greater importance has been the senseless squandering 
of money on weapons and the terrible effect this has 
had on the world economy. Note how the price of oil 
has rapidly increased and how countries, such as ours, 
which do not produce oil, have had to make great 
sacrifices. How much money could have been used to 
alleviate poverty! As long as capital is concentrated in 
one area and poverty continues to rise, world peace 
will be precarious.  
 In Paraguay, in South America, we are calling for 
the globalization of democracy combined with social 
development. We are calling for the universalization of 
security based on respect for human rights and on the 
dignity of human life. 
 In this way we hope to build a regional 
community and a global union, which will work 
together to eradicate hunger and extreme poverty, and 
which will effectively cooperate to promote the 
participation of all in prosperity by providing quality 
education and a system of social protection without 
exclusion.  
 In Paraguay, we are struggling for economic 
stability, for political stability and for social peace. 
With these ideals, I have been working very hard at the 
head of the Government to make significant changes 
and score important advances. We have sought radical 
change beyond what is needed by the Paraguayan 
society. The achievements we have attained require 
that we continue the progressive policy to which we 
committed ourselves when we assumed office. 
 Since we took office in 2003, following a 
turbulent transition that was constantly undermined by 
violence and conspiracy, Paraguay has institutionalized 
political stability   not an easy task in an environment 
of political division and with a parliament that did not 
always meet its responsibilities in governing jointly. 
Nevertheless, political stability has been, and continues 
to be, one of the defining characteristics of our 
Government. Through great perseverance, we have 
succeeded in permanently institutionalizing political 
stability. We did so because I understood that stability 
had to be the framework for achieving economic 
development, which is so crucial to achieving our plans 
for incremental growth. Having achieved economic 
stability, we began a process of growth of historic 
proportions. After 20 years, Paraguay was able to 
overcome stagnation. Despite the terrible drought in 
the country, which continues to this day, Paraguay 
experienced an average annual rate of economic 
growth of 4 per cent for the period 2003-2007. 
 Moreover, my country has also recorded a 
budgetary surplus. We have also markedly improved 
our tax receipts and are waging a difficult battle to 
control inflation. Through that policy, not only have we 
considerably increased our financial reserves, which 
have tripled, but for the first time in its history 
Paraguay is today able to pay its foreign debt in full 
and still continue to hold international reserves. Our 
exports are at a historical high, having doubled during 
my term of office. Another relevant factor has been the 
sustained growth in per capita production, which will 
rise from $915 to $1,800 by the end of my mandate, in 
2008.  
 More generally, the Government has been 
pursuing plans aimed at strengthening various areas of 
the economy, including the industrial, commercial and 
service sectors. We have encouraged the transformation 
of the country’s economy while coordinating and 
integrating the various sectors of production and 
facilitating the distribution, circulation and 
consumption of domestically produced goods. We have 
thereby been able to lower the rate of poverty we 
inherited from previous Governments   which is now 
approaching 38 per cent, down from the 46 per cent at 
which it stood in 2003.  
However, the poverty and marginalization of 
millions of our fellow citizens continues to be the most 
obvious threat to democracy and political stability in 
Paraguay as well as the region. Our belief that we will 
continue to overcome poverty is due to the 
Government’s significant investment in society. Never 
before have so many houses been built nor more 
resources devoted to the most vulnerable members of 
our society. Next year, we will earmark 50 per cent of 
the country’s budget for the fight to reduce poverty.  
 As a multi-ethnic country, we have not ignored 
the education of our indigenous citizens. We have built 
schools and established special programmes. As a 
bilingual country, we have both ensured Guaraní-
language education at all levels and worked towards 
having it recognized as a third official language of the 
Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR). Prior to 
the establishment of present-day borders, Guaraní was 
also spoken in Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Bolivia. 
 The Government over which I preside has 
ensured unfettered political freedom, as well as 
freedom of the press, association and expression. 
Unfortunately, the media have not always taken 
advantage of the freedom of the press in order to 
become channels for truthful information, serious and 
responsible opinion and constructive and reasoned 
criticism   much less to overcome its vestigial 
Manichaeism and instead to become a source of culture 
and daily provider of knowledge and ethical values. 
 Political parties are independent and represented 
in the parliament. Those not in parliament exercise 
their rights freely as new political parties are formed.  
 There is in fact pluralism in Paraguay, although 
the absence of an adequate civic culture on the part of 
most political actors has kept it from genuinely 
contributing to the essential consensus needed to 
defend the country’s overall interests and promoting 
equitable development within it. Unfortunately, 
remnants of fascism and conservatism continue to 
hamper coexistence in an environment of diversity and 
difference, while also conspiring against the country’s 
progress. 
 Nevertheless, our struggle for a participatory and 
inclusive democracy that promotes social justice has 
transformed the governing party. Today’s governing 
party is promoting an advanced philosophy of social 
change. It is also the political organization generating 
renewal and social mobilization to overcome the old 
party-based oligarchy that was so damaging to 
Paraguay. The party has therefore assumed 
responsibility for transforming the system whereby the 
State and its policies were subjugated to individual 
interests. Through its political independence, the party 
is in a position to able to eliminate illegitimate 
privileges and the illicit groups that control the 
economy, finances and large land holdings.  
 We are continuing to modernize Paraguay by 
linking the entire country with roads, exponentially 
expanding its economy and ensuring that all citizens 
become part of the nation’s social capital and possess 
the qualities and competitiveness required by today’s 
societies. Most of the people of Paraguay understand 
that the historic steps we have taken in that direction 
must continue and become irreversible. Today, anarchy, 
demagoguery and theological feudalism pose a 
regressive threat to peace, the secular State, the rule of 
law and the institutional order we are building. 
 Paraguay is the most open and dynamic country 
with regard to the regional integration agenda. Our 
support for MERCOSUR is a clear reflection of our 
national policy. We believe in MERCOSUR. We 
believe in regional integration. We believe in the 
possibility of Latin America having a louder voice in 
the world in order to manage and humanize the process 
of globalization. 
 My Government also endorses and supports the 
proposed union of South American nations, which will 
above all make us stronger in claiming and defending 
our rights in an environment of asymmetrical 
globalization and better able to contribute to world 
peace and more equitable distribution of international 
trade and financing for development.  
 The international mobilization of financial and 
technological resources is today threatening the 
stability and overall progress of countries. Speculative 
investments flow to countries and regions where the 
work force is subjected to exploitation. Then comes the 
invasion; and, through unfair competition, our 
industries are damaged and shut down. At the same 
time, our raw materials are undervalued. What capital 
should do is to promote industrialization, or at least 
ensure that the terms of trade become fairer instead of 
being imposed unilaterally.  
We have to change this trend. The international 
economic order should promote a more equitable world 
economy. Through solidarity, cooperation and fair 
treatment, all countries of the world should be admitted 
into the club of development. In Latin America, and in 
Paraguay, we don’t need charity; we need markets, 
transparency, technology, and the lifting of protective 
trade barriers.  
 The United Nations should reflect this 
philosophy. For this reason, its reform cannot be 
delayed any longer. Its priority concerns should not be 
war, armed conflict or even terrorism, whether real or 
strategic. On the contrary, its priorities should be 
programmes to end poverty, ignorance and 
unemployment. We must educate and distribute in 
order to build a culture of democratic participation in 
the wealth of humanity. 
 Paraguay, like the other 30 landlocked developing 
countries, continues to suffer marginalization and a 
lack of proper access to international markets. The 
absence of preferential treatment for us from the more 
developed economies has denied us a more competitive 
participation in trade, as well as, access to quotas and 
to higher tariffs. 
 Paraguay is not only aware of the serious 
consequences of climate change; it also suffers from 
them. Proof of this is the catastrophe our country is 
suffering through prolonged drought and the dreadful 
fires that have destroyed a major part of our territory. I 
take this opportunity to express my deepest gratitude 
on behalf of my people and my Government to the 
countries that have come to our aid in this national 
emergency. In particular, I would like to thank, from 
this rostrum, my friend Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, 
President of Brazil, Nestor Kirchner, President of 
Argentina, my friend President Chavez of Venezuela, 
and the other heads of Government and multilateral 
organizations that have worked with us. 
 Paraguay recognizes the importance of including 
gender issues in the agenda of the United Nations and 
the need for effective coordination among all agencies 
and organs in the United Nations system in addressing 
the situation of women in the world, particularly in 
developing countries. Increasingly and emphatically, 
we reject existing inequalities between men and 
women whether they be political, economic, social or 
cultural. Irrespective of the domestic actions we take to 
combat discrimination, we believe that the United 
Nations is the most appropriate forum for designing 
programmes in support of national policies to bring 
about true equality.  
 The Government of Paraguay would also like to 
take this opportunity to express once again for its 
support for the request for admission into the United 
Nations of the Republic of China, Taiwan, a nation that 
has continued to struggle for its freedom and wishes to 
be a member of the United Nations in accordance with 
Rules 59 and 60 of the Provisional Rules of the 
Security Council and Article 4 of the United Nations 
Charter. 
 In conclusion, inequalities among our peoples are 
not part of the human condition. On the contrary, they 
are the result of iniquitous relations that separate us 
and draw us apart. That being the case, we need only to 
show determination in building a universal community 
marked by greater equanimity and balance. This 
determination should be given expression by 
governments and citizens and should draw on the 
concerted efforts of States and civil society.  
 What we are seeing, however, is that the 
countries that have most want more. Their humanism is 
disguised in hand-outs and philanthropy when what the 
world needs is greater solidarity and justice. We need 
to share science and technology; we need to share 
markets. The pretence of cooperation to help countries 
achieve balanced development is not only denounced 
in fruitless rhetoric; it is also exposed in protectionism 
and in investment choices. 
 As long as this bipolar situation continues to 
prevail in the world, an organization such as the United 
Nations serves little purpose. Only when the powerful 
countries stop taking advantage of the less powerful 
countries will the United Nations be able to have a true 
impact on the lives of people. 
 This alternative is the process that we are 
involved in today. Many Governments representing 
countries in the Third World have begun to seek our 
own freedom. We are drawing a new map on the 
international scene.  
 I am compelled to mention this historic challenge 
in my final statement to the General Assembly of the 
United Nations because on 15 August 2008, I will hand 
over power to the new Government in my country. But 
I will continue to fight with greater fervour to help 
change the world. I am committed as ever to the 
difficult struggle to build a new world order, to ensure 
equality, social justice and solidarity for all countries, 
for all women and for all men. I will fight for their 
emancipation and their progress. 


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
On 
behalf of the nation of Paraguay, I wish to express to 
you, Mr. President, my most sincere congratulations on 
your election to preside over the General Assembly at 
its sixty-third session. I wish you every success. 
 This is a place where every year the Powers of 
the world write history that should transcend mere 
lofty political prose and be a tool for verse — the 
poetry of eliminating hunger, embracing equity among 
nations and building a better world for all. I believe 
that, one day, these enormous buildings — which were 
built with the aim of preventing war — will be 
increasingly dedicated to providing bread, eradicating 
hunger and malnutrition throughout the world and 
saving millions of lives from disease and violence of 
all kinds. 
 After 61 years of single-party Government and 
for the first time in my country’s political history, a 
party has come to power via the ballot — the 
appropriate means under the democratic code. 
Paraguay is soaring on the winds of democratic change 
that are blowing through the region. The new 
Government that I represent is an unequivocal response 
to the many needs that have arisen and opportunities 
that have been lost in recent decades. This year, 
citizens voted for greater social justice, to halt the 
 
 
7 08-51749 
 
massive destruction of the environment, and to combat 
the corruption, shady dealings and favouritism of a 
weakened and opportunistic State that delayed the 
implementation of a sustainable and inclusive 
development strategy for years. 
 The new administration represents the end of our 
19-year transition to democracy and has embarked on 
reform of the State and the economy. It has encouraged 
citizens to participate in the political decision-making 
process. We understand that political and economic 
stability is not more important than social stability. 
That is why we are committed to applying social 
policies to combat extreme poverty. We cannot hope 
for sustainable development when the market and the 
State deny opportunities to the weakest, nor is it 
possible to sustain democracy when the vast majority 
are excluded from enjoying economic benefits. We 
therefore believe in economic growth with social 
equity and in environmental responsibility as the very 
heart of our public policies.  
 Paraguay has opened a door of opportunity to the 
world. Two weeks ago, before we had come to the end 
of our first month in power, my Government launched 
a major assault on illicit Government management. The 
mafias that enjoyed shameful and excessive wealth 
through their influence on public power are enduring 
the worst moment of their history in Paraguay. We do 
not rule out the possibility of stripping the ill-gotten 
gains from those whom scandalous wealth made 
millionaires overnight and are now digging in their 
heels and even hatching specific plots to foment 
political and economic instability. The political 
holdovers in Paraguay still cling to a fascistic style of 
patronage, to which my Government has responded 
firmly but calmly. We will show zero tolerance for any 
anti-democratic activity and close our doors to all 
blackmail and any attempt to revive outdated models of 
access to power.  
 The new Government, which came to power on 
15 August, has been proactive in a historic show of 
solidarity with the democratic peoples of Latin 
America and in its rapid response in defence of 
democratically elected Governments, such as in the 
sister Republic of Bolivia, in the context of the Union 
of South American Nations. We also thank those 
brotherly countries that stood with us in the face of 
potential instability and have expressed their concern 
for and solidarity with the Paraguayan process.  
 The only way to build economic relations has 
been through a market mechanism which sold Latin 
America on the financial speculation of the 1980s that 
sunk our continent in debt, sidelined the role of the 
State and widened the gap between rich and poor. That 
mechanism, which was forced upon us, has proven to 
be wrong-headed and very costly for our peoples on 
the social level. 
 Today, we are seeing a financial crisis in 
developed economies as a result of immoral 
speculation that also affects the well-being of peoples. 
The sole motive behind such speculation is the desire 
for greater wealth that privatizes benefits and 
socializes the costs of unregulated market economies.  
 Paraguay is in favour of strengthening the 
General Assembly and restoring its mandated attributes 
and functions under the United Nations Charter. As the 
most representative body of the Organization, the 
Assembly must become a true world parliament in 
which the major issues affecting humankind can be 
discussed and are not relegated to other bodies whose 
decision-making process is confined to a small number 
of countries that often fail to take the opinion of the 
majority of the membership into account. 
 Paraguay believes that the problems that have led 
to climate change call for short- and long-term world 
responses in line with the most recent scientific 
advances and applied in a fashion that is compatible 
with the economic and social development of each 
country affected. Countries with economies in 
development suffer in particular from vulnerability and 
isolation as they attempt to enter the globalized market.  
 Ironically, it is the poorest — those who are the 
least responsible for climate change — who suffer 
most from its consequences. When it comes to major 
responsibility, we often note the irony of conservation 
measures imposed on areas of the world that are 
already suffering from poverty and exclusion. At the 
same time, we note the sustained indifference and 
limited capacities for self-criticism in the political 
realms that manage the fate of the world. That is 
precisely where the principal industrial and 
consumption phenomena arise, creating societies that, 
due to the irresponsibility of their leaders, persist in 
depleting their own resources, their own lands, their 
own dreams and their own lives.  
 Paraguay therefore calls on countries to recognize 
their shared but differentiated responsibilities. We 
  
 
08-51749 8 
 
stress the need for all members of the international 
community to act on their pledges. The same is true in 
determining political and economic responsibility for 
the deterioration of the world — the irreplaceable 
home of humankind.  
 At the same high level as our concern for the 
structural and immediate causes of poverty is our 
concern for the situation of indigenous peoples. Not 
only are they poor and excluded, but in many regions 
of the continent they have not reached a level of civic 
inclusion that permits them to be involved in decision-
making processes. In many cases, those who uphold a 
discourse of inclusion are intolerant when our 
indigenous brothers take on political leadership roles.  
 The indigenous nations of Latin America are not 
the ancient creation of our continent, but the most vital 
potential for political action, which we must respect, 
promote and include. If we did not, that would be an 
intolerable attack against our own civilization. America 
must wake up in the face of all of that.  
 We need to account for the old debt, which began 
to accrue in the filthy bowels of the slave ships and 
continued to grow with every gesture of disdain 
towards any indigenous attempt to have their say, their 
vote, their dreams and their plans for the land that at 
one time was theirs alone. Recognizing indigenous 
peoples as participants in the political and participatory 
processes of the State is still a pending issue, and it is a 
sad expression of intolerance in many regions.  
 In Paraguay, we have begun a process of 
transparency that has no precedents. The media are 
playing a fundamental role in this process. They were 
very proactive in combating corruption in Paraguay, 
and today, because of their questioning of our 
management, they are working at a high standard to 
generate ongoing self-criticism. As we guarantee the 
most unconditional support for enlightened 
management in journalism, self-expression and the 
right to access information, we seek to open up better 
horizons for the communications and education media, 
which had always been persecuted or dismissed as of 
no importance in our country.  
 We must work to build a more just world through 
social engineering. It is time to go beyond statements 
that are incapable of showing clear signs of progress in 
the fight against poverty and exclusion. The world’s 
forums for debate and reflection cause strain and risk 
losing credibility if they do not lead to actions that can 
draw a smile on the faces of unemployed youths who 
have no future. It is sad to see migrants who wander in 
an incessant exodus of biblical proportions, or to see 
women who are relegated to a secondary position by a 
culture and a civilization unable to recover the original 
dignity that belongs to them, who give life, affection, 
creativity and courage to change the world.  
 We need to highlight food security by ensuring 
not only space and opportunities for self-managed 
production, but also its cultural, sovereign and national 
identity dimensions. We are calling for greater, better 
and more timely international assistance for 
agricultural and fishing production in order to ensure 
increasing food production without destroying the 
environment and avoiding the current rise in food 
prices. Those costs end up punishing primarily the 
most vulnerable groups. On the global scale, we call 
upon nations that are heading huge agricultural projects 
to recognize the tribulations of small local producers, 
who often are crushed by new models that are 
arrogantly imposed on them.  
 The question of landlocked developing countries 
is a fundamental issue in Paraguay’s foreign policy. 
The disadvantages and asymmetries that that 
geographic situation has generated and continues to 
generate can be remedied only through international 
recognition and the granting of special, differentiated 
treatment in the country’s insertion into a globalized 
world.  
 Paraguay believes that the upcoming midterm 
review meeting of the Almaty Programme of Action is 
extremely important. It is an opportunity to consolidate 
achievements made so far and to ensure greater 
commitment from international bodies and from more 
developed countries. Working together in a coordinated 
matter will help landlocked developing countries 
overcome their limitations.  
 In Paraguay, large corporations — the Itaipu with 
Brazil and the Yasyreta with Argentina — offer 
abundant and available electric energy. Our 
Government is committed to prioritizing and using 
these renewable resources for economic and social 
development of the country in such a manner as to 
complement our efforts to create better sources of 
work, more production and a reduction of poverty. We 
are operating in a framework of increasingly fluid 
dialogue with our brotherly countries, with which we 
share those power stations, so that the benefits can 
 
 
9 08-51749 
 
repair the social debts deserving our attention and 
become true factors for economic growth. 
 Taking into account the upcoming review of the 
financing for development process, which will take 
place in Doha at the end of the year, Paraguay calls for 
the international community to mobilize its external 
resources to provide decisive support for the 
development of small economies. That is a priority 
both for both international financial bodies and  
developed economies. We would like the call for just 
international trade to become a true impetus for 
development.  
 Many of our countries have communities in 
various places in the world. Just like Europeans who in 
the past century came to America, today many friends 
and families from our regions seek better prospects in 
the countries of Europe and in North America. We call 
upon the humanitarian, brotherly, hospitable sense — 
the same that our continent showed in the past in 
sharing its scarce resources — in nations that today 
take in our migrants, who are dreaming of having a job 
and the right to a dignified life, far from their 
countries. The human dimension of that drama calls for 
a frank dialogue with receiving countries to find a 
solution to this new drama of globalization. 
 The Republic of Paraguay believes that, although 
progress has been made towards the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), we cannot deny the 
existence of the inequalities that persist in the 
developed world. Millions of people continue to live in 
extreme poverty, a situation that is worsened by the 
sudden increase in the cost of food and fuel and the 
consequences of climate change. 
 In order to achieve the MDGs by 2015, we are 
calling for strengthening the combined efforts of 
Governments, civil society organizations and the 
private sector in the context of a global alliance for 
stronger and more effective development, increasing 
official development assistance for the most vulnerable 
economies in particular.  
 We must not forget the thousands of millions of 
human beings worldwide who live below the poverty 
line. In our Latin American subcontinent, poverty has 
risen to 44 per cent of the population. In Paraguay, 
35.6 per cent of our citizens suffer from this scourge, 
and of those almost 20 per cent live below the line of 
extreme poverty. Malnutrition now affects four out of 
every 100 Paraguayan children. This situation is 
unacceptable and demands a radical change in the 
approach taken to combat this state of affairs. The most 
disadvantaged, those who remain in the sidelines of 
development are the ones we must listen to, and 
alleviating their suffering must be our priority.  
 Today more than ever, Paraguay requires 
international cooperation in achieving its socio-
economic priorities, in developing and strengthening 
its institutions and in providing preferential attention to 
the most vulnerable sectors. We hope that the opening 
of developing countries will favour the most 
disadvantaged and that the same restrictions demanded 
in the development of more developed economies will 
not be applied.  
 We believe that this will be a vital tool for 
strengthening developing countries. That is why 
Paraguay signed the constitution of the Bank of the 
South and will continue to support the strengthening of 
that institution so that it can meet its objectives of 
financing the balanced and stable economic and social 
development of its member States, promoting 
macroeconomic stability and strengthening integration 
in order to set the foundation for regional and financial 
autonomy. However, that does not mean that we no 
longer require the support, resources and cooperation 
of the most developed countries for the two modes of 
cooperation are complementary for development.  
 Paraguay believes that the international 
community should ensure that the mobilization of 
external resources becomes a priority for international 
financial bodies and the developed economies. To that 
end, we must regain the level of expansion of official 
development assistance, which in recent years has been 
shrinking in a disturbing fashion. 
 Terrorism must be eradicated from the face of the 
Earth. There is nothing more dangerous to the unity of 
civilization than terrorism as a fact of daily life: the 
terrorism that kills children through hunger; the 
terrorism of weapons anywhere; the terrorism that 
affects children in my country who die because of toxic 
produce; the terrorism that killed our brothers in the 
Twin Towers, which will continue to kill as long as war 
remains a business for a few and fanaticism continues 
to cloud our hearts. 
 I know that love is a word not frequently used in 
political discourse, but there is no other way to rebuild 
a world so disfigured by hate. We must not forget 
individuals who, for various physical and mental 
  
 
08-51749 10 
 
reasons, have special capacities. Those are our dearest 
brothers and sisters in a world that often excludes those 
who cannot compete in terms of physical strength or 
thought. We must create conditions to enable them to 
share in our everyday lives without suffering the 
burden of exclusion or indifference. Our efforts to 
support that sector of the population need not be 
extraordinary but should be carried out in daily actions, 
rich in sharing and informed by an awareness of 
brotherhood and nature.  
 In this globalized world where things happen so 
quickly and communication is immediate, we see 
clearly its greatest technological advancements, its 
powerful financial architecture and its scientific plans 
to colonize the universe, but, we have to ask ourselves, 
where has the human being been left in all of this?  
 Men and women must always remain at the centre 
of that scenario. The only thing that will save us from 
post-modern savagery is if they recover their place 
from which no one should ever have been exiled. 
Humanity is the only value shared, without a single 
difference, by a child dying of hunger in a developing 
country and a child who eats breakfast every day in a 
developed country.  
 Paraguay is a small country in the world, but it 
believes in friendship. That is why we have set 30 July 
as the Day of Friendship. We hope that this initiative 
will resonate in various regions of the world and that 
friendship, with its values and its principles, sooner 
rather than later will replace the hostility which is so 
present in our times.

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====
I 
should like at the outset to express my sincerest 
congratulations to Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on his 
election to preside over the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth session. I also wish to express the thanks 
of the delegation of Paraguay to Mr. Miguel d’Escoto 
Brockmann, President of the Assembly at its sixty-third 
session, for the progress made during his tenure.  
 I wish to begin by discussing what is most 
important: life. I cannot forget that, while the first 
paragraph of the preamble of the Charter of the United 
Nations states that our peoples, gathered together, are 
determined to save succeeding generations from the 
scourge of war, the murderous onslaught of warplanes 
has continued to kill, mutilate and traumatize children 
in many civilian populations; in national coffers, 
amounts allocated to the death budget, glibly labelled 
“defence expenditures”, continue to swell; and the 
military industries of the world’s most powerful 
countries continue to reap the most lucrative benefits 
without any questions from politicians or any outrage 
on the part of the international news networks, in a 
game of perverse hypocrisy that is undermining our 
future with lies disguised as imposed truths. 
 We are very rigorous in estimating the high 
global costs of containing and providing public health 
insurance for pandemics such as H1N1 influenza. But 
we forget that our “defence expenditures”, promoted 
by the great weapons industries from high, snow-
covered summits of complacency, end up exchanging a 
container of vaccine for a rifle or a significant part of 
the public health budget for a warplane.  
 The United Nations was born to promote peace 
and to eradicate war. However, the voracious traffic in 
 
 
31 09-52425 
 
arms continues to pass through our countries with its 
convoys of machine guns, missiles and grenades. 
Select regions of the world continue to be opportunistic 
enclaves for the trade of the merchants of death. 
Conflicts that mutilate, destroy and kill neighbours and 
condemn them forever to disgrace are at the same time 
opportunities for those who profit by, foment, create 
and manage the business of war. 
 Who questions the bloodstained bank notes that 
lie untouched in the vaults of the most powerful bank? 
We are face to face in this Hall, but truly we, the 
Governments of the countries of the world, rich, poor 
and very poor, are face to face with history. If we could 
just for one minute believe in the great tenets of 
equality and the shared rights of the human race, it 
would be time enough to ask ourselves the question: 
How much longer will the warlords continue to 
maximize their future income on the physical 
elimination of human beings? 
 My country, Paraguay, declares before the world 
that we are absolutely committed to peace. My 
Government is not prepared to spend the cost of a loaf 
of bread on weapons or war machinery. Any 
investment in defence must be the bare minimum 
compared to the social expenditures of the 
Government. Paraguay will not pawn its daily bread to 
dance the blind waltz of the warlords.  
 We believe that, in the context of globalization, 
there should be a call for the creation of a new world 
economic order capable of eliminating the sharp 
contrasts of the present and the clearly unequal access 
to the benefits of contemporary development. In that 
respect, I should like to describe the reality of life in 
Paraguay today. Our situation is essentially very 
similar to that of other countries that are also at the 
mercy of serious socio-economic problems.  
 A little more than a year ago, a historic transition 
occurred in Paraguay that left our economy in 
tatters — with backward and obsolete production 
mechanisms, weak democratic institutions rife with 
corruption, barely credible political parties and a lack 
of channels for civic participation in the 
decision-making process. Society was riven by serious 
contrasts, including about 40 per cent of the population 
living in poverty, tens of thousands of unemployed, 
high levels of migration, and unscrupulous minorities 
who lived well and sought to perpetuate their 
illegitimate privileges.  
 Those traits are shared by the majority of 
countries represented here, which, over and above their 
individual circumstances, like Paraguay are facing the 
threefold challenge of modernizing their economies, 
strengthening their participatory democracies, and 
eliminating serious and severe social inequities. As in 
Paraguay, in all poor countries the causes of the 
scourges we have suffered can be traced to the 
entrenchment of systems without justice or equality 
that ultimately widen the gaps between the rich 
countries and the poor. 
 We have sought in vain to mask the failures of the 
policies of recent decades with ostensibly technical 
terms that do little to describe the pathetic global 
reality. For example, we speak of least developed 
countries, middle-income countries and developing 
countries when the simple fact is that today we live in 
a world where there are countries that benefit until they 
can benefit no longer from world growth, while others 
are left behind and condemned to poverty. 
 Since the United Nations was established, our 
unavoidable obligation has been to proceed fearlessly 
to change that reality. We must give serious thought to 
a new world economic order with simple and specific 
aims. First, we must promote and strengthen small 
economies based on the fair and equitable distribution 
of the benefits of the production of wealth. We must 
put an end to inequitable trade relationships and 
develop effective policies of solidarity with those 
countries that endure adverse geographical or climate 
conditions.  
 Secondly, we must promote the healthy political 
development of all nations of the world and ensure that 
the most powerful countries do not interfere in local 
affairs, above all when these interventions seek to 
destabilize genuine democratic processes. I would like 
to clearly reaffirm my concern over events in the 
brotherly Republic of Honduras following the savage 
coup d’état that opened a gaping wound in the heart of 
our regional democracy. 
 Thirdly, we must promote peaceful solutions to 
international conflicts, firmly resolved to reduce the 
alarming levels of militarization and armament.  
 Fourthly, we must advocate an end to the harmful 
criminal attacks on the environment, including global 
warming and the natural disasters that occur with 
increasing frequency. We the peoples of the South are 
paying the growing and unsustainable social, 
  
 
09-52425 32 
 
environmental and financial costs of climate change. In 
the meantime, those States that bear greatest 
responsibility for global warming are not shouldering 
their obligations or the growing socio-environmental 
debt that they generate. They are perpetuating and 
aggravating a clearly unjust situation that must be 
reversed. As a matter of justice and urgency, we must 
heed the calls of the most vulnerable people on the 
planet.  
 Fifthly and finally, we must promote gender 
equality and put an end to discrimination of all kinds 
based on sexual, political or ideological preferences or 
racial, ethnic or religious differences. In sum, it is a 
matter of developing a better and more humane world 
on the way towards a kinder living environment that is 
more supportive and much more in keeping with the 
future of humankind.  
 I am fully aware of the scope of the challenge 
that I am suggesting. I am also completely aware of the 
difficulties that we will encounter in this epic fight, but 
in the twenty-first century we cannot continue to 
overlook an in-depth and open debate on realities of 
concern. 
 I do not in any way underestimate the relevant 
role that the United Nations has played in its relatively 
short existence in promoting world peace and equitable 
social development, but we must not ignore the 
decades of failure with regard to comprehensive 
modernization, much less fail to creatively and 
resolutely make use of the greatest world forum of 
today. 
 There is no time to lose. Historical justice and 
redress of the rich countries to the poor ones must be a 
priority on the agenda of the United Nations. In order 
for the United Nations to meet that important goal, we 
must support the General Assembly’s adoption of the 
necessary reforms, so as to reaffirm its inherent nature 
as a representative, democratic and equitable organ. We 
must uphold the precedence of its bodies over other 
internal organs of the Organization, such as the 
Security Council, in order to underscore the processes 
that will help build that greatly desired social justice. 
 The Security Council, as the organ entrusted with 
the maintenance of world peace, must also be 
reformed, not only so as to give it greater legitimacy 
by increasing its representativeness, but also so as to 
adopt new working methods to reflect a new 
multi-centred world order, founded on relations of 
cooperation, solidarity and peace, in which the 
community and human dignity are at the centre of 
every decision.  
 It is difficult to say this in such a hallowed Hall 
but it is worth recalling that, at this very moment, 
thousands of people are dying of hunger in the world 
that we shape. The ease with which television news 
switches between pictures of pitiful children 
overpowered by appalling hunger and figures for the 
brutal arms business of the industrialized countries 
exposes human indifference.  
 Once and for all, we must believe in — and 
create — a different planet that is able to retrieve its 
vast natural wealth, having put an end to the terrible 
havoc wrought by petty interests. We must believe in a 
fairer and more balanced international economic 
system, in which the huge discrepancies are a thing of 
the past. I believe in the great solidarity of human 
beings. I believe in the dreams of great leaders who 
defiantly changed the world. I believe in Jesus Christ, 
in Gandhi and in Martin Luther King. 
 Before ending my comments, I would like to take 
this opportunity to set out some clear positions on 
pressing matters that affect us. 
 First, I would like to say that the economic crisis 
that began in the major Powers and spread worldwide 
has had serious consequences in all countries. It has 
brought about a rapid destruction of accumulated 
wealth. Unemployment has risen to unprecedented 
levels. The number of poor has increased. The crisis 
has jeopardized dozens of democratic political 
processes.  
 Secondly, I would like to resolutely state that the 
violent rupture in the constitutional process in 
Honduras is a tremendous setback for the 
re-democratization of Latin America. Those involved 
in the coup who dealt a resounding blow to the 
honourable face of the continent’s democracy are 
responsible for the human sacrifices and the 
tremendous social unrest that is taking place. I would 
like to state my explicit solidarity and that of my 
people with Manuel Zelaya and the people of 
Honduras, who are bravely standing up to the effects of 
the coup. 
 Thirdly, I would ask the peoples and the 
Governments represented here to vigorously condemn 
the trade embargo that the largest economy in the 
 
 
33 09-52425 
 
world imposes on Cuba — another intolerable chapter 
that, while it lasts, undermines the credibility of any 
discussion on pluralism, tolerance and humanism in 
these forums. We have complete faith in a new vision 
that breaks with the past and its uncompromising 
divisions. We believe that the hopes of Latin America 
and the Caribbean with regard to the humanistic 
approach towards Cuba of the new leadership of the 
most powerful country on Earth will be met sooner 
than later. 
 Fourthly and lastly, I would like to state open 
concern about the sinister currents circling in the world 
with the unbridled arms race that can in no way be 
justified and can only be welcomed by the industries of 
death and barbarity. We must defuse the tensions that 
foster that interest in weapons and we must urgently 
clarify the elements that obscure the prospect for peace 
throughout the world.  
 I reaffirm the commitment of my small and 
humble country to supporting any and all initiatives 
that seek to build a better world for future generations.

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====

Mr. President, let me first convey on my own behalf 
and on behalf of the Republic of Paraguay our wishes 
for every success in your sensitive and important 
function at the helm of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fifth session. I would also like to express my 
delegation’s recognition of Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, 
President of the Assembly at the sixty-fourth session, 
for the significant achievements made. 
 Paraguayan democracy has completed its 
transition, begun 21 years ago, with the transfer of 
  
 
10-55396 14 
 
power from one political force to another in recent 
elections held under international observation. In that 
way we have consolidated a process of strengthening 
public freedoms, thereby affirming that those freedoms 
are fully guaranteed in my country today. 
 Paraguay comes to this general debate 
reaffirming its importance and calling for progress in 
strengthening the United Nations as the body capable 
of representing the interests of all Member States in the 
urgent quest for a fairer, more united and equitable 
world, guaranteed by the full force of international law.  
 We are very pleased that some great Powers have 
returned to the path of multilateralism, for some of the 
problems that afflict mankind can be resolved only 
with the involvement of every State. It has been 
demonstrated again that in the search for a better 
civilization, the solution has not, cannot and will never 
be found by a handful of nations. Thus the recent 
financial crisis can be resolved satisfactorily only 
through measures that are universal and taken with the 
agreement of the great majority. Once again, it is the 
General Assembly that will have to make its guiding 
voice heard on this issue. 
 We also applaud the Secretary-General’s timely 
decision to hold the High-level Meeting for review of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The 
Republic of Paraguay believes that while achievements 
have been made with regard to the MDGs, we cannot 
avoid the fact that there are still inequalities all over 
the world and millions continue to live in abject 
poverty. The situation has been exacerbated by sudden 
increases in food prices and the consequences of 
climate change. 
 In Paraguay we are betting on the globalization of 
democracy with social development. We are betting on 
the universalization of security based on respect for 
human rights as an unwavering commitment and on 
dignifying human life. In that spirit we celebrate the 
recent designation of a Paraguayan citizen as a member 
of the Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination against Women. We appreciate the 
support she received, which further strengthens our 
commitment to ensuring the inclusion of women in all 
areas of public life.  
 We would thus like to create a regional 
community in the context of a global union that in 
solidarity and together devotes its efforts to eradicating 
hunger and abject poverty, cooperating effectively to 
promote the participation of all in building sustainable 
prosperity through quality education and the provision 
of a social protection system that excludes no one. 
 The Republic of Paraguay reiterates its 
commitment to prioritize the implementation of 
programmes for economic development with social 
justice. The national Government is approaching with 
dedication the development and implementation of 
social policies to address needs in this area, with 
special emphasis on the most vulnerable and most 
needy of our population. That effort at the national 
level also requires international solidarity, enhanced 
through the processes of regional and sovereign 
integration of the people, as well as through a new 
international financial architecture whose institutions 
contribute to job creation and to fairer, more equitable 
trade conditions among the world’s nations. 
 We note with great concern that many citizens of 
our countries have had to migrate to other parts of the 
world, particularly Europe and North America, in 
search of new opportunities for happiness and personal 
fulfilment. We take this occasion to show our solidarity 
with the peoples who at this moment are suffering from 
the consequences of mistaken discriminatory and 
violent immigration policies, particularly as applied by 
countries of the so-called first world.  
 Migration policy is not a domestic issue but 
rather a question that must respect international human 
rights norms and standards. Therefore we call on all 
countries that receive migrants to deal in a spirit of 
humanitarianism, fraternity and hospitality with all our 
fellow citizens who today seek to share in the right to 
work and to a life of dignity far from their respective 
countries. We propose a deepening of dialogue on the 
issue in international forums to highlight the human 
dimension of migration processes and find a just and 
equitable solution to that reality of globalization. 
 Full employment and decent work are universal 
goals, and to reach them requires focusing national 
efforts and improving international cooperation to 
address macroeconomic and trade issues involved in 
the solution to that problem. Bilateral and multilateral 
institutions for development assistance should insist on 
employment taking a place of prominence in their 
policy decisions and implementation.  
 Disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control 
are not only essential factors to ensure international 
peace and security, but they also guarantee sustainable 
 
 
15 10-55396 
 
economic and social development for the most 
vulnerable countries. Only through a sound multilateral 
system with strict adherence to international law and 
respect for the sovereignty and self-determination of 
peoples can we guarantee our mutual security.  
 In that vein, we condemn coercive economic 
measures that prevent countries from exercising their 
sovereign right to choose their own political, economic 
and social systems. We reject the unilateral application 
of measures against the Republic of Cuba, and we 
reiterate our support for the General Assembly 
resolutions to put an end to the economic, commercial 
and financial blockade against that nation. The 
blockade against Cuba undermines the fundamental 
norms of international law, the principles of sovereign 
equality among States, non-intervention,  
non-interference in domestic affairs, freedom of trade 
and international navigation and the self-determination 
of peoples, as enshrined in instruments of international 
law.  
 We also demand that the Government of the 
United States adopt necessary measures to put an end 
to the irregular situation of five Cuban citizens who are 
currently deprived of their liberty as they sit in United 
States jails and who have denounced the violation of 
their human rights. 
 The Republic of Paraguay reiterates its 
commitment to international peace and security. In that 
context we reaffirm our political will to increase our 
contribution to peacekeeping missions and to continue 
our efforts to train and equip forces in accordance with 
the standards of this Organization, so as to 
progressively increase our participation in those 
operations. 
 My country is aware of the serious and complex 
threats of climate change around the world. We have 
watched with concern the growing negative effects of 
irregular climate phenomena that produce drastic 
consequences that contribute to increased poverty and 
displacement of persons, among other irreparable 
effects that must be urgently and uncompromisingly 
addressed. We subscribe to the Declaration of the 
Cochabamba summit on climate change and call for an 
urgent, coordinated and responsible global response to 
find ways to mitigate, lessen and reverse the tragic, 
devastating consequences of climate change. Likewise, 
we proclaim the sovereign rights of peoples over their 
natural resources, interpreted in the broadest sense.  
 A new international financial architecture is 
needed, one that seeks a system of fair trade and 
efficient regulation mechanisms. We also need new 
paradigms for integration that attack the root causes of 
obstacles to integration, such as inequitable exchange 
rates and the unequal conditions of international 
relations, the weight of unpayable debt and the 
imposition of structural changes that undermine the 
bases of social and political assistance. We are 
convinced that the United Nations, as a global 
institution, should play a central role to guarantee the 
success of our efforts to achieve better international 
coordination and coherence in the economic and 
financial spheres.  
 The issue of landlocked developing countries is 
fundamental to Paraguay’s foreign policy. The 
asymmetries and disadvantages created by and still 
being created by that geographical situation can be 
offset only to the extent that they are internationally 
recognized and that there be special, individualized 
treatment for such countries on the part of developed 
economies on their integration into the globalized 
world.  
 It is essential that the United Nations implement 
the needed reforms with the goal of adapting its 
structure to the current needs of global society. With 
that desire for evolution, the Republic of Paraguay 
supports the process of reform of the Organization so 
as to strengthen the General Assembly and recover the 
functions conferred on it by the Charter, as the most 
representative organ of the Organization.  
 Paraguay has also been watching with great 
interest the recent rounds of intergovernmental 
negotiations about equitable representation on and 
increasing the membership of the Security Council and 
other related issues. We advocate full adherence to 
multilateralism, the sovereign equality of States and 
inviolable respect for the rule of law. Accordingly, we 
need a Security Council that is more democratic, and 
thus its expansion cannot be put off in order to make it 
more equitable and inclusive. 
 As a contribution from Paraguay to promoting 
respect and fraternity — values that strengthen any 
organization made up of individuals and nations — we 
have proposed to share with the world our tradition of 
celebrating friendship. To that end, Paraguay has 
presented to the United Nations a proposal to proclaim 
  
 
10-55396 16 
 
30 July as World Friendship Day, in order to renew 
appreciation and recognition among our peoples.  
 Sixty-five years ago we said, “We the peoples of 
the United Nations”, and Paraguay was among them. 
Hence we reaffirm each and every precept enshrined in 
the remarkable Preamble to our Charter. We will be at 
the side of all, because we believe in the equality of 
nations large and small, which will allow us 
progressively to improve the conditions under which 
justice can be maintained and thereby better the 
standards of life in larger freedom. That is our 
mandate. We are committed to fulfil it.  

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====
On 
behalf of the people of Paraguay, Mr. President, I offer 
you sincere congratulations on your election to the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth 
session. I also thank Mr. Joseph Deiss for his laudable 
work as President of the previous session, and 
congratulate Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his re-appointment 
as Secretary-General. Throughout his tenure at the 
head of the Organization for the past five years, he has 
demonstrated his gift for leadership and his 
 
 
7 11-50702 
 
unwavering commitment to world peace and 
international security. 
 The people of Paraguay and their President, in 
consonance with our extraordinary national history, 
believe deeply in the human being as the subject and 
end of and reason for every effort designed to benefit 
humankind. The centrality of humans in the history of 
the universe in all their endeavours, interests and 
conquests will be constantly proclaimed in this forum.  
 In order to begin to discuss the future of 
humankind, we must correct mistakes and rethink 
paradigms that for decades, sometimes even for 
centuries, have demonstrated their utter uselessness in 
bringing about change for good. Restoring men and 
women to centre stage in the concerns of the universe 
is a fundamental step in order merely to begin to trace 
a basic outline for a future of certainty that seeks to 
replace the frustrations of managing the development 
paradigm with the realities of a world in which well-
being is much more tangible. 
 What good does it do to discuss development 
plans if the goal of dignifying the human being is not 
the beginning and the end of the process? At this stage 
in history, when we are thrilled by the most incredible 
technological achievements capable of keeping pace 
with our flights of imagination and our dreams, where 
does that leave the nightmare of starving children who 
fight for a crust of bread, smile if they get it — and 
still want to play? What benefit do we derive from the 
media hype about these great global and commercial 
achievements while in complicit silence the other half 
of humanity is holding out its hand, begging for a little 
help, for the love of God? What good does it do us to 
continue supporting a way of creating happiness in the 
world that has been loudly shown to be a failure over 
and over again? 
 Regions that enrich the economy of part of the 
world with the natural abundance of their waters, their 
oil, the precious stones hidden in the belly of their soil, 
continue inexorably to accumulate debt while their 
daily offerings increase the wealth of rich societies 
every day. The poor neighbour in today’s world 
possesses riches — those closer to the simplicity of 
well-being and happiness, such as water, food, forests 
and renewable energy — that are vital to its rich 
neighbours. But unbridled wealth cannot be the basis 
for political dominion and certainly not for wars and 
military might. We live in societies because our 
peoples and other human beings have mutual needs. 
 Population growth is a serious global issue. 
Sometimes it seems as though we live in a world that, 
worse than resigning itself to poverty, resigns itself to 
inequality, to the pornographic spectacle of scandalous 
imbalances which reveal the inner workings of an 
ostentatious world celebrating its shame, as described 
by Gabriel García Márquez in his tale of Innocent 
Eréndira and Her Heartless Grandmother. As long as 
that continues, the dialogue between the rich bank that 
sustains and coordinates the world economy and the 
poor world that provides the natural resources will 
gradually become senseless. 
 My country’s growth rate in 2010 exceeded 
15 per cent; but tensions made efforts to redistribute 
that wealth and reduce inequality more difficult than 
achieving the growth itself. 
 I think that this is true all over the world. The 
United Nations needs to discuss measures to enable or 
assist Member States to work their way through fiscal 
policies and international market regulations that 
contribute to the stark reality of the huge fortunes that 
exist in the hands of just a few in some countries as 
compared with the inequalities, droughts, humanitarian 
crises in others. 
 Solidarity is a ten-letter word that is fine-
sounding but sometimes empty: empty of free will, 
actions and especially results. Solidarity is no longer 
simply a moral imperative; it is a prerequisite for 
achieving progress and combating the dark side of 
ignoring it: violence and crime. 
 We live in a world which urgently requires a 
paradigm shift. And we must admit that the world is at 
a crossroads; because one discourse that has been 
going on for five centuries in the name of progress and 
another for six decades in the name of development 
have only added uncertainty about any improvement in 
the future lot of broad regions and thousands of 
millions of people. 
 The unrepentant incapability of the developed 
countries to understand a very simple equation in order 
to set up local development plans as local plans for 
development means that known errors will be repeated 
despite the urgent need for profound, convincing and 
radical rethinking capable of harnessing the mutual 
trust that can promote progress towards the only 
  
 
11-50702 8 
 
tangible parameter, the only valid outcome, the only 
genuine reality, which is a good life for all men and 
women. 
 Achieving the good life for all should be the 
paradigm of our time. It clearly entails envisioning a 
post-development future in which thoughtfulness, 
objectivity and goodwill coexist in harmony and 
genuine solidarity reigns without delay between those 
in the powerful and wealthy world and those who live 
in poverty elsewhere.  
 This is not just a moral vision. Of fundamental 
importance to progress is the sharing of wealth. And 
that brings me to the main theme of this forum, 
avoiding future conflict and future violence. But the 
paradigm of the good life requires plans that focus on 
the dignity of human beings and the future rather than 
on resource exploitation systems which almost never 
benefit the people. 
 In Latin America — the region to which my 
Government is committed — we live the daily paradox 
of poverty in the midst of the best basic conditions for 
generating wealth. Historically, since colonial times, 
our wealth has followed a one-way path to other 
regions of the world, without generating any structural 
improvements in our economies. 
 We attend the prestigious world summits of the 
developed countries where the lot of poor countries has 
been debated for decades, yet we have had no luck. 
When will the countries of Latin America realize that 
we export nature, we export oxygen, we export fresh 
water, we export food, we export renewable energy? It 
makes no sense that our countries remain poor, when 
we have so many assets and products that enrich the 
rest of the world. 
 Finally, on this subject, a paradigm shift to ensure 
that human beings are at the centre of world concerns 
requires commitment on the part of those who govern 
the most powerful countries. We in turn must commit 
to supporting them and not abandoning them if that 
paradigm shift takes place. And the most intelligent 
form of support is, as we have just mentioned, to 
develop an awareness of what we are and the enormous 
potential with which our countries are endowed. 
 Paraguay reaffirms its steadfast commitment to 
multilateralism based on a democratic and egalitarian 
new world order, an order that will ensure the 
comprehensive and effective development of our 
countries. Paraguay therefore believes both in a 
stronger and more democratic United Nations, as a 
truly global organization, and in strengthening progress 
in the regional integration of peoples. For example, we 
have the Union of South American Nations — 
UNASUR — and the future Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States, which provide 
common space for nations that share a common history, 
common values and common plans for sovereignty and 
independence.  
 Global change is picking up speed. The still 
significant primacy of the central Powers in economic 
and military terms, and therefore in political and 
cultural terms, is facing demands for democratization 
of the world order and progress in multilateralism. The 
financial, energy, social and environmental crises are 
proof of the contradictions and conflicts in the strategic 
interests of the great Powers as well as the weaknesses 
of the aid-dependent countries and those in the midst of 
development. We believe in mediation as a remedy to 
overcome social injustice and as a path towards peace.  
 Among our peoples’ demands for strengthened 
democracy, we see the spirit of the words of Nelson 
Mandela when, in the past century, he said that there 
can be no democracy with poverty and no democracy 
with social inequality. That is why the theme of the 
sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly, on 
strengthening the role of mediation in the settlement of 
disputes by peaceful means, conflict prevention and 
resolution, has taken on greater relevance. 
 Article 1 of the United Nations Charter states that 
the purpose of our Organization is  
 “to take effective collective measures for the 
prevention and removal of threats to the peace, 
and for the suppression of acts of aggression or 
other breaches of the peace”. 
Thus, in the face of violence and today’s wars, whether 
traditional or silent, short or long-term, there is a 
demand for mediation as a mechanism for peace, as a 
tool to overcome global social injustice and thus a 
necessary foundation for achieving international peace 
and security.  
 In that context, we advocate mediation in order to 
overcome global social injustice and both traditional 
and silent wars. It must be based on the shared but 
differentiated responsibilities of all countries, 
developing and developed, in order to guarantee the 
 
 
9 11-50702 
 
conditions necessary for a peaceful world that relies on 
the comprehensive and effective development of our 
peoples. Lastly, it must avoid ruinous hypotheses at all 
costs, such as those that led to “preventive attacks”, 
which culminated in the loss of many lives, the 
destruction of entire cities and vital elements of 
universal culture, and sowed the seeds for the dreadful 
mistrust of any subsequent such initiatives. 
 The self-determination of peoples should not be 
shaped by the political or economic interests of those 
who oversee global equilibrium with weapons. It is, 
and must be, written in stone. 
 Paraguay plays an active role in United Nations 
peacekeeping missions. Beginning this year, after more 
than a decade of uninterrupted contributions of military 
observers, Paraguay will be contributing a multirole 
engineering unit to the United Nations Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti, the first to be deployed under our 
national flag. 
 The General Assembly should adopt the 
necessary reforms so as to reaffirm its inherent nature 
as a universal, democratic and equitable representative 
body. In this way, its powers will be recognized and 
will take precedence over those of other bodies in the 
Organization, such as the Security Council, in order to 
underscore the processes that help to overcome 
violence and globalized social injustice and build the 
multipolar, democratic and egalitarian world that we so 
greatly desire. 
 In the same vein, democratizing the Security 
Council is becoming an increasingly urgent task. We 
urge the Council to fulfil its primary role of promoting 
world peace and avoiding war, which is why it must be 
reformed and become more democratic. We must 
accord greater legitimacy to the Council by making it 
more representative of the new multilateral and 
multipolar world order, and by gradually doing away 
with veto rights. 
 We must express our concern, here before the 
General Assembly, regarding the actions taken in Libya 
under resolution 1973 (2011) of the Security Council 
and in the context of the responsibility to protect. We 
believe that the use of force must always be a last 
resort. 
 That is why we are concerned about the crisis 
affecting the United Nations Security Council, which 
can be overcome only through its reform and 
democratization. Thus, we insist and urge that efforts 
continue to be made to that end so that the Council can 
once again fulfil its mission of guaranteeing 
international peace and security. 
 In terms of foreign policy, Paraguay, as one of the 
founding Members of the Organization, upholds and 
reiterates the constitutional principles governing its 
international relations: national independence, self-
determination of peoples, legal equality of States, 
solidarity and international cooperation, international 
protection of human rights, freedom of navigation in 
international rivers, non-intervention, and condemnation of 
all forms of dictatorship, colonialism and imperialism.  
 In the 50 years since the embargo was imposed 
on the people of Cuba, Paraguay has repeatedly 
expressed its opposition to that economic, commercial 
and financial blockade, as have the countries of Latin 
America and the Caribbean. Paraguay has stood 
together with those countries and called for the 
immediate lifting of the embargo. In particular, we 
deplore the impact of this unjust blockade on the 
Cuban people, which is a consequence of positive laws 
that affect free trade and the transparent practice of 
international trade. 
 In that respect, Paraguayan legislation does not 
recognize the extraterritorial application of foreign 
laws that violate the sovereignty of other States. This 
practice also violates the principles of international law 
that we, the Members of the United Nations, defend 
and strive to uphold. 
 Paraguay has consistently supported the 
resolutions adopted by the General Assembly at 
previous sessions which call for the lifting of the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo against 
Cuba. In full observance of resolution 65/6, entitled 
“Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba”, and before this Assembly, 
Paraguay once again reiterates its support for the 
resolutions adopted in that regard. 
 Consistent with the stance it has taken in 
international forums, in particular the United Nations, 
and considering the resolutions that condemn the 
Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories, such as 
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 
446 (1979) and 478 (1980), Paraguay established 
diplomatic relations with Palestine on 25 March 2005 
  
 
11-50702 10 
 
and recognizes a free and independent Palestinian State 
based on the borders of 4 June 1967. 
 We are gratified that the agenda of the sixty-sixth 
session of the General Assembly includes the 
recognition of the free, sovereign and independent 
State of Palestine. We are convinced that this is a 
confirmation of the historic debt of the international 
community to recognize the legitimate right of the 
Palestinian people to have its own State with well-
defined borders. This will be a significant contribution 
to the peace process in the Middle East. 
 We believe that urgent efforts are needed to 
design and build a new international financial 
architecture, one that responds to the new era in which 
we live and provides measures for avoiding systematic 
cyclical crises and for developing regional mechanisms 
for economic and financial cooperation. Under this 
new framework, nations with common histories and 
destinies can create their own spaces for cooperation 
and economic partnerships. 
 The countries of South America have focused the 
actions of UNASUR on this goal. We are confident 
that, by coordinating and linking our economic 
initiatives, we will lay the foundation for integration, 
which will not only protect our countries from crises 
that are not of our creation, but also guarantee the 
comprehensive development of our peoples. 
 Paraguay is among those nation States which, 
over the course of history, have fallen prey to various 
vulnerabilities, given their geographic situation and 
historical experience. Paraguay has been weakened by 
a historic model of socio-economic development based 
on the looting of its natural and strategic resources and 
administered through relations of structural 
dependence. 
 That is why, in January 2010, Paraguay became 
the Chair of the Group of Landlocked Developing 
Countries. In that capacity, we urge transit countries 
and their main neighbours, as applicable, as well as 
international organizations and the most developed 
countries, to increase their commitment to implement 
the Almaty Programme of Action, addressing the 
special needs of landlocked developing countries 
within a new global framework for transit transport 
cooperation. This will help such countries to overcome 
their limitations and will facilitate their overall 
development. 
 As a complement to beginning the preparations 
for the Conference of Landlocked and Transit 
Developing Countries, which will help us to overcome 
the adversities we face, we are promoting the 
Multilateral Agreement for the Establishment of an 
International Think Tank for Landlocked Developing 
Countries, in the conviction that scientific advances in 
that area will be of great importance in overcoming the 
obstacles that such countries face. 
 Regarding the Millennium Development Goals, 
Paraguay reaffirms its full commitment to achieving 
those goals and expresses its concern about the extent 
to which they will be met by 2015. This is why we 
encourage Governments, civil society organizations 
and the private sector to work together to achieve 
them.  
 Given its commitment to the goal of fully 
respecting the human rights of our peoples, Paraguay 
has decided to present its candidacy for the Human 
Rights Council for the term 2014-2017. We hope to 
have the support of the international community. 
 We must express our serious concern for the 
environmental crisis, which is worsening on a daily 
basis and even generating uncertainty about the 
survival of the human race. We fully support 
strengthening the only legally binding agreement in 
this area, the Kyoto Protocol, and its further extension. 
The agreements reached in Cancún are a great support 
in improving emissions levels but they are voluntary in 
nature, which contradicts the principle of climate 
justice that our peoples so favour.  
 Finally, I would like to thank all those who 
helped the Paraguayan initiative for the International 
Day of Friendship to come to fruition. The friendship 
of individuals, peoples and nations is not exclusively a 
question of diplomacy, much less a commercial 
enterprise to make money from the inclination of 
human beings to join together. Friendship is that bond 
which must necessarily be based on solidarity, and, in 
Paraguay, we believe that it is high time for the world 
to make it happen.  
 I am pleased that this initiative has become 
universal. On behalf of the Paraguayan people, we 
greet all the peoples of the world in the hope that we 
will find the way to overcome global social injustices 
and thus guarantee a world culture of peace and 
friendship based on the well-being and genuine 
development of all our peoples, without distinction.

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿At
the opening of my statement in today’s general debate,
allow me to express to Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President
of the General Assembly, the satisfaction felt by the
Republic of Paraguay at seeing him preside over the
work of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh
session. He can be assured of my delegation’s constant
support during his time in office. Allow me also to
congratulate Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser
for his important and effective work as President of
the General Assembly at its previous session. I also
extend my congratulations to Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon for his commendable work during the past six
years at the head of the Organization, during which he
demonstrated his firm commitment to global peace and
international security.
In relation to the theme of the general debate,
“Bringing about adjustment or settlement of
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”,
the Government of Paraguay once again asserts and
confirms the importance of settling disputes by peaceful
means while respecting the principles of international
law. Relations between States would be fairer, more
supportive and more equitable were they governed by
full compliance with international law, the principles
of which guide and direct the peaceful settlement of
disputes. In my country’s view, favouring political
expediency over treaty commitments is unacceptable,
because political considerations can never take
precedence over formal international agreements.
On this first and last time that I will address
the General Assembly, I believe it is necessary and
unavoidable to elucidate to the international community
the political process that my country is currently
undergoing. The history of Paraguay changed on the
night of 22 June. The National Congress, exercising its
constitutional powers — and I would like to publicly
express my appreciation for the presence here today of
the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Paraguay,
senators and members of Parliament, the President of the
Chamber of Deputies, and persons of various political
stripes — decided by near-unanimity to remove the
then-President from office by means of an impeachment
process established under the Constitution.
The Paraguayan Congress sought in that manner to
put an end to a very serious political crisis that threatened
the country, in which 17 fellow countrymen had already
lost their lives, and to avoid further bloodshed and grief
on Paraguayan soil. As mandated by the Constitution and
owing to my duty as Vice-President, I assumed office
as President of the Republic. Since then, in accordance
with my oath of office, I have been governing Paraguay
peacefully and democratically, fully respecting public
freedoms. The Government of Paraguay, along with the
overwhelming majority of Paraguayans, takes pride
in the fact that there are no political prisoners in the
country, that nobody has been exiled, that freedom
of the press and freedom of expression are fully
guaranteed, and that each and every right enshrined in
human rights agreements signed within the framework
of the United Nations, as well as in the Organization of
American States, is ensured.
Paraguay has normal diplomatic relations with the
great majority of the States Members of the United
Nations. We guarantee to all of them that Paraguay
will continue to work tirelessly in favour of peace and
security, the basic pillars of our Organization.
Nonetheless, Paraguay finds itself in a difficult
international situation, one created by its neighbours,
the members of the Southern Common Market and the
Union of South American Nations. Both entities have
adopted sanctions against the Republic of Paraguay
without allowing it to exercise its right to defend itself,
a right that is clearly set forth in the international
agreements that are invoked for the application of
sanctions. In violation of international treaties, those
countries have attempted to become the custodians of
Paraguayan democracy, putting aside the principle of
non-intervention enshrined in the Charter of the United
Nations.
Throughout its history, Paraguay has repeatedly
suffered from arrogant interventions in its internal
affairs.

The holocaust brought on by the War of the Triple
Alliance, stemming from an unjustifiable coalition,
has still not faded from the memory of my people. It
decimated my country’s population and destroyed its
economy.
In the short period that my Government has served,
our critics have been unable to find a single violation of
the agreements that I have mentioned. The great Justo
Pastor Benítez, a famous Paraguayan politician, rightly
maintained that it is dangerous to be right where there
is no justice.
Before humankind’s highest Assembly, I clearly
state that Paraguay will never accept interference in
its internal affairs by foreign Powers. We will continue
to build our democracy in accordance with the will of
the Paraguayan people, and fully implement it through
our freely elected institutions. We are certain that
we know how to get through this crucial period with
dignity and integrity. We will not be subjugated. We
call on members to reflect and work together to find the
path towards rebuilding South American integration,
which is currently compromised. Peace is built through
dialogue, to which we are open.
Those who today wish to become leading actors in
the international community will have to acknowledge
that that is not possible without regional unity.
Leadership is built through respect for international
law. That is the only way that we will have a common
position on Security Council reform, which is a long-
standing wish of the universal institution that embraces
us.
In such difficult times for the international
community, we will find solutions to our current
political and economic difficulties only by putting
international institutions on the path for which they
were established, namely, to serve the women and men
that build humankind’s future day by day. Paraguay,
a founding member of the Organization, remains
committed to that.
The various events in different parts of our planet
this past year demonstrate the relevance and true
validity of a forum such as the United Nations in the
international arena. That is why there is an urgent need
for the courageous, innovative and profound reform of
its organs, structure and functions. Changes are needed
to adapt the Organization so that it can respond with
greater effectiveness and agility to an international
agenda that is very different from that which existed
when the United Nations was conceived. Moreover, it
faces a shifting dynamic in the international picture
that was impossible to envision at its inception.
That is why Paraguay calls on the international
community to strive towards the wonderful international
utopia of a universal Organization governed by the
strong and the weak, the large and the small, and the
rich and the poor, all equal in a great world Assembly.
Paraguay believes that it is necessary to insist that the
reform process include the gradual elimination of the
veto power.
This year, on the twentieth anniversary of the
historic United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and known
as the Earth Summit, we believe that it is necessary
to reaffirm the belief that sustainable development
and its economic, social and environmental aspects
must be the linchpin of the United Nations focus. The
Republic of Paraguay therefore reaffirms its belief
in that goal and in the need to maintain the balance
between economic development, social development
and environmental protection as interdependent pillars
of human development.
As the world’s largest producer per capita of clean
renewable hydroelectric energy, which drives our
economy and its industrialization, we will use that
energy for the country’s development for the benefit of
the Paraguayans and foreigners who inhabit our land
and shape its future. That energy, which we will use
little by little, will be another driver of our well-being.
The issue of landlocked developing countries
(LLDCs) is an important aspect of Paraguay’s foreign
policy. The asymmetry and disadvantages of our
geographical position have caused and continue to
cause a huge problem that can be offset only through
international recognition and special and differentiated
treatment on the part of the developed economies that
seeks to include Paraguay in the globalized world.
In that regard, on 12 September, during the recent
fourth Meeting of Trade Ministers of Landlocked
Developing Countries, a group that Paraguay had the
honour of chairing during the biennium 2010-2011,
the need for transit States, in the first place, and the
international community, as a whole, to duly recognize
the comparative disadvantages of our countries in
relation to the conditions needed for their development
was underscored.

Paraguay wishes to reiterate here its commitment to
international peace and security. In the specific context
of United Nations peacekeeping operations, it affirms
its political willingness to continue contributing
human resources to such operations. Regionally, we
highlight the progress achieved by the United Nations
Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). Paraguay
increased its deployment to MINUSTAH by more
than 100 troops to show its firm commitment to the
reconstruction of a brother country devastated by the
scourges of nature.
I would also like to underscore the effort and
commitment of the Paraguayan military observers in
the increasingly difficult situation in the Syrian Arab
Republic, where they have remained, even in the most
difficult circumstances. I take this opportunity to pay
tribute to those soldiers who perform their duties, in
many parts of the world, with dedication, hard work and
sacrifice in the service of the United Nations. Today,
we must all also remember the obligation of Member
States to protect and defend the security of diplomatic
and consular premises in all countries.
Paraguay is increasingly concerned about the
growth in transnational organized crime in its worst
manifestations, namely, drug trafficking on a large and a
small scale, arms trafficking and trafficking in migrants
and in persons, among others. Those transnational
crimes stem mainly the social and economic inequality
of our peoples. Joint international efforts are needed,
therefore, in order to fight such scourges head on. The
Government of Paraguay reaffirms its unequivocal
commitment to the fight against all activities of
criminal organizations and calls for a stronger position
on the part of developed countries, where most of the
demand associated with those crimes originates.
Paraguay also reaffirms its strong condemnation
of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. For
that reason, Paraguay, through its Secretariat for the
Prevention of the Laundering of Money and Goods and
in close cooperation with other national institutions,
has made a coordinated effort to bring its legal and
normative framework in line with its commitments and
with the recommendations made by the international
organizations charged with preventing and prosecuting
crimes related to money laundering and the financing
of terrorism. Laws and resolutions have been passed
pursuant to the recommendations of the Financial
Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF). In
February 2012, Paraguay was removed from the FATF grey list and is now, as a result of our efforts, included
on the white list, a fact that we are proud of, as a
member of our region and in line with our commitment
to the fight against money-laundering and the financing
of terrorism.
Promoting and building awareness of, and full
respect for, human rights worldwide must continue
to be one of the unchanging and incontrovertible
commitments on our Organization’s international
agenda. Human rights violations are a scourge that
must forever be eradicated from our civilization.
The Government of Paraguay reiterates that the
growth of nations can be achieved only through social
equality, by prioritizing basic needs such as education,
health and land reform. Growth without social
development will only result in a world that is more
unequal and unjust.
The Paraguayan Government is actively working to
build a development model that gives priority to decent
work. In that regard we are promoting mechanisms
within the framework of a State policy aimed at
improving working conditions. They include, first,
the creation of a Ministry of Labour, Employment
and Social Security; secondly, the ratification of
the Domestic Workers Convention No.189 of the
International Labour Organization, adopted in 2011 by
the International Labour Conference in order to improve
the working conditions of thousands of domestic
workers in Paraguay; and thirdly, the implementation
of an employment policy for young people through
a bill aimed at enabling young people to enter the
workforce, which has been partially approved by the
National Congress.
Since its beginning, my Government has maintained
its belief in and commitment to making inexorable
progress towards equal opportunities and rights for
all of Paraguay’s inhabitants. In that regard, we have
never faltered in the constant struggle for full social,
economic, political and cultural rights for women. As
evidence of those firm beliefs, soon after assuming
its duties, my Government decided to upgrade the
Secretariat for Women’s Issues to an executive ministry,
in accordance with United Nations recommendations.
Finally, in that respect, I must mention our satisfaction
with, and full commitment to, Paraguay’s election for a
new term as member of the Commission on the Status
of Women for 2013-2017.

The Government of Paraguay, which I have
proudly led since the end of June, now has a historic
democratic obligation to organize the general elections
scheduled for 21 April 2013 and to guarantee that they
are peaceful, transparent and exemplary. When the next
President takes office, on 15 August 2013, the soundness
of Paraguayan democracy will be confirmed. At that
time I will look into the eyes of my countrymen and
those of foreigners who live in our country and shape
our future alongside us and will be able to say: mission
accomplished. I ask God and the Virgin to help us and
to bless us so that all Paraguayans together can move
towards the future that we want.

===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
As 
President of the Republic of Paraguay, I have the great 
honour to speak in this global forum to address issues 
that are relevant to my country and to today’s world in 
general.

I extend a special greeting to the President of the 
Assembly, Ambassador John Ashe, as well as to the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, in appreciation 
of their work towards the noble goals that unite us. 
Through their efforts, they contribute to the legitimacy 
of the United Nations and help to ensure multilateral 
cooperation and the international validity of the rule 
of law.

It has been little more than a month since I took 
office as President of the Republic of Paraguay, after 
an exemplary electoral process that culminated on 
21 April, when the Paraguayan people went to the polls 
to freely exercise their guaranteed constitutional right 
to elect their Government, with irrefutable results. 
Electoral observer missions from various regional and 
continental organizations, and from the United Nations 
itself, were present and certified the legality, legitimacy 
and transparency of the elections and the electoral 
process, whereby the will of the people honoured me 
with the highest office of our Republic. Those events 
also represent the conclusion of a long transition 
towards democracy in Paraguay. For the second, time 
in our history, executive authority was consecutively 
transferred from one political party to another with full 
respect for the constitutional framework. That is no 
small achievement in our 202 years of independence, 
and it signals the true beginning of a new historic and 
auspicious period for my country.

Republican institutionalism, the building of 
consensus, the strengthening of the democratic system, 
unconditional respect for human rights, and freedom 
of speech and of the press are the cornerstones of 
my Government, which aims to be an exemplar of 
patriotism, honesty, inclusion and effectiveness, with 
the capacity needed to propel Paraguay towards its 
destined greatness.

The people of Paraguay have been waiting for a 
great Government for a long time. I hope to be able 
to deliver on that great vision, which will position my 
country firmly on the global stage, where we want to 
stand out by ensuring that we are a land of opportunity 
for Paraguayans and foreigners alike. As has been said, 
Paraguay is one of the most closely guarded treasures 
of Latin America, and there are good reasons to hope 
that it will have a promising future.

I have made combating poverty a priority for my 
Government. It is incomprehensible that a nation so rich 
in resources should have so many poor. We will give no 
quarter in the fight to reduce our poverty indicators as 
much and as quickly as possible. Change is coming, and 
not through aid but by ensuring human dignity. Social 
investment is at the forefront of my Administration’s 
agenda. That is the new direction we want to take in 
my country, with investment that is for the people, so 
that they may live in dignity and become the engine of 
our development, and, better still, so that the general 
welfare of the people can become the firm basis of our 
democracy.

My Government has also committed to a policy of 
zero tolerance for corruption and an end to impunity. 
We expect to face that challenge with the firm support 
of the judiciary and the Office of the Attorney General.

Paraguay’s economy has enviable numbers. We 
are the only country in the region that has not altered 
its currency, the guaraní, since it was first introduced 
in 1943. Our macroeconomic indicators are more than 



encouraging. Paraguay is clearly suited to investment. 
Nature has endowed my country with an enviable 
climate, more than 90 rivers, abundant and fertile 
soil and clean, renewable energy generated by three 
hydroelectric power plants. One, Acaray, is entirely 
Paraguayan-owned, while Itaipu and Yacyretá are 
co-owned with Brazil and Argentina, respectively. The 
latter are among the largest hydroelectric plants in the 
world. We have one of the world’s largest freshwater 
reserves, the Guaraní Aquifer, a great part of which lies 
beneath Paraguayan territory.

Apart from the advantages of nature and abundant, 
clean and renewable energy, the majority of Paraguay’s 
population is young, with more than 75 per cent under 
the age of 30. Our tax system is favourable to investment 
and our economic growth clearly exceeds the average 
for the region. My Government is committed to 
ensuring legal security, with clear and transparent rules 
for safeguarding people and their property.

Today we are a country with a revitalized economy 
and a focus on efficiency, transparency and a reliable 
public administration. A few weeks ago I was present 
in our Congress at the signing of an agreement for 
Paraguay, whereby the political parties represented 
in the legislature, along with other social institutions, 
committed to working together on framework 
agreements and plans of action to strengthen governance 
and attain material and spiritual goals for the people’s 
welfare. In that way, we are seeking to maintain the 
general good over that of the individual. We do that 
through dialogue, which is the main instrument of 
democracy. Together, we assume the responsibility of 
making Paraguay a country of opportunity for all.

After visiting countries in Europe and the Americas 
recently, I reflect on the great challenge posed by the 
perception of my country beyond its borders. I have seen 
with satisfaction the respect, admiration and interest 
that Paraguay and its enormous potential give rise to. 
Just as it is our responsibility as Paraguayans to build 
predictability and reliability, it is for the branches of the 
Government to provide the legal security necessary for 
Paraguay’s overdue progress.

I would like to underline my Government’s 
commitment to the defence and promotion of human 
rights, which in Paraguay are fully acknowledged in 
the Constitution. We assume that stance out of genuine 
conviction, while my country is also a respectful 
signatory of recognized international instruments in 
that field.

The demands of landlocked developing countries 
like Paraguay must be adequately addressed. Apart 
from that, my Government is committed to overcome the 
disadvantages posed by our inland status, making our 
geographic position an advantage in communications, 
logistics and infrastructure that connects the world’s 
zones and regions through Paraguayan territory. In a 
manner similar to that in which an old border dispute 
between Paraguay and Brazil finally gave way to what 
today is Itaipu, transforming a problem into a majestic 
work of integration and development, we hope that 
our landlocked position in the heart of Latin America 
will serve as a development hub for Paraguay and its 
neighbours.

On the international level, I cannot avoid mentioning 
the upheavals that disturb our times. Economic crises, 
financial disasters, civil wars and the use of weapons 
of mass destruction cloud the horizons of great regions 
of the planet. 

The events in Syria are a concern for all of us, and 
the United Nations must play a pre-eminent role in 
finding a definitive solution to the conflict affecting 
that country. In that regard, my country calls for 
supporting the implementation of the framework 
agreement between the United States and the Russian 
Federation.

My Government has observed with satisfaction 
that the Republic of China on Taiwan has achieved a 
greater presence in the specialized agencies and bodies 
of the United Nations, thanks to solid international 
support and a rapprochement between both parties 
on the Taiwan Strait. My Government will continue 
to encourage the positive interaction between the two 
sides of the Taiwan Strait in the international sphere.

The calm and determination of the nations and the 
organizations able to help in conflict resolution are 
more necessary than ever. Paraguay encourages peace, 
dialogue and development in harmony with the other 
countries and the world, promoting an integration that 
is respectful of the rule of law, the dignity of nations and 
the asymmetries. Integration is a phenomenon that in 
this global era cannot be halted. Paraguay understands 
and promotes integration in conditions of equality as 
a means for supranational insertion, but under fair 
conditions and looking towards a common future, not 
as a simple courting of Powers or being a silent guest 



in global forums that are discussing the future of our 
peoples.

Paraguay’s contribution is essential in today’s 
integrated reality and is indissolublely linked to our 
dignity as a free nation, sovereign and independent, 
under the premise of the right to the self-determination 
of peoples and the principles of non-intervention and 
the legal equality of States. The true destiny of the 
people of Paraguay is to become a prosperous nation, 
living in social peace, liberty, justice and equality. 
My management of the Government is geared towards 
creating and strengthening an environment suited to 
the unlimited opportunities that my country offers for 
all Paraguayans and for foreigners who have chosen 
it. I have realized that my people neither want nor 
seek handouts, but opportunities to achieve dignity 
through work and study. My country therefore today 
presents itself to the world as a land of opportunities 
for investment and prosperity, with security, formality, 
reliability and predictability.

On this occasion, I cannot fail to mention a key 
issue — education. Traditional political discourse has 
significantly undermined certain core ideas that my 
Government intends to definitively turn into a reality. 
Much has been said about the need for education, 
security and health, but little has been done in that 
regard. Improving education in Paraguay, in terms of 
quantity and quality, is a fundamental premise of my 
Government. 

Today more than ever before, the great change 
that must take place in Paraguay and the opening of 
a wide window of opportunity depend on an efficient 
and inclusive educational system. Institutions of public 
education should rethink their role in society and assume 
an unprecedented role as a breeding ground for leaders 
for a new Paraguay, with a skilled workforce adapted to 
this millennium, in an interconnected world where those 
who possess more knowledge, information and abilities 
are more likely to find more and better opportunities 
for work, well-being and personal advancement. Those 
countries that emphasized education from the beginning 
are proud of their results. There is a clear and direct 
relationship between education and development. 

Education is therefore key. The issue is rooted 
in the quality of training and is the key to escaping 
geopolitical shakles, backwardness and a lack of 
opportunities. For my country, the new rules that 
govern the world therefore represent an access to the 
ocean of development.

Speaking before the Assembly and the world for the 
first time as President of the Republic of Paraguay, I 
present the new direction that the Paraguayan people 
freely and sovereignly chose on 21 April. I belong to 
a nation whose children have contributed to history 
with their prowess and boundless sacrifice, such as 
the supreme sacrifice by our greatest hero, Francisco 
Solano López, Field Marshal and President of the 
Republic, who decided to give his life, sword in hand, 
fighting on the front lines with his last soldiers, rather 
than see his homeland humiliated. I have decided to 
devote myself to the service of Paraguay and to bring 
about the real change that my country demands, which 
is to return to the path of the true Paraguayan destiny 
of peace, development and modernity, and to grow in 
harmony with all nations of the world, particularly with 
our neighbours.

I assure the General Assembly that my country is 
a very generous and attractive place. I invite the world 
to learn more about Paraguay, to discover the treasure 
that pulses in the heart of America, ready to write anew 
the most glorious pages in its history, today in peace 
and social and economic development, with dignity and 
readiness to welcome all those who wish to share in our 
great destiny.

We Heads of State are transients in Government. 
History will judge us for what we have done for our 
peoples and will sternly hold us accountable for what 
we have failed to do. To honour the trust and hope of my 
people, I have decided to commit myself wholly to the 
service of my homeland and to do everything necessary 
for its greatness and prosperity.

Paraguay considers it necessary, more than ever 
before, to give greater impetus to the negotiating 
process between Israel and Palestine in order to attain a 
lasting peace, so that Israel and Palestine can live side 
by side with secure borders and in peace. 

As a final comment, I wish to convey my most 
sincere condolences to the people of Kenya for the 
casualties that resulted from the terrorist attack, an act 
that we most vigorously condemn.


===== Session 69 - 2014 =====
At the outset, allow me, on behalf of the Republic of 
Paraguay, to offer you, Mr. President, our best wishes 
for success in your delicate and important tasks at the 
helm of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. 
I also wish to express my delegation’s appreciation to 
Mr. John Ashe, President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session, for his significant achievements.

The Government of Paraguay is attending the 
general debate to reaffirm the importance and call for 
the strengthening of the United Nations as a forum 
capable of representing the interests of all Member 
States in our urgent search for a more just, united 
and equitable world, guaranteed by the full force of 
international law. At the same time, and as we approach 
the seventieth year since the creation of the most 
important debating forum in the history of humankind, 
we believe it right to recall that our Organization, the 
United Nations, was created precisely as a forum for 
peace among peace-loving nations, as expressed at the 
various international conferences that led to its creation.
That reminder seems even timely and relevant to us, 
since the concept of peace is now more necessary than 
ever in various parts of the world such as the Middle 
East and the Black Sea region.

The Republic of Paraguay reiterates its commitment 
to ensuring that all social issues are addressed. In that 
regard, the Government of President Horacio Manuel 
Cartes Jara is dealing decisively with the development, 
execution and implementation of social policies that 
address various demands, with special emphasis on 
the needs of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged 
sectors of our population, including the elderly, the 

rural population, indigenous communities, migrants, 
children, adolescents and women. We have an obligation 
to enable members of those groups to be included as 
full citizens.

In that regard, I would make a special reference to 
the World Conference of Indigenous Peoples, held at 
Headquarters a few days ago, which was convened to 
listen to the true thoughts and feelings of our native 
and indigenous peoples. Indigenous cultural heritage 
has been and remains one of the key elements shaping 
Paraguay’s cultural identity and has led to miscegenation 
as the main social factor unifying the native Guarani 
population and the European conquerors. Our country 
is proud of the linguistic, cultural and political character 
of Paraguay, which boasts the native Guarani language 
of our ancestors as its everyday language.

In line with the efforts made by the Government 
since it took office in August 2013, we believe solidarity 
and partnership is necessary among countries, whether 
developing or developed, and international financing 
institutions. We also take into account the fact that, 
often, vulnerability stems from other areas, such as a 
lack of decent jobs, educational opportunities, access to 
international markets and timely cooperation and from 
issues for which responsibility does not lie exclusively 
with the State but also with the private sector, as it 
generates wealth and decent employment. In that 
regard, we call on the United Nations bodies that work 
for cooperation to further strengthen their presence 
in Paraguay and support national policies aimed at 
strengthening democracy and social justice.

For the first time since its inception nearly a decade 
ago, my country is aspiring to secure a seat on the 
Human Rights Council for the 2015-2017 period. For the 
Republic of Paraguay, the protection and promotion of 
human rights are the foundation for effective democracy. 
They are fundamental values that are enshrined and 
guaranteed in our Constitution, which expressly 
states that international human rights treaties cannot 
be rejected except through the procedures governing 
amendments to our Constitution. On the basis of those 
constitutional assurances and commitments, we are 
confident that we can play more than a constructive 
role and thus consolidate the actions of the Council to 
effectively strengthen the promotion and protection of 
human rights around the world.

Paraguay, in accordance with its Government’s 
policy, will continue to continuously support and 
follow issues in the United Nations relating to the 
promotion of youth participation in social and economic 
development, persons with disabilities, migrant 
workers, the elimination of violence against women, 
the rights of the child, the elimination of discrimination 
on the basis of religious beliefs and the protection of 
human rights and their relation to extreme poverty.

In Paraguay, we support the globalization of 
democracy through social development. We also believe 
in universal security based on respect for human rights 
as an unwavering commitment to the dignity of human 
life. We therefore hope to build a regional and global 
community that, hand in hand and in solidarity, devotes 
its efforts to eradicating hunger and poverty, effectively 
cooperating to promote the participation of all, in 
prosperity, through quality education and a system of 
inclusive social protection.

As a sign of Paraguay’s desire to respond to the 
changing times, our President recently promulgated the 
Law on Free Access by Citizens to Public Information 
and Government Transparency as an important tool 
enabling every citizen to act as comptroller of public 
expenditures. The Law, which was recently adopted, 
states that all institutions must disseminate information 
as widely as possible. The Law also guarantees access 
by every citizen to all public information.

We in Paraguay believe that the concept of 
development should include, as a sine qua non, the 
principle of social inclusion. The major challenge of 
achieving development that overcomes asymmetries 
leads inevitably to efforts promoting and achieving 
an optimal quality of life for all our citizens without 
exception. We must give a human face to our growth. 
Our citizens deserve, and have the right to, a more 
dignified life and overall well-being.

We are currently working to establish a post-2015 
development agenda that is sustainable and has a focus 
on poverty, education, health and social inclusion. We 
have learned that the Millennium Development Goals 
have been and are important but not sufficient, and 
that humankind should be the focus of policy. In that 
context, we believe that, for the post-2015 development 
agenda to be successful, it must be accompanied by a 
better distribution of international financial resources.

Paraguay needs international cooperation that 
is aligned with its socioeconomic priorities, the 
development and strengthening of its institutions and 
preferential treatment for its most vulnerable sectors. 
We hope that the opening of developing countries 


helps bridge inequalities and that the same restrictions 
that the more developed economies are demanding 
in the process of their own development will not 
be applied. Paraguay’s position, like that of many 
developing countries, is that South-South cooperation 
is not a substitute for but a complement to North-South 
cooperation and triangular cooperation. We believe 
that the United Nations, as the universal forum, should 
play a central role in ensuring success in our efforts to 
achieve better international coordination and coherence 
in the economic and financial spheres.

As the high-level Climate Summit was also held a 
few days ago here at Headquarters in New York, we 
believe it is necessary to recall that Paraguay is aware 
that climate change poses a serious and complex threat 
to the world, as highlighted by the growing negative 
impacts we are experiencing due to the resulting 
droughts, floods and other adverse phenomena, which 
spread poverty, cause forced displacements and may 
affect international peace and security.

This situation urgently requires a coordinated and 
responsible global response in order to find ways to 
mitigate, alleviate and reverse climate change’s tragic 
and devastating consequences. In addition, Paraguay 
supports the principle of common but differentiated 
responsibilities, on the basis of which countries that 
have contributed more to the historical and current 
levels of pollution must shoulder correspondingly 
greater responsibilities. That principle should be used 
as an objective criterion, and its implementation will 
contribute to efforts to mitigate the global impact of 
climate change.

The issue of landlocked developing countries is 
of fundamental importance for Paraguay’s foreign 
policy. The asymmetries and disadvantages that that 
geographical situation brings about will be offset only 
if there is international recognition of the need for a 
special and differential agreement on the country’s 
integration into the globalized world. Paraguay, along 
with other landlocked developing countries in the world, 
of which there are over 30, faces difficulties in terms of 
open access to international markets, mainly owing to 
the restrictions on free transit through transit countries 
and the lack of special and differential treatment, 
which would allow them to engage in greater and more 
competitive participation in world markets.

This year is particularly important for us because 
in November the second United Nations Conference on 
Landlocked Developing Countries, to be held in Vienna, 
will review the Almaty Programme of Action. While 
the condition of being a landlocked developing country 
is a disadvantage for Paraguay, we are convinced that 
we can overcome that adversity. We are working so 
that our territory can become, in the very near future, a 
favourable environment for integration and productive 
communication between the two major oceans, the 
Atlantic and the Pacific. The new programme of action 
to be adopted at the Vienna Conference should be the 
framework for mutually beneficial cooperation between 
landlocked developing countries and transit countries.

Disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control 
are not just key factors to ensure international peace and 
security, but also guarantee that the most vulnerable 
countries can achieve sustained socioeconomic 
development. Only by securing a strong multilateral 
system with strict respect for the rule of law at the 
international and national levels can we ensure our 
mutual security. We are convinced that universal 
and binding international instruments in the area of 
disarmament and the Arms Trade Treaty, which will 
enter into force in the near future, will help improve the 
effectiveness of existing regional initiatives to prevent 
irresponsible actors from gaining access to weapons.

Again, we urge Israel and Palestine to lay 
the foundation for social, political and economic 
reconstruction, which should enable both peoples 
to live in peace and harmony. Today more than ever, 
we must promote the negotiation process between the 
parties, which can lead to lasting peace so that Israel 
and Palestine can live side by side with secure borders 
and in peace.

I also wish to note that Paraguay recognizes 
and welcomes the participation and contributions 
of the Republic of China (Taiwan) to United Nations 
specialized agencies, thanks to a rapprochement 
between the two parties of the Taiwan Strait. In a 
world beset by conflicts, my Government welcomes 
the efforts made by the Republic of China (Taiwan) 
to reduce tensions across the Taiwan Strait, which 
have contributed significantly to ensuring peace and 
stability.

The Republic of Paraguay reiterates its commitment 
to international peace and security. In that context, 
we reaffirm the political will to increase, to the extent 
practicable, our contribution of troops to peacekeeping 
operations and to continue to train and equip 
peacekeeping forces in accordance with standards 
established by the United Nations, so as to progressively 


increase our participation in those missions. Regionally, 
we recognize the progress achieved by the United 
Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, where the 
presence of specialized personnel in Paraguay’s armed 
forces, working with other countries in our region, have 
played a significant role in humanitarian assistance and 
infrastructure engineering projects and in improving 
the long-term standard of living to benefit many 
generations of Haitians.

Since its inception, the United Nations has focused 
all its efforts on constantly evolving so that it can 
become a global structure capable of meeting the 
current needs of Member States. It is in the desire 
for such evolution that Paraguay supports the reform 
process for the Organization, thereby strengthening the 
General Assembly, which will lead to the restoration 
of functions entrusted to that body by the Charter of 
the United Nations, as the Assembly is the sole body 
with universal representation. On the issue of Security 
Council reform, we urge that such reform be done in 
accordance with the primary purpose of creating a more 
democratic Council. We can no longer delay expansion 
of that body. The Council must be more equitable, 
inclusive and democratic, reflecting the number of 
members of our Organization. We must improve its 
working methods and ensure greater transparency in 
its management.

As we commemorate in 2015 the seventieth 
anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, 
we hope to celebrate concrete results in the work of the 
Organization that transcend the mere celebration of 
the passage of time. We believe that consolidating the 
substantive post-2015 development agenda should lead 
to effective and real development for future generations. 
That is the greatest legacy we can leave.

Finally, we urge the General Assembly to find 
more equitable and just means for establishing the list 
of speakers of Heads of State and Government for next 
year’s general debate.


===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
Seventy years ago, on the still smoking ruins of the Second World War, the United Nations was born, with the purpose of maintaining international peace and security and promoting cooperation among all the nations of the world. The Republic of Paraguay was one of the 51 States that signed the Charter of the United Nations, which has become a historic contribution to the international community. For Paraguay, the right to equality and respect for sovereignty among States, both large and small, justifies the reasonable hope for the full strengthening of the United Nations.
I express my best wishes to the President of the General Assembly for the successful conduct of proceedings at the current session. I would also like to express my singular appreciation for the work of Mr. Ban Ki-moon, whom we had the honour to receive in my country in February. His visit further strengthened our connections with, and commitment to, the Organization and multilateralism. I take this opportunity to reiterate to the Secretary-General my gratitude for recognizing the work and results of our Government’s fight against poverty and expressing his appreciation of the abundant clean and renewable energy that Paraguay is blessed with.
The strengthening of the Organization should have as its specific goal the building of a truly fair and caring world in which human dignity is universal. That means rectifying the inequities and inequalities that still cast a shadow on the world order, a feat whose realization will depend on the extent to which international law is complied with and the dream of a peaceful era and well-being shared among all our nations is fulfilled.
With regard to Paraguay, the main objective of our Government is to reduce poverty in the short term in the context of a State policy aimed at its eradication. To that end, we are maintaining and increasing the scope of our social programmes, especially those focusing on extreme poverty and providing conditions-based assistance. We rely on an arsenal of programmes that provide opportunities, employment and decent housing and ensure respect, equity and access to education, health and high-quality utilities as we wage our unceasing battle to eradicate extreme poverty in our country. These programmes provide comprehensive and permanent solutions that enable people to become independent agents and develop their full potential.
We seek inclusive economic growth for our country, so that progress reaches all Paraguayans.
We are encouraged by the fact that Paraguay is one of the countries with the highest economic growth rates in the region. That has been achieved by maintaining strict fiscal discipline and by improving our production capacity and competitiveness. To the added value of our raw materials, which requires domestic and international investments, we are exponentially adding that of the construction industry, which is rapidly changing the profile of our cities. Similarly, we aim to expand and modernize our infrastructure in the conviction that by transforming the country, we are reducing poverty.
We consistently uphold the importance of young people. Paraguay is a young country; 75 per cent of its population is below 40 years old. That represents a great deal of human capital. I welcome the enthusiasm of young people, in particular Paraguayan students, who in recent days made a united appeal for transparency in public administration and for quality education in Paraguay. We have confidence in the immense potential of our youth, and we firmly believe in the importance of access to high-quality education if we are to achieve the full progress of our nation. That is why we created a scholarship programme, the first phase of which will allow 1,500 Paraguayan professionals to complete master’s degrees and doctorates in the best universities around the world.
On 17 September, our Government, which is committed to transparency and to fighting corruption and its corrosive effects on the foundations of society, enacted the instrument regulating the law on free access to public information and government transparency, which allows all citizens to exercise their constitutional right to be informed. We are promoting a culture of transparency and, from the beginning of our term of office, we have affirmed that what is public should be in the public domain.
Those national efforts will not be enough without international policies that promote effective cooperation, fair-minded exchanges and adequate complementarity among countries and regions. That triad — cooperation, exchange and complementarity — urgently requires a new paradigm, which the United Nations should help in creating. We are living in the age of globalization. A few keystrokes and, thanks to technology, the whole world is within range. Almost instantly, we are aware of what is happening halfway across the world. Moreover, technology affects us directly and personally. We live connected.
Within that context, how does one board the development train? The twenty-first century society requires a key asset: human skills. The new challenges are meant for qualified individuals, and they are such that fitness for survival is in direct proportion to the degree of one’s real and effective academic training. Following the political and industrial revolutions and, together with globalization, the knowledge revolution has taken place. This means that the human element remains the most important and essential resource, provided that people are sufficiently trained. Education is the key. Therefore, it is imperative that UNESCO be strengthened. Developed countries should be driven by a sense of fairness and moral obligation to increase their contributions to its financing. An excellent education and scientific research should not be the preserve of some countries, but rather should be a universal public good.
We witness with great concern today a huge and endless exodus of families fleeing conflicts. I am referring to our brothers in Syria and in other countries faced with the violence of radical and intolerant groups. We cannot turn our backs on this current human tragedy. We call on the Organization to appeal to Member States, in particular the States in the affected region, to adopt the necessary measures in favour of this extremely vulnerable sector of civil society.
Paraguay reaffirms that disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control are essential factors for international peace and security and provide the guarantee that the most vulnerable countries need in order to ensure sustainable economic and social development.
We thank the member States of the International Atomic Energy Agency for the confidence they have shown in Paraguay by unanimously electing it to the Board of Governors. As a Governor, we will act with absolute impartiality and balance in promoting and ensuring the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Another major issue of concern is the preservation of the environment. Paraguay, like many developing countries, gives priority in its national policies to the preservation of the integrity and diversity of the natural legacy bequeathed to us by our ancestors. We are aware of the immense responsibility incumbent upon humankind to safeguard the resources on which its existence depends. It is with this awareness and commitment that Paraguay encourages the rational management of natural resources and promotes the use
of renewable sources of clean energy, in harmony with nature and in pursuit of development.
The whole world heard the urgent call of His Holiness Pope Francis, which was repeated last Friday in the Assembly (see A/70/PV.3). He appealed to us to protect our common home, to engage in urgent discussions on how we intend to build the future of the planet and to unite the whole human family in pursuit of sustainable and comprehensive development. In a masterly fashion, the Holy Father described climate change as a global issue with major environmental, social, economic, distributional and political dimensions, characterizing it as a current challenge for humankind and one whose worst impacts would probably be felt in the developing countries over the coming decades. He went on to say that environmental and social deterioration had the greatest impact on the weakest of the planet, and that this inequity affects entire countries as well as individuals, requiring us to think about the issue of ethics in international relations. In preparation for the next session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, scheduled for later this year in Paris, we must redouble our efforts with a view to making serious political commitments to mitigating, alleviating and reversing the devastating consequences of climate change.
Being a landlocked developing country, as Paraguay is, has some adverse effects. To address that situation, we are proposing, together with 32 other landlocked developing countries, that the more developed economies accord us special and differential treatment, including the removal of high tariffs and non-tariff barriers, thereby enabling us to be more competitive.
True integration also entails the transfer of knowledge and capital investment and a balance in terms of trade and bilateral and multilateral treaties. The reduction of asymmetries depends on economic, social and cultural integration, with a view to a common destiny, not on draconian policies in which weaker countries have to bear the brunt of the burden.
Democracy is a political system in expansion, and it is based on the indivisible principles of equality, freedom and sovereignty. If we want democracy to prevail in our own countries, it is only to be expected that we would also want to prevail at the United Nations. We must aim at ensuring that democracy, equity and geographical representation prevail in its various organs. To that end, Paraguay supports
a reform of the Organization that would strengthen the General Assembly, the most representative organ within the Organization, and restore to it its legitimate powers, which must be interdependent with those of the Security Council, in accordance with the terms of the 1945 Charter.
Paraguay is following with great interest developments with regard to the reform and expansion of the Security Council. We believe that it is necessary to improve the Council’s working methods and to make its management more transparent, and that the views and ideas of non-members of the Council on issues related to international peace and security that will undoubtedly have an impact on them should be heard.
Paraguay welcomes the efforts undertaken by the Government of the Republic of China on Taiwan to reduce tension across the Taiwan Strait, efforts which have contributed greatly to ensuring peace and stability in East Asia. Our Government advocates continuing the pragmatic dialogue and mutually beneficial interaction between both sides of the Strait, parties that are also recognized by the international community.
Similarly, Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to supporting the peace process in the sister Republic of Colombia, initiated by President Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, and hopes that the conflict, which has claimed thousands of innocent lives, will soon be resolved.
We welcome the agreement reached on 23 September in Havana. It signals an important step towards achieving the long-awaited peace in that sisterly nation, which is linked to my country by honourable historical traditions.
The promotion of human rights is a priority issue if we are to move towards a more balanced, fair and dignified world. For us, the rights to freedom, free assembly, human integrity and quality of life are essential. So long as there is discrimination, whether it be racial, religious, political or gender-based, our human rights record will be deficient. It is in the light of this vision that Paraguay is becoming a first-time member of the Human Rights Council, where it is to be one of the Vice-Presidents. Owing to the social dimension that we give to these inalienable rights, we also aspire to join the Economic and Social Council for the period 2019-2021.
Paraguay, with its preponderance of young people, is inspired to vigorously promote their active
participation in building a more just and free society and the protection of the rights of children and women.
Fate has given us the huge responsibility of governing and representing our nations at a time when international solidarity has become imperative. Paraguay brings from the beating heart of America its continued and caring commitment to the beautiful 70-year-old dream of strengthening peace and security in the world. Today’s reality also calls upon us, more than ever before, to protect our common home — our damaged and mistreated planet. Let us fully meet this challenge so that we can bequeath to future generations a world at peace that is fairer, healthier and more inclusive and is a better place to live.
May God bless us all.


===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
On behalf of the Republic of Paraguay, I congratulate Ambassador Peter Thomson on his election as President of the General Assembly at this session. I wish him every success and assure him of my delegation’s support.
We also acknowledge Ambassador Mogens Lykketoft, who helped keep the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development at the heart of our deliberations and initiated, after 70 years, a ground- breaking process of openness and transparency in electing the next Secretary-General, which will be an important milestone in the history our Organization.
I also take the opportunity, on behalf of President Horacio Manuel Cartes Jara, to commend Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon for his tireless work during the past 10 years, his humanity and his commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. We are confident that his legacy will live on and serve as an inspiration to the next person to assume the responsibility. On behalf of the Paraguayan people, I reiterate our appreciation for his historic visit to the Republic of Paraguay.
We live in an increasingly complex and interconnected world with an international context that is constantly evolving. Traditional armed conflicts have nearly disappeared, but terrorism in its most cowardly and intolerant form has reached global dimensions and is characterized by the emergence of increasingly cruel and inhuman groups that scorn human life and lack any respect for rights and fundamental freedoms. The effects of climate change and pollution continue to worsen, and pandemics threaten our planet.
The global challenges that transcend physical borders and to which no State is immune cannot be confronted individually. It is therefore essential to promote collective, comprehensive strategies, based on shared responsibility. Furthermore, we cannot lose sight of other priority challenges such as eradicating poverty, reducing inequality and ensuring a life of dignity for all.
We are saddened and concerned about the situation endured by refugees and migrants in various parts of the world. The scale of the refugee crisis should lead us to think, not only of responses to their most pressing needs, but about the importance of resolving the root causes that have led these people to flee their homes and embark on perilous journeys in which they face terrifying uncertainty.
Today, given the new and complex contexts, the main purposes of the United Nations — to find solutions to the international problems in the economic, social, cultural and humanitarian spheres and to promote respect for human rights — have not lost their relevance. On the contrary, they are more compelling than ever. However, the Organization requires reform that brings it up to date and helps it to come up with appropriate and effective responses.
The General Assembly must be strengthened. It is the highest expression of the democracy of the countries that constitute it. Sovereign equality is the cornerstone of its structure. It is the Parliament of the world. We believe that this year, given the public hearings that have taken place with the candidates, men and women alike, we have taken an important step in strengthening its role and in increasing transparency in the process of selecting the next Secretary-General. Paraguay would like a Secretary-General who attaches priority to preventive diplomacy and mediation and who, as
the main person responsible for the administration, will ensure that the system of the United Nations exemplifies inclusion and promotes national diversity and gender balance in its staff.
Reform should also encompass our executive branch, the Security Council, the body in charge of maintaining international peace and security. We need a more democratic and representative Council with more space for developing countries — a Council that is transparent, inclusive and accountable for its actions. I would like to mention that Paraguay aspires to be a member of that body from 2028 to 2029. The Republic of Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to international law and multilateralism. Unilateral action in international relations only negatively affects the weakest countries.
A fundamental pillar of peaceful and harmonious coexistence among States is the peaceful use of nuclear energy. We advocate for such energy programmes, developed with full precautions so as to limit the degradation that its products can cause to the environment. States that carry out such programmes should do so on the basis of broad, cross-border responsibility. They should follow best practices based on international cooperation, prevention of the risk of damage, and due diligence, responding appropriately to possible cross-border damage.
All nations of the world are called upon to prevent threats to peace and to adopt appropriate measures to strengthen universal peace, especially with regard to disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control. Collective and responsible action is necessary in order to address the various situations that endanger the lives and security of civilians and that affect the political stability of entire countries and regions.
Paraguay reaffirms its willingness to continue contributing to the personnel of peacekeeping operations. Today, there are Paraguayan personnel deployed in seven of those operations. The Republic of Paraguay strongly condemns terrorism and violent extremism in all its forms and manifestations and stands in solidarity with victims and the suffering caused to them and their families by terrorist acts. Last month, our country suffered a criminal attack that killed Paraguayan military personnel in the performance of their duties. We are grateful for expressions of solidarity from the international community, and we reaffirm our commitment to the struggle against terrorism in the framework of international law and with full respect for human rights and international humanitarian law.
Our Government, founded on traditional relations of friendship and cooperation with the Republic of China on Taiwan, appeals for that country to have an enhanced presence in the agencies and programmes of the United Nations system.
Poverty and inequality are drivers of political instability. They degrade the social fabric and condemn the most vulnerable to a life of exclusion and want. The historic promise embodied in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to eradicate poverty everywhere and if possible forever, within 15 years, is, therefore, unprecedented in history. With that in mind, my country’s Government is implementing inclusive development plans and programmes for the progressive realization of the economic and social rights of our citizens and in doing so works to improve their quality of life, which in turn will contribute to strengthening our democracy.
The sustained economic growth of Paraguay in recent years and the implementation of its social protection strategies have made it possible for thousands of Paraguayan families to emerge from extreme poverty. However, our challenge is not only to continue making progress in that direction but to avoid having those who emerge from poverty fall back into it. Our most iconic initiatives and social protection schemes involve conditional monetary transfers, school lunches and pensions for the elderly. We also have specific programmes to put an end to the intergenerational transmission of poverty, such as the Sowing Opportunities Programme, which improves families’ access to health and education and prioritizes women who are the heads of their households. In Paraguay, we strongly promote infrastructure, and we are taking measures to improve transparency and accountability in public institutions. “The public domain open to the public.” That is our Government’s motto.
Additionally, we encourage productive development by promoting investments, with the understanding that the private sector plays an important role in creating opportunities that help provide jobs for all and decent work. Countries like ours, which greatly depend on natural resources, are more vulnerable to climate change. Therefore, for Paraguay, the Paris Agreement is a priority. I would like to announce that the National Congress has approved the Agreement, and in a few days we will put the relevant ratification into effect.
International trade is a pillar of sustainable development. However, landlocked developing countries face special needs and challenges in their efforts to be full and effective members of the global economy and benefit from it. The Republic of Paraguay urges developed countries to allow increased access to their markets for products from landlocked developing countries through their inclusion in systems of generalized preferences, trade financing programmes and programmes of aid for trade, and by promoting the integration of landlocked countries into global and regional production chains. The Republic of Paraguay is fighting for the prompt implementation of the Bali Agreement on Trade Facilitation, which will undoubtedly result in increased competitiveness in global markets.
Young people are the most important human capital of a country, and Paraguay has one of the largest youth populations among Latin American countries. Convinced that we must prepare them for the challenges of contributing to a better and more just society, our Government has started the Don Antonio Carlos López Scholarship Programme for studies abroad, which has benefitted hundreds of youth. This year, we also launched the first call announcing specialized study scholarships for teachers in all parts of the country.
Since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the international community has seen great progress in the international promotion and protection of human rights. One of the most significant steps was the establishment of the Human Rights Council, which celebrates its tenth anniversary this year. For Paraguay, a current member, it is essential to strengthen the Council, give it the necessary tools to persevere in its mandate, and eliminate any obstacles that may weaken it. We proudly emphasize that our country has developed the Recommendations Monitoring System, which makes it possible to transparently and openly verify compliance with international recommendations on human rights at the national level. We have made that mechanism available to all States interested in replicating it in the context of their national realities.
Paraguay welcomes the historic bilateral agreement and definitive ceasefire between the Republic of Colombia and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, and congratulates all those who made it possible. The Paraguayan people extend their best wishes to Colombia, with whom we are joined in bonds of historical and unbreakable friendship. We genuinely hope that this new stage will be one of national reconciliation and unification, so that together the country may face the challenges ahead in order to build a country in peace and social justice where no one is excluded.
We support the use of dialogue, good-faith political solutions and peaceful means as the only tools suitable for resolving conflicts, so that agreements that promote lasting and sustainable peace in the framework of international law can be achieved.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
On behalf of the Paraguayan people and the Government of Paraguay, I hope that under the presidency of Mr. Miroslav Lajčák the General Assembly will have great success in fulfilling the purposes of the United Nations.
On behalf of the people and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay, I wish to express to the people and the Government of Mexico our solidarity with the victims of yesterday’s earthquake, whose epicentre was in Morelos state, and to extend our sincerest condolences to the families of the victims of the tragedy.
After four years as Head of the Government of the Republic of Paraguay, I have the honour of participating in the General Assembly with strengthened resolve to contribute to building a world order governed by the principles of justice, peace and solidarity among nations and within an effective framework of human rights, State institutions and the rule of law. We must persist in our efforts to strike a reasonable balance between the interests of all States and to build a democratic and equitable world order, while developing relations among sovereign, independent States based on respect and trust and prioritizing the peaceful coexistence whereby all nations can enjoy the same opportunities.
To that end, we need the bodies of the United Nations, particularly the General Assembly and the Security Council, to work efficiently. We seek a more democratic, transparent, inclusive and representative Security Council that reflects the diversity of the States Members of the United Nations and the geopolitical realities of today’s world.
The Organization continues to be the most important universal forum for tackling global challenges. Problems such as poverty and inequality, climate change, transnational organized crime, drug trafficking — which undermines democratic institutions — and terrorism, among others, must be dealt with collectively. We urge all stakeholders to focus their efforts and resources on responding to these shared and pressing challenges faced by humankind.
The Republic of Paraguay reaffirms its firm commitment to implementing the provisions of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and encourages other States, particularly those that are most responsible for producing greenhouse gases, to take all necessary measures to save our planet from the consequences of global warming. In Paraguay, our vision of social responsibility is behind our efforts to increase our production of clean and renewable energy. We have two impressive hydraoelectric dams — Itaipu, which we share with Brazil, and Yacyreta, shared with Argentina. This year, Itaipu Binacional was incorporated into the UNESCO World Network of Biosphere Reserves, as was the Alto Paraná Atlantic forest.
My mandate as President of my country comes to an end in August 2018. This is my final address to the United Nations, and I would like to mention several improvements that we have made since I took office in 2013.
Today Paraguay is a full representative democracy with a true separation of powers, solid electoral processes and a fully effective rule of law. We have given clear signals to the international community, both publicly and privately, on our country’s improved potential as an investment vehicle, in the area of cooperation and with regard to treaties.
Where foreign relations and Paraguay’s role in the world are concerned, our interactions have grown exponentially through visits and invitations received as well as participation in international organizations. Over the past four years, our country has had official visits from His Holiness Pope Francis, former Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon, His Holiness Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and all Rus’, as well as other top officials from multilateral organizations and various Heads of State and international eminent persons who have honoured us with their presence.
Paraguay was unanimously admitted to the Development Centre of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). For us, our membership of that highly prestigious global organization is an unequivocal sign of international recognition of our Government’s efforts and achievements through our policies of good practices and institutional robustness. We can proudly say that Paraguay is a member of that select OECD group in an affirmation of the international community’s confidence in the significant reforms undertaken by our Government.
Today we are members of the World Intellectual Property Organization Advisory Committee on Enforcement, following years of mistrust of our country regarding respect for intellectual property rights. We have decided to take on additional memberships in international bodies in order to be part of discussions and decision-making, with a view to continually expanding our global presence. The role of Paraguay in the world today transcends borders and continents.
Our priorities within the framework of the United Nations have been established in the Vienna Programme of Action for Landlocked Developing Countries for the Decade 2014-2024, an integral part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We therefore urge States, especially our trading partners and transit countries, to duly take those into account.
Regional integration has undeniable benefits, especially when we work to achieve it while endeavouring to reconcile the interests of all stakeholders. We are therefore working in the Southern Common Market to revitalize economic and commercial integration while also making progress on the social, employment, scientific and cultural aspects of the bloc, which represents a very positive agenda.
The 2030 Agenda for Sutainable Development is the most ambitious intergovernmental development project in the multilateral sphere. In order to properly implement our national development plan through 2030, we are building an innovative, participatory institutional architecture that is committed to the Agenda’s Goals and targets. I am proud to say that, together with the Presidents of our Congress and Supreme Court of Justice, I have publicly signed a joint cross-branch declaration that recognizes Paraguay’s absolute commitment to the terms of the 2030 Agenda and its Goals and targets. Paraguay has thus declared itself in favour of the 2030 Agenda through its three State branches, an event previously unheard of in our region.
During these past four years, the Administration I lead has responded justly and effectively to the needs of all sectors of society. When we first came to power, in August 2013, we established three main national policies — poverty reduction through social development; inclusive economic growth; and the expansion of Paraguay’s role in the world. As we implemented those policies, we transformed a culture previously marred by political cronyism and bad practices into a model based on transparency and compliance, where public access to information is guaranteed and more opportunities are offered to our people. Access to public information has led to unprecedented progress, and today we have instruments ensuring that public business is conducted in public.
We are undergoing an unprecedented transformation, and although it has triggered some concerns, reactions and resistance from those who were more comfortable with the former model, I can guarantee that it is closing the door on such evils as corruption, which delayed Paraguay’s economic and social development for many years. Despite regional economic problems, we have been able to achieve sustained economic growth, and we hope to continue improving our ability to forge relationships throughout the world by being trustworthy and predictable. Paraguay’s economic growth in recent years has been constant, and at an annual average of 5.2 per cent is one of the highest in South America.
While we are also working to reduce the poverty rate, years of neglect in the past have made eradicating poverty altogether a major challenge. Our priorities have been focused on giving a strong impetus to social investment, particularly in education, so that people living in poverty can benefit from economic growth and to help reduce inequality. We are implementing flagship social-protection programmes such as the Tekoporã conditional cash-transfer programme, a school meal programme, food allowances for elderly adults living in poverty and the Sowing Opportunities poverty-reduction programme. In addition, we are increasing our grants of scholarships and financial aid to young people living in poverty, in the firm belief that education and professional training for young people represent the best possible investment for the country’s future.
After 175 years, the Paraguayan Government is once again granting postgraduate scholarships for study abroad at the world’s best universities, with a record investment of $42 million. Thanks to the Carlos Antonio López scholarships, 1,000 Paraguayans from the country’s 17 departments and its capital are doing postgraduate studies in 50 of the world’s 200 most prestigious universities. Hundreds of them are teachers and 60 per cent are women under 30 years old. The first 60 have successfully completed their studies and are returning to apply their knowledge for our country’s benefit and development.
Another of our national strategic goals in combating poverty focuses on housing programmes designed to offer citizens decent homes, revive the economy and create jobs. In the past four years we have worked hard, transparently and responsibly, with unprecedented results. For the first time in Paraguay’s history, by the end of its term a single Government will have delivered on its promise of more than 30,000 public housing units, 10 times more than any previous Administration, and even more valuable because they benefit thousands of families that for years were ignored by previous Governments and now have decent homes and access to better conditions in which to thrive. We are building hope and opportunities so that families in Paraguay’s humblest communities — whether in poor urban areas, indigenous regions or rural villages — can move forward. We are transforming our country through transparent and efficient efforts that enable us to make the most of our resources while reducing expenses, eliminating corruption in projects and improving construction quality through rigorous controls.
My Government encourages productive development through responsible investment. We give priority to infrastructure projects that improve connectivity, both nationally and with neighbouring countries. In particular, investment in infrastructure is at its highest in decades, and the scope and modernity of our new road construction is outstanding. We demand responsibility and commitment from our leaders and have worked hard to achieve good standards of living for our people. Thanks to this new model for Government efforts, our country is becoming more efficient, progressive and honest.
The Republic of Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to international peace and security and the use of peaceful means to resolve conflicts, based on mutual cooperation between States. Our Constitution bans weapons of mass destruction, and we therefore welcome the recent adoption of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and reaffirm our belief that the nuclear-disarmament process should be transparent and irreversible, with effective verification mechanisms based on a universal, legally binding framework. We reiterate our condemnation of the nuclear test by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in clear defiance and breach of its international obligations, constituting yet another provocation to the international community. We hope that the General Assembly will firmly reject such irrational behaviour, which threatens security and peace on a global scale.
The Republic of Paraguay is deeply concerned about the scourge of terrorism, which we condemn in any shape or form. The fight against terrorism must be carried out within a framework of unconditional respect for the precepts of international law, through solid cooperation among States. We will continue to collaborate with peacekeeping operations organized under the auspices of the United Nations, in the belief that they can enable us to achieve the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. My country is currently contributing military personnel, both women and men, to six peacekeeping missions, and invests in the training of its contingents at our peacekeeping operations training centre.
We also reaffirm our commitment to the promotion and effective protection of human rights throughout the world. We firmly believe that we should protect the dignity and rights of all people, without discrimination. We urge the Human Rights Council to continue to fulfil its functions with objectivity, impartiality and universality. In this context, I should not omit to mention a worrying issue in my region, which is that the situation in Venezuela needs urgent attention. I would like to reiterate a message of solidarity to the people of Venezuela, victims of political persecution and human rights violations, in the hope that our brother nation can find a solution to its current democratic breakdown and deep crisis as soon as possible.
Through international cooperation, the Republic of China on Taiwan has long been engaged in cooperation programmes related to the Millennium Development Goals and the Sustainable Development Goals. It supports many countries, including Paraguay. Taiwan has relevant knowledge and experience and has contributed effectively to the international community. The Government of Paraguay once again urges all Member States to identify appropriate ways to facilitate Taiwan’s participation in the mechanisms for meetings and activities of the United Nations system, so that its 23 million inhabitants can exercise their responsibilities normally as global citizens and establish sustainable alliances with every country.
In our view, Secretary-General António Guterres has made an auspicious start at the helm of the United Nations, supported by his vast experience as a statesman. It will be up to the Heads of State of member countries during this session to ensure that it can be a starting point of a new era for the true universalization of the principles guiding the functioning of the Organization, particularly so that its programmes and actions can reduce the enormous inequalities that still exist between countries and regions.
I reaffirm that my country will continue to give high priority to its participation in United Nations debates, in our belief in the importance of the Organization’s work in building a more peaceful and just world. For our part, we will continue to work resolutely towards development with true social inclusion, creating conditions for prosperity and always putting people first. I would like to conclude with an exhortation from Pope Francis: “Let us never forget that authentic power is service.”

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
It is a great honour and privilege for me to address the Assembly for the first time at the beginning of my tenure as President of the Republic of Paraguay.
Paraguay has always shown its unconditional support for the United Nations system and will continue to unwaveringly assume its commitments as a Member of the Organization, as well as its active responsibility based on the principles that we all recognize — freedom, justice, national sovereignty, independence and the integrity of States. My nation has a deep sense of equality based on the recognition of human dignity. We reject violence and intolerance and love peace. Ours is a society of diverse cultures. It is bilingual, capable of overcoming difficulties selflessly and responsibly, which requires integrity and righteousness, the civic values intrinsic to democracy.
We are very pleased that the most democratic and representative body of our Organization is being led by a woman who is also Latin American. We offer our congratulations and best wishes for success to the new President of the General Assembly, Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés. We also salute Secretary-General António Guterres, who is doing an excellent job leading the institution. We reiterate our absolute confidence in and support for his management.
We offer our posthumous tribute to the former Secretary-General and Nobel Peace Prize  laureate  the late Kofi Annan. He was an extraordinary leader, humanist and promoter of peace who took pains to ensure that the Organization serves the peoples as well as the States.
In an increasingly interconnected and interdependent world that is evolving at an accelerated pace,  collectively addressing  global  challenges  is an unavoidable responsibility of the international community. The General Assembly must continue to be strengthened, as it is the voice of the nations of the world. The Security Council must be reformed with a view to making it more democratic and inclusive so as to fulfil the mandate of maintaining international peace and security for this and future generations. Paraguay advocates adding more developing countries so as to balance the membership of the Council, as well as totally eliminating the veto, a privilege that no longer corresponds to the political reality of our times.
The Republic of Paraguay has strongly supported the reforms promoted by  the  Secretary-General  in the pillars of development, peace and security, and management. We believe that those efforts have been successful and that they have been deployed at the right time, since in order to face the challenges posed by sustainable development, we must have an efficient, transparent Organization that has the capacity to support countries in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly countries with special needs and challenges, such as landlocked developing countries.
The poverty that is  currently affecting  millions of human beings is due to the poor distribution of goods rather than their scarcity. As leaders it is our responsibility to stop viewing poverty simply as an economic indicator and instead to see it as a human problem. In our view, ignoring the human aspect when we speak about poverty is going against the principles that this institution and our democracies represent.
Our Government is committed to making social policies more far-reaching and intensifying our support to human development by improving the democratization of access to education, health care and dignified employment. That is the way forward, in both the medium and long terms, to achieving greater social equity and collective prosperity. We are especially focusing on young people, who have extraordinary
 
potential to help transform Paraguay and the world. We must take advantage of the opportunity that demography has given us to lay solid foundations for a better future. With that purpose in mind, we are initiating a process for the profound transformation of our education policies that will enable us to bring children and young people into the education system, with a special emphasis on training teachers and professors.
We are going to install and consolidate a social protection system that addresses people’s entire lives. Paraguay must protect its people from conception to old age. There are many pending issues in the situation of people with disabilities and this is a key moment for Paraguay as a nation to promote their rights. We will give particular attention to ensuring that our public policies are cross-cutting so that we can implement them fully. We are also working to promote women as a factor for change in our country, creating the conditions necessary for equity, equality and empowerment. With the support of our mothers, wives and daughters, we firmly believe that we can create a better country and society. And our indigenous peoples occupy a special place in our Government. It is time for the State to shoulder the task of creating better living conditions for them. That is a moral obligation.
Paraguay is deeply concerned about the  scourge of terrorism and believes that there can never be any justification for the use  of  violence  as  a  means  to an end. We condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and reaffirm that the fight against terrorism and the protection of human rights are not opposing goals but rather complement and mutually reinforce one another. We continue to work relentlessly with allied countries to fiercely fight every form of crime. We cannot accept the possibility that our borders can become places where criminal organizations can thrive. In the few weeks since my presidential term began, we have carried out some operations that have produced very positive results in the fight  against drug trafficking and have shown through our political will that we are determined not  to  give  up  under  any circumstances.  International   drug  trafficking is accustomed to believing itself untouchable and is constantly seeking power. I have promised my people, and today I pledge it before the entire international community, that we will not allow that to happen. We will continue fighting and working alongside every State to eradicate these criminal networks.
As a priority,  climate  change  is  unquestionably a global challenge. We States have a  crucial decision in our hands — we can slow climate change and deal with its consequences, or deny it and continue making it worse. With its adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2015, the international community decided to work together to combat climate change, without ignoring the historical responsibility that the most highly developed nations have for the production of greenhouse gases. The issue of environmental responsibility is shaping Paraguay’s vision for strategic development. We generate more renewable energy per capita than any other country on the planet, and we are also a major exporter of that energy. At the same time, we also intend to expand and improve our national and regional power systems.
Democracy has been consolidated in many countries, but we have the obligation to adequately address the demands of a people who are impatient with institutions whose legitimacy has been  jeopardized by corruption, inequality and inefficiency in the face of urgent need. The citizens of Paraguay — indeed, the citizens of the world — have woken up. Their voices resound in our streets, calling for us to tackle corruption and impunity, and it is our obligation to listen to them and not ignore their just demands. In my country, we understand that dialogue and convergence are fundamental tools for major reform of the judicial system, which is a priority for us. Judicial security and the efficacy of justice are a nation’s pillars. Without justice there can be no order, and without order chaos reigns, and in chaos there can be no peace or social development. I firmly believe in our institutions and in the importance of reforming and strengthening them so that they respond to our societies’ current and future needs. Only with strong institutions and systems can we ensure the growth of our democracies.
Paraguay is one of the most open economies in the world. We understand that interaction with the world  is an essential element for development. We consider alliances to be an essential way of improving global integration. Our country is firmly committed to full regional integration and aspires to build it in full respect for the sovereignty and independence of each of the Latin American and Caribbean peoples. But we cannot ignore the fact that dictatorial regimes that rob their own populations of their happiness, hopes, dreams and human rights persist on our continent. We want to express our solidarity with the peoples of Venezuela
 
and Nicaragua in the face of the abuses of power in their countries. We firmly believe that despite our differences, our region must work together to create the wealth and share the prosperity that will benefit our peoples. The pursuit of ideologies as an act of fanaticism or a way to assert superiority must be eradicated. Our goal should be to work for the greater good, while respecting our differences, and for the benefit of our communities.
Every country faces individual challenges on its path to sustainable development, but the international community has acknowledged that the most vulnerable countries — including landlocked developing countries, whose geography creates special needs and challenges — require special attention. Those needs and challenges make themselves felt mainly in the area of trade. Paraguay has chaired the Group of Landlocked Developing Countries for two years and has made a priority of the implementation of the Vienna Programme of Action for Landlocked Developing  Countries for the Decade 2014-2024, which is an integral part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and urges States, particularly our trading partners and countries of transit, to take the  Programme  of  Action  into  due consideration.
We believe that the Arms Trade Treaty and the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons represent major steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation. The Republic of Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to peacekeeping operations under  the  auspices  of  the United Nations, in  its  belief  in  the  importance of contributing to the achievement of the  purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Paraguayan military and police personnel, duly trained prior to deployment, are currently serving in various United Nations peacekeeping missions around the world.
Paraguay respects international law. All of my Government’s decisions are based on its principles, and we faithfully implement all General Assembly and Security Council resolutions. My country supports Taiwan’s legitimate request to be included in the United Nations system and believes that Taiwan can make a major contribution to our work. This is all based on the principle of universality that characterizes our Organization.
This year, we will adopt two historic agreements, the global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration and the global compact on refugees. Paraguay
has actively participated in the negotiations on both documents, which seek to reach agreements that benefit refugees and migrants equally, as well as the countries and communities from which they come, through which they transit and to which they go.
In 1958, Paraguay launched the World Friendship Crusade, an endeavour that has deeply moved our people. In May 2011, the General Assembly decided to support that initiative by declaring 30 July as the International Day of Friendship.  I  urge  the  leaders of all Member States of the Organization to promote friendship as a noble and valuable sentiment in the lives of human beings.
This year marks the seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a milestone in the history of humankind that enabled us to recognize formally and for the first time that all people have fundamental rights by virtue of their human condition, without distinction based on race, sex, nationality, religion or any other condition. Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to the Declaration and emphasizes that the United Nations must continue to play a fundamental role in ensuring the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all.
The adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was an enormously important commitment. It represents the beginning of a process of restructuring aimed at transforming the growth paradigms of today’s generations and ensuring the well- being of those of the future. The success of that new global agenda depends on the commitment of States and on international solidarity. We therefore call for that global partnership to mobilize the resources necessary for its full implementation, including technology transfers, knowledge-sharing and capacity-building, particularly as they  relate  to  developing  countries. In fulfilment of the commitment Paraguay made on  25 September 2015, we presented our first voluntary national review of the progress we have made in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda at the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development in July.
In the face of an international scenario characterized by political uncertainty and economic volatility, we need collective and comprehensive strategies with a sense of shared responsibility. That is why it is vital that we decide whether we can allow States to impose themselves and obtain the greatest advantage they can from their position, or whether we should work actively
 
for stability and common peace by strengthening multilateral instruments  and mutual cooperation. The United Nations Organization is a continuing work-in-progress. We must all maintain a constant and unalterable commitment to working on strengthening it and building its capacity to adapt and respond to the common challenges facing humankind. May God bless our nations.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to multilateralism as the most effective tool for tackling global challenges and to the importance of strengthening the international legal architecture and respecting international law and universally applicable principles and values. We emphasize the value of the United Nations in promoting justice, development and peaceful relations among the nations of the world, as established in the foundational Charter of the United Nations.
As they work to achieve sustainable development, landlocked developing countries face specific challenges that require special attention. In that context, the commitment of the international community, and particularly of neighbouring countries of transit and partners, is essential. We want to emphasize that the right to development protects all peoples and must be guaranteed, especially for the most vulnerable. We would like to express our solidarity with the least developed countries and small island developing States, with whom we will continue to work jointly and in coordination to ensure that the special needs of all of us are duly addressed.
It is Paraguay’s spirit of progress that drives its participation in regional and inter-regional integration processes. We are working to use those platforms to contribute to internal and international peace and prosperity with a proactive, participatory and dynamic approach. Those efforts have resulted in the recent conclusion of negotiations for free-trade agreements between the Southern Common Market and the European Union, as well as the countries of the European Free Trade Association, agreements that represent a firm commitment to liberalizing trade and removing obstacles to free trade.
Paraguay is determined to generate inclusive opportunities for the benefit of its citizens and is working to gain control of its future by strengthening its capacities and economic competitiveness and promoting active participation in processes that will help to improve the international legal system. Through the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we are seeking a new model of governance for Paraguay whereby we can ensure that social welfare reaches all of our people without discrimination. Paraguay has chosen to progress along this path towards sustainable development by implementing the valuable set of tools represented by the 2030 Agenda under the leadership of the United Nations and through State action in every area, while integrating every sector of society and working to generate a real and lasting impact in every corner of the country. However, we will not be able to achieve that without a real transformation of the paradigms currently influencing the behaviour of our citizens. Paraguay is committed to the 2030 Agenda as a fast track towards its institutional goals, and we see the Sustainable Development Goals as key to eradicating poverty, hunger, disease, ignorance, discrimination, unemployment, inequality and shortages, among the evils that afflict millions on a daily basis. In Paraguay, it is our responsibility to leave no one behind.
We believe that South-South cooperation should be strengthened. In line with the conclusions of the second High-level United Nations Conference on South-South Cooperation, we therefore want to add our offer to share good practices and lessons learned with the global space and reaffirm our commitment to continuing to institutionalize South-South and triangular cooperation at the regional and international levels.
This year is a very important one for Paraguay, a multicultural country that has Guarani and Spanish as official languages. Amid the celebration of the International Year of Indigenous Languages, we are warned that the hundreds of indigenous languages are dying every day. The 19 surviving indigenous languages in my country are a cultural treasure and are part of our identity. We will therefore continue to work to protect, respect and promote them.
As a form of Government and a way of life, democracy cannot be shaped simply by exercising the right of suffrage. It is an organized system, in which men and women can elect and be elected, where all citizens, without distinction, can access the material benefits of progress and where the rule of law prevails, without exception, for the body of society over sectarian interests.
Democracy cannot be interpreted. Its definition is not malleable or adaptable to the needs of tyrants or autocrats. It is a concept that does not respond to whims or opportunistic or capricious decisions. Democracy is built on legal norms and is achieved through institutions governed by law because politics cannot, and should not, be above the law. As a system of Government, democracy is achieved by empowering citizens, enforcing their rights and strengthening the institutional structure. Similarly, it is achieved by easing political and social tensions by using the tools provided for in the legal system.
My country has continuously demonstrated its strong will to strengthen its democracy and to preserve and keenly foster the legitimate expression of the people. The international community has played a key role in cooperating with the citizens and the Government of Paraguay, helping to preserve the democratic order and civic responsibility without disruptively interfering in internal affairs. We therefore believe in that cooperative approach, which we see as an antidote to anti-democratic upheaval.
That line of thought represents the basis of Paraguay’s position on the tragedy experienced by the sisterly Republic of Venezuela, causing a deep regional crisis, the consequences of which are felt throughout the world. The news, reports and images that circulate through various media faithfully portray the sad reality of so many people who today suffer at the hands of a regime that openly flouts human rights and democracy.
We need to join forces to restore democracy in Venezuela to ease the humanitarian crisis that is severely affecting its population and to reverse the exodus that is forcing thousands of people to leave every day. The tragedy today is in Venezuela but the crisis is regional.
Anyone who expels his fellow countrymen through hunger, poverty or oppression spreads suffering and discontent, becomes the executioner of the poor, the sick and the hungry, denies rights and eliminates any chance for a better future.
We need to jointly respond to the migration and humanitarian crisis that has led to the flight of millions of people who are forced to leave their homes to flee poverty, violence and extreme hardship. That has become particularly evident in Latin America, which, despite its own difficulties, has generously and magnanimously opened its arms to its brethren migrants.
Paraguay is an open-door country that believes in the ability of migration to contribute to the economic, social and cultural development of all countries. Consistent with that conviction, we call for the decent treatment of migrants, in particular children and young people in displacement.
We are facing difficult times for human beings and the planet. The adverse effects of climate change have an impact throughout the world. While some countries have more resources than others to cope with post-disaster reconstruction, if we continue along this path, we will reach a point of no return, where no one will be able to escape the consequences of environmental degradation.
As a landlocked developing country, Paraguay is severely affected by such consequences. Recently, hundreds of thousands of hectares of forests were devastated by fierce fires that destroyed much of the rich ecological diversity of the Gran Chaco Americano. I would like to thank all the countries that offered us their help in such difficult times.
The changes that the planet so badly needs will be achieved through joint efforts developed in global platforms, where each State will have to responsibly address the immediate and medium-term challenges in line with their capacities and resources. Strategic partnerships will also assist that effort. In that regard, in cooperation with the Green Climate Fund and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Paraguay has recently concluded negotiations to establish a special reforestation fund and to thereby combat extreme poverty, which affects the most vulnerable in society.
Similarly, the hydroelectric project that Paraguay shares with Brazil, known as Itaipu Binacional, is part of that initiative. It was developed to promote the benefits of shared natural resources and is a successful example of an initiative to produce clean and renewable energy.
In the near future, together with Brazil, we will promote a process to review the financing of Itaipu Binacional. We will work to ensure that such as exercise leads to a fair and balanced approach to economic development and well-being.
The Republic of Paraguay affirms its commitment to non-proliferation, disarmament, the rejection of war and the peaceful settlement of conflicts. Paraguay calls on the international community to avoid escalations that fuel tensions and threaten international peace and security, while reaffirming the need to use dialogue and diplomacy as tools for resolving disputes. In that regard, we reaffirm our belief in the principles set out in the Charter of the United Nations to those ends.
Paraguay recognizes the important role that peacekeeping operations have played, and continue to play, in helping many countries to resolve conflict situations and to protect civilians and the most vulnerable. We therefore maintain our political commitment to continuing to contribute qualified personnel trained prior to their deployment.
We need an effective, agile Organization that responds to the calls for peace, justice, freedom and development of all peoples of the world. We therefore strongly support the revitalization of the General Assembly, its most democratic and representative organ. It is a space that belongs to all nations, in which we can express our views, our demands and our needs on an equal footing and in a sovereign way. We support the reforms proposed by the Secretary-General, including repositioning the United Nations development system, in order to appropriately address the challenges of implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and other international development frameworks.
Paraguay joins States that advocate Security Council reform so as to thereby transform the Council into a more inclusive and transparent body, capable of addressing threats to international peace and security.
Before concluding, I wish to congratulate Ambassador Tijjani Muhammad-Bande on his recent election as President of the General Assembly at its seventy-fourth session and to wish him every success in his new functions. Similarly, Paraguay recognizes the work done by the former President of the General Assembly, Maria Fernanda Espinosa, and her team, who guided the work of this organ magnificently and efficiently. I commend Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who has shown great leadership and vision in continuing to promote a more efficient and transparent organization that is closer to the people it is intended to serve. As Chair of the Group of Landlocked Developing Countries, Paraguay urges for the implementation of the Vienna Programme of Action for Landlocked Developing Countries for the Decade 2014-2024, which is an integral part of the 2030 Agenda. Its midterm review will take place on 5 and 6 December, and we invite all delegations to participate in that review at the highest possible level.
In conclusion, I want to reaffirm Paraguay’s unwavering commitment to multilateralism and diplomacy in support of peace and sustainable development. We will continue to work to preserve the United Nations and its tireless work for the noble and just causes of humankind. That is one of the best legacies we can offer to our current and future generations.


===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
President of the General Assembly,
Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,
As the Assembly is a virtual event, I extend warm greetings to everyone at this difficult time amid the pandemic. We are united more than ever before in the spirit of solidarity.
I welcome and congratulate Ambassador Volkan Bozkir on his election as President of the General Assembly and wish him success. I also welcome Secretary- General Antonio Guterres and thank him for his work.
Mr. President,
The coronavirus changed everyone’s life, brought with it much pain and uncertainty, led to the loss of countless lives and put strong pressure on the health systems of all countries.
I agree with German Chancellor Angela Merkel that it is the greatest challenge since the Second World War.
The health crisis also led to an economic crisis that destroyed jobs and caused debt and challenges in making payments. No country was prepared for it. That is why I believe that the multilateral financial institutions should redesign their strategies to promote economic recovery that is more humane, supportive and substantial.
Excellencies,
Today’s world presents us with problems that cannot be addressed in isolation. That is why the deepening of multilateralism is an effective tool for responding to the needs we share, such as the quest for peace, the protection of human rights, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, protection of the environment, the fight against climate change, and international trade based on principles and rules. We therefore underscore the importance of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as a road map that should guide us towards a more equitable world for future generations.
Landlocked developing countries have special needs and particular challenges that must be addressed. In this regard, Paraguay stresses the importance of the effective implementation of the Vienna Programme of Action on this issue, in particular by transit countries.
In the spirit of integration that seeks to boost trade and achieve mutual benefits for economies and societies, Paraguay is committed to the early signing of the agreement between MERCOSUR and the European Union, as well as with the European Free Trade Association (EFTA).
Ladies and gentlemen,
I again endorse Paraguay’s commitment to protecting life, family and human rights, as set out in our Constitution.
Therefore, we strongly condemn terrorism and criminal groups that today use children and adolescents as human shields to protect themselves. They exploit and expose them to violence, indoctrinate them and train them in the use of weapons. Children, who should be in their homes, are used by criminals who resort to kidnapping, extortion and drug trafficking to support themselves. It leaves painful scars on our families. Paraguay is affected by it.
This leads me to underscore the duty to protect the inhabitants of my country from these criminal groups that seek to justify their illicit conduct with narratives camouflaged by ideology and supported by propaganda designed to distort the truth. Illegality is bold when covered up; it is very skilled in acquiring the attributes of good will and altruism, but Paraguay refuses to be deceived. We will not rest until the full weight of the law is brought to bear on them.
The doors of my country will remain open to international organizations offering to support us and verify our efforts.
Paraguay acts with transparency and remains committed to the law.
Mr. President,
Paraguay supports the reform of the Security Council to make it more inclusive and responsive to threats to international peace and security. We will also continue to contribute troops to peacekeeping operations, as we have done for decades.
Distinguished delegates,
The Venezuelan diaspora is the second largest in the world. More than 5 million Venezuelans have been forced to emigrate to our countries. I again express my solidarity with the Venezuelan people as they continue to suffer. Paraguay will continue to support the international condemnation of human rights violations in Venezuela.
Based on the principle of universality for which the Organization is known, we support Taiwan’s request to be included in the United Nations system.
We also welcome the historic establishment of diplomatic relations between the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain and Israel, under the auspices of the United States of America. We hope that these new ties will contribute to peace and prosperity in the Middle East.
Excellencies,
Only by working together to achieve our common purpose and build a modern international architecture and by rising to the occasion can we achieve the results that our people need and expect from us.
I leave you with the words of His Holiness Pope Francis: “When we emerge from this pandemic, we will no longer be able to do what we have been doing and how we have been doing it. No, everything will be different ... From the great trials of humanity, including the pandemic, we emerge either better or worse. We do not come out the same”.
May our meeting, which demonstrates solidarity, be constant and help us to come out better.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
Mr. President of the General Assembly,
Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Ladies and gentlemen,
We find ourselves gathered here to address the problems that are causing the most distress to all of our peoples. It is our responsibility to ensure that every speech amounts to more than just words and that we can create a space for deep and sincere reflection.
COVID-19 continues to teach us all lessons. It has shown us how solidarity and empathy are vital in dealing with a pandemic and how countries made rapid progress in vaccine production with commendable speed, but it also brought to light some realities that we must face.
On vaccines: how difficult it has been for many countries, like ours, to have to tell our peoples that, despite having arranged and paid for vaccines on time through the COVAX mechanism recommended by the World Health Organization to ensure equitable distribution, the vaccines did not arrive on time. That is the experience of Paraguay and many other countries that have had to wait.
Paraguay has always been committed to multilateralism because we understand that the common problems that transcend our individual countries require a joint response, as in the case of COVID-19. However, we cannot hide our deep disappointment at the response of the multilateral system to the effective and timely distribution of vaccines.
That reality must be addressed in this Hall with a willingness to assess what has happened and to make changes for the future. We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that some tried to use the vaccine as a tool for political and ideological extortion at one of the most difficult moments in recent human history.
I would like to highlight the cooperation of those brotherly and friendly countries that selflessly extended their hands in solidarity to the Paraguayan people by donating vaccines that allowed us to save lives and move forward with our immunization programme. I would therefore like to thank, once again, the Governments of the United States, Qatar, India, Spain, Mexico, Chile, Colombia, the United Arab Emirates and Uruguay for such a noble gesture. Our country will never forget it.
Mr. President,
Paraguay’s economy is largely based on food production for the world and our status as a landlocked developing country strongly conditions our development, including in a structural manner. In the context of post-pandemic recovery, those conditions will once again be a determining factor and it will be vital to facilitate effective access for our products to the markets of most developed countries.
For our part, to lessen the impact of those conditions, we are deploying our efforts to turn our geographical location into an advantage. The ambitious bioceanic corridor project, which will cross Paraguayan territory and link the Atlantic Ocean with the Pacific, is a clear example of how we intend to take advantage of our geographical position and promote the physical integration of our region.
Mr. President,
Integration and sustainable development are priorities in the Republic of Paraguay’s foreign policy. For decades, my country has been committed to an energy matrix based on clean and renewable energy, with a commitment to care for the environment and the conviction that energy is an indispensable requirement to continue promoting development.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Climate change is linked to the current water crisis affecting our region. Low river levels are compromising the availability of water for human consumption, affecting navigability conditions, severely damaging our foreign trade, which depends on river transport, and threatening the efficiency of our energy generation sources. We therefore underline the importance of honouring the international commitments of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, in particular those on climate finance, to support the mitigation and adaptation efforts of developing countries, especially those of us most vulnerable to global warming.
Mr. President,
Terrorism, drug trafficking and transnational organized crime are real threats to the international community. For that reason, Paraguay is committed to combating the financing of such activities and money laundering in particular. To that end, we have updated our regulatory frameworks — as well as taking other measures — with the aim of strengthening institutional response capacities and international cooperation to effectively address that scourge.
One of the greatest atrocities of organized crime is the use of children in its activities. Paraguay once again condemns that despicable practice, which we have already suffered, as well as other inhumane actions such as kidnapping and extortion.
Our Government will not cease in its unrelenting and determined fight against criminal groups within the framework of the law, nor will it spare any effort to achieve the return of our compatriots kidnapped by such groups. Our country is a staunch defender of life, the family and human rights.
Mr. President,
As a founding Member, Paraguay reaffirms its support for the United Nations and its importance as the forum that brings together most of the countries of the world.
In order to strengthen democratic governance and establish a more balanced system of decision-making in the United Nations, we believe that the role of the General Assembly should be strengthened and the reform of the functioning of the Security Council should be considered.
Universality is a basic principle of our Organization and, in that connection, we support the inclusion of Taiwan in the United Nations system.
Mr. President,
The ideal of a world governed by peace, democracy and respect for human rights, freedoms and security requires the efforts of all of us. As we set aside our differences and respect the principle of equality of all States, we must deepen the dialogue aimed at promoting actions to combat poverty and inequality in order to promote more equitable development.
I conclude by echoing Pope Francis’ words during the General Audience at the Vatican: “Hope is audacious”. Hope knows how to look beyond personal comfort, beyond the small securities and compensations that narrow our horizons, and how to open up to great ideals that make life more beautiful and dignified. Let us walk together in hope.
I thank you.

===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
We come together for this annual meeting, bearing the enormous responsibility of exchanging ideas and making commitments to strengthen the intergovernmental public sphere that is vital to respond to the shared needs of our nations.
In my final speech as Head of State in this Hall, I wish to highlight the commitment of the Republic of Paraguay, as a member of the international community, to continuing to contribute to the building of a world that accords full respect to fundamental freedoms, the peaceful resolution of conflicts, decent living conditions for all humankind and the uncompromising fight against organized crime, all of which have an international component. The economic and social consequences of the pandemic were still being felt when we began to feel the impact of war at the international level. Our peoples consequently found themselves in the difficult situation of observing the failure of national and international institutions to deal with emergencies.
In these circumstances, our first big challenge is to contain demagogic and despotic attempts to manipulate the genuine frustration of citizens. We cannot accept discourse that seeks to sacrifice our sacred freedoms using deceit. More than ever, the world needs temperance, dialogue and moderation. We live in times that demand concrete political commitments, not generic platitudes. That is even more true for the postpandemic years, which promise to be difficult and will require complex reforms that must be shielded from false promises.
Latin America, one of the regions most affected by the situation, must be prepared once more to adopt positions of principle that are aligned with the concern for the full validity of human rights and collective self- government. Those positions must be part of broad- based cooperation efforts in which the best-positioned countries have a comprehensive understanding of worldwide imbalances. We must bring stability to the world with a common voice. We cannot ignore what is happening in other territories and leave our fellow nations to their fate.
For that reason, Paraguay is a supportive country that acts in alignment with its principles. We have always supported the brotherly Venezuelan people and their struggle for democracy, which is why Paraguay will be taking the lead, together with other countries, on a draft resolution in the Human Rights Council that will allow further in-depth investigation of the violation of human rights in Venezuela.
We need to rebuild a moral conscience with respect to the relevance of human rights and democracy. The legal instruments and institutions that we have created to protect them are of undeniable value. However, to protect peoples, it is fundamental that we strengthen the notion of the greater value of human dignity and autonomy, and the inviolability of the person.
The current difficult situation requires us to address global problems jointly, without exclusion. Therefore, my country emphatically reiterates its support for the request of the Republic of China on Taiwan to be an integral part of the United Nations system. We are convinced that it would make a valuable contribution to the multilateral system. I take this opportunity to express my solidarity with the Taiwanese people with respect to the recent earthquake, as well as with the peoples of Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico for similar tragedies affecting them.
Paraguay joins the vast majority of countries that advocate peace, the rule of international law and the primacy of diplomacy. We are concerned about the situation in Ukraine and the humanitarian and economic consequences of the conflict. We strongly call for the cessation of hostilities and the resumption of negotiations. It is essential that our Organization, and the international community in general, participate intensively in this process. In that regard, we note the scrutiny of the role of the Security Council in this sensitive international context. It is imperative to rethink how the Council operates so as to guide it towards effective performance, and to strengthen the role of the General Assembly as a space for channelling the views of all States.
Another issue that brings us together in terms of cooperation is the health of the international financial system. We cannot continue talking about global initiatives to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development when our economies are contaminated by the distribution of profits from illicit activities.
Recently, Paraguay received satisfactory news from the Financial Action Task Force of Latin America, having passed its evaluation as a result of a joint effort to modernize our institutional structure to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. We are a country committed to cooperation and we understand the importance of adopting preventive and punitive measures. That is a task that no State should shirk or be complacent about. The rule of law is a global objective that goes beyond political beliefs, and anyone who sees it otherwise conspires against community life.
Under my administration, Paraguay aligned in a heretofore unseen way the efforts of security institutions and put them to work in the largest operation in history against organized crime. That success was due not only to the work of our public forces, but also to the coordinated work that was carried out with friendly foreign agencies, with whom we verified once again the importance of joining forces if we want to achieve results against criminal groups. Similarly, in collaboration with intelligence agencies, we determine and provide information about the route of an airplane and its crew when a link to international terrorism is indicated.
Another area of cooperation is the field of sustainable development. Paraguay, as part of the global food-production machine, has been making progress in transforming its production matrix and implementing sustainable practices in agricultural and livestock production, as well as exploiting its 100-per cent clean and renewable energy.
If all our efforts are to really make sense, we need the countries that, due to their nature, bear the greatest responsibility to act accordingly. We inhabit the same planet and are obligated to take care of nature and future generations. That is the responsibility of each State in fair measure. That is why Paraguay, along with other countries, promoted the creation of a Special Rapporteur on climate change in the Human Rights Council, which will help make the true impact of this crisis visible worldwide.
Paraguay’s commitment continues to grow every day. In addition to being among the five countries of the region that managed to increase foreign direct investment during the pandemic, we were able to double private investment in the last four years. A few months ago, we saw an improvement in our credit outlook, according to Moody’s — a fact that corresponds to the historical, sensible and stable management of our economy. We are part of the most important logistics and economic corridor in South America. At the same time, we continue to roll out an unprecedented infrastructure plan that will allow for greater connectivity and access to markets. As can be seen, despite the challenges we have experienced, we enjoy conditions that make us look to the future with hope.
Finally, I would like to talk about the vision underpinning the Republic of Paraguay’s approach to the world. Beyond our legitimate differences, we must find common paths. We have common challenges that we cannot face independently. My country is committed to the Organization and hopes that its purposes will be achieved. As Pope Francis says, we are all in the same boat and called on to make the commitment to dismantling the walls that separate us. May God bless all our nations.

===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
In 1945. representatives of 51 States, one of them my country, agreed to create the United Nations. By speaking for the first time before the General Assembly as President of the Republic of Paraguay. I wish to begin my speech by expressing our recognition of the work of the United Nations, which since its inception has provided a global framework of cooperation among nations to promote peace, human rights and the wellbeing of peoples.
Seventy-eight years later, multilateralism faces very visible challenges in terms of effectiveness and legitimacy. In a world of so much wealth, levels of poverty and inequality remain stubbornly high while mass migration associated with armed conflicts and lack of opportunities, international terrorism, transnational crime and geopolitical tensions represent challenges before which the mechanisms of cooperation and governance that have prevailed over the past almost eight decades are clearly outdated.
The lack of tangible results, the perceived ineffectiveness of multilateral institutions and the difficulties in addressing global problems effectively have generated frustration and led to a rise in the feeling that national interests should take precedence over multilateral cooperation. The imposition of certain cultural or ideological trends or approaches is perceived, not without reason. as interference in national sovereignty and values, which erodes trust and weakens the will to cooperate at the multilateral level. Consequently, increasing levels of mistrust can be observed among Member States, which hinders cooperation and the willingness to compromise for the common good.
The 2008 crisis, the recent pandemic and. today, the conflict in Ukraine have revealed the weaknesses and limitations of multilateral institutions in their ability to face challenges with global impact and systemic risk. In the latter case, the United Nations and its Security Council have adopted measures whose results are sadly far from being encouraging.
Despite having suffered the misfortunes of two unjust wars, one of which put us on the brink of extinction as a nation, the spirit and history of Paraguay compel us to bet on dialogue, and not on force, as a mechanism to resolve any controversy, as demonstrated by the 1924 Treaty to Avoid or Prevent Conflicts between the American States, known as the Gondra Convention, proposed by a Paraguayan and approved by all Latin American countries unanimously and without a single amendment, whose purpose was precisely to avoid and prevent wars between American States.
With humility but with great conviction, we urge all parties involved in the conflict in Ukraine to immediately stop military actions to avoid further victims and damage. We support the peace initiatives promoted by Brazil, a brother country and strategic ally, as well as by Pope Francis, whose moving presence is a source of inspiration to all humankind. There is no doubt that we need to work on the review and reform of the mechanisms, measures and institutional capacities of multilateral organizations to prevent new wars like that ravaging Ukraine, but with or without reforms we need to put an end to the merciless loss of so many human lives. We need to work to strengthen the United Nations with a view to building new capabilities that will allow it to respond effectively and efficiently to permanent and changing global challenges.
Within the framework of the reform and expansion of the Security Council. Paraguay considers that the organic and functional structure of the United Nations must reflect the dynamics of the international scenario on a participatory, democratic and equitable basis that observes the guiding principles of the Charter of the United Nations for promote peace, security and prosperity of our countries on equal terms.
In that regard, the Government of Paraguay expresses its support for the Republic of China on Taiwan to be an integral part of the United Nations system.
Climate change represents a great planetary challenge, and we must take both rigorous and fair measures to avoid further damage to the planet and its inhabitants.
Trade restrictions based on criteria such as agricultural practices or environmental standards generate discontent and uncertainty and are unfair and discriminatory barriers, since they try to extrapolate realities from highly developed regions to developing territories, without taking into account their differences or adequately valuing the particular environmental mitigation practices of those territories. That has required less developed countries to assume responsibility for the environmental damage caused by industrialization in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, when there were no mitigation measures, and they have been obliged to do so at the expense of giving up opportunities for commercial expansion, job creation and wealth creation. There is a need to address those concerns and promote a more equitable and collaborative approach that takes into account the specific realities and needs of each country in the context of its multilateral decisions related to environmental standards.
Paraguay has shown the world that we are leaders in the production of hydroelectric energy, a clean and sustainable source that supplies both our internal needs and those of our neighbours. We have put Paraguay on the map as an example to follow in the transition towards a more sustainable world. While other countries are still arguing about reducing emissions, we have already taken concrete and effective measures. We are a concrete example of how a nation can exploit natural resources in a responsible and sustainable manner to promote economic development and. at the same time, mitigate climate change.
For more than 30 years, we have been adopting sustainable agricultural practices that not only ensure a prosperous future for our farmers, but also guarantee the integrity of our land and our water resources. We have acted with courage and responsibility, basing our public policies on science and evidence.
For years, we were the subject of criticism and unfair accusations, but today, thanks to the work of multiple administrations. I can firmly report that the facts speak for themselves. Some 44 per cent of Paraguayan territory has preserved its forest cover, while 95 per cent of the area planted with cereals and oilseeds in Paraguay in 2022 implements sustainable technologies, such as direct sowing and crop rotation, and has been free of deforestation since 2004 a result of our zero-deforestation policy. Those data are irrefutable proof that it is possible to achieve a balance between agricultural production and the conservation of our natural resources, and that the Paraguayan countryside is prepared to enter the most demanding markets internationally, respecting the principles of clean and sustainable production. .
But we do not stop there. Paraguay has also committed to the recomposition of our natural ecosystems. We are promoting reforestation and species conservation, and we have undertaken the participatory construction of the national forest restoration plan. Additionally, we have dramatically reduced extreme poverty over the past two decades, demonstrating that it is possible to protect our environment while prospering economically.
Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to the central values and objectives of the United Nations. We understand our shared but differentiated responsibilities and we are willing to lead by example on the path to a more sustainable and equitable world.
Today we face four global challenges that are generating geopolitical tensions: access to water, food security, energy sufficiency and resilience in logistics chains. Since Paraguay is a Power on these great issues, we are called to be protagonists in the concert of nations. Our subsoil is home to the world’s largest reserve of fresh water, including the Guarani aquifer that we share with our neighbours. Paraguay is a global food supplier and one of the few countries in the world capable of producing food for its population and for more than 100 million people around the world. In hydroelectric energy, we are pioneers in regional energy integration and today we are determined to move towards greater energy efficiency and sustainability.
In that context. Paraguay aspires to become the logistics centre of the South American Bioceanic Corridor, which is turning our geographical centrality into an opportunity and strengthening integration with neighbouring countries and Pacific markets. That trade corridor will be a source of renewal and empowerment for the South American Common Market and the Pacific Alliance, promoting greater rapprochement between both blocs. Furthermore, due to its intersection with the Paraguay-Parana waterway, that multimodal network will become the most competitive way to transport products from different countries to Pacific ports, facilitating consensus for the management of river navigation. Without a doubt, it will give new impetus to the South American integration process and transform the vision with which we will resolve conflicts that may arise.
Paraguay is determined to abandon its old image as an island surrounded by land, as our Cervantes Prize winner Don Augusto Roa Bastos described 
it. and. following its historical, geographical and cultural vocation, become the centre of South American integration. Therefore, one of our main strategic objectives will be to contribute to improving regional integration. In that sense, managing the waterway, the aquifers, the Bioceanic Corridor, the hydroelectric plants and the navigation of our rivers is a delicate process of balance between the integration and sovereignty of our peoples. We are aware of the progress made on the path of integration, but we cannot be satisfied and must move forward with courage and determination. Latin America is the region of the world with the greatest development potential, but we can develop that potential only by respecting each other, working together and in harmony.
Since the last decade of the twentieth century, as a country we have been going through a process of building and strengthening our democratic institutions. This year, we have renewed the political leadership of the country through a transparent electoral process, with broad citizen participation and in which the Paraguayan people expressed their will with a firm democratic vocation and full confidence in the rule of law. Today Paraguay is experiencing its greatest historical period of democratic coexistence, with more than 35 uninterrupted years of validating the noblest values of a free, participatory and pluralist democracy, and convinced that there is no acceptable system other than that of non-negotiable exercise of human rights and freedom.
Paraguay is the country of the prose of Augusto Roa Bastos. the universal music of Jose Asuncion Flores and the nanduti-voiced guitar of Berta Rojas. The country has a rhythm that was born to capture the spirit of its Guarani language. The name of that music is Guarania. and today it hopes to be recognized as a universal heritage because it is an ambassador who travels the world with our emotions.
My country values peace, sustainable development and integration among peoples because we are a country that has been reborn from its ashes following a war of extermination that truncated the early development process of a nation that, already at the dawn of industrial revolution, had developed one of the first interurban railways in South America, had shipyards and iron foundries, and. above all. was betting very heavily on the formation of its human capital through education.
The reconstruction after the catastrophe of 1870. which annihilated 90 per cent of the Paraguayan male population, was led by patriotic fellow nationals, without international financial or technological support and with a small flow of European migrants who arrived and settled in the country despite a narrative that discredited us. But. as President Bernardino Caballero said in immortal words in his presidential message of 1884. Paraguay has the incontestable merit of having risen from its ruins without having requested foreign assistance to do so. It has persevered with that rare self-denial that is the virtue of the strong, and it has triumphed. It is the architect of its own destinies.
It is impossible not to mention here the fundamental role of Paraguayan women in the heroic task of rebuilding the country. It is not for nothing that the Paraguayan woman is recognized as the most glorious in America and the cornerstone on which our nation is built.
With firm and determined steps. Paraguay continues to strengthen its institutions and its economy. After occupying the position of poorest country in South America for decades, today we are an upper middle-income country, with high credibility in international financial markets that is bringing us closer to the desired investment grade, with high production standards certified in accordance with international standards, with transparency and. above all. with macroeconomic stability that stands out worldwide and is supported by fiscal and monetary discipline and a permanent effort to improve public management.
Paraguay today is standing and ready to fulfil its mission in history. That is why we speak of the resurgence of a giant, but we do so not with expansionist or grandiose zeal but with the firm conviction of a people proud of its roots, its heroic and brave history and with the deepest confidence in its future greatness.


===== Session 79 - 2024 =====
**Mr President of the General Assembly,**  
**Distinguished Heads of State and Government,**  
**Esteemed Foreign Ministers,**  
**Ladies and Gentlemen,**

---

### I. Opening

We live in a turbulent, volatile world, currently experiencing extraordinarily difficult times marked by tremendous challenges.

Armed conflicts; tensions in every corner of our globe; a crisis of multilateral institutions and the international system; an assault on democratic values from the twin threats of populism and authoritarianism; the dangers of cyberwarfare and the irresponsible application of artificial intelligence; the brutal inequity in wealth distribution; and climate change threatening our very existence—these are but a few of the immense problems we face.

Therefore, I fear that I shall not deliver a speech today that garners sympathy, but rather one that elicits the discomfort and concern we should all feel in light of what is happening. I believe we must be honest and admit that we—all of us—are failing in our mission to build a better world.

That said, if there is any time and place suitable to debate and propose the crucial decisions that can change the course of humanity, it is here at the United Nations General Assembly. Given the delicate moment we are living through, we are duty-bound to act.

The good news is that not all is lost. As a great military hero and later statesman of my country, Bernardino Caballero, once said: “The future is the child of the present.” This means that we can forge a better destiny if we act—here and now.

Thus, even with the "discouragements" that may "lay low many spirits", we may yet "contemplate the luminous horizons of the future"—but only if, as Caballero crucially added, we can make ourselves "worthy of the respect and esteem of future generations".

In other words: we shall only be worthy of the high offices we hold today if we stop sweeping problems under the rug and instead confront them with clarity, firmness, and courage.

Despite the arduous reality we face, I remain optimistic. I do not fear the future, because I trust in humanity’s capacity to overcome its challenges. But it is imperative—indeed, I would say obligatory—that we eliminate the veto in the United Nations Security Council and redefine the mechanisms of international cooperation.

We need to build frameworks that promote equitable and sustainable development, where all countries—regardless of size or power—can benefit equally from global progress. Only then can we fulfil the promises this forum represents and make ourselves “worthy of the respect and esteem of future generations”.

---

### II. Armed Conflicts

Ladies and Gentlemen, maintaining peace should be the fundamental pillar of multilateralism. Yet today’s reality paints a grim picture: around 20 international armed conflicts and over 110 active internal conflicts worldwide demonstrate that the institutions designed to preserve peace have not fulfilled their mission.

War remains a scourge upon humanity. It tears apart the social fabric, annihilates communities, and leaves behind a legacy of immeasurable suffering. Every lost life stands as testimony to our collective failure to uphold our most basic responsibility: to preserve peace and protect human dignity.

The history of my nation stands as a living testament to the cruelty and immense suffering that wars bring. Paraguay, through the War of the Triple Alliance, endured a war of extermination that, tragically, foreshadowed the genocides of the twentieth century. As another great Paraguayan, Manuel Gondra, once said, Paraguay is a “small but proud country” and survived that bloody war only for that reason.

Yet we know all too well the enormous price a country pays for armed conflict.

For this reason, Paraguay understands better than most not only the calamity of war, but also the cost borne by small nations when invaded or aggressed by more powerful ones.

We therefore express our sincerest solidarity with all victims of armed conflict, whether internal or international. We reaffirm our firm and resolute commitment to the peaceful resolution of disputes, and we advocate—without exception—for the non-use of force as a means to resolve disagreements between nations or peoples.

---

### III. Ukraine, Israel, Africa

In this context, we reiterate our steadfast support for Ukraine, upholding its sovereignty and territorial integrity. We stress the urgency of finding diplomatic solutions that lead to a just, comprehensive, and lasting peace, with the aim of ending this conflict and securing regional stability.

As with Ukraine, we believe that conflicts must be resolved through dialogue and diplomacy, always seeking solutions that respect the fundamental rights of all parties involved. This conviction also guides our position on the escalating crisis in the Middle East.

Our relationship with the State of Israel is founded on strong pillars such as faith and hope. This is why Paraguay has stood firmly by Israel following the grotesquely perfidious attacks by Hamas and intolerant terrorism on 7 October 2023.

Paraguay today reaffirms its recognition of Israel’s legitimate right to defend itself. We also reject any attempt to draw a biased equivalence between Israel’s democratically elected authorities and the leaders of the terrorist group Hamas.

At the same time, we urgently call for the implementation of a solution that alleviates the humanitarian situation, ends the violence, ensures the immediate release of hostages, and promotes constructive dialogue that leads to lasting peace.

We cannot fail to express our deep concern about the situation in Africa, where UNHCR estimates there are currently around 25 active conflicts, some long-standing, others emerging, all with devastating consequences for the lives and futures of the continent’s people. We aspire to the return of peace and stability in this region.

Enough of violence, enough of wars—but also, enough of mere words. As actors on the international stage, we must take firm and effective action.

---


### IV. Haiti

Today, I must pause to address the grave humanitarian situation in Haiti—an unmistakable example of the shortcomings of multilateralism.

Despite numerous international efforts and interventions, global cooperation has failed to bring about the peace, governance, and security that the Haitian people so urgently need and deserve.

Today, gangs control much of Port-au-Prince, plunging the country into a spiral of violence that multilateral mechanisms have been unable to effectively de-escalate.

To this, we must add a catastrophic humanitarian reality: over 5 million Haitians suffer from food insecurity and face the resurgence of diseases such as cholera. While numerous promises of aid have been made, financial shortfalls and logistical difficulties have prevented humanitarian assistance from reaching those in need in a timely and sufficient manner. There is a worrying disconnect between the promises made by the international community and what is actually delivered on the ground.

We will stand by the Haitian people in every effort to help this sister nation.

---

### V. Venezuela

My country, like many others represented here today, has known the shadow of authoritarianism and dictatorship. For that reason, Paraguayans today cherish the ideals of democracy and the rule of law more than anyone.

We can speak from experience: for a long time, Paraguay lived under the weight of dictatorship, exile, and banishment. But our present reality is markedly different and vibrant. For over three decades now, Paraguay has reaffirmed its democratic vocation through free and transparent elections. Never before have we enjoyed so many consecutive years of democracy, and I dare say, contrary to the naysayers and pessimists, that—despite its imperfections—this has been the happiest period in our nation’s history.

Perhaps we Paraguayans cannot agree on many things, but we do agree on this: there is no alternative to democracy and the rule of law.

**Democracy is simply non-negotiable.**

Therefore, I must today strongly and unequivocally condemn what is happening to our Venezuelan brothers and sisters.

I come to reiterate Paraguay’s position on the recent electoral process in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, which concluded on 28 July. This process ignored the will of the Venezuelan people and was marked by serious acts on the part of the regime, including the persecution of key opposition figures and arbitrary detentions.

The deterioration of democracy in Venezuela is evident, as are the systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. To this must be added actions that run counter to international law, particularly in relation to diplomatic relations and the right to asylum.

We reiterate our support for the democratic forces in Venezuela who are resisting authoritarianism and striving to restore a truly democratic—not merely nominal—system.

---

### VI. Organisation of American States (OAS)

One of the most persistent critiques of global multilateralism is the idea that all nations are treated equally.

The principle of “one vote per nation” often becomes hollow if smaller nations are forced to trade away their self-determination just to avoid exclusion from major international markets.

Nevertheless, we recognise that regional cooperation remains indispensable for physical and economic integration. The challenges we face cannot be tackled without a convergence of political will among neighbouring countries. In this regard, regional cooperation is the only viable path that allows us to work together and coordinate national policies with other nations.

In this spirit of cooperation and institutional strengthening, Paraguay has decided to present the candidacy of our Foreign Minister, **Rubén Ramírez Lezcano**, for the post of Secretary-General of the Organisation of American States (OAS).

We are convinced that his leadership will significantly contribute to the revitalisation of the OAS, promoting a more inclusive and efficient multilateralism—one that addresses current challenges and prioritises the well-being of all peoples in the hemisphere.

---

### VII. Taiwan

As part of our commitment to a more inclusive multilateralism—one that leaves no nation behind—Paraguay today reiterates its unwavering support for those countries which, despite their significant global contributions, remain excluded from key international fora.

Paraguay not only recognises but deeply values the international cooperation provided by the **Republic of China (Taiwan)**, a sister nation with whom we have built almost 70 years of a strong and meaningful friendship.

This friendship is based on shared values: democracy, the rule of law, and free trade. It is a genuine friendship, forged in the adversity of being two geographically small countries beside major powers. Yet our spirit of determination is anything but small.

At this Assembly, we renew our strong support for Taiwan to become an integral part of the United Nations system. We believe its exclusion is an injustice we cannot overlook, for the values we share and Taiwan’s contributions to the international community deserve the same recognition as any other nation represented here. If there is any country that should already be part of the United Nations system but is not, that country is Taiwan.

Today, we not only come to denounce this injustice, but also to raise our voice in defence of Taiwan’s integrity and its legitimate right to self-determination.

I underline the importance of peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait. In a world full of tensions, where conflicts are constantly at risk of escalation, positive and peaceful engagement in this region is vital not only for Asia’s security but for global stability.


---

### VIII. National Vision – Pillars of Government

Just as we defend the principles of peace, justice, and international cooperation in all corners of the world, it is equally important to reaffirm our commitment to these values within our own borders.

As I mentioned earlier, Paraguay lives in a vibrant and full democracy. With a republican system of checks and balances, and although our political party holds a majority in Congress, we maintain dialogue with the opposition to advance the major reforms our country needs.

We are convinced that democracy must not be empty; it must be a democracy with substance and, above all, with results.

In this regard, economic development is crucial for securing the future strength of our democracy. Prosperity is the greatest enemy of crime, division, and despair. I always say that **the most effective social policy is economic prosperity**.

But for prosperity to reach everyone, we must invest in our human capital and create conditions for families to thrive through their own work.

I wish to highlight two of the flagship programmes of my government. The first is **“Zero Hunger in Schools”**, which aims to eradicate child hunger among school-age children entirely—based on the firm belief that one cannot learn on an empty stomach. The second is **“Che Roga Porã”**, Paraguay’s first-ever housing policy focused on the working class, offering access to homeownership through instalments priced at the level of rent. This will allow thousands of Paraguayan families to convert a monthly expense into a long-term asset.

However, there is no development without security.

To that end, both at the national and international levels, it is logical to adopt a comprehensive view of security, grounded in cooperation between national and international agencies. This is my vision as President of the Republic.

Lastly, we will continue to invest in institutional integrity and transparency as fundamental conditions for development.

Paraguay’s recent achievement of investment-grade status is clear proof of our sustained efforts to strengthen institutions, coupled with a long-standing tradition of economic stability that has consolidated over the years.

Dear friends: **Paraguay wants to, can, and will be a true protagonist on the global stage**. We are determined to claim our rightful place.

---

### IX. Natural Resources and Climate Change

Paraguay is a country blessed with abundant natural resources, valuable human capital, and a clear focus on creating value chains that promote a green economy based on the development of sustainable technologies.

Our country is a reference point in the production of clean, renewable energy. Hydroelectric power generation is not just a national project, but a joint initiative with our neighbours—an initiative that seeks to be central to the achievement of a more developed, sustainable, and emission-free world.

I firmly believe that **Paraguay is an example of how economic development is entirely compatible with environmental sustainability**.

---

### X. Integration

Paraguay shares common challenges with other landlocked developing countries, which will be addressed in the new Programme of Action for Landlocked Developing Countries to be adopted this December in Botswana.

Far from discouraging us, we see in these challenges an opportunity. We are turning our difficulties into strengths, leveraging our geographic location as a strategic asset. Our position in the heart of South America drives us to be the engine of South American integration.

With a clear vision, we are committed to becoming the region’s logistical hub through two key projects: the **Paraguay–Paraná Waterway** and the **South American Bioceanic Road Corridor**. These are strategic axes for revitalising and strengthening Mercosur and the Pacific Alliance blocs.

As we consolidate our geographic position as a hub for regional integration and logistical development, it is essential that this growth vision be underpinned by strong investment in education.

---

### XI. Education and Technology

Paraguay’s success will depend on our ability to prepare future generations for an increasingly globalised and competitive world.

Alongside education, **technology is a key tool for development and social inclusion**.

There are many challenges facing our nations today. But without doubt, one of the most urgent is the ethical application of artificial intelligence and technological advancements in general.

**Moore’s Law**, which predicts exponential growth in technological development, compels us to design new regulatory frameworks that protect people and are fit to confront a rapidly approaching challenge of almost ungraspable velocity.

These new approaches—such as **regulatory sandboxes** and **co-regulation mechanisms**—must ultimately aim at the **responsible use of emerging technologies and equity in their application**.

---

### XII. Culture and Human Rights

In Paraguay, we are deeply committed to preserving our cultural heritage. At the end of this year, we will host the **nineteenth session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of UNESCO**, where we hope that **the “Guarania”** will be recognised as Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.

In addition, we reaffirm our commitment to protecting the fundamental rights of all our citizens, the family, and **human life from conception**, while upholding the traditional values that have shaped our nation’s greatness.

---

### XIII. Conclusion

Although I have adopted a critical stance throughout, I must confess: I am an incurable optimist. I firmly believe that our future is bright and full of opportunity.

I believe in those **“luminous horizons of the future”** I spoke of earlier: if we fight for a better present, we shall see days ahead filled with light and possibility.

The defence of democratic values and respect for human rights must continue to guide us. Political differences are natural and legitimate—but there are principles that are simply **non-negotiable**: democracy, the rule of law, and the unwavering respect for human rights are fundamental pillars.

Even though our political or ideological visions may differ, this should not divide us or hinder our progress in building a cooperation founded on solid ground.

If we uphold the ideals of cooperation, mutual respect, integration, and fraternity among our peoples as our unwavering compass, then I am convinced that better days lie ahead.

In conclusion, and despite the tremendous challenges we are facing, I remain convinced, as **William Faulkner** once said, that:

> **“Humanity will not simply endure: it will prevail.”**

**Thank you very much.**
