

===== Session 01 - 1946 =====
I	should like to congratulate the President on his conduct of this Assembly's debates, and the Secretary-General on his success in setting up the present Organization, which is one of the biggest tasks that I have known.
I should like to convey to the members of this Assembly the cordial greeting of the Government and people of my country.
Thanks to her political stability, Uruguay has been able to follow her traditional international policy of close friendship with her neighbours and the nations of America, of goodwill towards all countries and of freedom of world trade.
Uruguay cannot forget those countries which contributed to her independence, and which, throughout her history, have co-operated in her development and in helping her to attain the state of civilization which she has now happily achieved.
Montevideo, our capital on the River Plate, now numbers with its suburbs one million inhabitants, and is called by tourists the “City of Roses”.
In front of the city, there may yet be discerned in the Ocean River, as the early navigators called the River Plate, a blackened hull emerging from the waters; it is the German ironclad Graf Spee which the British Navy, in spite of heavy odds, forced to take refuge in the port of Montevideo, and which the Government of Uruguay obliged to comply with the law of asylum at a time when, on a horizon of blood, the victory of the Axis Powers appeared to be certain.
We did not have the strength to measure ourselves against that fortress which was scuttled by its commander in the despair of the first defeat. Nevertheless, we did our duty.
Artigas, the great thinker and historical philosopher of Uruguay, was the precursor of the concept of nationality. When he was in dire distress, the Government of the United States of America extended to him, through the United States Consul at Montevideo, an invitation to come to this country in which we now find ourselves and to rest from the anxieties of his struggle for independence and democracy with all the honours due to his rank and ideals.
But it was too late, and Artigas went to live and die in a country which at that time had no material wealth, but which was great in spirit and much loved by us: Paraguay. In the homestead of Artigas, in the land of the Guarani, there is today an Uruguayan school, a symbol of union, kindness and hope. This is also our symbol and the symbol of America.
Some time ago, I left the city of New York rejoicing in the victorious conclusion of hostilities. I then visited some of the countries of America and found the same impression of relief which peace or the strangest, happiest, most extraordinary events produce as if by magic day by day, sometimes unexpectedly. Peace is a rebirth; it is like the spectacle offered by nature when the gentle season begins to cover the earth with flowers.
Today I have re-established contact with the peoples and statesmen of this continent, and I have become aware of the uncertainty and anxiety to which the President of the United States gave prominence in the speech with which he opened our session. I know that the state of mind of the general public in the other continents is similar to that to be found here.
What is the reason for this cloud which overshadows us all at a time when we expected to behold the dawn of triumph? Is it to be attributed to the attitude of any one nation or group of nations which is rendering the work of peace difficult? I do not believe so.
As far as I have been able to observe, all the representatives to this Assembly, without a single exception, desire to return to their homes, their consciences at peace, and to carry to their peoples the sublime word which means happiness. All the organs of this Assembly, from the highest to the lowest, are animated by the same desire.
The only obstacle which, in my opinion, is obstructing this purpose is the lack of that rapidity which is indispensable for the achievement of our work which the world so deeply desires. We all know the axiom that danger zones should be crossed quickly. It is an axiom of those who fight, and have fought most, against the forces of nature, of those who face the perils of the sea. Every danger zone must be passed as quickly as possible. The world still finds itself today in such a danger zone, and desires to leave the fog behind and come forth into the light; the whole world, all the nations of the world, without a single exception.
The public has learned that facts, and not words, are the acid test. The man in the street understands the difficulties in building up peace. He knows the different points of view, sincerely held opinions, and ambitions and rights which are hard to relinquish; but he also knows that in life men must compromise and sometimes concede a point to others, possess a fund of goodwill and not found everything on the domination of some over others, and that, in the long run, the peoples are grateful to those who give them peace and happy days.
If mothers sacrificed their sons in the war, statesmen and nations may well sacrifice on the altar of peace something of what, from their point of view, they consider just.
I remember seeing a picture a long time ago which became engraved on my memory. It represented the nations in conference as trees whose roots had struck deeply into the soil and prevented them from approaching each other; then came a time when this could no longer be borne and the spirits deserted these lifeless beings and mingled in a common joy whence arose peace illuminating the whole world. I believe that the time for this has now come.
My country does not forget the sacrifices accepted by the principal victorious Powers, and seizes this opportunity to express its admiration for their soldiers, sailors and airmen, from the five-star generals and other high officers to the most obscure but heroic rank and file.
My country also thinks that those Governments which associated or co-operated with the countries which declared war should not be allowed to continue in power, and it intends to state its opinion in detail when this question comes on the agenda.
I should like to pay a tribute to the memory of President Masaryk, and in view of all that Mr. Benes, my friend of former days, has done for the consolidation of his country, I should also like to send him a friendly message.
Uruguay considers it essential to help those countries which have given themselves properly elected Governments, and from another point of view, to assist in the restoration of Belgium, ever outraged and the first to be sacrified, and of Norway. This reminds me that when, at the first Paris Conference, the delegate of Brazil, speaking at a moment when things looked black, saw Nansen enter the hall, he exclaimed “Here comes light; here is the Aurora Borealis”. The clear light of civilization and justice comes to us from the countries of the extreme north,
One cannot conceive of a better world without the co-operation of the genius of France. France must recover her rank as a first-class Power. Our civilization is inconceivable without France.
I should like also to mention the presence at this Assembly of my old friend Wellington Koo, and to tell him that, although we in America are a long way from China, we know of the great battles which his country fought before any other country, and that we fully appreciate the sacrifices made in the war by China and admire the thousand-year old civilization of the East.
The work of mankind, the happiness of the home, the welfare of all, and especially of those who have the least, the working classes, demand a rapid and just peace. Who will deny that social phenomena, strikes, general confusion, are symptoms of unrest which point to the necessity of concluding peace rapidly so that all may return to their normal way of life?
In conclusion, I would say that a heavy responsibility rests upon us all. We must remember that many men, scattered over the earth, believe that, if in spite of our efforts, we do not have the good fortune to settle these disputes and realise the hopes of humanity, others will be ready to take up this duty and will succeed in doing so. Uruguay, like America, is a country of peace, conciliation and arbitration, and hopes that the black clouds which now overshadow the world will be dispersed this year.

===== Session 02 - 1947 =====
Not long ago, in October 1946, I had the honour of addressing you from this same rostrum. I had left the United States at the joyous and stirring moment of peace and victory; but I found, on my return to this country, that here and in other countries which I visited on the American continent and its islands, there was much anxiety and growing uncertainty in the minds of all peoples, throughout all classes of society, in the cities and in the country towns.
At the General Assembly held in this same hall last year, all ideas, the most conservative, the most liberal and the most extreme, were freely expressed, and that Assembly was a true parliament of the world. As in all parliaments, many compromise solutions were reached. A tendency was manifested to better the conditions of the working people and the less fortunate of the world; women exerted increased influence, both direct and indirect, on our deliberations; at the same time, access to the Press and other news agencies was free, thus proclaiming the “right to know”. The beneficial influence of the new Members of the United Nations was felt. We all shared the. unanimous desire to speed the work for peace. Many problems remained unsolved, but it may be said that in the last few weeks particularly, great progress was made towards harmony and goodwill.
World confidence declined in the period between the cessation of hostilities and the last regular session; but that decline has been much more noticeable in the period between the 1946 session of the Assembly and the present.
It is true that the United Nations has worked hard with extraordinary success, and I am pleased on that account to offer my congratulations to Mr. Trygve Lie and all his assistants. However, the problems I mentioned, which remained pending in 1946, not only have not been settled, but now appear much graver than ever and make our present outlook very gloomy.
This means that at the present time the effectiveness and the very existence of the United Nations are in jeopardy.
It is well to remember that the world had no choice between our present Organization, which can still be perfected, and a better one; we were faced with this alternative or nothing; to accept nothing meant to leave nations free to settle their .differences by the use of force, and that is the situation which seems to be threatening our world.
The delegation I represent has the firm and clear intention of supporting and maintaining the United Nations by all the means in its power, and of making every endeavour to improve it, and it is comforting to say that, in the face of the present uncertainty, our will and our firm intention to achieve understanding between men and nations have increased.
I speak on behalf of a nation which has solid institutions and advanced social laws, and I bring you its democratic ideas and determination in the fight for freedom! In the name of a South American country, I beg all of you here, who hold in your hands this grave responsibility, to do all that you can to bring about that more peaceful frame of mind which is indispensable to the peace of the world.

===== Session 03 - 1948 =====
Mr. UGON reaffirmed the warm adherence of his country to the purposes and principles laid down in the United Nations Charter. He emphasized that such adherence was active in character, for it sought to carry out effectively the programme contained in that basic document on the level of international law. Uruguay was always prepared to co-operate in the cause of progress and the positive development of the standards governing the high interests of the community of nations. The majority of States, aware of the need for international order, had agreed to the discussion and adoption of recommendations intended to bring into the light the basic postulates of their common actions. No hesitation could be tolerated in the face of demands which did not conform to the spirit of peace, justice and collective security.
Work done in the name of such lofty ideals could but promote the development of solidarity between the nations gathered at the General Assembly of the United Nations, in such a way as to build up a tradition permitting intensive work to be carried out with a full sense of reality, keeping in view the obligations which various ideologies imposed. The sense of reality must not, however, lead to a denial of the principles laid down in the first Articles of the Charter.
Both in public and in private law institutions had always been perfected by means of mutual concessions and timely compromises. The United Nations was characterized by its essentially juridical structure. To carry out work effectively, the essential conditions were the respect of principles and the desire for realities. It could be said without fear of being wrong that the duration and creative forces of such work depended on the proportion in which these elements intervened. Nevertheless, as disputes or existing situations between States derived, as did the interests, from certain laws — even when they were the result of political or economic interests — it was only on a legal foundation that any lasting decision could be taken.
None of the organs of the United Nations could neglect being inspired by legal standards, for those standards were above the interests involved. In accordance with the principles of the Charter, right must always be superior to purely political or economic considerations. For that reason, it would be desirable to grant the International Court of Justice — within the limits of the competence granted by its Statute — wider powers of intervention both in its purely judicial functions and in its consultative ones; in the latter respect its conclusions should be firmly supported, account being taken of them in any ulterior decision.
The value of recommendations founded on law lay in their objectivity and the spirit of justice which inspired them. The most effective way of restoring the prestige of the United Nations and of obtaining the greatest collaboration from States signatory to the Charter was to accept the guidance of law in the solution of all problems arising from international relationships, while not however casting aside altogether political or economic interests. There was no surer guarantee than that based upon law. The first place must be given to the principles of right and legality which governed and determined the freely accepted juridical order. Justice and the general principles of international law must inspire the solution of problems or situations submitted to the consideration of the organs set up by the United Nations Charter. That was why Uruguay had always fought for the setting up of a very broad international jurisdiction; that was why Uruguay would recommend to the competent organ of the United Nations a formula for unrestricted arbitration, thus giving proof of its desire to work for peace and international understanding
If the realization of the universal tendency were embodied in the Charter, the achievement of the aims of that instrument would be facilitated and advanced. The ideal sought was, of course, that no dispute should remain outside the jurisdiction of the United Nations; from this it followed that it was essential to admit as Members of the United Nations the greatest possible number of States able and willing to fulfil the conditions laid down by the Charter, both in the letter and in the spirit, so that none might remain outside the community of nations.
The maintenance of the integrity of the Charter required that the undertakings and obligations it imposed should be spontaneously and scrupulously respected. The peaceful settlement of all international disputes and the maintenance of peace and security, those were the obligations which the Charter stipulated. The settlement of disputes by force should never be permitted. The voice of all peoples now called on all Members to do their utmost to see that that ideal was put into practice.
The problem of the maintenance of security was closely bound with that of means of aggression. The Assembly should adopt a resolution calling for a study of the basic conditions required for the establishment of a control system over atomic energy, so that that energy might be used only and exclusively for peaceful purposes. That should be one of the main objectives of the third session of the Assembly. The requirements of humanity, the needs of social peace and the assurance and advent of real peace made it absolutely essential for all nations to accept any and all proposals likely to reconcile in the best possible way the obligations and interests of all parties.
The Uruguayan representative went on to say that his delegation, in full conformity with the provisions of the Charter and certain basic principles of the Uruguayan Constitution would firmly support all proposals likely to strengthen in any way the protection of human rights. In order not to make that solemn declaration an. empty promise it would be necessary to establish appropriate, indispensable institutions and to grant them all the necessary legal rights.
Any such declaration of human rights would indeed be useless if the appropriate legal institutions did not provide means to enforce it. Every right should be protected and covered by legal provisions. The Uruguayan delegation would do its utmost to ensure that the principles of democracy, justice and right should never be relegated to a place of secondary importance.


===== Session 05 - 1950 =====
The basic and dominant theme of this general debate is the problem of Korea. The resolutions of the Security Council with regard to Korea, supported by fifty-three Member States of the United Nations, and the decision of various of those States to assist in the defence of the victim of aggression with their armed forces, in fulfilment of the Council’s resolution, form the first example of coherent and organized military action designed to repress the crime of aggression in the field of international relations. While Uruguay has no direct interest in the region in which the attack occurred, its main preoccupation, which is quite understandable in the case of small States, is the clear and definite establishment of the precedent that violence should not be employed in the solution of international problems; that the law of the strongest should not be used to settle differences but, on the contrary, that the principles of the United Nations Charter and the precepts of international law should regulate the conduct of peoples, the aims of governments and the relations between States. On that account, Uruguay has been one of the first countries to express its full and complete adherence to the historic resolutions of the Council and on that account also it offered, to the extent of its material potentialities, its contribution to this common fight in the interests of all, the main burden of which is today borne by the United States.
80.	I pause here to express my people’s admiration and to pay homage to the youth of that great nation, a standard-bearer in the cause of justice and right. This international police action which, fortunately with growing success, is being carried out by the United Nations in Korea, is based on a recommendation of the Security Council and therefore depends fundamentally on the voluntary co-operation of Members prepared to prevent that criminal act from being carried out with impunity.
81.	It is worthwhile remembering that the system of the League of Nations depended on a similar theory. But the tragic failure of that body which, in similar circumstances, never succeeded in carrying out an action such as that which has now been begun in Korea, was due to the fact that at that time it was erroneous to believe that aggression would provoke a unanimous reaction against its author on the part of those who were not directly affected by it. That, which was an error in Geneva, is today correct, and events in Korea have so proved it.
82.	International aggression today provokes the same reaction, even on the part of those who are not directly affected by its immediate results. A true understanding of their interest leads each Member of the United Nations and of each free State in the international community, to oppose aggression, in whatever shape or guise, whatever the victim, and in whatever part of the world it occurs.
83.	The indivisibility of peace may be the synthesis of the extraordinary and perhaps unprecedented moral and material defensive solidarity uniting the free world, which feels itself equally exposed on all flanks to the pressure of the obscure forces attempting to dominate it.
84.	Collective responsibility against international aggression, moreover, finds an invincible shield in the active practice of effective democracy, as proclaimed by the Charter of the Organization of American States. Where democratic principles prevail, the force of aggression meets with immediate defeat.
85.	With respect to this problem of aggression which, notwithstanding the passage of time, still continues to threaten the security of peaceful and hard-working peoples, my delegation believes that it is necessary to invoke a legal concept in order to determine who is the aggressor. If one of the fundamental rules of the Charter is the renunciation of the use of force in international relations, and, no less important, the obligation to bring about by peaceful means the settlement of all international disputes which might lead to a breach of the peace, then logically the country which refuses to admit any of the means for the peaceful settlement of disputes must be considered the aggressor.
86.	Not long ago, Sir Carl Berendsen told us [280th meeting] that the Council’s effective action in the case of Korea occurred by accident. That is apparently true; but the accident only eliminated the obstacle. What is important is that there existed, and continues to exist, the extraordinary positive force which is that moral and material solidarity of the vast majority of the peoples and governments of the United Nations.
87.	It is our Organization which must direct that joint aim, that defensive solidarity, transforming it into effective collective measures for the suppression of aggression, as Article 1, paragraph 1 of the Charter states. In so far as that essential basis exists on a scale unprecedented in the history of international relations, a simple recommendation is sufficient to begin the realization of that aim and to transform unity of thought into effective unity of action. Thus, if the Council is prevented from doing so, it may quite well be the supreme organ of the United Nations — this General Assembly — which, by means of its powers of discussion and recommendation, transforms that solidarity against aggression into armed punishment of international crime.
88.	In his time Pascal said with bitterness that since man had not fortified justice, he had justified force. The action of the United Nations in Korea is the first step towards the fortification of justice rather than the justification of force.
89.	I should like to refer briefly to other essential points of our programme on which the position of our country should now be made clear. At this time our Government repeats its firm intention to co-operate in the establishment and maintenance of an international force to serve the United Nations in preserving peace and resisting aggression. As far bade as the Second Peace Conference in The Hague in 1907, the Uruguayan delegation, through the honoured words of Mr. Batlley Ordoñez, maintained that if so many alliances had been concluded in the interests of arbitrary rule and war, an alliance to defend justice and peace could very well be signed.
90.	In its vote on the problem of Chinese representation, the Uruguayan delegation has been guided and will continue to be guided by its traditional policy concerning the recognition of governments. A new government must meet three requirements in order to gain recognition: it must exercise effective authority, be willing to fulfil its international obligations, and be established in accordance with international law. The current agenda of the General Assembly contains the accusation that the regime of the People’s Republic of China relied for its establishment on effective aid from a foreign government, that is to say, that it was established in a manner contrary to international law.
91.	So long as this charge is pending, our Government will be unable to recognize the Chinese communist regime and therefore to vote in favour of its admission to the United Nations. We have not said “no” to the Chinese government at Peiping; we have said “no” for the time being or better still we have said “not yet”.
92.	Our delegation supported and will continue to support the system of international control of atomic energy prepared by the Atomic Energy Commission and approved by General Assembly resolution 191 (III) in 1948, as the essential basis for the prohibition of this weapon of mass destruction, with confidence and assurance that no state will be able to manufacture it or use it secretly. In this matter it would be improper to run any risks whatever. The first blow might be decisive. In one of his classic anecdotes, Lincoln told the story of a newspaperman who interviewed a condemned man to find out his feelings before going to the gallows. The reply was: “I think this will teach me a lesson”. The free world cannot run the risk of this type of posthumous lesson.
93.	With regard to the responsibility for and promotion of human rights, our country will take part in the discussion of the draft international covenant on human rights in order to defend the broadest and most effective systems of juridical protection. This does not prejudice the fact that Uruguay believes that, by virtue of the Charter, Member States have already undertaken the positive juridical obligation to promote respect for and exercise of those rights within their borders.
94.	Our delegation regrets that it is unable to concur in the recent advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice in the matter of the Treaties of Peace with Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria.
95.	The results of that opinion might be that the vast majority of treaties of arbitration which are now in force would become optional in character. Our Government, a firm advocate of arbitration, through historical tradition and through its constitutional precepts, believes that any State which has assumed the obligation of submitting its controversies to this method of peaceful settlement cannot evade the fulfilment of such obligations by resorting to the simple expedient of refusing to carry out the instrumental actions which are necessary to implement the principal obligation. Anyone who has committed himself to a certain policy is thereby committed to the accessory actions required to implement that policy.
96.	Nevertheless, because of higher principles, our delegation considers that the opinion of the Court should be respected in this case. The prestige of this supreme judicial institution must be placed above any accidental difference that may arise with regard to any of its decisions.
97.	In the field of technical assistance for the economic development of under-developed countries, Uruguay took an active part in the preparation of the programme which was adopted by General Assembly resolution 304 (IV) in 1949 and has recently offered a contribution of $US100,000 to be invested in the first part of that programme. Thus, it has placed at the service of the United Nations the experience and the services of its experts, its institutions and teaching centres in those fields in which the achievements of Uruguay might perhaps be of use to nations now facing similar problems.
98.	Despite the seriousness of the moment, the present situation inspires confidence in the future.
99.	A great Uruguayan jurist, Mr. Irureta Goyena, said: “Aggression becomes more concentrated as it becomes more rare; it progresses from the individual to the family, from the family to the city, from the city to the State. We see it retreating along the infinite road of history. The State is the last bulwark of aggression. If it could be defeated in its last refuge, justice would take Its place and the atavistic suggestion of the cave man would disappear forever. And why not? If any sociological principle has any sense, that principle is the sense of history. If family justice has replaced individual justice, if the justice of the city has replaced family justice, if the justice of the State has replaced the justice of the city, why should not the justice of the world community of States replace the justice of the State?”


===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
Among the items to be considered by the General Assembly at this session there are some which vitally affect the way of life in certain countries, and it might be said that all these questions have a bearing on the political and social progress of mankind as a whole. We might further claim that nations and persons have the courage to bring to the Assembly’s notice matters which, owing to their nature and magnitude, could not be raised between countries maintaining international relations without endangering friendly relations between these countries and possibly even peace itself. The mere fact that such vital and important problems can be submitted to and discussed by the Assembly, with some hope of a settlement, is in itself a great step forward. Even if immediate solutions are not reached, the fact that all of us can meet, consider, discuss and seek solutions or compromises regarding extremely delicate matters is a very important factor in the mutual goodwill of the nations.
46.	To ask the United Nations General Assembly to consider and find prompt solutions for the serious problems which are troubling certain countries and which have existed for many years is surely not the best way to facilitate the work or to enhance the prestige of the United Nations. The Assembly has not the requisite means or powers to enforce justice immediately, even where rightly demanded; but it is the only body where this justice can originate, the only one in which the peoples should place their optimistic hopes, and the only one which they should support. Nothing could be more detrimental to world peace than to inspire scepticism in the man in the street concerning our present or future work. What we actually stand for and what we hope to accomplish is being prejudiced not only by the critics who have spoken from this platform about our work and the policy and motives of the members of the Assembly; but also, paradoxical though it may seem, an equally harmful effect is caused by demands for justice that will brook no delay and by the expression of lack of faith in the United Nations’ work whenever immediate satisfaction — which we too should like to see — proves impossible.
47.	The peoples must realize that what they cannot obtain in peace they are not going to win by war. This is even truer as regards the smaller countries. Hence, our only course is to strengthen the Assembly’s hands and to enlist the public’s hope and faith in it; that is the way to strengthen this Organization and make it strong enough to operate really more effectively.
48.	Even if we do not all return home with all our demands satisfied, we must not think that this international organ has failed or that those demands have been rejected; nor should such circumstances furnish the pretext for hot-headed and pseudo-patriotic diatribes against the Assembly’s work. I would go so far as to say that to voice dissatisfaction in that way would be the best way to excite and organize disorder; and that would undoubtedly be a very serious threat to peace.
49.	A certain delegation has stated in this Assembly that the part which the United Nations Assembly can play in dealing with certain problems can only be limited and problems of such magnitude should in the first place be settled by the great Powers among themselves. In my opinion, this idea is entirely misconceived. The Uruguayan delegation is not going to fall into the error of denying the extremely important functions of the great Powers, but it would like to affirm the function which the smaller Powers can perform in this Assembly, for, in the aggregate, they comprise hundreds of millions of voices and speak for whole continents whose votes in the Assembly may be effectively felt in decisions on the problems before it. The smaller countries can act through tire United Nations Assembly in close relation to the great Powers, and even in opposition to them, and so collaborate in seeking the way to peace and strengthening it. We might say that a fundamental difference between the great Powers and the smaller countries is that the latter cannot initiate any great conflict involving the whole world; but the sufferings imposed by war fall equally upon everyone, as do economic and social disturbances. This means that peace is needed equally by all.
50.	We should not, therefore, when discussing the items on our agenda, differentiate between those which must be dealt with and solved by the great Powers and those which may require the collaboration of all countries. It is precisely in the larger disputes that the Assembly should make its views heard and the majority should be decisive. In this way we, the smaller countries, may become the best collaborators and friends of the great Powers in helping them to bear the burden and the immense responsibility of administering the political affairs which affect the whole of mankind. If disagreements and disputes exist among the great Powers and if a deadlock is reached in negotiations to ensure peace, the many small countries distributed through the world could obviously, if united, play a decisive part in keeping up a steady movement on the road towards that more lasting peace which is so much desired and hoped for by all.
51.	I think that the representatives have become aware that there is a certain amount of disappointment here at the way in which some speakers have addressed themselves not so much to the Members of this Assembly as to the public at large, which in all continents is watching what is being said and done here. It is essential that we should agree that peace is not likely to be found in the weakness of some and the violent language of others. Violence of language does not necessarily imply either reason or strength or even determination. Nobody made more violent speeches than Hitler, and yet now the German people is suffering the consequences of that language and that pride. It would be most unfortunate for the whole world if the same were to happen again.
52.	We have faith in what this Assembly is going to do, because all of us without exception can endeavour to see that reason shall prevail and guide the work upon which we are employed. We are sure that the world is carefully watching our efforts, we have no doubt what people want and are demanding; and we are confident that we are not going to disappoint their hopes, because all of us here present have been delegated from countries which desire peace and desire to live in freedom and, luckily, those of us who can make decisions without animosity, but firmly, form the majority here.
53.	Accordingly we feel bound to state that it is impossible to speak of peace without simultaneously speaking of the freedom of the peoples and of the right of free expression and free movement. The very fact that the Assembly exists means that there must be freedom. Without freedom we could not be here and without freedom we smaller countries would not be able to act, because our strength can only be the strength of our disinterested thinking and the strength of the unity of the smaller countries, all of them enjoying the rule of freedom. Freedom, then, is a fundamental condition of peace, so much so that it can be said that peace is gravely endangered unless accompanied by the freedom of the peoples and all mankind.
54.	I must also state, on behalf of my delegation, that we are approaching the study of all economic and social problems calmly, without being daunted by new methods which might be proposed, for we believe that in order to achieve human happiness, new methods must be tried, though the rule of freedom must be safeguarded so that man can express himself without tear and free from pressure.
55.	We do not believe in social improvements and technical progress that are unattainable without the surrender of the freedom of the individual and of nations. On the contrary, these merely point the way to a new form of slavery, and it would be erroneous to believe that they lead to the happiness we seek.
56.	Should the achievement of a full measure of social justice demand that we weaken our respect of freedom, we should then find ourselves in an impasse. Fortunately, however, that is an entirely false premise; the social progress of mankind, and even the rapid evolution of the actual forms of society which ensure greater justice, may be achieved without weakening or damaging freedom.
57.	Likewise, we do not believe that the world can move towards disarmament or enjoy the security of an established peace if freedom of information and freedom of movement do not exist. We claim that, so long as great zones of silence where the freedom of man is controlled or suppressed by force continue to exist, it will not be possible to ensure true disarmament. Before this Assembly can act it must be well informed, and it can never have that assurance unless freedom of information throughout the world is an accomplished fact.
58.	This Assembly might adopt a resolution demanding such freedom of information, to impress upon the man in the street that he is gravely imperilled by those who would deny him the right of acquiring information. How could we proceed to fulfil this essential condition of our way of life? The Uruguayan delegation to the Hague Conference in 1907 stated: “Since so many alliances have been made to impose arbitrary rule, it would be appropriate to conclude an alliance to impose justice”.
59.	The peoples wishing to live in freedom and sincerely working for the happiness of mankind could enter into a great alliance with a view to finding ways likely to lead to the economic well-being of nations, to a contented life in society to the satisfaction of the individual’s desire to move about freely and to be informed of the progress achieved in the world.
60.	Uruguay extols freedom because it is in freedom that democracy yields its finest fruits. It was under the protection of freedom that Uruguay won all its social victories: those connect with present and future material security as well as those which create and confirm the happy state of living in an atmosphere of intellectual and moral clarity in which no restrictions hamper the free expression of ideas.
61.	In this way, we have been able to arrive at this period of improvisation and disequilibrium with a firm and resolute step, with the aid of a far-seeing legislation worked out gradually over a long period of years. This has been our use and apprenticeship of freedom. Let me emphasize that our freedom is intended to serve the social achievements which, we have brought about. We hastened to give all men the justice they need so that they may enjoy life.
62.	Education in our country is entirely free, from the earliest schooling until the attainment of a university degree; all costs are borne by the community. Health inspection is begun in schools and assistance in the hospitals and clinics throughout the country is also extended free to those whose salaries are below a prescribed statutory average. Our system of social security is perhaps among the most perfect in the world, and the present and the future of all those who work are insured. From 1912 onwards, we have gradually nationalized the management of various sectors of our social and economic existence, converting private capital, whether national or foreign, into state capital, and these have proved decisive achievements expressing the clear victory of our way of life. As I have said, we realize that we have not yet covered all the ground before us. Let me repeat, however that we approach without apprehension any possible solutions, though, of course, we are vigilant lest we lose our freedom or show weakness to those who seek to deprive us of it on the pretext of ideal solutions, which we earnestly desire to find and which we have ardently sought in other lands, but without success. In this way, we contribute towards the strengthening of democracy and thus feel that we are loyal members of this United Nations.
63.	Our country has made every endeavour to fulfil its duties towards the United Nations and, accordingly, we have given economic assistance to the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund and have also granted, technical aid to economically under-developed countries, offering to grant fellowships for Uruguay as well as to send technical experts. We have responded to the appeal for aid to Korea with medical supplies and clothing; we have also promptly, in the name of international solidarity, heeded the call of certain countries in their time of suffering. Furthermore, our country and our Government have considered it a fundamental duty to answer every appeal made in this Assembly and we are sure that those representatives of the Organization who have visited Uruguay have been able to witness our interest in the success of the activities of the United Nations and our loyalty to its work.
64.	I should not like to leave this rostrum without referring to the need for an early solution to correct the improper use of the veto. Its effect is harmful and it is preventing certain countries from taking their place in this Assembly; on behalf of my delegation, I wish to refer particularly to Italy. All those who have had occasion to visit Italy can see the speedy recovery achieved in its whole social and economic life, its will to work and its sincere desire to establish the law and order of democracy. All this has been accomplished by a nation which desires peace; it is sound in spirit and high-minded in character and would surely prove a loyal collaborator in our work, contribute to the prestige of the Organization and strengthen our resolutions. The Italian people will never forget who is preventing it from being present and from making its voice heard here.
65.	Uruguay appears before this Assembly free of all local interests, fully disposed towards the fullest possible cooperation and offering the assurance that, so far from creating difficulties in the United Nations, it will, on the contrary, undertake to contribute to the utmost towards the effective realization of its activities. All countries, without any exception, may confidently look to us for friendship, understanding of their problems and a readiness to help in satisfying the demands of justice. However, not a single commitment and not a single word will be wrested from us which might tend to threaten the success of our struggle to strengthen the sure and effective progress of the United Nations.


===== Session 07 - 1952 =====
As I take the floor here, towards the close of the first stage in the general debate which the peoples of the Member States, through their delegations, initiate each year in the General Assembly, I desire once again to reaffirm the faith and hope of Uruguay in the United Nations. Both within and without the United Nations there are tensions and conflicts as strong as those of previous years, and new problems of undeniable gravity have arisen, such as the upsurge of nationalism and claims by the under-developed countries for greater equality of rights, freedoms and economic opportunities. Nevertheless, my delegation agrees with the Secretary-General that the United Nations, today more than ever, offers to all peoples the only road to the conquest of peace and the protection of civilization.
82.	It is precisely because we belong to an unfortunate generation which twice in twenty-five years has witnessed the outbreak of a major war, that we see in the United Nations the only hope for peace and co-operation. That is particularly true in the present phase of world history, when the earth is growing Smaller through scientific progress and the genius of man is discovering new sources of power which, according to whether the great Powers which possess its secret succeed or fail in achieving harmony, may raise the human race to the pinnacle of happiness or hurl it into the tragic abyss of destruction and death.
83.	When the actions of the United Nations are evaluated and judged, let it not be forgotten that the Organization came into the world in the most dramatic circumstances, after an orgy of violence without precedent in history, in which the freedoms of the peoples had been trampled underfoot, their sources of production destroyed, the wealth accumulated by creative labour submitted to systematic pillage, and the dignity of the human person insulted and mocked by the worst forms of outrage and humiliation. For the same reason, the United Nations must be allowed sufficient time to attempt its great mission when it is called upon to solve problems rooted deep in history, impossible of solution in the past owing to the absence of that spirit of tolerance, understanding, confidence and faith in the advantages of co-operation upon which the philosophy of the United Nations Charter is based.
84.	The destiny of man cannot be raised tip out of chaos and violence and brought to order and happiness without a necessary period of transition — -the stage through which we are now passing — when the work of the United Nations must be judged rather by what it succeeds in avoiding than by what it is able to achieve. Creative action requires an atmosphere of tolerance, of peaceful relations, and of co-operation. These, we firmly believe, can be achieved by the efforts of the peoples and their governments if, while we cultivate these noble sentiments, the United Nations uproots, wherever they may appear, all seeds of aggressive ideologies, lust for power and the spirit of conquest, the tragic legacy of that totalitarianism so recently defeated on the field of battle.
85.	It seems obvious that many of the present tensions and conflicts have arisen from the delay in signing the peace treaties and from the manner in which those treaties which have been signed were drafted. It was always a matter of dispute whether the United Nations should begin its new chapter in world history before or after the peace treaties had established the concrete foundation of order in the relations among States. The League of Nations, which came into being at the same time as the peace treaties which put an end to the First World War, began under apparently happier auspices; but it failed to safeguard peace and collective security because it lacked the decision and strength to punish aggression and the manifestations of international delinquency when they claimed their first victim. The guiding principle at San Francisco was the idea that the United Nations should come into being before peace was finally negotiated, because there was a hope that the great Powers would agree on foundations for that peace in line with the purposes and principles of the Charter, That hope has not as yet been borne out by experience, but the Organization cannot be denied the right to weigh and judge the conduct of the great Powers in this matter, as we are about to do once more in the concrete case of Austria.
86.	It is here, in the Assembly, that the battle is waged to ensure that the principles of the Charter shall gradually permeate the organs which express the common will of the United Nations, and also the conduct of the great Powers, whose acts and decisions are of such vital importance to peace. The annual debates of the Assembly reveal a continuous and tenacious effort to inspire the life of the United Nations ever more fully with the ideal of democracy and the spirit of law. In this task we are supported by those spiritual reserves of humanity, respect for law and international morality. These are most precious reserves, which in the last war upheld all over the world, even in the darkest hours, humanity’s faith in the final triumph of the democracies. The support of these moral forces here in this Assembly has enabled the United Nations to overcome its structural defects, such as the veto, by invoking the concurrent jurisdiction of the Assembly when the Security Council, for the reasons and in the circumstances known to all, failed in its essential task as the guardian of peace.
87.	In our opinion, which I should like to express with some emphasis, the great achievement of the United Nations has been to overcome its organic defects. Evidence of this is the resolution [377(V)] entitled “Uniting for peace,” of which Uruguay was a co-sponsor at the 1950 session of the Assembly and which is in itself the most convincing proof that the United Nations has succeeded in abolishing the privilege of immunity which, in practice, is conferred by the veto. At this point it cannot be argued here, as it was on 29 October 1946, in the second part of the General Assembly’s first session, that the principle of the veto is the corner-stone of the United Nations and that its removal would cause the whole structure to collapse. Today, on the contrary, there may be a hope that in the near future the veto will become a thing of the past, with the spinning-wheel and the bronze hatchet, and will be no more to the peoples than the sign and symbol of a vanished world based on inequality among States, the privileges of power and the denial of the rule of law and morality.
88.	The United Nations requires an atmosphere of confidence, of understanding and of collaboration, and it is in that spirit that we consider and judge the upsurge of nationalism in vast areas of the world whence the cry goes up for more substantial rights, for wider freedoms, for better economic opportunities — aspirations which are all implicit in the ideal of the self-determination of peoples expressly formulated in the Charter. No one can fail to be aware that nationalism, that mystical expression of the right to self-determination of peoples in all fields in which they can develop their personality under the aegis of liberty and progress, is one of the great forces of history, deeply rooted in the most powerful emotions of the human race — love of family, home and country. Inspired by a spirit of solidarity, the peoples of the world have embodied these aspirations in the United Nations Charter, with the noble purpose of opening up to the peoples a way towards all forms and possibilities of freedom and progress — political, economic, social, cultural and humanitarian.
89.	After the United Nations had been set up, we saw the birth of the State of Israel. India, Pakistan, Ceylon and Burma have achieved full independence. Indonesia, an independent member of the Netherlands-Indonesian Union, has become a Member of the United Nations, with equal status and sovereign rights. The associated States of Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia have achieved their independence within the French Union and have applied for membership of the United Nations. If we remember also the work of the United Nations in Libya and Eritrea, we shall have to admit that the world has seldom witnessed a peaceful revolution, on such an enormous scale and of such profound significance, in such a short time.
90.	Unfortunately, heavy burdens have been laid on the sincerely peace-loving peoples by the need to repel aggression and organize their lawful and collective self-defence under regional arrangements — certainly a more onerous method than the creation of a common international force, which has been rendered impossible by certain intransigent attitudes. These burdens have diverted valuable resources from the economic development of the under-developed countries. Undeniably this is the long-range problem of the greatest importance for the destiny of the world; and we wish to define our attitude towards it and to explain in advance the position which we shall take up, repeating from this platform the statements which we have frequently made on the subject in the Economic and Social Council. In order to arrive at the satisfactory and effective solutions which we are seeking, it is necessary, in our opinion, to make use of all the resources available and of the new methods which have been evolved — although, inevitably, they are inadequate in the face of a problem so vast and of such long standing — taking into account the obvious inequalities which exist and which are the result of differences in strength of economic structures and of the national per capita income which, in some countries, enables people to amass private fortunes while, in others, it is not even enough to enable them to meet their most elementary requirements. There are countries which are in process of economic development, where progress has been and still is possible although the pace at which it proceeds is often far from satisfying the wishes of the population. Side by side with these countries are the economically under-developed countries, where the chances of improvement are greatly hindered, if not wholly blocked, by meagre resources and low standards of living.
91.	In the first case, that of the countries which are already in process of economic development — a category which we feel includes Uruguay and other countries with the same or similar characteristics — where the level of the national income makes it possible to save and to accumulate private fortunes, the requirements of economic development can be met with the aid of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. If we take it that the Bank makes loans only to governments, or to private undertakings which can be guaranteed by governments — the latter requirement being difficult to satisfy for obvious reasons of internal policy with regard to the need to respect the independence and freedom of private enterprise — it would appear that the action taken to promote economic development could be greatly expanded if private capital could.be mobilized and directed towards those investments which really furthered such development, thus helping to implement programmes sponsored by private initiative in. each country, that is, by free enterprise. An institution operating in that way, maintaining close contact with and establishing standard operating procedures in agreement with the Bank, Would, in our opinion, enable us to overcome the present lack of confidence which is discouraging this kind of investment.
92.	As regards the second category — the under-developed countries whose people live in economic and social penury — the best service we can render their unfortunate inhabitants is to refrain from reminding them, of the misfortunes they suffer and to offer them the means of removing or alleviating their suffering. Here the measures already mentioned must necessarily be supplemented by other types of assistance, such as interest-free loans and even subsidies. My delegation wishes to state that it will welcome most warmly the provision of new funds for this purpose.
93.	This year the General Assembly has on its agenda, as at its last session, two items typical of that atmosphere of distrust and hypersensitivity which so often leads to distortion and misinterpretation of efforts to achieve understanding and co-operation. These items relate to the war in Korea and the future of that country, and to policy regarding armaments. With regard to the first of these matters, the deadlock which has existed since the aggression was repelled, has not yet been broken. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the USSR, in his recent speech [383rd meeting], reproached the Secretary of State of the United States because, after speaking of an honourable peace, the Secretary of State had then referred to a just peace, our only reaction was that justice and honour are two inseparable elements in any plan for terminating hostilities and restoring peace.
94.	We here state in all frankness that the proposals presented to the General Assembly by the representative of Poland [A/2229] do not, in our opinion, meet that requirement. Moreover, they add nothing new or constructive to the debate. In regard, in particular, to the repatriation of prisoners to their countries of origin, it is neither just nor honourable that, as the price for breaking the present deadlock, the United Nations should renounce its own principles and agree to deny to more than 30,000 human beings their right to choose freely the place where they are to rebuild their happiness in the peace of their homes.
95.	The delegation of Mexico has proposed a solution of this problem which safeguards the freedom of the individual. My delegation warmly supports this proposal, without relinquishing our opinion that an equally honourable and just solution would be for the United Nations, through its competent bodies to which the Charter entrusts the protection of human rights, to assume responsibility for those prisoners who refuse to return to their countries of origin. It would be neither logical nor reasonable that the United Nations, because of its status as a belligerent, should be prevented from fulfilling the tasks entrusted to it by the Charter and assuming the care of these prisoners. The military action undertaken by the United Nations is sui generis. It is a police action by a collective body whose essential purpose is to prevent breaches of the peace and acts of aggression. Consequently the rules regarding prisoners which have been made for belligerent States are hardly applicable to it. Moreover, although all are Members of the collective body which is taking action, a distinction can admittedly be drawn between those States which have taken up arms and those which have merely supported the action by their votes or are passively bound by it.
96; With regard to policy concerning armaments and armed forces — a problem fundamental to the peace and progress of the world — we are again at an impasse. And it must be conceded that no substantial progress can be made in the matter so long as the effective control of disarmament and the duty to see that atomic energy is not used for purposes of war are still in the hands of the Security Council, that is, subject to the privilege of impunity constituted by the veto.
97.	Finally, my delegation would like to comment on the remarks made by Mr. Vyshinsky in his speech to the Assembly on Saturday [383rd meeting], when he declared that in the opinion of the Soviet Union there was nothing to prevent the peaceful coexistence of capitalism and communism. That opinion coincides with the general feeling expressed many times in other quarters. The Charter Was certainly not established to impose systems or ideas upon men or nations. It was established to safeguard the right of peoples to the respect of their freedom and the right of each individual to-the respect of his person. But the world is too varied and complex for the destiny of each of its peoples to be bounded solely by the dilemma of capitalism or communism. Nor can it be reduced to the dilemma of free enterprise and a socialized or State-controlled economy, for private capital everywhere is subjected to greater or lesser restrictions, which subordinate it to the general welfare in accordance with the dictates of justice, and which sometimes even replace it by State-controlled enterprise for the better organization of the necessary public services. Indeed, it may happen, as in Uruguay, that the process has been a long one, dating from the opening of the century, and carried out with full respect for the law and the property of others. My country has nationalized or placed under State control sources of production and of wealth upon which a people’s independence is based.
98.	The differences which may arise between nations and systems in the world today correspond to different and opposing concepts of the individual before the law and in his relations to the State. As applied to peaceful relations among peoples, these ideas are an expression, certainly, of differing concepts of life.
99.	Is man the chief end of the law, the State the servant of man, and he the sole sovereign? In that case, the human person is as much under international as under national law. Or is man subject only to national law, receiving his liberties from the State and remaining the servant of the collective systems which express the Will of the State? This is the first difference of concept. Is man a product of history, subject to the inexorable laws of determinism? Or is he the master and architect of his own destiny and, as such, able to influence history, to build it, to live it, like the men of good will who, in the United Nations, are endeavouring to show the peoples of the world the bright and blessed paths of peace, tolerance, friendship and brotherly co-operation, thus correcting the effects of the blind forces of history? There is no doubt that these two concepts can coexist in peace. But it must be agreed that such coexistence requires of all nations a sincere respect for the purposes and objectives of the Charter, which, by reflecting the ideal, represent what is eternal, and the necessary spirit of tolerance in working to achieve these ends through the constitutional bodies created to serve and further them.
100.	 For example, the Success or failure of our work for the freedom and dignity of man will depend upon the use or abuse of die privilege of national sovereignty. The liberation of man as a member of a nation is a sad illusion when as an individual he lives subject to the omnipotence of the State. What is to become of this great idea! called human rights, which we honour and venerate in all the organs of the United Nations, if in the end we make of it the first of the stateless refugees, closing the doors of home and country against it precisely on grounds of attachment to national sovereignty?
101.	Although the Charter refers often to domestic jurisdiction, we should remember that Article 2, paragraph 7, makes that reservation only in regard to matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of a State. In our opinion there can be no doubt that all matters which are part of the substance of an international covenant such as the United Nations Charter have by that very fact ceased to be essentially matters within the domestic jurisdiction of States.
102.	Freedom of information is part of the precious heritage of the great human freedoms. Let us all be agreed that If systems founded upon different concepts of human life are to coexist in harmony, freedom of information is the best school in which a man may instruct his spirit and choose in freedom the way of life he deems best suited to his ideas, his ideals and his experience. If this peaceful coexistence of peoples separated by fundamental ideological differences is to result in lasting peace and security, it becomes daily more essential that a spirit of mutual confidence should banish forever from the life of the United Nations the concept of absolute and inviolable sovereignty, at least in the crucial field of control of effective disarmament and the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes. Nothing practical or effective can be done to that end if the great Powers, which are recreating in our time the legend of, Prometheus by their possession of the sacred fire which can bring progress or death, invoke the principle of sovereignty in order to resist international control.
103. The voice of grieving humanity, whose destiny is still shackled by the bonds of insecurity, fear, misery and destitution — wretched legacy of the hideous war which we have just experienced — makes known in these halls its hope that the great Powers will understand their grave responsibilities and recognize their obligations. Today, more than ever, this rostrum of the United Nations General Assembly seems to be the appropriate place from which to recall the words of the distinguished sociologist: “The choice is not between Utopia and the world of our fathers, but between Utopia and hell.”


===== Session 09 - 1954 =====
It is almost a truism that one of the most fundamental values of history, considered from a scientific point of view, lies in the experience which the past — and even the present — contribute to the development and shaping of future events. Experience is wisdom. History is reality. Thus, wisdom unites with reality to offer its rich fruits to the future. The more complex the problems to be solved or the greater the difficulties to be overcome, the more useful will its contribution be.
2.	This is why we need at frequent intervals to go over the path by which we have come, to note the difficulties of the journey and to point out the mistakes that have been made in order to remedy them and prevent their recurrence.
3.	The need for such a course, which is always a sign of prudence, becomes much greater as the importance of the undertaking grows and difficulties and responsibilities multiply.
4.	There is no need for me to apply the principles I have just set forth to the entire achievement of the organs of the United Nations; however, I can refer to one aspect of this achievement, and to do so I shall choose, as an example, one of its finest organs, namely the International Court of Justice, an organization intended to give each one his due in international matters, just as the courts of justice in the various States do within the bounds of their respective sovereignties.
5.	In this connexion, I note with regret that, of the sixty States making up the United Nations, only half, approximately, have accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 5 of Article 36 of its Statute, although the desirable, natural and logical thing would have been unanimous acceptance or, at least, a far higher proportion of adherents.
6.	Our ideal is that the various organs of the United Nations should act untrammelled in their respective spheres, so that they may devote all their powers to the achievement of their objectives and may carry out to the full, without restriction or curtailment, the functions for which they were set up.
7.	Moreover, it is somewhat extraordinary that, of the fifteen judges of the Court, only seven come from countries which have accepted the jurisdiction of the Court (Canada, China, El Salvador, France, Norway, the United Kingdom and Uruguay), while the other eight judges, who constitute the majority, belong to countries which have not accepted the jurisdiction of the bench on which they serve — a paradoxical situation in which certain States consider themselves entitled to judge the problems of other States, but would not submit their own problems to the judgment of the latter.
8.	I should like to emphasize this point particularly, because my country has a long tradition — of which it is proud — of having been and of continuing to be the most fervent champion of legal methods for the pacific settlement of international disputes, to such an extent, indeed, that it has embodied this policy in an explicit provision of its Constitution, which, thus vested with the super-legality referred to by Hauriou, is ineluctably binding on all its Governments.
9.	To these points, which I regard as highly significant, I can add others no less revealing. Of the States which have not made known any decision on this matter, not one has abandoned this negative position during the last year, while, on the other hand, one which had recognized the Court’s jurisdiction has resolved not to renew its undertaking as its term expired, which means that not only have we made no advance in this respect but we have in fact regressed.
10.	During the same period, one Government (Honduras) renewed its acceptance and another (Turkey) prolonged its undertaking for a further five years, but three other States have not renewed their undertakings so far, despite the fact that the term of their acceptance has expired.
11.	Nevertheless, against these rather discouraging facts we may note that, two States which are not Members of the United Nations (Japan and San Marino) have become parties to the Statute of the Court, in accordance with Article 93, paragraph 2, of the Charter, and that a number of treaties registered with the United Nations Secretariat contain clauses conferring jurisdiction on the International Court in certain cases, while certain agreements, also registered with the Secretariat, contain clauses giving the President of the Court the power to appoint members of the boards of arbitration envisaged in the agreements.
12.	I note these encouraging facts with pleasure, just as I noted the others with distress. But be that as it may, when the final balance-sheet is drawn up, it gives no room for optimism; indeed, we feel obliged to draw attention to these facts in the hope that, in the future, they will receive the attention they deserve, both in themselves and as unmistakable symptoms of this lack of balance between political and legal matters which is constantly appearing in international problems.
13.	I fully realize that the United Nations must be the achievement of perseverance and time, but we must try to speed its progress, to establish confidence and to act disinterestedly. In this way, its benefits will be greater and its final success will be much more speedy and worthy of respect. If we are trying to organize “a system of true and universal international co-operation” we cannot refuse our own support to the work which we are trying to do.
14.	The Uruguayan delegation would also like to express its point of view briefly with regard to certain other matters.
15.	In connexion with the case of Guatemala, I should like to draw special attention to, and to support, a point of view which the Secretary-General put forward in his report to the Assembly [A/2663, p. xi], where he says that “a policy giving full scope to the proper role of regional agencies can and should at the same time fully preserve the right of a Member nation to a hearing under the Charter”.
16.	My country combines membership in the United Nations with membership in the Organization of American States, in the belief that the principles of the regional system and the safeguards which it offers cannot be invoked in order to prevent States from having direct and immediate access to the jurisdiction of the United Nations or to deprive them, no matter how temporarily, of the protection of the agencies of the world community. The legal protection afforded by both systems should be combined, never substituted for one another.
17.	The negative decision adopted by the Security Council constitutes a very serious precedent for the countries of America since its result must be to diminish or delay, so far as they are concerned, the respective application of the juridical safeguards against aggression established in the Charter of the United Nations and in subsequent resolutions, such as the 1950 resolution on “Uniting for peace” [377 (V)].
18.	In the face of the Security Council’s unlawful refusal to act, recourse was had to the Inter-American Peace Committee. This agency, which lacks the power to intervene in cases of aggression and to stop them, could provide no solution to the problem.
19.	Without prejudice to an examination of other aspects of this matter in due course, the delegation of Uruguay considers that any protest to the United Nations against aggression is entitled at least to a hearing.
20.	Another matter of immense importance and far-reaching implications is the problem of disarmament, on which great efforts have been spent without, unfortunately for the peace of the world and the progress of mankind, any agreement having been reached on specific formulae which would lessen the tremendous waste of a suicidal armaments race now crushing the nations under a burden of expenditure which, if it were directed to purposes of culture, health and productivity, would make an invaluable contribution to human welfare and happiness.
21.	In this connexion, the statement made at the eighth session of the General Assembly on 8 December 1953 [470th meeting] by the President of the United States of America, calling attention to the perils of atomic warfare and proposing gradual solutions to diminish these grave risks, together with the preparation of plans of international co-operation to facilitate the employment of atomic power for peaceful purposes, is, we consider, of the highest importance.
22.	My country will follow any progress which may be achieved in this direction with the greatest goodwill, in the hope that the power which now terrorizes mankind through its immeasurable potential for destruction may be transformed into a splendid instrument to promote the well-being of mankind.
23.	I should like to say also a few words on the subject of colonialism. As descendants of the former Spanish colonies in America, now free and independent thanks to the heroic efforts of our ancestors, we have always regarded with the liveliest sympathy the struggles of other nations in any part of the world for their own freedom and independence.
24.	Inspired by such considerations, Uruguay will support any suggestions and resolutions which may help, in a practical way and by means of peaceful settlements between the parties, to solve the disputes which the desire for self-government and independence of peoples not yet enjoying this natural right submit to world opinion.
25.	We consider that, in this respect, United Nations action can render effective service in legitimate causes submitted to the study and consideration of the General Assembly. Provided that there is serenity of judgment, without either ill-advised haste or prejudicial delay, we are confident that the United Nations can find satisfactory solutions for these problems, which are of the liveliest interest to all because of their human importance, through the peaceful paths of understanding and co-operation, which — and in particular the principle of equality of rights and the self-determination of peoples — are sources of justice and international progress. These principles take on a special significance for us when they touch upon such situations on the American continent.
26.	As the Secretary-General says [A/2663, p. xii] : “The many issues in this sphere which regularly confront the United Nations call for a balance between vision and restraint, recognizing the fundamental right to self-determination as well as the fact that the exercise of self-determination may be self-defeating if not wisely and carefully prepared. The manner in which such issues are dealt with will have a serious bearing also upon the future course of world events.”
27.	In the last resort, we consider that the problem is, generally speaking, one of timing and procedure.
28.	We are in sympathy with the item [55] proposed by Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon and Yemen in connexion with the translation of certain official documents of the General Assembly into the Arabic language and we hope that this language, as well as others which serve vast areas of the world and peoples and cultures of long tradition and history, can be given the place it deserves in the activities of the international Organization; these views have already been upheld by Uruguay when dealing with the question of the adoption of Spanish as a working language, in which we had the support of the Arab countries.
29.	Among the economic and social problems dealt with by the United Nations, Uruguay has devoted special attention to the activities and services of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). The Government of Uruguay has co-operated to the full with the Fund since its inception, when it made a contribution of one million dollars.
30.	Uruguay has been a devoted member of the Fund’s Executive Board. This body reflects in the United Nations the policy that has been carried on in Uruguay since soon after the beginning of this century and that has characterized all my country’s activities, especially in the economic and social fields. This policy is firmly rooted in the redressing of social wrongs and could be defined as economic democracy in modern times. It has had immediate repercussions on the statistical indices of Uruguay. Infant mortality has been considerably reduced, as can be seen from the place held by Uruguay in world demographic statistics, and it is still the lively concern of the Government and people. The improvement of family economic conditions, through the implementation of the rights of the workers, has also made it possible so to deal with problems relating to public education and social culture that statistics of illiteracy have been substantially reduced throughout the country.
31.	Following the same policy externally, in the form of our activities within the United Nations, my Government considers that the most important duty of our Organization is to bestow upon all children who are victims of the results of a bad economic situation in any part of the world the care which we give to our own children in our own country. My delegation therefore considers that among the economic and social problems for which this Organization has assumed responsibility, in accordance with the Charter, the activities of UNICEF should continue unabated.
32.	We hold exactly the same views in regard to two other items to which my country has given special attention: I refer to the item on technical assistance and the item concerning aid to the economically underdeveloped countries. In both cases, the United Nations seeks to encourage progress, work and production, and to secure, first and foremost, an improvement in the standard of living in those countries, in order wherever possible to abolish poverty which constitutes an antisocial ferment with the gravest repercussions on the problems of our times.
33.	These are the ideas and aims of Uruguay in regard to certain of the items on the agenda of the United Nations General Assembly. Both in the General Assembly itself and in its Committees we shall work faithfully along lines traditionally followed by Uruguay, in favour of peace, democracy and the rule of law.


===== Session 10 - 1955 =====
97.	From this august rostrum, I wish to reaffirm the Uruguayan Government’s support of the principles of the United Nations and its faith in the Organization’s ability to accomplish its great mission.
98.	The advent of a new atmosphere of peace at the Geneva Conference has awakened bright hopes in the civilized world. As Mr. Dulles, the United States Secretary of State, said here: “It will not be an era of placidity and stagnancy in the sense that the status quo, with all its manifold injustices, will be accented as permanent. It will be an era of change, and it will have its strains and its stresses. But peoples and Governments will renounce the use of war and subversion to achieve their goals. They will accept orderly evolution towards the realization of legitimate national aspirations” [518th meeting, para. 80].
99.	The peace thus alluded to, an active and stable peace, commits this Assembly to a dynamic pursuit of the objective set forth in the Charter: to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples.
100. The United Nations, in the ten years of its existence, has demonstrated its effectiveness in assisting new States to accede to freedom without bloodshed or violence. It has increased the number of its specialized agencies in order to promote the advancement of labour, industry and trade, health and culture. It has acted decisively in applying the principles of collective defence, and in suppressing aggression. But its primary function has been to serve as an actual or potential forum for peaceful rapprochement, dignified coexistence and the promotion f agreements to bring about peace and security between nations with differing philosophies and political structures.
101.	These principles are precious elements in our doctrine of international relations, which was proclaimed with moving foresight and wisdom by a Uruguayan statesman, Jose Batlle y Ordonez at the Second International Peace Conference at the Hague, in 1907, when he defended his faith in the powers of co-operation with these immortal words: “Since so many alliances have been concluded by which to impose that which is arbitrary, "it might be well to conclude another alliance by means of which justice might be imposed.” My country’s support of the principles of international law as governing relations between peoples and States springs from the very heart of the sovereign people, which has proclaimed in the Constitution of the Republic the imperative duty of the Government to propose the peaceful settlement of international disputes.
102.	In my country, during the past 50 years, the combined efforts of Government and private initiative have built up a vigorous industrial heritage catering for needs at home and abroad, and constituting a permanent source of employment and the basis of the nation’s economic security. With that end in view, my country has systematically protected the development of the national economy. By means of liberal and protective legislation, the Government has fostered the creation of new industries, and grants facilities for the free import and export of foreign capital, which enjoys equal rights with national capital. It has encouraged the import of raw materials and equipment, for which, as also for building, liberal credit facilities are granted on generous terms by official State institutions.
103.	Agriculture, the basic source of the country’s wealth, is fully protected; farmers are provided with selected seeds and fertilizers at low cost, and they are given facilities for the import of machinery, incentives to greater productivity, generous loans for production, and facilities and assistance for the proper marketing of produce.
104.	Economic progress has made high standards of living possible for our workers, and at the same time just protection is afforded them by laws covering minimum wages, fixed by tripartite tribunals, maximum working hours, family allowances, general retirement benefits and pensions, protection against industrial accidents and occupational diseases, the total cost of these social services being estimated at one-third of the salary,
105.	Peace is the fruit of a common endeavour. We believe that, in the spirit of Geneva, it will be our common duty to promote a gradual and healthy adaptation to the new economic conditions engendered in the world by a stable peace. The principles of co-operation and solidarity must be applied in a common effort to promote economic development and peaceful coexistence. I
106.	Work is the most effective factor of social peace and progress; it is the sine qua non of civilization. The high political and social level attained by my country through its practice of active democracy requires a firm financial foundation to support it. There is no social justice unless society as a whole has access to the country’s wealth, and that means that society as a whole must work. My Government considers it its primary duty to see that the necessary conditions exist to maintain full employment.
107.	The immediate objective is the economic and social advancement of the peoples, and the United Nations should co-operate in developing national resources to the full. The type of action which the countries in the process of economic development expect from the United Nations is the provision of adequate technical assistance and funds for the development of their economic substructure, the production of raw materials and the furthering of industrialization.
108.	The Uruguayan Government has vested in the nation the services Which are basic to its economic structure, namely, electric power, roads, public transport, schools, hospitals, irrigation works, etc., on the principle that responsibility for promoting the economic development of a country rests primarily with its own Government. Our expanding economy makes it necessary to extend these services and creates a demand for funds which internal savings cannot adequately satisfy. Our Government is supporting an intensive drive for the industrialization of Uruguay in order to hasten its transformation from a raw material producer into a more highly developed country with a balance trade, permanent sources of employment and a larger national income.
109.	I am not raising these problems in the United Nations out of purely national considerations. In the first place, their solution is one of the purposes for which the United Nations exists, as an Organization designed for “the creation of conditions of stability’ and well-being which are necessary for peaceful and friendly relations among nations”; secondly, our problems are common to others, particularly on the American continent, which are serving the international and continental community with the same healthy zeal as ourselves, and which also have untapped resources and a lively and natural desire to give their peoples the same standard of well-being as we are trying to obtain for our own.
110.	This American unity, a historical necessity born of our common origin and destiny, can be even further strengthened by a new economic fraternity, which, as we draw closer together, will encourage trade in goods complementary to our respective economies and enable us to go forward together in the service of our peoples’ needs and the cause of international co-operation.
111.	Industries in the formative, and even in an advanced, stage require the help of technical assistance, which combines international experience and skill under the systematic direction of the United Nations. The exchange of information through the medium of fellows and experts, an exchange in which my country has been both a recipient from and a contributor to the international community, and the assistance afforded to the technical plans of the national authorities out of the world's store of experience and specialized knowledge, are more than ever essential to nations in times of economic development.
112.	Representing, as I do, a country in which vocational training is made easier by the institution of free education at all levels, I feel it both an honour and a duty to offer access to Uruguayan institutions and the assistance of our technical experts to all the delegations present at this Assembly, to the extent that our facilities permit.
113.	Experience has shown the effectiveness of coordinating the investment of available capital to develop the potential resources of the under-developed countries.
114.	There will be particularly wide scope for international co-operation and for the allocation of resources released by disarmament to the stimulation of production, the promotion of industrialization, and the development of the basic economic structure in those countries where both public and private enterprise are striving to carry out the technical plans dictated by the needs of their respective economies for expansion.
115.	The establishment of the Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development would well serve such a purpose, and my Government reaffirms its vigorous support of this institution, as well as of the proposal for establishing an International Finance Corporation.
116.	Lastly, we consider that international co-operation should aim at ensuring effective technical co-ordination of production in the various countries, and at balancing the various branches of trade, so that the world's needs may be satisfied without undermining or endangering the national economic structure, the industrial system or the social organization of any particular State.
117.	As regards human rights, the Uruguayan delegation reaffirms its traditional position that efforts should be made to perfect the systems for effectively guaranteeing international protection to any individual whose fundamental rights as proclaimed in the covenants have been infringed. My delegation feels that when the draft International Covenants on Human Rights are considered, provision should be made for a system of legal protection with procedures adequate to achieve the in view. Without the aid of flexible procedural machinery for ensuring proper international control, the scheme may, unfortunately, prove in practice to be no more than so much pretentions and meaningless verbiage.
118.	We reaffirm our conviction that these protective instruments must be backed up by flexible machinery capable of implementing the guarantee they offer and ensuring the truly effective enjoyment of the rights concerned. The proposal previously submitted by the Uruguayan delegation for the appointment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights [A/C.3/L.424] recognizes and provides a satisfactory solution for a problem vital to human dignity.
119.	One of the most far-reaching and best known of ail United Nations activities is that performed by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). It is possible that more than 30 million children will benefit this year from the work of this United Nations body. The General Assembly has recognized the effectiveness, the scope and the importance of the protective work of UNICEF by establishing it as a permanent institution [resolution 802 (VIII)].
120.	My country, true to the principle underlying the protection afforded by law to its children, has contributed $1 million to UNICEF. Moreover, in 1954, my delegation, jointly with that of India, submitted a proposal for the proclamation of a Universal Children's Day which won the approval of the General Assembly [resolution 836 (IX)]. My delegation takes this opportunity' of once again pledging support for UNICEF's work and lofty aims.
121.	The systematic support of a community for the principles of peaceful and constructive coexistence, its struggle to remain true to its native setting, its capacity to create cultural and moral values, and its right to the exercise of political liberty cannot be indefinitely ignored, because they reflect the same historical traditions, the same higher impulse which won for other peoples the right to freedom and self-government. When such aspirations are brought before the United Nations General Assembly, what moral precept, what reasons of security, what higher interest can be invoked to smother this voice, to curb this immutable aspiration to human dignity, indefinitely? The United Nations, which is based on the principles of freedom, justice, peace and law, must have sufficient wisdom to decide whether, how and when freedom may be acquired without conflict or bloodshed by peoples who place their hope and trust in the verdict of the international community.
122.	In this connexion, Uruguay confirms its traditional attitude concerning the scope and meaning of Article 2, paragraph 7, of the Charter. The relevance of the saving clause concerning domestic jurisdiction cannot be left to be determined unilaterally according to the views and wishes of the State desiring to invoke it. It is always the responsibility of the United Nations General Assembly to consider whether the exception invoked by one of its Members is in order and to decide whether it is warranted.
123.	It is the duty of all Governments to be just, to foster full employment, the highest degree of social justice, the greatest well-being for mankind. All workers have an equal right to a fair wage and to higher standards of living. They have an equal right to see conflict give way to collaboration, isolation to knowledge, the misfortune of the few to the welfare of all, unemployment to creative activity, inertia to energy and fear to a sense of security. This is the task of the United Nations.
124.	A light of hope was kindled for the civilized world at the Geneva Conference. Faith in the ideals of civilization, in the principles of a noble and free life, in human values, in the ideals for which we live and die, is being born anew. Science is demanding an opportunity to serve the cause of life, and that cause alone. Atomic energy in the service of peace, health and work is symbolic of the ennoblement of the human race and the triumph of moral forces which seemed to have been extinguished forever in the human spirit.


===== Session 11 - 1956 =====
I should like to give, as succinctly as possible, the views of Uruguay on the United Nations Charter; I shall discuss both the ideas underlying the Charter and its practical application, point to defects in its structure and shortcomings in its operation and consider the results of the experience gained during its ten years of existence.
11.	At the San Francisco Conference, Uruguay was among those countries which criticized the veto privilege granted to the permanent members of the Security Council. This privilege appeared to us unjustifiable in view of the principle of the equality of all States expressly laid down in the Charter.
12.	The Charter of the United Nations was not the product of some unrealistic doctrine. Its spiritual descent is not traceable to academic abstractions claiming to control events by pure thought — divorced from reality and out of touch with world affairs. On the contrary, the Charter was born to the mighty sound of historic events, the most potent influence attending its birth being that of the forces victorious in the Second World War.
13.	Through the force of circumstances, the ideal of organizing a community under law had to be adapted to a powerful reality, but this was done in furtherance of purposes and principles worthy of mankind, in an attempt to regulate the behaviour of all States in a realistic setting. But, like any endeavour in which ideals have to be sacrificed to possibilities, it showed obvious defects. The structure approved at the San Francisco Conference was rightly criticized by the smaller States, although they finally voted in favour of the United Nations Charter. We could not hesitate when confronted by the dilemma of setting up either a legal system offering opportunities solely for academic deliberation without any effectiveness, or else a system of international law, suffering admittedly from flaws and imperfections but wielding a potential influence in favour of international peace and security and requiring States to submit to the rule of law and to practise the only legitimate democratic policy: that which respects human rights and offers full scope for the fundamental freedoms of all peoples.
14.	Since its foundation, therefore, we have cherished no naive illusions that the Organization -would be an infallible instrument capable of solving all international problems. Our attitude has been one of calculated and well-founded confidence in an organization, imperfect perhaps but potentially effective.
15.	Today, after ten years of experience, our attitude to its defects has not changed, but we feel in duty bound to recognize before world public opinion that the Organization has maintained peace in difficult circumstances, by taking successful action against aggression, as in the case of Korea; by criticizing with laudable firmness the use of force in contravention of the rules of the United Nations, as in the case of Egypt, where it has achieved a cease-fire and the cessation of hostilities; and by condemning in appropriate terms the tragic foreign attack on the independence of a nation, as in the case of Hungary. Thus, although fully aware of its imperfections, we continue to support the United Nations and we wish to assert categorically that we see no cause for discouragement and still place our hopes in the Organization.
16.	I should now like to comment on several basic aspects of the Charter, namely, the veto privilege, the duty of States to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and other matters of vital importance for the United Nations.
17.	Since it was obvious that, without the veto power vested in the permanent members — previously agreed at Yalta — an international community under law would not materialize, Uruguay presented its reasoned criticisms, but nevertheless signed and ratified the United Nations Charter.
18.	With a foresight that has been borne out by events, we stated that even if the veto might be justified during the initial period, it was inadmissible that after ten years of experience the veto privilege should persist to prevent amendment of the Charter, to the point of subordinating any modification of the international system to the will of a single State.
19.	Today we reaffirm the position we took in 1945, The veto privilege, accepted as inevitable, as a feature of the constituent instrument that was more or less dictated by the outcome of the war, no longer has any raison d’être so far as the revision of the Charter is concerned.
20.	Since, however, revision is impossible without the support of the five permanent members of the Security Council, some means must be sought to alleviate the unfortunate consequences of the abuse of the veto, through an interpretation of the Charter which will not arouse the opposition of the main protagonist of this discretionary power to obstruct.
21.	We know that we cannot count upon the support of certain permanent members for any proposal to eliminate the veto. We still remember the reasons advanced in justification of this special status. It was, admittedly, an improvement over the procedure in the League of Nations, where the veto privilege, on questions of substance, was general and absolute, whereas in, the United Nations it was to be held only by the five permanent members which could not take any major decision or make any recommendation without the support of two non-permanent members.
22.	The Secretary-General of the League of Nations once said that it was believed that the existence of a reciprocal power of obstruction would tend to promote agreement and compromise solutions based on the unanimous support of the permanent members. This argument has been taken up by those who see in the veto a device which made the existence of the United Nations possible and which is capable of producing agreement as the inevitable outcome of the interplay on the conflicting views that hamper action in the Security Council, This is a twentieth-century manifestation of the truth perceived by Montesquieu — that Powers which are capable of checking each other are forced to collaborate,
23.	We believe it is childish to consider, at the present time, that the Charter can be made dynamic through a Security Council in which States would have equal influence and where decisions would be taken by majority vote. We do insist upon equality of States and of their votes in the General Assembly, although we do not ignore the historical fact — pointed out by Sir Winston Churchill — that there is a difference between the power of large and small States and that, in view of this difference, equality appears to be an unattainable ideal.
24.	We fully realize that States, although equal before the law, are not equal from the spiritual and material points of view, and they are not truly comparable. This may have been the reason for the system of privilege. The corollary of greater power is greater responsibility and the discretionary power of veto. Thus, as the Spanish professor Barcia Trelles has said, the Charter leaves us with the alternatives of unanimity or explosion. The late President Franklin Delano Roosevelt was bowing to reality when he maintained that the application of sanctions to a great Power would bring about the war it was sought to avoid. Hence the belief that unanimity would be born of the experience of the war. The late Mr. Stettinius, too, was speaking realistically when he said that the great Powers had not acquired their might through the Charter.
25.	The Charter was therefore adopted, giving preferential treatment to those Powers, and, although this was contrary to expressed principles, it soon became clear that the power of approval or veto in international affairs, held by each one of them, was compensated, limited and restrained by the fact that identical powers were held by the other permanent members.
26.	From our experience with the Charter, however, we have all come to realize that it is illusory to believe a desire for unanimity will necessarily be the motivating factor in the Council. There have been abuses of the veto right, which the United Nations should endeavour to prevent or moderate. Interpreting Article 27 of the Charter, Mr. Alf Ross, the Danish jurist, has said that a great Power which discards moral scruples can by its veto frustrate any resolution of the Security Council. By means of the veto, it secures its immunity, even though it has acted as an aggressor, and can paralyse the Security Council through its votes and vetoes in successive decisions on questions of procedure and substance, and if the item relates to a situation or to a dispute, it violates not only the principle of equality but also the maxim that none can be judge in his own cause,
27.	Still, the Council’s paralysis owing to abuse of the veto has had one happy outcome which may perhaps stimulate interest in the solution we shall advocate: the extension of the power of the General Assembly through a wider interpretation of the provisions of the Charter, as contained in resolution 377 (V), entitled “Uniting for peace”.
28.	No one denies the competence of the General Assembly, the world parliament in which the principle of equality of States is observed, in which each State can vote as a means of voicing world opinion, a body capable of studying, discussing and recommending the principles and the regulation of disarmament, of deliberating on any matter affecting international peace and security, or on international political, economic or social co-operation, and of debating the peaceful settlement of any dispute. The General Assembly does not legislate, but demonstrates the effectiveness of its consultative power which, although only in the form of advice, judgements or warnings, does give expression to world opinion on the conduct of a State, an opinion which it is difficult to disregard without defying the rules of the civilized world.
29.	Such action by the General Assembly has prevented the United Nations from being paralysed by the improper use of the veto. Agreement should therefore be Bought to ensure that this discretionary power to obstruct will not be used in a manner prejudicial to the purposes of the Organization.
30.	So long as the revision of the Charter is not possible, it might be advisable to temper the use of the veto by means of an agreement on the part of the permanent members to heed the resolution [290 (IV) ] adopted by the General Assembly in 1949 on “Essentials of peace”. In substance, that resolution recommends that the powerful veto privilege should not be exercised in deciding whether a question is procedural or not, whether a particular question involves a situation or a dispute and, particularly, in the case of all decisions relating to the peaceful settlement of international problems.
31.	Although such agreement would still leave the way open for the use of the veto, the latter would be reduced to a legal weapon for dealing with questions of vital importance, and would no longer be a political weapon to be used in any circumstance, in the just or unjust interests of a -particular State,
32.	With regard to human rights and fundamental freedoms, Uruguay wishes to stress, once again, that the Charter imposes a dear and unquestionable obligation upon States to support those rights and freedoms. Although repetition may be tedious, we would again refer to the preamble and to all the provisions of the Charter which require States to respect, in conformity with their legal system, the primacy of the human person and public liberties, without which political democracy cannot exist. The Charter does not prescribe any specific legal or political system as the only lawful one, since that would be contrary to the principle of self-determination of peoples. However, it is dear, in our view, that the Charter deems it iniquitous to set up any system of authority based on the denial of human rights and of the freedom of the peoples,
33.	I would again refer to the provisions of the Charter in so far as they stress the supreme importance of human values, which it places even above political (democracy.
34.	The preamble, which, in accordance with universal theory and jurisprudence, establishes the spiritual basis of the document, proclaims the determination of the people to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small.
35.	Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Charter states that one of the main purposes of the United Nations is the promotion and encouragement of respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction,
36.	Article 13 provides that the General Assembly shall initiate studies and make recommendations for the purpose, among other things, of assisting in the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all.
37.	Article 55 specifically states that one of the bases for peaceful relations among nations is universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction.
38.	Under Article 62, paragraph 2, it is one of the essential functions of the Economic and Social Council to make recommendations concerning the respect of those rights and freedoms and it is furthermore provided — with the admirable object of impressing the idea on our minds — that the Council’s recommendations shall also promote the effectiveness of those rights and freedoms.
39.	Article 73, in Chapter XI concerning the Non-Self-Governing Territories, lays down this guiding principle: the interests of the inhabitants of these Territories are paramount. With respect to the peoples which have not attained full self-government, the Charter imposes on the administering States the international duty to discharge a trust, which the Charter calls sacred, to promote their well-being, and charges those States with certain specific obligations: to ensure, with due respect for the culture of the peoples concerned, their political, economic, social and educational advancement, their just treatment and their protection against abuses; to develop self-government; and to assist them in the progressive development of their free political institutions. As a consequence of this responsibility, this administration is carried out under United Nations supervision, which proves once again that this delicate task calls for international inspection.
40.	Chapter XII, concerning trusteeship, adds to the duties of the Administering Authorities, as Article 76 states specifically, that of acting in accordance with the purposes of the United Nations. Under this Article, they have an obligation to promote the political, economic, social and educational advancement of the inhabitants; self-government or independence are set as targets, in accordance with the freely expressed wishes of the people concerned, and sub-paragraph c, as a further reminder, stresses as a basic objective the encouragement of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all.
41.	If we interpret the Charter, after first taking the precaution of reading it, we shall see that it is full of rules of positive international law which bind all systems of political authority not to present themselves before the United Nations with claims of legitimacy unless they are practising political democracy in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are respected. The Charter lays down a practical philosophy of freedom ; it requires States to respect the dignity and worth of the human person; it demands universal and effective respect of fundamental rights and freedom.
42.	Since it is laid down, with respect to the Trust Territories, that the people should express their wishes freely, our powers of interpretation are surely not strained by the other provisions which lay down in unambiguous terms that in all Member States the rights of the community of free men are paramount, that it is only free men who can exercise their political will and that they are the sole foundation of true sovereignty.
43.	This interpretation of the Charter by Uruguay is recognized today as irrefutable by the leading authorities in international law, and has been stoutly upheld at this session of the General Assembly by various delegations, including that of Argentina and of States from other continents. The noble truth is beginning to make headway. An important step forward was the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which world opinion has taken as an expression of the spirit of the United Nations. We hope that the convention on the rights and the duties of States and the guarantees of the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms will take shape in the near future.
44.	The lessons learned during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries confirm the preeminence of the basic individualism which is today a feature of most modern constitutions. To these individualistic tenets are added economic and social rights as an essential complement to make that individualism socially effective and operative for all. The tendency of certain superficial Western thinkers to believe that respect for the human person is a preoccupation of times gone by and destined for oblivion with the eclipse of bourgeoisie is evidence of a deplorable levity, only conceivable in persons without an atom of human feeling or without the healthy counterpoise of a modicum of elementary education.
45.	In answer to the Soviet representative’s exhortation to mutual understanding and respect between the different economic systems, I should like to point to Uruguay’s experience and to the conclusions it has drawn from the gradual evolution of its political and social beliefs.
46.	The problem does not lie in the differences between economic and social systems. From the point of view of the observance or the violation of the Charter, the most important question, quite regardless of the economic features of the system of a particular State, is essentially whether human rights and fundamental freedoms are respected or not.
47.	From the point of view of the Charter, from the point of view of strict compliance with its terms, all dictatorships are reprehensible — whether black or red, of class or of party; the same is true of all forms of despotism, which are the more blameworthy when they are systematic, for they give not the slightest scope to freedom, although their representatives may come to this Assembly to speak in defence of the emancipation of persons and peoples, when it is notorious that at home the rulers alone have the right to feel, think and desire in the name of a people condemned to silence.
48.	From the spokesmen for those regimes we have heard criticism of the colonial Powers and of the Powers administering Trust Territories. However, we know the tragic truth which deprives their complaints of any authority whatsoever. The peoples living under despotic rule have no protection, not even as much as the peoples of the colonies, for the free expression of their wishes. And yet, from this rostrum representatives of those regimes have questioned delegations to this Assembly, asking them what instructions they have from their peoples.
49.	This Assembly can become a true world parliament only through the presence of the delegations of the democratic States, where human rights and the freedoms of the people are respected and effective.
50.	In countries where no genuine elections are held, or where elections are merely entertainments for government partisans, where an opposition is out of the question and the Press, radio, cinema, theatre, science and the arts are all government activities, only the opinions of the powerful can receive currency, and the views of the enslaved people are unknown, though they can be guessed at. The representatives of such States in the United Nations cannot be regarded as anything but the spokesmen of authoritarianism, and cannot be said to be speaking as representatives of communities of men.
51.	The Purposes and Principles of the United Nations will be observed in the world only to the extent that the General Assembly becomes the meeting place of the representatives of democratic Governments which are themselves genuinely representative of their peoples and which have been elected in an atmosphere of freedom; these alone can help to build peace. As we read in the preamble to the Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, “it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”; the Second World War “was made possible by the denial of the democratic principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men”, and peace must be founded “upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind.”
52.	How can Governments that live in open war against their own peoples and who make warlike forays against peoples in order to impose their totalitarian beliefs upon them with fire and sword be builders of peace? The lesson of our own life impels us to condemn all kinds of despotism absolutely.
53.	Our point of departure is the individual, but to forestall the injustices of individualism we have increased the State’s responsibilities in the social field and converted the State into a vast service organization, an agent of brotherhood. We draw on legal thinking in order to work out just solutions by means of constantly and peacefully evolving legislation.
54.	Among our people, no citizen believes that a Slate which offers security as the dispenser or distributor of rations is worth the loss of freedom. As the United Kingdom representative on the Commission of Human Rights said at Geneva, we do not think it an ideal mode of life for a people to form a body of slaves who are passably well fed by the State.
55.	As State intervention for purposes of public interest extends, so the reaffirmation of respect for the classic individual rights and the economic and social rights which allow all human beings to live in dignity becomes more necessary. The more a State grows, multiplies its activities and extends its influence, the more alert we must be in our guardianship of freedom and the unimpeded exercise of political democracy.
56.	The State must then possess a sound structure of guarantees, a system of decentralized administrative authorities and decentralized local and municipal governments; there must be a certain balance between the public and, private sectors of the economy, while at the same time a complex system of distinct agencies, with properly defined judiciary functions, assures the individual, under constitutional guarantees, of physical freedom, of protection against all undue pressure, of respect for the right of property, which gives him independence without the power to exploit his neighbours, of the inviolability of his home and his correspondence, thus affirming in the face of authority the sacred character of his privacy, full freedom of the mind and of opinion, which means that he can utter his thoughts through any medium without prior censorship. Without such rights and freedoms there is no real living democracy.
57.	By means of such a system, without outlawing any political party, and while permitting spontaneous activities on the part of any one in accordance with public desire, Uruguay offers the spectacle of a true democracy gradually eliminating Communist influence. In Uruguay, citizens and foreigners enjoy equal and exemplary protection in their rights and property; we have an independent and high-principled judiciary; our Supreme Court of Justice can declare unenforceable laws which are contrary to the Constitution, and the Administrative Court can set aside irregular administrative decisions ; the State and the public authorities are answerable for any injury they cause by their irregular acts or by their discharge of functions in the course of the public service.
58.	In this way the State can further the public interest without impairing the dignity and worth of the human person, because by virtue of the law and through the action of the judiciary its responsibility is under constant scrutiny.
59.	We are in favour of the United Nations. In accordance with this approach, we advocate the Organization’s universality, though not at the cost of an increase in political barbarism, and support the effective respect of human rights and the freedom of peoples.
60.	The General Assembly has a duty to promote the study of the guarantees for the effective respect which any political authority owes to human rights. On this point, Uruguay will maintain the position it has adopted on other occasions.
61.	We should strengthen the international machinery for ensuring the respect and effectiveness of these rights and freedoms, preferably by means of consultative procedures. A world or regional agency should have competence to receive complaints and petitions. The body making the complaint would first be classified, and then there would be an investigation, an examination of the facts, culminating in a recommendation to the offending State. As a complement to this system, which can hardly be opposed by States wishing the Charter to be enforced, provision should be made in specified cases, for jurisdiction by a section of the International Court of Justice or some special body capable of rendering decisions in defence of human rights.
62.	As we have said, the flagrant and systematic violation of human rights and the freedom of peoples raises a question of international public interest. It is a crime against humanity, and to plead the defence of domestic jurisdiction is merely frivolous. It is not our intention, as some publications have said, to internationalize everything. Just as we want the State to be dedicated to a whole range of values — the human being, the family, the trade union, the school, the university, the municipality, private institutions generally — so we want the international community to admit national self-determination as having an intrinsic value, subject, of course, to international law and ethics which demand respect for the dignity and worth of the human person.
63.	We respect, as a logical consequence to the independence of States, the American doctrine of nonintervention, but in its one and only true sense. We reject all recourse to force, any action by one State to impose its will on others, all undue interference, all imperialist claims, any aspiration on the part of one State or a group of States to wield authority over the internal or external affairs of another State. This healthy repudiation of imperialist force implies putting the law above States; the State must deal fairly with its citizens, be the servant of the people and respect the equality of other States.
64.	I have listened with alarm in this General Assembly to certain statements on the subject of sovereignty which seem to date from well before the beginning of modem times; it is as if we were returning to Pope Gregory VII or Pope Boniface VIII and were witnessing once again the beginning of the struggle of the national kingdoms against the Papal State and the Empire. Claims are being made for the absolutism of political power to justify crimes against humanity. Certain States appear in their political pride to be adorned with papal infallibility for all their works on this planet, and even to desire those who urge control over the effectiveness of human rights to be condemned to do penance at another Canossa.
65.	Sovereignty in our times affirms democracy; it is a tenet of this creed that the people are the sole lawful basis of a society governed by law. Thus, in many constitutions, such as that of Argentina, sovereignty is the source of individual rights and guarantees not specifically enumerated.
66.	If sovereignty in international law should mean supreme power, outside the notion of duty which is inherent in the law and not governed by the rules of law, then that idea of sovereignty would be an imperialist theory of tyranny of the great Powers over the others.
67.	Under the Charter, national sovereignty must be tempered by respect for human rights, which is implicit in the fundamental principle of the political self-determination of peoples.
68.	Until safeguards for the effectiveness of these rights are established, We trust that the General Assembly will ensure their respect, which is a fundamental purpose of the United Nations. Due regard for these rights is essential in the colonies, in keeping with the trusteeship System; a fortiori, if possible, these rights must be respected in independent States. In a document Which has been circulated among all delegations by the Assembly of Captive European Nations, it is said that 100 million Europeans are groaning beneath the totalitarian yoke.
69.	Our principles are wholly consistent. We do not ask for free, internationally guaranteed elections for Hungary alone; we put forward this recipe for exterminating despotism in all parts of the world.
70.	We trust in the United Nations. Under its universal System we Can achieve that peace and security which are today indivisible. The United States President, Mr. Eisenhower, has said that the free nations must live together or die separately. The truth is that no great Power is great against atomic weapons. With these weapons, even the exercise of the right of self-defence could mean the end of mankind. Indivisible peace is bound to come when all mankind submits to morality and law.
71.	We long for the great nations to agree on the control of atomic weapons, to harmonize their plans for disarmament and take steps to promote the peaceful uses of atomic energy which could transform the world economy.
72.	Throughout this continent of America, united in political and economic co-operation, we fight in the cause of the world. In the Americas, we ate at the beginning of the road to economic co-operation. The underdeveloped countries, with low standards of living, are one of the breeding-grounds of disturbances to world peace and, because of the understandable resentment that arises, of the psychology of Violence. The countries of Latin America import machinery and wish to attract foreign capital because they do not Wish to stagnate in a primitive economy as mere producers of raw materials. They demand opportunities of full economic development and industrial progress under an international system of co-ordinated economies, governed by fraternal understanding, to the benefit of all countries.
73.	In Order to strengthen the rule of law over all nations, we demand ah unrestricted system of international justice. The Under-Secretary of State of the United States, Mr. Hoover, has complained that the list of countries recognizing the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice was not increasing. We echo his complaint, adding that only eight countries have ratified the American Treaty on Pacific Settlement signed at Bogota in 1948, which is the most advanced instrument of its kind and which stipulates the universal and compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.
74.	In closing my long speech, whose abuse of the patience of my audience has sometimes perhaps been attenuated by wandering attention, I should like to redefine the spirit which guides all our considerations. We are not so vain as .to speak as teachers of democracy, particularly not when addressing our sister nations in America, whose uneven political evolution we understand because Our own experience has been similar. Even less would we wish to do so as the democratic system of the United States is becoming stronger, a country whose people we love and admire and whose recent presidential and senatorial elections set an example to the world.
75.	We desire to see a speedy end of colonialism, despite the fact that in some cases it has brought peoples to independence and we regard as the worst colonialism that of the totalitarian States over their own people; we urge the emancipation of human communities; we regard the Charter as a political canon which repudiates both black and red totalitarianism, for in the United Nations we act with conscious humility based on our well-learned lesson from the eminent teachers of Spanish law. Those teachers tell us that a State can be judged just like a private person.
76.	Our attendance here is that of a democratic republic, subject to scrutiny, discussion and possible trial like any State. In view of this possibility, we shall not threaten to withdraw, nor do we — in the case of the international system of human rights — seek refuge in the plea of domestic jurisdiction. In accordance with the Magna Carta of 1215, in accordance With North American law, with the jus naturale enshrined in all modern constitutions, we shall merely ask for time to address this supreme world tribunal, and there give our evidence and present our case.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
On behalf of the Government of Uruguay I should like to offer Sir Leslie Munro my sincere congratulations on his election as President of the twelfth session of the General Assembly. My delegation was among those which voted in favour of his election to that high office, and it welcomed the wise intervention of the Secretary for External Relations of Mexico, Mr. Padilla Nervo, urging the Assembly to seek a compromise formula in order to fill this very Important post. We should like at the same time to express our warm appreciation of the decision taken by the Lebanese Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Charles Malik, whose noble and generous attitude has earned him the Assembly's appreciation and gratitude. Both Mr. Charles Malik and Sir Leslie Munro, our President, are loyal and steadfast servants of this international community of States to which Uruguay has the honour to belong.
142.	The events which took place in 1956 were the gravest the international community had had to face since Korea. And In both of the cases which arose, the General Assembly proved itself a worthy defender of the principles of the Charter.
143.	In the first case - the war between Israel and Egypt and the subsequent armed intervention in the Suez Canal area - the General Assembly assumed its supplementary powers in the delicate matter of preserving the peace, as it had done in 1950 when faced with the aggression against the Republic of Korea.
144.	In the second case - the Hungarian revolution - the General Assembly made use of its powers of investigation and, in defence of its honour and prestige, reasserted its competence as the international body legally established by the Charter to deal with such incontestably vital matters as the right of self-determination of peoples and respect for the fundamental freedoms of the human person.
145.	My Government wishes once again to express its sincere appreciation of the honour conferred upon it by its selection as a member of the Special Committee appointed to investigate events in Hungary, whose findings provided the basis for the Assembly's subsequent resolution [1133 (XI)].
146.	When the Assembly takes such resolute and unequivocal stands in support of international law and morality, it strengthens the faith of the peoples in the destiny of the United Nations.
147.	In the first of the cases I have mentioned, the Assembly's decisions were respected by the States whose Governments were urged by the United Nations to respect the rules of law. We must hope - and it is the sincere wish of my delegation - that the same will occur in the case of Hungary. In the face of violations of the Charter which jeopardize the future of the international community, there cannot be two standards or two separate and even contradictory policies.
148.	The tragedy of the Hungarian people affects the very basis of peaceful relations between nations. This belief is reflected in the resolution [1133 (XI)] which the Assembly adopted by an unprecedented majority: 60 in favour, 10 against and 10 abstentions.
149.	Two significant facts should be underlined in this connexion. First, among the countries abstaining were several Asian States which had signed a joint declaration at New Delhi on 14 November 1956 stating that it was "the inalienable right of every country to shape for itself its own destiny” and that "the Soviet Union forces should be withdrawn from Hungary speedily". Secondly, the great majority of the new Members recently admitted to the United Nations voted in favour of the measures proposed. This fact, in our view, confirms the belief of the supporters of universality - of which Uruguay has always been one - that broader membership would strengthen the Organization.
150.	These considerations are directly related to the duties of peaceful coexistence which, at a time when harsh reality is putting the very existence of the United Nations to the test, are the key to its future.
151.	Our conduct in dealing with this vital problem must always be inspired by the tolerance and mutual understanding which the Charter enjoins on all Member States.
152.	We regard it as evident that the United Nations was not founded to impose regimes or ideas on peoples or on men. We are a reflection of the world, and its complexity and variety are inconsistent with monistic institutions or Ideologies. We believe, nevertheless, that there are limits to the discretionary powers of States in matters affecting peace and security. While every State has the right to maintain its independence and its personality, it must be remembered that States Members have assumed specific obligations which set limits that may not be transgressed for they are the boundaries of a common international jurisdiction established, at a time when hopes ran high, by the concurrence of sovereign wills.
153.	It is, I think, appropriate to recall these limits. The first is axiomatic: the immense benefits of peace and security are incompatible with unrestricted sovereignty. This fact is most clearly exemplified in the crucial problem of the control of nuclear weapons. If the control is made subject to the Security Council, there will be no control, for the simple reason that the Council’s action ultimately depends upon one major consideration: whether the great Powers choose to exercise their right of veto; but the veto, in our view, is the worst expression of unrestricted sovereignty.
154.	The veto is not a legitimate power, for power that is outrageously arbitrary and absolute can never be regarded as legitimate, least of all in the present world situation when tension, fear and anxiety have reached an almost intolerable level.
155.	There can be no better opportunity for the great Powers to demonstrate their love of peace than by submitting their differences on this grave matter to the most representative body within the United Nations, the General Assembly.
156.	The decisions of States, which may safeguard peace or precipitate war, are taken by the men who constitute the governments; but confronting these men, and above them, are the peoples. In the present dramatic situation, let us remember that in the preamble of the Charter the peoples, who nowhere wish for war, declared their determination at the birth of the United Nations, "to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind”.
157.	The attainment of the ideal of a lasting peace is, of course, a dynamic process depending on the harmonious interplay of all the many factors involved, for, as has so often been said, the problems of peace and security are indivisible.
158.	The United Nations was born out of a world in ruins still lit by the flames of the great conflagration. In the last stages of that orgy of violence, in which great and small nations had been invaded, occupied and put to the sword, in which human beings had been subjected to the grossest outrages against liberty and dignity, the Charter was drawn up with the aim of establishing the pillars of an international organization and jurisdiction for the purpose of preserving and strengthening the essential foundations of peace.
159.	Among these pillars were the self-determination of peoples and respect for fundamental human rights, the enforcement and promotion of which throughout the world are inconsistent with the principle of unrestricted sovereignty. Animated by these principles and ideas, the authors of the Charter gave expression to the desire that democracy and peace should be ever more closely linked together. This had been President Wilson's dream at the end of the First World War; his noble and far-seeing ambition had been to replace the balance of power by a union of peoples able freely to guide their own destinies, thus ensuring that the future of the world was not left at the mercy of the personal power of dictators.
160.	The Peace of Versailles was made and unmade under the banner of nationalism. When this, our second League of Nations, was set up at San Francisco, we included the principle of self-determination of peoples in its Charter, so that each people could shape their own destiny, but self-determination was indissolubly linked with the fundamental human freedoms which are at the basis of government that is truly representative of the people.
161.	Human freedoms and the self-determination of peoples are, we believe, inseparable rights, and we therefore consider that they were rightly embodied in a single Instrument. These inseparable rights are an expression of the driving forces behind a movement towards freedom, whose importance should not be underestimated. As Ferrero said with great wisdom, "while power comes from above, freedom comes from below". This is why the right of self-determination Is attained by evolution or by violence depending on whether the fundamental human freedoms are respected or not. The support given by the United Nations to the first of these methods, peaceful evolution, has already borne fruit abundantly. Seventeen new States have attained independence since the establishment of the United Nations and this achievement, whose consequences are incalculable, is in our view enough to justify the existence of this international community to which Uruguay is proud to belong.
162.	Both the spirit of the Charter and the draft International Covenants on Human Rights under consideration by this General Assembly reflect the desire that peace and democracy should increasingly go hand in hand. Article 4 of the draft Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, for example, does not admit of any limitation upon the enjoyment of these rights that is inconsistent with the general welfare in a democratic society. In addition, article 21 of the draft Covenant on Civil and Political Rights proclaims freedom of association with no restrictions other than those necessary in a democratic society.
163.	Unquestionably, we all start from a common belief in the excellence of democracy, conceived not merely as a form of government or as an electoral system, but as a way of social and political life based on equality, in which the will of the State is expressed with the consent of the majority and the free opposition of minorities.
164.	However, in our view, the draft Covenants before the General Assembly are defective in that they do not embody an explicit and unequivocal statement of one of the essential conditions of genuine democracy, and it is our hope that this shortcoming will be corrected. It should be expressly stated that each political society should allow a multi-party system, for this is the supreme guarantee of freedom, of freedom of thought and association, and of freedom to participate freely in public affairs.
165.	If this high ideal were attained everywhere, types of slavery which exist in certain sovereign States would disappear. Such slavery is fostered by certain ideologies and institutions which we hold to be inconsistent with the Charter and which embody the single-party system as an organ of the State. In such States, political ideas and ways of thought are suppressed; men are condemned without the right to defend themselves and forced to change their opinions, beliefs and even their ways of thinking, to conform to the line desired or imposed by the State.
166.	In view of these and other no less important attacks upon fundamental freedoms, my delegation feels bound to reiterate the views it has expressed before on so many occasions. If the dignity and value of human beings are attacked within the boundaries of a State, the attack affects the legal rights of the whole world, and not only of the nation concerned. Violations of human rights were one of the underlying causes of the last world war. The dictators who unleashed that war had begun to build up their power by means of such violations before they embarked on their programme of conquest. This belief is embodied in the preamble to the Charter and is inherent in the powers which the Charter gives the Organization in this field; indeed, the Charter makes respect for such freedoms one of the essential foundations of peaceful coexistence.
167.	In this belief, my delegation continues to hope that the draft International Covenants on Human Rights may be considered and approved by the Assembly within the near future. Nine years have already elapsed since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted in Paris [resolution 217 (III)] and acclaimed by the world, but the principles embodied in that historic declaration are still mere statements of belief.
168.	Our views as to what should be included in the Covenants are in accordance with the spirit of the Charter. As the presidents of the American Republics stated in the Declaration of Panama on 22 July 1956, "The State is the servant of man and not his master." These noble words recall the great and eternal truths of Western civilization, that human beings possess inalienable and imprescriptible rights, preceding and transcending those of the State, the latter’s purpose being merely to preserve them and harmonize them in their respective spheres of action. Thus the aim of law, both national and international, is to ensure the freedom and the happiness of man. These views are radically at variance with other ideologies, which are, we believe, inconsistent with the Charter, since they hold that the citizen receives his freedoms from the State and that he cannot assert his rights at the international level except through the State.
169.	In making these observations, I am concerned to emphasize the importance my delegation attaches to safeguards to ensure the effective enjoyment of these sacred rights, in particular the right of the individual to take his case to international authorities, either directly or through representative associations. The right of petition in this form affords the surest guarantee against abuses of power. Uruguay’s traditional views on this subject have been fully stated in connexion with its proposal for the appointment by the General Assembly of a High Commissioner (Attorney-General) for Human Rights. The text of this proposal was included in the basic working papers on the draft Covenants by decision of the organ concerned.
170.	I should like, in concluding my remarks on this topic, to say, reflecting my country’s traditional dedication to this cause, that in our view human rights cannot and should not be thought of in quantitative terms. We are as deeply concerned with the sanctity of a single human life, with all that it entails and signifies, as with the self-determination of a people.
171.	It is with these considerations in mind that I refer to the disappearance of Jesus de Galíndez, an incident which has made an impression on public opinion that cannot be overestimated or ignored. We know that the circumstances of this tragic disappearance are being investigated and we sincerely trust that the investigation will make it possible to establish the facts.
172.	This is not, of course, an isolated case. Similar incidents have occurred, although not all have received the same publicity. Because of the recurrence of such incidents, I feel bound to mention them and to emphasize that human rights are a problem of concern to public opinion which can and should receive the attention of international bodies.
173.	International co-operation to promote the economic and social advancement of the world’s peoples has become one of the corner-stones of peaceful coexistence. As the Charter recognizes, the larger freedom to which the United Nations is committed depends on better standards of life, based on the increased wealth that man can create under conditions of peace and confidence. Our objective must be an expanding world economy, assisted by the financial agencies set up by the Bretton Woods agreements and later strengthened by the assistance furnished by the Government of the United States.
174.	Immense sums have been invested in reconstruction and development. The total over the past eleven years is in the order of $43,000 million. However, such investments might be even higher if the huge sums devoted to military expenditure could be made available for peaceful purposes. In such circumstances, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development would be able to draw on greater funds to increase its lending activities.
175.	A number of developments of first-rate economic and political importance relate directly to this topic, which is one of constant concern to the Assembly. I refer to the European Common Market, which the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned [681st meeting] in his admirable statement, and the proposed free trade zone which would, if established, embrace the European nations represented on the European Organization for Economic Co-operation.
176.	I may say, on behalf of my delegation, that we have the increasing well-being of Europe at heart, and in this we share the views expressed [680th meeting] by Mr. Aranha, the former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Brazil and a former President of this Assembly. Moreover, in the case of the European Common Market, we are gratified and encouraged by the efforts the nations concerned are making to set aside their past differences and quarrels to transform this area, which was the theatre of recent wars, into a strong bulwark of order and peace.
177.	These significant developments enable us to appreciate the importance of economic regionalism as a powerful factor in the new world economic structure.
178.	In the modern world, where the economic forces making for mechanized mass production for mass markets conflict with the "political factors” which set limits to expansion in the shape of national frontiers, regionalism can reasonably be considered as the synthesis of a contradictory process in which free trade is the thesis and economic nationalism the antithesis. Regionalism can therefore be considered consistent with the Charter’s goal of an expanding world economy if the greater strength resulting from regional unions has the effect of increasing the world's purchasing power, with a consequent rise in the consumption of goods and services.
179.	Naturally, countries which, like Uruguay, belong to no economic or trade area, hope that this will happen, and we sincerely trust that regionalism will prove to be to the advantage and interest of the world.
180.	In the Americas, it is also reasonable to hope that efforts will be made to achieve greater economic integration. Integration there is undoubtedly a more difficult undertaking, because of the similar types of goods produced, the differences in structure and costs, defective transport facilities and the various commercial systems in existence. We believe, nevertheless, that there are immediate prospects of progress, if other regions are prepared to understand our legitimate desires and help us to achieve them.
181.	As a nation belonging to the southern part of the continent, we would suggest as a practical measure in that direction that our right should be recognized to grant the Latin American countries preferences without prejudice to the most-favoured-nation clause. This principle has been recognized and established in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, in the case of the British-French Union and Benelux preferential systems, and the principle has been approved in the case of the European Coal and Steel Community. In Uruguay's case, this would mean that we would be able to extend to the other Latin American republics the preferences already granted to Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia and Paraguay under our trade agreements.
182.	We also suggest that the American countries and the Common Market countries should conclude agreements establishing a multilateral payments system on the lines of the arrangements between Argentina and Brazil and the French and Netherlands currency unions. The importance of such arrangements to the countries of southern Latin America, which trade under bilateral payments systems, cannot be overemphasized, for they would enable us to use our favourable balance from trade with the European Common Market to increase our purchases in Latin America.
183.	In making these suggestions, we are prompted only by the understandable desire that regionalism should serve the great aims of the Charter and promote economic advancement and social well being in the various parts of the world.
184.	Because of its universality, the United Nations is a mirror of the world, where the invincible strength of public opinion cannot be disregarded. In this community of States, the greatest States are those with the most friends. Friendship and trust are won through respect for law and international morality. In the words of Ibsen’s famous character, the small countries can tell the great: "Those who stand alone are not strong." In the case of nations, as in the lives of men, there is no worse ally than isolation.


===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
118.	May I take this opportunity to express publicly the satisfaction it has given my Government to see you elected, Mr. President, to the high office which you now occupy.
119.	From the beginning of their common struggle for independence, Peru and Uruguay joined forces to attain the common ideal and later to establish friendly relations. In testimony of this immutable and lasting union, I recall with emotion the fine statue of General Garzon, the courageous Uruguayan leader who led his native troops in the campaigns to liberate Peru, which your people erected, as a gesture of gratitude, in one of the most beautiful parks of Montevideo. It bears witness to American solidarity, born in stormy times and unfailingly strengthened day by day.
120.	I am proud to be the true representative of a little country which, small and weak as it is, through its respect for law and freedom and its sense of international coexistence, is adequately qualified to raise its voice in this Assembly, rich in the present but even richer in the future.
121.	It may be asked why the fact that we are a weak and a small country gives us the right to speak. It is because, in my opinion, strength and material power can and will make themselves heard anywhere. Those who are weak and small can only make themselves heard where silence and attention are the outcome of respect for law and devotion to principles. Blessed, therefore, be this hall, in which all the peoples of the world assemble and in which the weak can debate on equal terms with the strong and seek a solution b their problems along the path of justice and law.
122.	Among the things that entitle us to be represented in this Assembly I have mentioned our love of freedom, our respect for law and our sense of international coexistence. Those values are the very fabric of our existence; they are the goals we are constantly pursuing. They are the product of our earliest history, of the legal memories, the municipal, legal and practical freedoms we inherited from Spain. From the earliest days of our country they were a clear and permanent feature and they found expression in the remarkable personality of our greatest national hero, Jose Artigas, who in the last century paved the way for the solidarity and coexistence of nations when he became the champion of self-government for all countries and fought to unite the peoples of the old viceroyship of the Rio de la Plata under federal rule. In that struggle he received the title of "Protector of Free Peoples" — an incomparable prize. In that single title we find the two cardinal features of our idea of international solidarity: union in freedom, and freedom within the united community.
123.	The many events attesting to our respect for law would form a long list, but it would be out of place to recount them here. I should merely like to mention a recent event which took place only a few months ago: the change of government in Uruguay. As a result of free and democratic elections, a political party which had been in power in Uruguay for nine decades handed over the reins of government to the opposition, thus bowing to the popular verdict, without the slightest disorder or clashes. This fact certainly does honour to the people of Uruguay and to the parties which lead it.
124.	Indeed, all the citizens of the country which I have the honour to represent respect the same basic principles and the same fundamental values. That is the significance that Uruguayan representation can have in this assembly of nations.
125.	We consider that our mission in this Assembly is clearly determined by the special character of our people and by the circumstances which I have described. It is a mission of peace, of harmony, of reason and of love. It cannot be otherwise. We have no problems which pit us against other nations in bitter obstinacy. That very fact enables us to collaborate in the objectives of this great Assembly with the serenity of a people at peace with the world. In the rivalries, sometimes tremendous, which shatter what should be the basic unity of the human race, we are in a position to help so far as possible to soothe ruffled feelings and to facilitate solutions, thus contributing within the limits of our ability and goodwill to the cause of world peace. We shall, not abate our efforts to that end. Our country is not trying to blaze a trail or to direct world policy. If it were, we should be losing our sense of proportion and balance. It can, however, make a useful and important contribution if we understand and practise those virtues. I should like to emphasize that this position I have outlined is not a profession of faith in the sense of an irresponsible position of neutrality, which would be against nature if we adopted it in respect of all potential conflicts. Our spiritual position is clear: we are prepared to defend, within the limits of our ability, the fundamental values of the civilization to which we belong whenever they are threatened by reactionary forces. Peace among nations is a very important value to preserve, but it should not be preserved at the price of all the other moral and spiritual values which make up our civilization. "Peace", as a great statesman of this country has said, "is a coin with two faces. One is a renunciation of force; the other is the granting of justice. Peace and justice are inseparable". Uruguay will accordingly promote and support with all its moral and spiritual strength those solutions which tend to bring about peace based on justice and respect for those fundamental values and rights.
126.	The Uruguayan delegation has come to this fourteenth session of the General Assembly in a spirit of calm and moderate optimism. When, at San Francisco, it voted for the establishment of this world body, it was confident that events would show the wisdom of that initiative. When the Second World War ended, the world was in a state of chaos and anxiety; sources of incalculable wealth had been destroyed; vast masses of people were in despair and youth had been demoralized. The failure of the League of Nations, which had been established following the First World War, did not shake our conviction of the necessity and value of some form of juridical international organization. Although we do not subscribe to the myth of unlimited progress or regard material and scientific advances as more important than human destiny, we firmly believe that in cultural circles there is a gradual evolution which is leading towards the universalization of culture, the interdependence of nations and the grouping together of human beings. The isolation of man within the community and the isolation of nations living side by side in the world in an atmosphere of hostility is virtually the law of the jungle and is maintained basically by constant shifts in the balance of power, a process which leads to war and various other manifestations of hatred. The path of progress must therefore be that which gradually leads out of chaos, from de facto coexistence based on power relations to coherent organization based on law.
127.	If we adopt a realistic and sensible approach, the balance is satisfactory. The United Nations has gradually been winning the confidence of the peoples of the world. It has been successful in restoring peace, in putting an end to localized conflicts which could have spread dangerously; it has important accomplishments to its credit in the field of technical and economic assistance — a less spectacular aspect of its constructive work but of no less importance than the political aspect. These achievements are, in our view, full and sufficient justification for its existence. Restless and impatient spirits may feel that they are not enough, that the United Nations is ineffective because it is unable to settle all international disputes or because it has no power to compel States, particularly strong States, to respect and comply with the principles of the Charter and the decisions of the Assembly. In our view, that way of looking at the matter is not altogether correct.
128.	It may be accurate in terms of human life. Human life is short and its brevity gives wings to man's impatience. As individuals, we measure time in minutes, hours and days. Yet we must agree that in the slow succession of generations phenomena, in terms of communities and species, follow another rhythm. Progress, development, changes, if you will, are sometimes imperceptible when measured in terms of the individual's concept of time. History is like a coral reef, whose growth and change is not perceptible to the small creature which builds it. To all appearances, we are moving today at a much faster rate than the meteoric advances in scientific knowledge which have brought peoples closer together by abolishing distance. Nevertheless our progress is still relative. The rapid succession of events is primarily an external manifestation, but the spiritual changes in man, in his psychology, in his moral fabric are not taking place at a much more rapid rate than in the past. That is why we consider that what the United Nations has achieved represents substantial progress and we hope it will be maintained and strengthened,
129.	This new Assembly will certainly have to tackle some troublesome issues. For example, those related- in its many and complex manifestations — with the ever-present threat of an apocalyptic war and those, no less varied and multiform, relating to human welfare as it is affected by the economic imbalance of nations.
130.	With regard to the prospect of another war, the use of gigantic weapons of destruction which the scientific genius of man is inventing daily, in a headlong race, fills us with alarm and anxiety. We see with regret that the moral conscience of mankind is not developing at the same rate as his intellectual capacities,
131.	On this aspect of world peace, Uruguay will bend its will and its efforts to. the consolidation of peace and will support all proposals for material disarmament and an end to the cold war, contingent of course upon effective progress in achieving collective security and the protection of Western civilization, to which our future is bound. It will also support any measures that represent an advance in respect of the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes which will enable all peoples to free themselves of the poverty which wrecks the prospects of peaceful and happy coexistence, for such coexistence depends on an equal opportunity for all peoples to enjoy a minimum degree of well-being.
132.	We are confident that the glimmers of hope which are appearing on the troubled horizon of today will shed a lasting light on the future of the world. For perhaps the first time in history, fear is working in a positive direction, that is, in favour of peace. The prospect of a war in which there will be no victors may discourage those nations that have nurtured designs for aggression on a world-wide scale and they may be led, not out of goodness but as a result of cold calculation, to suppress their impulses to do evil.
133.	Another important group of problems which we shall have to face and which are more directly connected with the individual and his sufferings are those that relate to human rights, to the protection of all those human beings who for one reason or another are victims of political and social events occurring in the area in which it is their fate to live.
134.	These tremendous problems can be approached in two ways: theoretically, by the preparation and study of a covenant of human rights; and practically, by the adoption of measures to help those who are in a particularly arduous situation. Perhaps it would be better to speak of the long-term and the immediate approach, for the covenant will tend to prevent and correct that which the measures will remedy.
135.	With respect to the first, and in accordance with the stand it took at two recent conferences in Santiago —  the fifth Conference of Ministers of Foreign Affairs and the fourth Inter-American Council of Jurists —  Uruguay will support the preparation of the covenant —  at present being drawn up by the United Nations — which will ensure the protection of human rights wherever they may be violated: an effective protection, by legal means and with the necessary guarantees, for the activities of individuals and private organizations. In that sense, Uruguay is only seeking to extend to the international field the provisions and attitudes that it considers vital for the defence of values which are constantly observed in Uruguay.
136.	With respect to the second approach, Uruguay will co-operate enthusiastically, within its limited means, in the solution of one of the most difficult problems of our time: the refugee problem. The fact that millions of men have been displaced from their homes and are living in sub-human conditions, without employment and without hope, is one of the stigmas on the world of today, being the result of its political and social convulsions and maladjustments. The World Refugee Tear, which began in June 1959, is a fine expression of human solidarity and we hope that it will make an effective contribution to the solution of this problem.
137.	With regard to the sharp conflicts which exist in some parts of the world and which are likely to spread, owing to their potential ramifications, Uruguay reiterates its unshakable faith and confidence in the principle it has always professed: that of peaceful solutions, through arbitration, mutual understanding and the intervention of appropriate jurisdictional bodies freely agreed upon.
138.	What we urge is that no people's rights or destinies should be forgotten. Through the ages peoples evolve, creating their own collective conscience and with a legitimate right to self-determination. If this destiny can be fulfilled by means of understandings, so much the better. Hence Uruguay, true to its traditions and faithful to its spirit, is not showing partiality or lacking in generosity when it takes a stand in those conflicts which sunder peoples who for various reasons merit its respect and friendship. Even when a superficial examination appears to indicate that one of the parties has more right on his side, we prefer to exercise our modest influence to bring about an understanding by peaceful and legal means that allow of a serious and thorough examination of the case of both parties and of the basic causes of the dispute. We cannot support a priori judgements, but once judgement has been given, let us be firm and decisive in demanding that it should be faithfully carried out.
139.	It is for this reason that we view with sympathy the constituent efforts of new nations. Those of us who have suffered and struggled for the achievement of our own individuality cannot betray our past. But that past has taught us a painful lesson: the difficulties that beset a new nation that lacks any constructive means of safeguarding its own existence.
140.	Times have changed, and the possibility of giving technical, economic and moral assistance is one of the most constructive aims of the United Nations. This is a fact which should be borne in mind, for it entails a great responsibility for those who lead the world.
141.	In present world conditions, the struggle against economic and social under-development cannot be carried on successfully by the mere good will of each, nation although we realize that every nation is called upon to make a constructive effort.
142.	Historical and geographical factors of various kinds have exercised their influence in the creation of States with very different opportunities for wellbeing and progress. Some are favoured by nature with a wealth of natural resources or with conditions which make human efforts highly profitable. There are others which have neither the resources nor the favourable conditions. Others, again, possess resources but lack the material or human means to develop them. Then there are some countries which, as was once said of some territory, are like a beggar seated on a golden throne but dying of starvation and poverty.
143.	If the goal of this association of nations is to deliver peoples from despair and to intervene effectively in the dialectic contradictions of history in order to achieve good through man's rational and spiritual action, it cannot allow this state of affairs to continue. The living conditions, sometimes sub-human, prevailing in many areas of the globe are fertile soil for many aberrations, for every kind of despotism and despair. In an era when interdependence among nations is becoming increasingly strong and widespread, the sad consequences of such evils are not confined to the countries where they exist, for they inexorably spread to disturb the tranquil existence of those more fortunate countries which might have believed themselves immune from the fluctuations of history. Solidarity based on understanding becomes a rational imperative if world peace is to be consolidated on a firmer basis than that of a balance of armaments. The duty of the hour, the need of the moment, is to free men from the anguish of the wretched present and the uncertain future; to vanquish the despair which darkens the mind, hardens the spirit, blunts noble sentiments, destroys the impulse to love and converts man into an instrument or an agent of aggression and hatred.
144.	It is necessary, indeed it is imperative, to begin this very day what the representative from Brazil so aptly called the "war against under-development, against the slavery to which two-thirds of mankind is subjected." [797th meeting, para. 4] Full technical and economic co-operation, dissemination of information, trade facilities, freedom of movement by keeping open to all the use of those international routes which are a common heritage of mankind — these are. the elements of this, the only noble and exalting struggle. Whatever may be the nature of the conflict, in this or that area, free navigation of the seas and the inter-oceanic canals must be ensured as a fundamental principle of international law for all time and for all nations, including Israel. Our earnest hope for the Near East, to which I have referred, is for a peace which, based on the rights of each individual, will promote understanding and harmony among the communities involved.
145. These hopes are not just theoretical; they are a real part of my Government’s policy, as an effective contribution to the building of a better world.
146.	As evidence of our readiness to co-operate so far as we can in the task of achieving universal wellbeing, I should like to mention two facts.
147.	Firstly, at this very moment representatives of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay and Peru are meeting in Montevideo at the invitation of the Uruguayan Government, in an effort to find legal and practical ways of increasing the possibilities for the production and distribution of goods, as an essential element in strengthening the regional economy, through the establishment of a free trade zone to further Latin American economic integration. This is an understanding favoured by the Governments in order that private enterprise may operate in conditions favourable to a better development that will contribute to the well-being of man.
148.	Secondly, with the recent signing of a pact linking Paraguayan interests with those of our host country and of my own country, and effective step has been taken towards correcting that geographic misfortune suffered by all land-locked countries. In order to facilitate the communications of the interior of the American continent with the outside world, Uruguay, with its favourable geographical situation on the Rio de La Plata, has set up free zones in which, in absolute liberty, without paying any fees or being subject to any tax laws, the commerce of the world has a base for its transactions, concentrating on the production of wealth and its world-wide distribution through unprecedented exemptions granted by the Uruguayan Government as a contribution to better economic co-operation in the world.
149.	Thus we give practical proof of our attachment to the most fundamental principles of the Charter, which we signed in the hope that this association of peoples would be able to find the shining road along which a happier mankind could make Its journey, secure in spiritual peace and physical well-being.

===== Session 15 - 1960 =====
Uruguay would like to associate itself with the general expression of pleasure at your appointment to preside over what we hope will be the historic deliberations of the General Assembly’s fifteenth session.
2.	At the beginning of our work I should like to say that those who bear the greatest responsibility for the world’s course at the present time are keeping us in a state of distress and anxiety.
3. While the peoples lament their miseries, clamour for justice and long for a happy life, the one institution which stands firm amid the general confusion and the threats of war is this great United Nations, representing perhaps the only symbol of brotherhood at this time of menacing gestures, acrimonious monologues and well-stocked arsenals. So, therefore, coming from a free, democratic and peaceable country like Uruguay, of whose Government I am a member — a Government won, after almost a century of constant struggle, through the democratic victory of my party, but a victory which does honour to all, for there is no general or admiral moving in the shadows behind either victor or vanquished — accordingly, I say, we proclaim the inviolability of this international organization outside of which we see nothing but confusion, potential aggression and the threats of the strong towards the weak.
4.	We see gathered here the arrogant, who do not dazzle us, and the humble, who stir our sympathy, the wealthy and ambitious, whom we, the peoples of America, are happy not to envy; the strong, who we hope will remain strong, without forgetting that glory in this world passes and is extinguished, that it may be utterly consumed in the very flames that they themselves may kindle. We recognize their dominating position, but only so long as they show themselves worthy of the trust we place in them. There are here also those who have succeeded in throwing off the colonial yoke, the new nations whom we welcome and to whom we say that there is nothing in their destinies which does not find an echo in our own. It is for this reason that we wish to state from this international rostrum — the highest of our time — that Uruguay and the other American nations will offer as their best contribution to the development of the newly independent States, all that our experience, our toil, our hopes, our mistakes and our dreams have taught us over a century and a half of sovereignty, since the heroic era of our struggle for liberation.
5.	Many of the problems of the new nations call, not for artificially contrived solutions but for an assessment of the action appropriate to the facts of their social and economic life.
6.	Uruguay, which has succeeded in eliminating illiteracy entirely, which has dramatically reduced infant mortality, which has proclaimed those human rights that, according to the Charter constitute the very essence of human dignity, which has created a new and progressive social system, is ready to cooperate with the nations which have emerged from the colonial system and offers them the help of its technicians, educators and scientists as the best way of demonstrating its solidarity with them through international action.
7.	Sure of ourselves, we know no fear. In vain would weapons of war hail down upon the world with their message of death, for there would always remain in each of our countries a handful of free men who would survive the fearful catastrophe and raise again the banners of liberty, independence, and justice, under which all material progress and the amazing advances of science have been achieved, for they are the watchwords of God.
8.	It is as costly and difficult to preserve as to win independence. We of Uruguay recognize this. Independence must be defended against the impatient within and the ambitious without, as Cervantes said, "by day and by night, fleeing or at rest, in peace or in war”. That is why, in this period of urgent problems, there is no hope for salvation and international security save in the rule of law, freely agreed on between equals and faithfully observed. Those who believe that, disregarding and disavowing it, they can affirm their supremacy will soon discover that they have laboured in vain and they will discover, too, that those who create violence, destroy order and shatter peace are doomed to perish, no matter how lofty or plausible their motives may appear. After two world wars and with a third in prospect, it is not governments, whether despotic or democratic, in whose hands the final decision will rest, but the people, who neither want, nor deserve nor will allow themselves to be led to destruction and death.
9.	In this crisis, which is not the first and will not be the last in the history of mankind, the worst thing we could do would be to adopt a pessimistic approach. There is no finer hour of human existence than that in which each one of us is living, for man’s destiny even at the humblest level, is to be an actor and not a spectator, and a man is an actor to the extent that he lives, feels, fights and loves. This hour of anxiety, confusion and struggle, this hour of conflict between great ideologies is a splendid and not a desperate hour. We are at the time just before the dawn and we should lose our deepest reason for living if, instead of awaiting with joy the new era which is to come, we met it with spirits torn by pessimism and doubt.
10.	That great Uruguayan, Jose Enrique Rodo, rightly known and acclaimed as the Teacher of America, enjoined us to meet uncertainty, injustice and even misfortune with a lofty "It is of no importance". And another Uruguayan, Luis Alberto de Herrera, the leader of our party, who died last year, gave our generation the watchword: "The keel of our boat cuts better through turbulent waters". Bolivar has already given the same message to the whole continent when he said at Caracas, in speaking of the crumbled ruins of the Church of San Jacinto, "If Nature obstructs the building of our freedom, against Nature we shall fight, and we shall subdue her".
11.	Despite the difficulties of the time, we are happy in the world in which we live and, though we might wish that it were better, there can be no greater satisfaction than living in it in order to preserve our ideals. In the clash and conflict between what are thought to be great truths, what unites us and binds us together is the knowledge that in the universe there is no going back.
12.	In all spheres of human endeavour the desire for progress and perfection is always on high, fluttering like a banner at the head of every standard. Vigorous and deeply felt nationalism is not intrinsically incompatible with the universal outlook that is virtually forced upon us by technical progress, which has made the world ever smaller while extending man’s kingdom; the relentless drama of our time is thus unfolding on a single stage.
13.	The interdependence of men has become evident in societies, and the interdependence of societies within the international community. This fact? is confirmed by the Charter and the purposes of the United Nations. What is even more certain is that, given the existence of the United Nations, there is nothing and no one, neither men, parties, states nor dogmas, with the strength to destroy the peace of the world. But while giving us rights, this interdependence at the same time imposes duties on us. What we must do is to ensure that these rights are properly recognized and protected and not leave them to the mercy of blind chance or the free play of material forces which might, one day, as a result of a capricious or arrogant act, lead us to chaos and death.
14.	We who are faithful to our western civilization do not consider that our duties change, either outwardly or inwardly, by reason or race or religious difference or territorial inequalities. Our duties are the same today as they were yesterday, and they will be the same always, because they are fundamental. They bid us oppose an international campaign of hatred with one of friendship and love, and the oligarchy of the powerful with the simple democracy in which we believe, of whose eternal values man is the bearer in every part of the earth — those values which tell us that there is no higher court than a man’s conscience nor anything of greater worth than his freedom, that man is highest in the order of creation and that, although political theories may try to drive him toward anarchy or conformity, he will always triumph because he is God’s creation, because he gives meaning to life and death, and because even when, like gentle Cleanto, he is condemned to servitude, he will always find time to inscribe, albeit only in sand, the maxims of Zenon.	"
15.	Uruguay comes here, quite simply, to assume its share of responsibility and action in the task of building peace, in which its own destiny, too, is at stake. The small nations have an important part to play: they cannot be suspected of exclusivism and they are perhaps in the best position to see clearly and to discuss calmly, for they have everything to lose and nothing to gain from any resort to violence. All of us here talk about peace but, paradoxically although we all wish for peace and proclaim our desire for it, its establishment in the world is becoming more and more difficult. We want peace as the man in the street understands it, and not a mere respite between battles. We want peace, less in words and more in deeds. We want peace, less exploited in slogans and more sincerely translated into action.
16.	While the principles of aggression, of armed intervention, of blind hatred, remain current on any one of the five continents, little can be gained by our photographing the other side of the moon and penetrating or unveiling the mysteries of outer space.
17.	The General Assembly should remain in conclave, should remain in session permanently, without any time-limit, until peace is finally assured. Otherwise, we run the risk of increasing the uncertainty of the time and of bringing disappointment to our peoples, for they will be led to believe that these meetings are becoming a mere occasion for barren complaints. Desiring as we do that these meetings of the Assembly should continue, we believe that the greatest risk lies in the possibility that the enemies of the Assembly may conspire behind its resolutions and that we may find ourselves guilty of shameful hypocrisy, proclaiming a principle but acting in a way that is completely contrary to it. We should have descended, then, from drama to vulgar comedy.
18.	Of course, we realize that it is not easy to preserve peace, which means preserving the life of the human species in all its physical and moral complexity. The finding of final solutions — and when I say "final" I give this word the relative meaning it has in relation to human affairs, which are by their nature fleeting and changeable — this is not the work of a day nor of months, nor of years. But, cost what it may, we must gain time, and remain calm and resolute as the problem requires. Never has it been more necessary than today to practise in our daily lives the quiet but sublime virtues of patience, tolerance and understanding, both in the relations between men and in the relations between States.
19.	Devoted as it is to the lofty values of the spirit, Uruguay will support any solution likely to ensure, in this anxious world of ours today, the rule of justice mid liberty, and where the international organizations cannot find an acceptable solution, we are in favour of direct negotiations towards this end.
20.	We should therefore like to express our hope that discussions should take place immediately, or at any rate as soon as possible, in this the home of the United Nations, among those whose position qualifies them to offer the peace and security humanity demands. We do not believe that there are insoluble problems or permanent enmities. On those occasions however rare, when reflection brings a pause in impassioned conflict, reason must admit the need for negotiated agreements reached on a basis of mutual respect.
21.	In an age such as this, when the possibility of visiting other planets is no longer a matter of mere fiction but has entered the realm of definite scientific possibility, it does not make sense to leave regional or any other problems to be settled by the violent methods of war, either cold or hot. It does not make sense for us to embark on the discovery of other worlds if for this world we inhabit we have not found just and peaceful solutions which take account of opposing interests and ideologies.
22.	However complex and serious the circumstances may be or may appear, we cannot allow such important developments, reflecting such heroic and constructive endeavours and fraught with such happy implications for mankind, as the creation of the State of Israel, the resurgence of the Arab world and the rebirth of African and Asian peoples, to result in irreconcilable conflicts which may ultimately bring to naught the strenuous efforts made by those peoples, so liberally endowed with human potentialities.
23.	With regard to the problems which are still so critically affecting the relations between Israel and the Arab States, we should like to reiterate from this rostrum our profound hope that they may be settled. This is essential for the peace not only of the Middle East but also of the entire world, and there is no need for us here to ask the representatives of the two sides whether they are ready and prepared to renew negotiations for we are sure that the reply in both cases would be positive. If they were to come together now and could, through direct talks, agree on an armistice which would bring a respite from their struggle, we could give them another opportunity to negotiate, in the hope of attaining the benefits of a lasting peace for the sake of the generations to come in those great regions of the world.
24.	As concerns our own continent of America, we are perturbed by the thought that, after almost a century of struggle to evolve the elements of an American legal system, at a stroke, all links can be severed and all bonds loosed in this continent in which, despite the natural difficulties arising from its vast geographical area and from the injustice and misfortunes its peoples may be suffering, an awareness has grown that all its problems can and must be solved within the American orbit, all without exception firmly upholding the doctrine first promulgated by Manuel Oribe more than a century ago, revised by Baltasar Brum and finally enshrined in the Treaty of Rio De Janeiro at Quitandinha. This doctrine decrees that any act of aggression whether from inside or outside the continent, against any American State, shall be considered an act of aggression against the entire continent.
25.	We consider that understanding must always be reached among our nations and we could not rest unless every means of attaining it had been exhausted.
26.	Faithful to the principle of non-intervention, we are resolutely opposed to all external interference in the affairs of the American continent. We believe that the best method of preventing such interference is for the parties to a dispute to reach direct agreement between themselves and the peoples of America must never say that it is too late for this.
27.	We believe in the great destiny of this America of ours. For us Americans, of every region, the possibility of reaching an understanding for the sake of the common good always exists and always will, exist. A course of action which in other parts of the world might seem unattainable or which might be opposed and rejected is enjoined on us by history. We Americans must always solve our difficulties by the method of discussion between equals. This approach is inherent in our way of life. It was advocated by such illustrious heroes of our past as Artigas, Bolívar, San Martin and O’Higgins. In the political, economic and social spheres, our appointed path is the one which accords with human dignity. Much assistance and cooperative effort is needed if the great democratic principles, by which the people of America wish their future to be governed, are to have real meaning.
28.	The anxiety which the peoples of the American continent are displaying is due to deeper causes than inadequate development or institutional difficulties. A whole hemisphere endowed by history with the capacity to achieve the full development of its human potentialities, has seen its vital forces sapped and its future frustrated. The tremendous upheaval of the last world war found us ready to occupy a place of responsibility in the new universe which was coming into being after the greatest human tragedy of all times.
29.	When the United States, in a colossal effort to meet the situation resolved to assist its conquered enemies of yesterday and its own exhausted allies in order that civilization should not break down, the American peoples and their Governments applauded this step as the beginning of a new era. The aid received by the European and other peoples has no parallel in the whole history of mankind. Without the assistance of the United States hot one of these nations would have been able, in so short a period, to reestablish its productive capacity, restore its agriculture and rebuild its industries.
30.	When the Marshall Plan was drawn up, nations which had had no part in the assistance still cherished the illusion that a new era had dawned and that the foundations of an integrated world were being laid. But now, with the establishment of the Common Market, the nations of the Old World seem, in one essential respect, to be frustrating this hope. Forgetting their quarrels one with another, they are fencing themselves in behind self-sufficient systems, systems which favour the internal consumption of goods; they are increasing their own production to the detriment of other areas of the world, inventing new forms of economic feudalism, encouraging the formation of industrial cartels to concentrate demand, and imposing qualitative and quantitative restrictions which hamper the industrial development of the under-developed countries. This is a cause of anxiety and concern to America. Latin America, for which Europe has been the natural market for more than a century, 1ms had to accept unfair prices for its raw materials, while the prices of the industrial products which it received in return have increased fifteen fold. Between 1945 and 1960 the decline in value of our basic commodities produced by the blood and sweat of our workers represented a loss of 11,000 million.
31.	America has 200 million inhabitants and these 200 million inhabitants are looking to us, their governments, for equitable treatment consistent with the democratic principles and doctrines which we uphold and under which, we live. It is no longer in our power to restrain the demand of the masses for economic and social justice in the face of the privileged position of other social classes, who seem quite insensitive to misery, shut up as they are behind their financial barriers protected by their contracts and indifferent to the problems of our development.
32.	But the exertions of the great American nation, to which we have referred should be accompanied by a similar effort on the part of those with whom we are linked by the circumstances of, our foundation and by blood, those European nations whose traditions we have inherited, for we need their aid as much as they earlier needed aid to regain their strength.
33.	Our world of today is a world of inter-dependent peoples, not of rivals. We all depend on each other. Above ideological differences, above ideas which will perish or evolve, as all human ideas have evolved over the centuries, there is the eternal destiny of mankind, indivisible and imperishable, there is the evolution of human life towards perfection and the right of all peoples to find happiness.
34.	When the progress of one section of humanity is checked, the course of life is impeded. The finger of God above us points to the need to abandon selfishness. There will never be peace on the earth while there are peoples in misery.
35.	With the spread of culture and the progress of the world towards a single system of law, it is becoming increasingly plain that all war is civil war. Every conflict is a conflict between fellow citizens of a wider heritage. All hatred between men is hatred between brothers. In spite of the philosophical pessimism which has done so much to vitiate the sources of modern culture, man must cease to be his own enemy. Poverty, backwardness, ignorance, under-production, lack of markets, the absence of fair prices and the underpayment of the mass of the workers for the fruit of their toil — "these are the enemies against which war must be ceaselessly waged. The evils and sufferings which afflict mankind, unexploited wealth in the soil and subsoil of nations, harmful partisan rivalries, dictatorships proclaiming themselves to be of the right or of the left — hemiplegia — seems to be the disease of our century! These all provide ample room for missionary endeavour and achievement in which the indomitable spirit of man has limitless scope for creative activity.
36.	In this matter, Uruguay does not falter. It knows the part it has to play. There is a saying in my country and in most of the countries of America that "straight dealing makes long friends". In background, as well as in thought, instinct and spirit, Uruguay feels itself a part of western civilization, to which fell the honour of creating the first culture of world-wide significance. The philosophical spirit of Greece, the legal genius of Borne, the spiritual insights of Christianity, the mystical and heroic sense of Spain — the discoverer of a new world and the mother of nations — and the extraordinary technical progress of the European peoples as a whole have combined to produce the most brilliant and impressive synthesis that the world has ever known. And we should, in justice, also mention the contribution to this great universal achievement made by the United States of America, the splendid exponent of a progressive and creative individualism and the defender in recent decades of the principles of justice and liberty which are the cornerstones of democracy.
37.	Here for the first time in the annals of history is a culture with its roots in humanity itself, awakening the peoples of every race, , even those who seemed asleep forever, surrounded by the remains of earlier civilizations, a culture bringing out what these peoples still preserved of value, revealing and fulfilling their hidden potentialities and releasing unsuspected energies. We do not fear the awakening of these peoples. Nations live in a state of continual evolution. The troubles and sufferings experienced by these peoples, like those which our peoples underwent and are still undergoing, will always be most easily remedied by safeguarding their liberty and independence and by combating colonialism and the dictatorships with equal vigour.
38.	The age of imperialist enterprise and of selfish, blind domination has gone forever. It would be well for this fact to be understood once and for all. We need not guns and ammunition, but action by governments established as a result of free elections and by universal suffrage; honest, progressive governments, whose aim is not merely to achieve and retain power but to exercise it honourably and in good faith, heedful of the demands of freely expressed public opinion. What we need are assured markets and fair prices providing an adequate reward for human labour. What we need is more economic and technical aid and more development schemes, unconnected with political objectives which may change or be abandoned.
39.	The programmes of technical assistance and economic co-operation in the industrially under-developed countries are undoubtedly among the most worthwhile of the activities of the United Nations. But we believe that we should learn and profit from past experience and we should, therefore, like to make it clear that we favour a simplification of procedures lest an elaborate international bureaucracy should be added to the elaborate bureaucracies which we all have within our own countries.
40.	It is essential to ensure that applications or requests for technical assistance are not lost, delayed or distorted in the course of the complicated bureaucratic processes through which they may pass. While paying a special tribute to the outstanding work now being done under the technical assistance programmes and by the Special Fund, I should like to suggest the possibility of establishing a single institution which would be in a position to receive, study and deal with applications from countries, which should be handled more directly and expeditiously. We must remember that behind every request there is a people, a host of men and women, a mass of working folk. When we find that more than half the world's population does not earn enough for the minimum needs of life, that two-thirds of the world's children are inadequately housed and fed, that wide areas of the world bear the marks of grinding poverty, we realize that assistance must be given promptly, without complicated formalities, so that the necessary resources may be speedily made available to those in need.
41.	To sum up most of what I have said in a few words, Uruguay upholds, among others, principles and aspirations that find expression in governments which are freely elected by universal suffrage and which are honest and progressive, heedful of freely-expressed public opinion; assured markets and fair prices for products; economic and technical aid to facilitate the development and exploitation of the natural resources of countries and the realization of their potentialities. The attainment of all these objectives will enable our peoples to emerge from the poverty and injustice, which generate violence, feed often justified rebellion and provide fertile soil for nationalistic revolutions.
42.	But while we are glad to form part of this Western world, we realize that it bears a heavy responsibility, both indirect and direct. If it does not wish, like the sorcerer’s apprentice, to be at the mercy of forces released at any and every moment, it must act with energy and decision, but not to the exclusion of liberality and generosity. Both nationally and internationally, solidarity and co-operation are becoming rational imperatives, one might say, obligations.
43.	Selfishness no longer pays. The basic problem is to bring this truth home, to those who direct the world's destinies, those who guide public opinion and those who now enjoy the benefits of systems which are doomed to disappear. We are aware that attitudes which we do not share have their origin in concrete facts which must be studied fully and all their implications understood. We realize and concede that many of these attitudes are the direct outcome of despotic political regimes or of the poverty and ignorance reigning in a particular part of the world, and, that the sins of others often reflect our own.
44.	We know that in a suffering world, in which, in the words of Abbe Pierre, one third of the population " is dying from over-eating, another third from lack of food, while the other third is undernourished, we must ail sincerely and frankly admit our share of guilt. The resources to end this situation are becoming increasingly available to mankind, provided it does not dissipate its talents in destruction.
45.	The utilization of atomic energy for peaceful purposes is opening up unforeseen possibilities of human well-being. The great need is to break down the barriers of misunderstanding and hatred, to put an end to the survival of the old, barbaric myths of violence and of racial superiority, and to messianic ideologies. This is not by any means to favour an empty and hypocritical pacifism, to close one’s eyes to reality and to lower one’s guard before the perils lying in wait for the world. As long as we are unable to establish the reign of international peace and security; as long as steps are being taken — or can be taken — and preparations made with a view to aggression, world dominion, and the subjection of peoples to a system which denies liberty and destroys freedom of conscience by negating individual personality and disregarding essential human rights, as long as there is still an area of the world in which man, the bearer of eternal values, is reduced to the status of a cog in the State machine or a herd animal in the service of the State, and also — for why should we disguise the fact? — as long as an attempt is being made to subject peoples to outdated systems of ruthless exploitation and under-consumption, and the right of all to decent living conditions is ignored, as long as this state of affairs persists the international community cannot be organized oh a sufficiently firm basis of confidence and co-operation to enable all the vast resources of destructive power to be put to the service of peace and progress, without reference to frontiers, race, religion, or political systems.
46.	My observations have covered the particular problems which may be submitted to the General Assembly at its fifteenth session. If we are to make any progress here or in our respective countries towards peace and social justice for all the peoples of the earth, we shall need determination and courage. Cowards will be left behind. There will be no peace without a policy of peace to support it, that is to say, without a policy of justice. Nowhere can a satisfactory policy be based on fear. The art of government, which is the oldest and most illustrious of human callings, requiring courage, resolution and vision. Its end is not a fleeting and perishable glory; nor is undisturbed tranquillity its reward. Its end is the common good and its reward is measured in terms of the good which is accomplished, good in the human sense, in the complete, final and absolute sense, which moreover, is within our power to achieve, if we set our minds to do so before it is too late.
47.	Our watchword — and this is Uruguay's philosophy — is to face the immediate future with optimism and faith. The question has been asked from this rostrum of what scientific progress will bring to mankind and what is its gift to this great twentieth century. We reply without hesitation that all achievements of the human mind will necessarily benefit all the members of the vast family of mankind. Let us then set to work with determination and hope.
48.	The failing of our time and of cur world is our preoccupation with the past. It is our nostalgia for things that have passed away and have ceased to exist. But we are not dismayed either by the threats of warmongers or by the easy popularity of fanatics or by the development of amazing new machines — these would only disturb us if they were capable of composing a sonnet or constructing a symphony.
49.	Keeping our faith in man unshaken, let us hold the torch high. With the torch in our hand, we will light our way, remembering that those who cannot hold it high run the risk of burning their hands. Upon the wide horizon illuminated by this torch and by this faith the words “United Nations” are emblazoned.


===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
﻿The delegation of Uruguay shares the feeling of satisfaction with which the unanimous election of the President of this Assembly was received. His many personal virtues, which have already been justly praised, permit us to hope that under his wise direction the discussions initiated here will lead to positive results. It is the fervent hope of my delegation that this may be so.
78.	The President is assuming this office — which is both an honour and a burden — at a time when to the anxiety caused in the world by international tensions has been added the grief felt at the tragic loss of the Secretary-General, Mr. Dag Hammarskjold, and some of the United Nations most loyal workers. The delegation of Uruguay wishes to associate itself with the tributes which have been paid to them and bows in reverent memory of these people and of all the others who have given their lives, and who until a few hours ago were still giving their lives, to the service of the lofty ideals of the United Nations.
79.	The uppermost concern in our minds today is peace — not that there has ever been any time when peace was not the ultimate objective of this community of nations. The United Nations was created in order to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind. Its paramount objective is peace and its working principle is the creation of the necessary conditions for the maintenance of international security. If carefully considered, the ether activities carried out by the Organization, in the exercise of a competence which is today considerably broader than it was in its early days, are, despite all their importance, nothing but tools or means the better to further this supreme cause of peace.
80.	Today, here and now, this peace is in peril. The United Nations is at a difficult — we might almost say crucial — moment of its history. A challenge has been issued and this challenge affects us all, because in the last analysis we are all united in the same destiny, tragic as that destiny may be.
81.	Even less can those fail to recognize this, who represent nations that greatness is not measured by the number of army divisions, but by the strength of their spirit and wisdom of their institutions and the exercise of the civil virtues of tolerance and concord. For small nations, indeed, world peace is a singularly precious thing. Other nations may, with more or less success, venture forth on the stormy seas of war. For small nations there is no choice. Peace is a precondition of their survival, since only in conditions of genuine peace can they fulfil their ineluctable mission of ensuring the happiness of their citizens..
82.	For that reason, the small countries have a special right to make their voices heard and their will felt in the decisions of the Assembly. If those who talk about a family of nations and a universal community of peoples are sincere, they must recognize that the clamour of those nations, regardless of the military power behind them, is the expression of the general will, the will of the peoples, which — as the wise saying has it — is the will of God.
83.	I have not said these things on the spur of the moment. My country, Uruguay, is small if it is measured in terms of military or economic power, but as it happens, its spirit, the spirit of its people, is one of total dedication to the cause of peace and justice.. Perhaps its Spanish heritage gave our people a special feeling for great universal causes, a sense of mission — and by definition a mission must be carried out for the general benefit — like that which at one time was the glory and splendour of the mother country; perhaps as a result of its painful struggle for independence, which was prolonged beyond the date of its formal recognition, it came to feel more than others the need for a world governed by rules of peaceful coexistence. Be that as it may, it reaffirms today its faith in the principles which it has always professed: pacific settlement of disputes, the virtues of arbitration, respect for the rules of international law and ethics.
84.	It would take too long to list the series of real difficulties which today oppose this universal cry for peace and keep the world in that intermediate stage, the cold war, with its consequences of distrust, fear and suspicion; it would take too long and it would really be pointless, if you stop to think that conflict, as expression of opposition of interests, seems to be the very essence of international life, just as occurs within a national society in encounters between individuals. The greatest difficulty is not the existence of the conflict itself, however serious that might appear to be. The greatest difficulty is the fact that, in spite of the tremendous progress made during the last decade, international society has not yet found the proper tools for its solution. The reason for this is basically simple: the International community lacks any deep awareness of its unity, even as its members lack awareness of their condition as such, that is to say, of being parts of a whole; it lacks the unconditional acceptance of the idea of the common goal, common to all mankind, on which the welfare of each of its members ultimately depends. The dissolution of the Christian community, which occurred several centuries ago, caused the West to lose that awareness of its fundamental unity and as a result we have lost the only common ground in which discussion and argument could take place, every nation began to consider itself an end in itself, to practise an egoism it regarded as sacred, and to accept reasons of State as a rule and standard for its actions. With the disappearance of the common ground of beliefs and values which constituted the bulwark of cur civilization, there was no longer anything to stop the enslaving development of a policy of force, which, based on the idea of unlimited sovereignty bound by no ethical rule, was to lead mankind to the serious catastrophes of the present century.
85.	The physical traces of those ravages had been gradually erased, but their spiritual effects remain. In these vast regions of the globe, the values of Christian civilization, which in the last analysis are the values of man, whatever the civilization to which he belongs, are in danger. In these conditions, it must be admitted, the gulf has widened and it has become more difficult for nations to talk to one another. For it is obvious that the goal of peace cannot be attained at the cost of those very values which give peace its meaning.
86.	If we work hard for peace, if we are willing to spare no effort to achieve it, it is because peace is the prerequisite* for a life that can be led in dignity and freedom. There can be no peace at the cost of human dignity. Peace, it must be remembered, is not an end in itself: it is only a means to the ultimate end, which is human happiness, the fullness of a free life. For this reason, we could never morally agree to a so-called peaceful coexistence which meant the acceptance or recognition of the slavery of Copies
and nations. Such make-believe peaceful coexistence not peace; it is a tragic counterfeit of peace. For if peace presupposes order, that order must be one of liberty and justice. Justice and peace are inseparable. Peace is the handiwork of justice.
87.	Therefore, the contribution of our peoples to the cause of peace will be judged by the extent to which we are able to establish the prerequisites for justice in the world. Since justice still consists essentially in the old idea of giving to each his own, it presupposes, in the international order, the recognition of two fundamental principles.
88.	The first is that every nation, as well as every individual in every nation, must have opportunities for free self-determination. This is the principle of self-determination which, in reference to citizens, means simply the enjoyment, by each of them, of their natural rights, inherent in their condition as human beings, and which, with reference to nations, means that each of them must be assured of independence, sovereignty and equality.
89.	My country has been particularly aware of these problems. At conferences, in assemblies, and through various proposals, we have tirelessly endeavoured to work out an effective system for protecting human rights which, without undermining the sovereignty of States, would bring about conditions ensuring the full exercise of those rights.
90.	Much ground still remains to be covered. If we recall that the United Nations receives thousands of petitions every year denouncing the violation of rights in every part of the world, and that the United Nations can do nothing more than place them in its files, it is obvious that what we have been doing until now is far from satisfying the deeply felt* although possibly premature, hopes of the world's oppressed. Nevertheless, as stated in the Preamble of the Paris Declaration, U recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace.
91.	Where nations are concerned, I wish to recall here that Uruguay like its sister republics in the Americas, was born under the sign of self-determination. For that reason, we have Joyfully welcomed in recent years the accession to independence of the subjugated peoples of Africa and Asia. For us, self determination is a part of our very being, and we can no more renounce it than we can renounce ourselves.
92.	In our inter-American commitments we have emphatically affirmed the absolute right of peoples to be masters of their own destinies, freely to choose their own political Institutions, to achieve economic independence, and to live their own social and cultural life without any direct or indirect interference by any State or group of States, and more particularly without the intrusion of any form of totalitarianism. My country will remain true to that principle, whatever difficulties its application may involve in specific circumstances.
93.	Secondly, as a logical corollary — since after all this is no more than a means for the effective exercise of self-determination — my country once again reaffirms from this high rostrum the principle of non-intervention, which is the keystone of the Charter

and of our anti-American system, and a safeguard of the sovereignty and Integrity of peoples. Perhaps the reaffirmation of the unconditional validity of that principle is more necessary than ever today, when the classic forms of violence have given way to the underhanded methods of revolutionary war, fomented from Abroad, and aimed at dominating countries by weakening their moral fibre, destroying their religion and traditional beliefs, undermining their economies, disorganizing their production and subverting their internal systems.
94.	But justice, the very core and foundation of peace, is not confined to the defence of individual and collective freedoms. Although freedom is indispensable for the full development of the human personality, the human condition requires primary attention to physical needs. Without the life of the body, there can be no life of the spirit, of which the former is a vehicle and instrument. It is there that freedom must begin, in freedom from want, from ignorance, and from the despair which follows in the wake of want and ignorance. If democracy is to triumph and endure, it must be complete and genuine, and it must be a social democracy, for its purpose — and therein lies its greatness — is nothing less than the complete happiness of mankind.
95.	Today we are experiencing the last effects of the great industrial revolution which, by increasing the productivity of labour and hence the total output, enabled the broad masses to enjoy the material and cultural benefits of civilization which had hitherto been reserved for a very small minority. The accession of the "fourth estate" to levels of living which had formerly been reserved for the elite, the demand  of these broad masses for a more equitable distribution of wealth among all classes of society, their logical claim to participation in government, all these are, fortunately, irrevocable facts which no reactionary political or social philosophy could, at this stage, fail to take into account.
96.	But the satisfaction of these minimum requirements of social justice, the participation of all members of society in the enjoyment of the material and cultural benefits of civilization, which has been made possible today by the mechanical revolution of Our time, cannot be brought about in isolation by each one of our political communities, and particularly bf the great majority which belongs to the so-called underdeveloped world. The close interdependence in which nations must live today; the inadequacy of natural resources or of the capital needed to exploit them; the economic colonialism under which many countries are still merely the breadbaskets, the producers of raw materials of the industrial Powers; the enormous difficulties encountered by these countries in promoting their industrial development, except at the cost of sacrificing the present generations; the low productivity of labour in vast areas of the world, which makes it impossible for those areas to compete in the world price market, except through expensive subsidies which are paid for, in the last analysis, by the working classes: all these and other factors make greater and closer cooperation among nations absolutely essential. For, just as within each society the callous concentration of wealth in the hands of a few has deprived the masses of their natural right to use and enjoy goods which exist for the use and enjoyment of all, a similar process has been taking place within the international society itself, which has thus been divided into prosperous and 
powerful nations and nations that are weak and poor. The problem of the equitable distribution of wealth, the problem of the social function of property, now arises at the world level; and the same reasons which justify those who are fighting for equitable distribution within their own nations also justify the demand of the underdeveloped countries for broad and comprehensive assistance from the industrialized countries. 'it must be understood once and for all, if disaster is not to befall all of us, that such cooperation is not a generous donation, nor is requesting it the act of a beggar. If we are truly members of an international community, if there is a basic solidarity among all human beings by reason of their origin, nature and destiny, then the highly developed nations have a natural legal duty to come to the aid of their brothers who are fighting against the handicaps of poverty, disease and ignorance. It would be an irreparable mistake for the Western world to which we belong to allow this revolutionary process, which is inexorably advancing in all parts of the world to go on being exploited, as it has been up to now, by other blocs which, having nothing to lose, play it as their trump card. Our duty as Westerners — and in the final analysis the idea of social justice is a. Western ideals to identify ourselves with this great revolution of our time, to encourage it and to place ourselves at its head.
97.	Today we can note with satisfaction that the first steps towards that great goal have already been taken. In my own country, at the historic conference of Punta del Este, the American republics, in an example of cooperation without parallel in history, agreed to form an Alliance for Progress, with a view to securing for their peoples, in freedom and within the framework of democratic institutions, better and fairer levels of living, accelerating their economic and social development, ensuring adequate remuneration for labour, and eradicating poverty, illiteracy and disease once and for all.
98.	The struggle for justice, which is the struggle for peace, has its appropriate place within this Organization. Even to the most sceptical mind, the results achieved during these past fifteen years cannot but be regarded as furthering the cause of peace. What the United Nations had done during this period and, what is perhaps even more important, what it has succeeded in preventing from being done — a role none the less vital because negative — justifies in good measure, together with the advances made in the economic, social and humanitarian fields, the hopes which the world has placed in it.
99.	It is true that the United Nations has neither changed the basic elements in the conflict between the two blocs into which the world is today divided, nor altered the essential pattern of international politics in our time. Perhaps so ambitious a project was not part of the original plan for its creation. But it has helped those two blocs to communicate with each other, it has thrown a bridge across the gap which, however fragile it may appear at this moment, is still a bridge, a possibility and a hope.
100.	Our primary task is precisely to avoid the continuation of the policy of blocs within the United Nations, our task is to foster a kind of "esprit de corps" in all its Members, and more especially among the great Powers. For to admit that the division of the United Nations into rigid blocs is something which cannot be helped would be to admit that the United Nations, which proclaims itself to be united, is disunited, and that would be the height of absurdity. We must at least exhaust the rich possibilities which the United Nations offers as a means for the pacific settlement of disputes on a basis of rectitude and loyalty in our intentions and proceeding}, and in full awareness of belonging to an Organization which is an entity having its own purposes, and the preservation of which is a matter of interest and concern to us all. In this domain, the small and medium sized nations are in a position to play an important role. If, as I said, we could never agree that the so-called "peaceful coexistence" as it has been proclaimed in actions and intentions is morally defensible, we can, nevertheless, take it as a point of departure and a reality on which we can begin to build a genuine policy of peace. When the only alternative to negotiations, talks and meetings is total war, the choice does not appear difficult. In any case, to succeed in delaying a conflict is, to a certain extent, to help to solve it. For the future no longer belongs to man: it belongs only to God.
 


===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
Permit me, Mr. President, to extend to you the congratulations of my delegation upon your election, You possess to a very high degree qualities which are rarely found in a single person: you are thoroughly familiar, as a jurist, with the principles of theoretical and speculative thinking and, as a statesman, with those of the practical science of politics. These endowments warrant the hope that, under your wise leadership and the guidance of the Supreme Being whom you have so humbly invoked, the debates now beginning will help to attain our objectives.	
89. The seventeenth session of the General Assembly is opening at a time when the international situation is fraught with tension and danger; The problem of Berlin and the whole problem of the future of Germany — the most difficult legacy left to us by the Second World War — are still unresolved and compel the forces defending the principles of the free world to remain in a continuous state of vigilance. In that more than in any other area, an act of rashness or an act of weakness may have unforeseen consequences.
90.	There, is also tension and conflict in Asia, despite some instances of significant progress; tension in Africa, where some sectors of opinion still refuse to recognize the inescapable realities of African nationalism; and finally tension and danger in America, the continent which we would have wished to be "par excellence" the continent of peace, in accordance with what has been and continues to be the unalterable objective of our peoples.
91,	This, of course, is no new situation. Since the Second World War, with shorter or longer periods of respite, the world has become accustomed to living in a permanent state of crisis. The days of September 1961, when we opened the sixteenth session, seemed even darker. At that time, too, the question of Berlin was in an acute stage, but there was also the Congo crisis; we were on the eve of the explosion of the fifty-megaton bomb, and the whole world was mourning the death of one of the most selfless servants of the United Nations.
92,	But crisis and conflict, however recurrent, do not provide sufficient reason for our hopes to waver. Life itself is conflict and crisis, because injustice, cruelty and ambition are present in it. Life is all that, and all that is worse in an international than in a national context. But such is reality; and it is reality which must be our starting point, for paradise is not of this world. All we can hope to do is to make the human condition more tolerable, by using the means available to us.
93.	The United Nations is one of those means. We do not, of course, regard it as the only instrument for coping with the problems arising from the coexistence of nations. As pointed out in the introduction to the annual report of the Secretary-General on the work of the organization from 16 June 1961 to 15 June 1962, it was never the intention that all problems should be solved within the United Nations, nor was the United Nations conceived as the sole means of conducting international diplomacy. It is clear that our world is still based, and will continue to be based for some time to come, on the classic concept of sovereign nations in more or less peaceful competition — for that unity upon which alone can be based a juridical structure with any claim to universality has not yet been established. The "world city" seen as the highest ideal of human, political organization in the philosophies of all great culture sis still no more than a dream, an age-old dream.
94.	But if that is true, and if on that account the small countries, more than others, are compelled relentlessly to defend their sovereignty in a world in which the differences in economic and military power are so vast and blatant, ultimately we are bound to unite and integrate, not to separate and divide. That is why the instrument which the United Nations represents should be conceived as a dynamic one, to be used in the service of new forms of co-operation and international action. Possibly a dynamic concept of the United Nations was not in the minds of the Organization's founders, and perhaps that idea has not yet been fully developed. But the United Nations is an institution; and institutions are destined to live, not to die. They are living things, even though their life — that is, the force they exert — is of a nature different from ours. And just as our life is simply the translation of power into action — that is, a movement toward perfection, towards fulfilment, which is the ultimate goal — so institutions, like plants, animals and men, require the harmonious development of their potentialities and their attributes before they can arrive at the full achievement of their purposes.
95.	Even a superficial review of what has happened in the United Nations in the past few years would show that part of that process has begun and that a peaceful revolution has been set in motion within the Organization. In illustration of my point, it cannot be denied that the decisions adopted by the Assembly are merely recommendations, devoid of the binding effect which international obligations usually have. Nor can it be denied that the non-mandatory nature of the Assembly's decisions, together with the veto and the principle of domestic jurisdiction, constituted the three pillars on which it was possible to support the San Francisco agreement. But while this is still true from a strictly legal standpoint, it is less obviously true from the standpoint of one particular political consideration. I am referring not merely to the moral force consistently attributed to the Assembly's recommendations as expressions of public opinion and world conscience. I am thinking specifically of the increasingly wide-spread belief, particularly in certain fields of United Nations activity, that these resolutions are mandatory — of the emergence of a psychological factor, the opinio necessitates, which is one of the decisive elements in the development of the rules of customary international law. This, it must be recognized, is a new phenomenon — one not provided for in the system of the Charter. The least we can say now is that this idea already exists; time alone will tell whether it is to be the idea of the future.
96.	I have indicated a specific field of the United Nations activity in which this "living" concept of the Organization has made itself felt more keenly than in others. The field is that of colonial questions. It has been said that colonial empires are lost in New York; while that may be an exaggeration, it is a fact that the United Nations is playing a decisive role in this matter. Who can now doubt, for example, the tremendous explosive power of the Declaration on the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples? We may go on debating whether the Declaration is strictly in conformity with the letter of the Charter or the intention of its authors. But who would now deny that the Declaration is in conformity with the spirit of the Charter and its political philosophy? Even if we did go beyond the formal provisions of the Charter when we adopted that resolution, we did so in order to make those provisions serve the purpose, of the Charter more effectively, for that is why they are there. And that was all to the good, for it is the letter which kills and the spirit which gives life.
97.	I would not wish to let this opportunity pass without expressing our appreciation of the work accomplished by the Special Committee on, the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, on which we were privileged to serve. We think that, apart. from the normal flaws which inevitably characterize any new and original undertaking, the Committee has done constructive work. While there have been differences of opinion among the members with regard to some problems, and certain positions may have been maintained with the rigidity of extremism, there has also been much evidence of a spirit of compromise and a constructive approach. When we consider what colonialism, a system which grew out of an inhuman desire for gain, has meant in our time, we must at the very least recognize the responsible attitude adopted by countries which have undergone, in body and soul, the affliction of colonialism; we must at the very least marvel at the fact that, with one single exception, this battle for liberation is being waged within the framework of the Charter, which is tantamount to saying that it is being waged within the law. Any revolution is, to a large extent, violence; but violence within the law and in support of the law is known as justice. After all, the object of this struggle for liberation is legitimate; and there is probably no nation represented in this Assembly which has not had to fight, at some moment in its history, for its liberation from foreign domination. In any struggle for a noble cause, those who carry on the struggle must also, in some way, be ennobled.
98.	Much, doubtless, remains to be done, and it is for the Assembly to decide how the task shall be pursued. But if we are to go on — and no one doubts that we must — it should not be merely to bring about peoples more or less formal independence. Political independence and self-government are the first objective, but not the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal is independence in the fullest sense of the word — independence which really makes us masters of our own destiny, masters and sovereigns in the legitimate areas, of competence of oar communities. It is true that political independence is a sine qua non of full independence; but of itself is not enough.
99.	I Should like to recall that we, the peoples of Latin America, have learnt, and not in anima vili, that the establishments self-government involves, in the first place, intelligent adaptation of the forms of law to the sociological realities of each country. Speaking, for people which, like its brothers in America, has in the past had to involve itself in a continuous battle as between ideal constitutions and real constitutions, as between written constitutions and sociological constitutions battle fortunately terminated by Uruguay half a century ago — we are in a position fully to appreciate the need to adapt the principles underlying the development of free institutions to the political body which they are intended to govern, as skin is adapted to the human frame.
100.	Every country, of course, must make its own experiment in working out its own principles. But in all cases the objective should be the same: that those institutions — except, for such basic principles as the sovereignty of the people or respect for natural human, rights, which are unconditionally applicable in all situations — should be adapted, like the skin to the body, to the actual structure of the country. Otherwise, independence leads to chaos and chaos breeds a new colonialism or spurious forms of government which, as history shows us, are nearly always exploited by interests alien to legitimate national self-interest.
101.	And this holds true not only for the new nations attaining to independence, which We heartily welcome to our ranks, but also for that vast sector of humanity wrongly known as the "under-developed world" — an expression which seems to suggest that development and progress can be measured only by technology and material wealth and not by moral achievement and cultivation of the mind, which we so often seek in vain in this vast desert of industrial cities.
102.	For those who belong to that world, we must abolish the paradox of political independence and economic dependence, the luxury of freedom and the yoke of poverty. A world in which 500 million people are hungry and 1,000 million are at least suffering from malnutrition cannot continue to exist. At this stage of civilization, it is certainly neither novel nor revolutionary to assert that the wealth of this earth has been created for the benefit of all mankind, not for a particular part of it. And what that part claims as its right is„ nothing more" than the role incumbent upon it, its administrative and social task, which should be acknowledged and performed within the international community even more imperatively than within a national community. For there can. be no healthy international community so long as entire populations are still sunk in backwardness or poverty. The gap between rich, powerful nations and poor nations is even less acceptable than the gap between rich and poor within a given country, precisely because the international community is the most effective political entity — the only one able to supply mankind as a whole with adequate means for achieving happiness, which is the purpose of human life.
103.	I should not like to omit a reference, however brief, to such exceptionally important subjects as disarmament and nuclear testing. It should be borne in mind that despite the valuable and constructive work being done by the United Nations in broad fields of human activity, and particularly in economic and social matters, its primary objective is still the maintenance of international peace and security.
104.	It is true that if the question of disarmament had to do, as the word suggests, merely with arms, the unarmed countries which comprise the vast majority of the Assembly could have little to say. But disarmament is merely an instrument, a means, one of the aspects of peace; and peace is a question that concerns us all. Peace is not a matter of opinion, a matter of veto, or a matter of numbers of army divisions. Peace is the common good, and the question of disarmament therefore concerns us all. And this is particularly true of that aspect of it which relates to nuclear testing. For even if we, could agree, at least in theory, that the arms race, with its immense danger and the vast resources of which it deprives us constitutes neither a positive breach of peace nor a real injury, nuclear tests, however legitimate the interests held to justify them, already constitute an injury — a real, not a potential one. Consequently, with the same right as that enjoyed by the nuclear Powers in advancing arguments in defence of their national security, we advance the same arguments in opposition, since no Government can neglect its inescapable duty of protecting the lives and health of the people placed under its care — its first and, indeed, most sacred obligation.
105.	We confidently hope that substantial progress will be made at this seventeenth session of the General Assembly, in the matters of disarmament and nuclear testing. Men — like countries, which after all are nothing more than communities of men — faced, as they are today with the inexorable prospect of total annihilation, are capable in the last resort of performing acts of supreme wisdom which in other circumstance? might have seemed Utopian or impossible.
106.	Among the items to be considered at this seventeenth session is one entitled Consideration of principles of international law concerning friendly relations and co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations". We are not too sanguine as to the effectiveness of such an investigation as a real means of establishing friendship and co-operation between nations. It is not enough for men to know the truth; they must also will it, and to seek and operate truth must become a habit, a second nature, so that thought and action become one, instead of being, as seems to be characteristic of the spirit of our times, permanently dissociated.
107.	In considering these principles, we must start from the basic fact that the international community has not yet succeeded in advancing beyond the stage of the coexistence of many sovereign national States. If such is the present structure of the world community — and it always seems to have been — that is because it is to some extent inherent in the nature of things and in the plan of creation; consequently, in their relations with each other, these natural entities must possess more or less the same .rights as those held by individuals in their mutual relations within their own communities.
108.	States, like individuals have a right to live, to exist, to protect themselves and to develop in a lawful way. They have a right to physical integrity, i.e., territorial integrity, and to the exercise of free will, i.e., self-determination; a right to enjoy legal status and therefore to be equal before the law; a right to be respected by their peers; a right to their own culture and to the development Of their national characteristics; and lastly, a right to use the fruits of the earth for the sustenance of their populations.
109.	If these fundamental rights are really inherent in the nature of the State and in the fact of its spontaneous existence within a multiple society such as the international community, we must then accept, as a corollary of those rights and, because any rule of law is essentially bilateral in its application, a series of guiding principles or standards for coexistence which, if they were effectively applied, could make a practical contribution to the promotion of friendly relations and co-operation among nations. Such would be, for instance, respect for self-determination; the principle of non-intervention, strict observance of which would be a very effective, if not the most effective way of restoring confidence between nations; the principle of self-defence, and genuine, equality before the law; freedom of communication and trade between all the peoples of the world; and finally, the duty, of the rich nations to come to the help of the poorer nations, not in pursuance of an optional unilateral decision, but in compliance with a regular legal and natural obligation.
110.	That is not all, however. The international community, although a multiple society, has an entity of its own, based on ontological foundations just as firm as. those justifying the existence of a State. Consequently, because they are component parts, or members, of a greater whole, States must assume certain types of obligation which to some extent transcend those resulting from the varying legal relationships between them. However strong our national feeling, however legitimate (as of course it is) the life of each nation, the autonomy of the State is not absolute; it is restricted not only by the equal rights of other States but also by the more general requirements for the general good of the human race as a whole, without which it would, in the last analysis, be vain to seek the good of its members.
111.	This optimum good, the exclusive good of the international community, itself involves duties and responsibilities which have to be discharged. It must be recognized, not only with words but also with deeds, that there are interests even higher than national interests and that the former do not exclude or conflict with the interests of each State, just as the health of the whole body does not conflict with the health of its members.
112,	I could give many examples of how and when the individual good gives way to the universal good, a process which makes friendship and co-operation between nations possible and fruitful. But there is one case that is particularly important, because it relates to one of the interests which we consider vital. I am referring to the possible use of force, presented as a legitimate instrument of national policy. When we hear talk of this today, there come to mind the words written more than four centuries ago by Francisco de Vitoria, the eminent Spanish Dominican who was the father and founder of the Law of Nations. Writing for a world which still recognized war as a lawful means of resolving conflicts and whose division into ideological blocs is strangely reminiscent of our own, he had, in his Relecciones, this to say about the power of the State: "As a republic is part of the world and, in particular, a Christian province part of the republic as a whole, I think that a war which would be of advantage to one province or even to the republic as a whole but harmful to the rest of the world or to Christendom would for that very reason be unjust."
113. I do not think that I need go any further, because this is the only reply we can give today.


===== Session 18 - 1963 =====
The Eastern Republic of Uruguay wishes, through me, to congratulate Mr. Carlos Sosa Rodriguez, Permanent Representative of Venezuela to the United Nations, on his election as President of the eighteenth session of the General Assembly. I take this opportunity publicly to express our confidence in him. We know that he will preside over our debates with a fair mind and an equable spirit.

88. Our delegation has repeatedly voiced at past sessions of the General Assembly a concern which dates from the very beginnings of our nationhood: our love of peace and our firm desire to preserve mankind from the dreadful scourge of another war, the end of which in modern times no one can foresee. In addressing comity of nations I wish, as a first gesture, to express the supreme and unanimous message of our people —our most heartfelt prayer for the blessings of an abiding peace upon all the peoples of the world.

89. Our intention is to state here with all firmness that the time has surely come for us all to give thought to the future so that we may bequeath to following generations a new world, untroubled by threatening storm clouds, thereby setting our minds at rest and nourishing hopes of a bright future founded on the happiness of all men without distinction of race.

90. There is an old saying: "The rich man gives of his abundance; the poor man gives his heart". Uruguay has come here to give her heart and thereby contribute to the achievement of peace, which is the great aspiration of this world of ours with all the tensions and perils. Uruguay's ambition is to make the human condition progressively more tolerable by protecting the worker and safeguarding the family, and exhausting ourselves, if necessary, and every means within our power to attain this great end. We know that this is not easy, but let us have faith in the future. Each one of us must relinquish some small part of what he possesses in order to contribute to peace —the great goal of our collective happiness— unselfishly, without hypocrisy, and with a sincerity and faith in the future which must, of course, have clear and unclouded horizons; otherwise there would be nothing left but chaos, hatred and destruction.

91. Uruguay will give every ounce of support in order to achieve this fundamental goal. Our country's territory is small, but we do not believe that the sacred principles of independence, justice and the rule of law, which we have ever held aloft with our banners, can be measured by a country's physical size. What a country thinks, and how its thought is applied and sustained —those are the important things.

92. It is only right, therefore, that we should reiterate that to our way of thinking human beings and their essential rights are sacred. We hold that it is absolutely indispensable to safeguard human personality in all its aspects, especially by ensuring freedom of thought, expression, association and assembly, and free access to all sources of culture. The idea of persecuting a citizen merely for criticizing or disagreeing with the government is alien to us. These ideals are bound up with all our past, forever stained with the bloodshed in our struggles for independence. Protection of individual rights goes back to the very beginning of our nationhood.

93. We believe in the final triumph of these postulates which are essential to peace and prosperity. We trust that the effort of all freemen, wisely and ably supported by the specialized agencies, will triumph finally over aggression, intervention, totalitarianism, subjugation of one people by another, economic exploitation, poverty and ignorance, and that we shall at last make the progress we desire and win prosperity for all mankind.

94. Uruguay trusts that the law-making function of this comity of nations will be the fundamental means whereby the peoples of the world may live together in peace, order and mutual respect. Consequently we stand for a clear and sincere international policy, and our aspiration is peaceful coexistence founded on the right of mankind to a better life without the awful threat of war.

95. Uruguay, which is the most peace-loving of countries, lost no time in signing the nuclear test ban treaty recently concluded at Moscow by the three great nuclear Powers and opened to accession by all well- disposed nations. It could appropriately be named the Treaty of Hope. It cannot be called a victory for any of the Contracting Parties, but is indeed a victory for the human race.

96. We in the Latin-American continent, which has from its early days been known for its love of peace and hatred of armaments, likewise received with hope the idea of progressing gradually toward the elimination of the awful threat of nuclear war through regional agreements by which we could explore avenues to implement resolutions adopted by the overwhelming majority of States Members of the United Nations on the prohibition and spread of nuclear weapons. We pray God that this may signify the end of an unhappy period of mistrust, anxiety and tension, and a persevering effort to start an historic era in man's quest for peace through mutual understanding and trust.

97. Uruguay believes, however, that the aim of destroying armaments is not enough. It must be supplemented by creating a new body of law of world-wide application, prescribing the means to enforce this effectively, and banning war and its weapons all over the world. The time has come for man to take thought, make up his mind to put an end forever to futile and unprofitable strife with his fellow, and bend his strength and collective will to the conquest of nature and the equitable distribution of nature's abundance, among all those who are afflicted by poverty, hunger, disease, and ignorance and who cry out for justice. This, briefly, is the philosophy which we truly love and to which we aspire for the sake of all.

98. The President of our National Council of Government, Mr. Daniel Fernández Crespo, on taking office spoke these words in the General Assembly of our Parliament: "Our international policy is to respect all obligations contracted by the Republic, exert ourselves to the utmost for world brotherhood, and strengthen our country's sovereignty by guidance and action. We acknowledge that our international dealings must be founded on the right of people of self-determination and on the principle of non-intervention as a base of reciprocal trust and mutual assistance among the smaller nations." We are obliged by this political ideal of ours based on self-determination to maintain a clearly anti-colonial stand. Uruguay has the honour to be a member and its representative to be Vice-chairman of the Special Committee on Decolonization; and the Assembly is well aware of the clear, firm and determined stand taken by our delegation in that Committee, whose resolutions have never failed to receive our delegation's support.

99. It is our hope that very soon every country in the world will be governed by authorities freely elected by universal adult suffrage without distinction of race, wealth or education, according to the true and sovereign mandate of the people's will.

100. We think, and perhaps rightly, that this General Assembly session is the most important ever held by the United Nations, for it comes immediately after the signing of the nuclear test ban treaty and on the eve of the great Conference on Trade and Development in 1964. We consider that this Conference may prove to be the major event of the mid-twentieth century, since it will analyse the economic factors of the whole world. The attention of all mankind will be focused on this Conference, at which the most important problems confronting the world's economy will be debated.

101. In international trade Uruguay has to deal with markets in countries of very different characteristics. Some are highly industrialized; others, like our own, are chiefly producers of raw materials and foodstuffs. The difference in wealth and income per head between the two groups has been widening steadily to the disadvantage of the latter. There is a very important and graphic indication of this change in the terms of trade. Whereas in the early years of this century Uruguay exchanged one unit of raw material for each unit of manufactured goods, today she must give 1.40 units or more of raw material to obtain the same amount of manufactured goods as before. If we also consider that Uruguay relies almost exclusively on two export products —meat and wool— to earn foreign currency, we see that our position as suppliers is necessarily very rigid.

102. Because of our patriotic concern to revitalize our economy by giving more attention to the agricultural and stock-breeding sector, the mainstay of our wellbeing, and by trying to obtain big outlets for our meat and wool at the highest prices and on the best terms, we shall have to try to sell to those markets which respect our rights and buy from those which will pay us the best prices for our product.

103. In the struggle for development and for our economic emancipation we have had to deal with a number of factors which are opposed to our advancement but which we are convinced we shall overcome.

104. These are all points which we have maintained in the United Nations because they constitute our guiding principles, especially in the Economic and Social Council —whose enlargement, incidentally, will have our whole-hearted support in view of the problems raised by the admission of new sectors of humanity to the Organization. It does not seem logical to retain the original membership of eighteen when the number of missions to this organization has doubled.

105. That is why Uruguay has great admiration for the work done by ECLA in the Western Hemisphere, which is of undeniable value. In the light of the principles expounded and developed by ECLA in recent years and the support given to it by the Charter of Punta del Este no one disputes the urgent need for national economic planning as the only way to accelerate the process of economic and social development.

106. Uruguay placed great hopes in the United States new policy on Latin America, expressed in the Alliance for Progress, but we must confess that we believe this plan for global co-operation is today in need of dynamism to cope with present problems, which has thus far been lacking.

107. Almost two years after the launching of the Alliance, our peoples are anxiously awaiting some positive signs of progress towards better and more equitable standards of living, under the protection of liberty and democratic institutions, with the speediest possible economic and social development.

108. One should not look for immediate victories; it would be disastrous to expect too much of planning or to expect results too soon. No great advances have been made, nor could they have been made up to the present time but we are nevertheless entitled to draw attention to unjustifiable delays or obvious errors. All countries are now trying to hold to their own solution; moreover, the fact that we are working for long-term goals means that the ultimate objectives will also take a long time to achieve.

109. To expect immediate results will obviously lead to rapid disappointment and unconsidered criticism. However, while we recognize that planning —particularly within our institutional framework— is a slow, although vigorous and decisive, process, it must be realized that the peoples of America require some immediate results and that the social situation in America also requires that certain goals should be achieved with the greatest possible urgency. It is evident that we need to find our own way.

110. We have thus attempted to find general rules and principles to govern our efforts and we have tried global planning and sector planning techniques. But these inevitable attempts at systematization must not make us forget that each country has its own circumstances and conditions, its own distinctive social and political history, and a national solution must be found for each of them. The solution must be found through planning and that is our aim. The task is not an easy
one and it therefore requires much time. Uruguay has nevertheless reaffirmed its belief in the appropriateness of this method and is confident that it will succeed through a system of planning agreed upon by the three groups concerned: Government, management and trade unions.

111. In this process we have not only sought to make a theoretical analysis of our economic variants or the model for our development; we have also stressed the search for and the promotion of specific development projects which will bring a new dynamism to our economy in the near future. At the same time we have set in motion the machinery for proposing basic reforms in political bodies, since without such reforms, we fear, any attempt at planning would be fruitless.

112. Thus, we have attempted to find our solution through planned development based on a twofold approach involving both a general survey of the nation's economic structure, as a whole and by sectors, and the execution of specific projects and structural reforms, the object being to set in motion a dynamic political process directed towards the elaboration of an over-all programme.

113. We are not building our future on external aid alone; we are aware of the need for efforts on our own part and of what we must do with our own means, our own labour, our own enthusiasm, our own purposefulness and our own resources. We must make a thorough study of the possibilities of trading with other regions of the world, particularly with those currently developing at a very high rate, such as the socialist economies, for example.

114. It is undeniable that the same deterioration of trade relations, which has historically done so much harm to Latin America's position in the world market, continues throughout the continent. We have protested a thousand and one times against the implications of this situation which leads to a transfer of wealth and the reduction of our opportunities for growth. A thousand and one times, at international conferences, we have maintained the view that no international aid can compensate for the loss of wealth resulting from the low prices paid for our products on the international market. We firmly reiterate that view today and we demand equitable prices and markets rather than loans and external aid.

115. The picture now appears even more gloomy because of the rapid growth of groupings on the European continent, as a result of the establishment of the Common Market. Latin America cannot remain indifferent to this situation, and we must see how our Governments can find a way out and a genuine and effective solution to this grave problem.

116. The Uruguayan Government, I may state, will give its full support to measures designed to improve the economies of the under-developed countries and to bring about, at the earliest possible date, the desired balance in our economic relations.

117. The world must eliminate a great curtain, which is neither the iron curtain nor the bamboo curtain that separates wealth from poverty. We cannot make any constructive advances in our diplomatic, trade and cultural relations if we do not firmly resolve to eradicate hunger, unemployment, lack of education and class differences from the face of the earth. This is, obviously, an urgent task to be given the highest priority.

118. It is our belief that sound approaches to a modern world structure may be found in the opportunities for co-operation in the economic and social field and that we all have the same responsibility to carry the work to a successful conclusion along those paths. In this dialogue between people from all regions of the world, which takes place in an atmosphere of complete freedom, we can state our views and our fundamental aim, which is to satisfy the needs of the individual and the family by creating a happy community. Renan said that it is not speaking the same language or belonging to the same ethnic group that makes a nation, but, the sharing of great things in the past and the will to accomplish great things in the future.

119. Uruguay therefore invokes its history, the expression of its great past, and would imbue with a modern dynamism the minds of men who, like Artigas, gave us our country and whose ideals should not remain static. We declare here today to the representatives of virtually all nations of the world that our great ambition for the future is to achieve a lasting happiness based on freedom, for that is the only way in which nature may be overcome and subordinated to those aims which are the symbols of peace: work, order, law and, above all, justice for the 2,000 million human beings who hunger and thirst for justice but who also suffer from hunger and thirst.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
85.	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of my Government and also for myself I should like to congratulate you most warmly upon your election as President of the nineteenth session. Not only do you represent a country which has greatly distinguished itself in the community of new African States by its important participation in all fields of international activity — and particularly in the struggle against colonialism, in which it has always been in the vanguard—but, having had the opportunity to follow your brilliant career in this Organization closely, I consider that the significant honour which has been conferred upon you is no more than the just recognition of your outstanding qualities.
86.	In beginning this statement I should like also to pay a tribute to our former President, Mr. Sosa Rodriguez of Venezuela, who with great skill and dignity presided over the Assembly until the beginning of the present session. Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to welcome the three new States which have become Members of our Organization: Zambia, Malawi and Malta. Uruguay warmly welcomes them and is glad that their struggles and tribulations have at last received their just reward.
87.	The present session has opened in circumstances in which international tension or at least the tension which prevailed at the antepenultimate session, has decreased considerably for more than a year. It is true that many problems are far from solved and that to what might be called the chronic sources of danger — the German problem, the problem of South-East Asia, the vestiges of colonialism in Africa and other areas — there has recently been added the danger created by the possession of atomic weapons by a country which has never disguised its aggressive policy and by the possible dissemination of these weapons among a greater number of countries, with the eventual risk that this would entail. But if there are dangers which we can describe as "chronic", this is because, as is usually the case with invalids of this type, we have come to a sort of compromise with danger and have learned to live with it as our second nature.
88.	Accustomed to living in a state of permanent crisis, we cling desperately, like a shipwrecked man to his ship, to any sign of hope, even though the light it sheds may be weak and its substance fragile. We express our most humble and heartfelt gratitude to those men who made this rebirth of hope possible: to those who have died, like Pope John XXIII and President Kennedy, and to those who are no longer at the helm.
89.	The paradox of this new international situation is that, while tension is decreasing, the United Nations, the instrument destined "par excellence" to serve that very end, is for the moment undergoing a crisis which only a few days ago seemed insurmountable. For this reason the Assembly is today an "Assembly of silence", despite the fact that many voices may be heard in this Hall.
90.	I shall not refer to the specific problems at the root of this crisis. I do not feel that it would be wise to do so, when it is common knowledge that important conversations are now being held, which we all hope will be successful. My delegation, like all those present here, has studied these problems very carefully and will, of course, make its views known at the appropriate time.
91. There are nevertheless one or two reflections which I should like to submit for the Assembly's consideration. The first of these is that, as many saw from the beginning and as everyone sees now, the scope of this crisis far exceeds what might be called its strictly financial aspect. This crisis, despite the monetary terms in which it is expressed, is the manifestation of a much deeper conflict, of a conflict or difference of opinion which concerns delicate problems of a political and juridical character, relating to the competence and powers of the principal organs of the United Nations, relating basically to the interpretation of the Charter and to certain aspects of it which, I would say without hesitation, constitute the very foundation of the Organization. For that reason, the solutions attempted so far — all of which were emergency solutions which deliberately avoided the root of the problem — were doomed to fail, or at least to leave the future in shadow, doubt and uncertainty.
92.	The peace-keeping operations in the Middle East and in the Congo were in fact the first experiments in what was then a new experience. But history does not stand still, much less turn back, and whatever the balance of these operations may have been — and my delegation considers it, in the last analysis, a very favourable balance — it is now difficult to imagine the United Nations abandoning an activity which, as we have perhaps realized recently, may constitute its very raison d'être.
93.	If one thinks about it a little, what is happening now is more than a financial crisis, it is a development crisis, the crisis which precedes maturity, what might be called the crisis of adolescence. Nineteen years do not pass in vain and nineteen years is sufficient time for the essential traits of a character to crystallize. Institutions too are living entities, destined to live and to endure, and just as our life consists of moving towards maturity, which is the goal, even so institutions—like plants, like animals, like man himself—need to develop all their capacities and potentialities harmoniously, in order to attain the full consummation of their destiny. The maintenance of peace, even over and above the possibilities provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter, is—as we can clearly see, now that the Organization has become more mature—one of the essential traits of the character of our Organization, of its spirit and of its essence.
94.	We shall be told that the founders at San Francisco worked with a more limited perspective and for more specific objectives. This may be true, but San Francisco belongs to the past and the United Nations belongs to the future. It is not necessary to point out how different are the circumstances prevailing today from those prevailing in 1945.
95.	Of course, it is not a question of forcing the texts to mean what they do not mean. Even for those of us who have been trained in Roman law — so different from other systems and particularly from the Anglo- Saxon system — it is not difficult to admit that Anglo- Saxon law and its twin, Roman law, are not ends in themselves but, like everything in the juridical order, instruments designed to serve certain ends which are inherent in them, like the spirit in the letter and like the alcohol in the wine. True interpretation consists precisely in extracting the meaning of the text in order to discover the spirit, which gives life, and not the letter, which kills.
96.	For this reason we should deem unacceptable any agreement which, contrary to what is surely the majority opinion in the United Nations, would attempt to retreat into the past and fall back upon formulae such as the so-called "exclusive competence" of the Security Council in relation to the maintenance of peace, which, far from being the only possible interpretation of the Charter, is surely one of the causes of the present paralysis.
97.	A few days ago Mr. Belaunde, in his admirable statement, reminded us that the responsibility for maintaining international peace and order lay with the Organization as a whole and not with the Security Council alone, although the Council had primary responsibility. I venture to add that the responsibility for maintaining peace is not restricted to the Security Council oi’ even to the Organization as a whole; the maintenance of peace is an unrenounceable attribute and power of the international community itself, of which the United Nations and its organs are simply visible and perhaps temporary manifestations. And if the maintenance of peace is the exclusive responsibility of the international community—for in the nuclear age the maintenance of peace is an indispensable condition for its existence—it would be very difficult, even for those of us who, as I have said, have been trained in a more rigid legal tradition, to admit the legitimacy of any interpretation which would be tantamount to denying the vast majority of the members of the international community—whom we must reasonably consider to be its authorized representatives, as the International Court of Justice has already pointed out on one occasion—the right to put into operation the machinery necessary for the preservation of that precious possession which belongs, with absolute equality, to each and every one of them.
98.	We trust that this community spirit will finally prevail and that the negotiations which are now under way and the formulae which they produce, after consultation, of course, with all the regional groups within the United Nations, will enable us not only to overcome the present difficulties but to prepare the Organization to perform efficiently the noble duties implicit in its purposes.
99.	It has quite rightly been said that ideas have an iron logic. And if it is true — if I may be allowed to revert to the idea I expressed just now — that the States represented here are united in something more than an alliance relationship, if it is true that these States form a whole, a community in the true sense of the word, then this idea of the international community implies a series of corollaries, which, applied with iron logic to the various fields of international activity, must provide us with certain true criteria which will also be just criteria, for we all know that justice is one of the facets of truth.
100.	For example, it is evident that if an international community exists, its true foundation must lie in the unity of origin and nature of all the human beings comprising it. The international community must reject outright, as something which is intrinsically repellent, any theory, system or institution based on discriminatory principles, which disavow both the unity of our origin and the oneness of our nature.
101.	The policy of apartheid, based, as it seems to be, on the most evil heresy to flourish in the modern world, the heresy of the absurd myth of racial superiority — and it must be said that this is true of all forms of racism — is not only outside the law of the Charter, it is outside the law of the international community, and the international community has not only the right but also the duty to force its recalcitrant members to comply with the minimum requirements of co-existence.
102.	We are, of course, aware of the serious difficulties encountered so far and of the relative ineffectiveness of the measures adopted. Nor need I say that Uruguay will, as always, use every endeavour to ensure that all the means that the Charter places at our disposal are used to put an end to the sad fate of millions of unfortunate persons whose dignity as human beings must be restored without delay.
103.	Similarly, as the international community is composed of human beings who, by natural law, enjoy inalienable rights older than and superior to the juridical order, which merely recognizes or describes them, my country will continue to urge that the Covenants on Human Rights, which the Assembly has been examining since its ninth session, receive preferential attention.
104.	Although in Uruguay civil and religious freedoms are respected "to the full extent imaginable", to use the words of José Artigas, the founder of our nationality — and I can assure you that I am not exaggerating — we continue to recognize, of course, that the question of the protection of human rights cannot be considered strictly from the point of view of closed national societies.
105.	While not denying the progress reflected in the incorporation of certain guarantees in the texts of our constitutions, we must recognize that whatever may be the significance of that progress, real protection can be found at the supranational level only. This is not only because the idea of international community embodies that other idea that, as the Apostle said, when one member suffers all the others suffer with it, but also because recognition of the rights of all members of the human family is, as the Preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says, the foundation of justice and peace in the world. No one who has signed this Declaration has the right to be surprised if there is a growing tendency to resort to the "threat to peace" idea of Article 39 of the Charter, in order to apply it in certain cases which possibly were not in the orthodoxy of San Francisco but which are certainly in the spirit of the Charter, which is a dynamic instrument, and in the spirit and letter of the Declaration.
106.	This year the General Assembly will discuss the measures of implementation of the Covenants. I do not need to stress the great importance of this chapter, for upon its structure will depend, in the last resort, whether the Covenants will be more than mere declarations, like those so far adopted. On this point Uruguay will strive to ensure not only effectiveness of protection through jurisdictional bodies, in keeping with a tradition common to it and the other Latin American countries, but also acceptance of the possibility that it will be the actual persons — and even non-governmental organizations — deprived of their fundamental rights who have access to the jurisdiction of the bodies responsible for supervising the implementation of the Covenants.
107.	As you know, the Charter does not provide for the system of petitions by private persons — which it does accept, however, with respect to Non-Self-Governing Territories—nor does it grant individuals the right to appear before the International Court of Justice.
108.	The fact that the United Nations receives thousands of letters and thousands of petitions a year from persons reporting violations of human rights in all parts of the world and that it can do nothing but file them shows that the present system which limits access to States is not capable of satisfying the profound, though possibly premature, hopes which the oppressed peoples of the world place in this Organization. Uruguay is the sponsor of a reasonable and balanced draft, which it submitted to the Inter-American Council of Jurists for consideration at its fourth session, held at Santiago de Chile in 1959, and we hope that we shall be able to make profitable use of it during our next discussions.
109.	The international community is not, however, composed solely of individuals, although in the last resort it is the individual who is the beginning and end of every institution. The international community is formed, in the first place, of peoples and nations, whether or not their systems as States in the modern sense of the word are the most advanced. A sound and authentic conception of the international community absolutely excludes any tie, situation or dependence of a colonial character, even colonialism not motivated, as was the inhuman colonialism of the nineteenth century, by a perverted spirit of gain. The international community implies, per se, the radical equality of all the lesser communities, whatever their legal status, at least in that right which amounts to the same thing as the free will of men, namely, the right of self-determination. While we are still discussing whether the Declaration on the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples is consistent with this or that Article of the Charter, I should like to recall that, as long as four centuries ago Francisco de Vitoria, the founder of the "Derecho de Gentes", affirmed unequivocally, although going against the national interests of his country, the full personality in international law of non-Christian peoples, particularly those recently discovered in America, and expressed the most serious reservations with respect to the legitimacy of the system now known as trusteeship.
110.	International law did not follow, nor in fact did the Western thought as a whole, the road indicated by the illustrious professor of Salamanca. In this sense, all that the historic Declaration of the Assembly, resolution 1514 (XV), has done is to reproduce, in baroque and contemporary language, the teaching of a school of which I as a Westerner am proud. But the importance of this resolution, the tremendous impact of which no one would dare at this stage to deny, must be measured in the light of the extent to which this theory was abandoned.
111.	I do not propose to examine now the measures which have been taken to put into effect the principles embodied in that Declaration. As you know, my country has from the beginning taken part in the work of the Special Committee responsible for the application of the Declaration and has the honour to be one of its Vice-Chairmen. The Committee's work, which has certainly been extensive and intensive, will be examined in due course when either the Assembly in plenary session or the Fourth Committee examines the relevant report. I only wish to point out that this year, for the first time, the Special Committee began examining the so-called small territories still under colonial domination. There is no reason to hide the fact that we encountered innumerable difficulties in this task; difficulties due, in the first place, to the lack of precise information, particularly information of a political character, which is what the Committee, which is entrusted with an eminently political function, should possess in greater detail; difficulties also due in large measure to the fact that some administering Powers have apparently not yet understood the real meaning of the Declaration, particularly with respect to the exercise of self-determination by the peoples of these small territories. As I had occasion to say in the course of some discussions, whatever the meaning of the expression "independence", which is mentioned six times in the text of the Declaration, there is not the slightest shadow of doubt that those peoples must be allowed to exercise self-determination without restrictions of any kind and not within the framework of any system, constitution or previous law; that those peoples even when the act of self- determination is accomplished in their present dependent status, must be regarded, for this purpose, as an entity capable of negotiating on an equal footing with the metropolitan Power; that the latter, in all cases and whatever its interests or whatever attitudes it may previously have adopted, will have to respect, grant and even facilitate the solutions those peoples may have chosen. While this remark does not necessarily exclude anyone else, I should like to express my admiration and appreciation of the way in which the Government of New Zealand has implemented resolution 1514 (XV) with respect to the Territories of the Cook Islands, Niue and the Tokelau Islands under its administration. I think that the steps that Government has taken and those it proposes to take in the near future are exactly those contemplated in the resolution, in both the letter and the spirit, and we trust that this excellent example will be followed. Lastly, the Special Committee has also had to tackle, for the first time, the case of territories in dispute, territories in which a number, generally small, of nationals of the occupying Power have displaced the original population in most cases by force. It is obvious that in these situations the rigid and indiscriminate application of the principle of self- determination might produce a result which is exactly the contrary to what is sought, that is to say, to consolidation, in one form or another, of the colonial status.
112.	My delegation is glad that the Committee had the wisdom and skill, in the case of the Falkland Islands and Gibraltar, to examine the situation in the light of all the principles involved, which merit equal consideration and respect, and we trust that the parties directly concerned will conduct their negotiations in the spirit in which they were recommended and with the same intention. It also expresses its satisfaction at the fact that this solution, unanimously approved by the Committee, has been the subject of a special recommendation by the Secretary-General.
113.	There is one field in which these consequences which follow, with iron logic, from the principle of the international community are patent and visible, even to the most ignorant. And sometimes we begin to wonder if those who so often consider it necessary to mention, in justification of their external policy, the paramount interests of the international community really know what they are talking about. This field, as is easily divined, is that of the economic relationship existing between States, and in particular between developed and developing States.
114.	My delegation has been struck by the increasing frequency of resort to the idea that the real root of the conflict which today divides humanity lies not so much in ideological differences, in West-East dichotomy, as we who have lived a large part of our life under the sign of the cold war had thought, as in antagonism between those countries and States which have taken and continue to take the lion's share in the distribution of the world's goods and the others which are the disinherited offshoots of the international community; in other words, the real conflict seems to be not the West-East conflict but the North-South conflict.
115.	I say that I was struck, because this is not the first time that my delegation has wondered if there is any meaning in a community in which — and I am giving conservative figures because actual statistics must be much harsher — 500 million members suffer real hunger and another 1,000 million suffer at least malnutrition. It is not only our sense of charity and justice that rebels against this.
116.	Our intelligence, too, rejects it, for in our time there is nothing novel or revolutionary in the assertion that the good things of this earth were created for the benefit of all and not just a section of humanity; and that what this section, ignoring the historical background, claims as its right is in its hands only lay virtue of its administrative function, its social function, a fact which must be recognized within the nations themselves and, more important still, within international society. Just as in every society the inhuman concentration of wealth in the hands of a few has deprived the mass of the population of their natural right to the use and enjoyment of commodities which are there for the benefit and service of all, so has a similar process been taking place within the international society, with distinctions being made between rich and poor nations. Thus the problem of the just distribution of wealth now arises at the world level in the same way as it formerly arose at the national level. And if an international community truly exists, if this community is unified, as it is said to be, not only must the social function of owner ship be unified, in whatever hands it may be, but the international community must prescribe the means by which those property-owners — we refer to the property-owning nations — are required to make a proportionate contribution to the common welfare.
117.	We note with satisfaction that provision is made for such measures in the conclusions and recommendations which emerged from the recent Conference on Trade and Development and, in particular, in the text of the "General and Special Principles" appearing in annex A to the Final Act. We hope that you, Mr. President, will take the necessary steps to ensure that the executive bodies for which the Conference made provision are enabled to begin their work immediately. This task does not allow of pause or procrastination: every day that passes may be a day of prosperity for a few but it is certainly another day of suffering for many. It must not be forgotten that today we are watching the most remarkable revolution in history and that, for the first time since the beginning of civilization some 5,000 years ago, the majority of the human race is in a position to gain access rapidly, thanks to technology and productivity, to the enjoyment of the material and spiritual advantages of civilization which during those 5,000 years had been reserved for a tiny minority. Those who do not understand this development will pay the penalty of isolation and loneliness, which, as Toynbee says, is the social and moral price which wealth must pay as long as poverty continues to be the normal state of ordinary men and women everywhere. If the international community is a living entity, it is at the same time a legal entity, which has its own structure and within which certain principles of public order, of jus cogens, must necessarily prevail. The international community has its own rules, derived, as I have said, from its own being and this is why the States, as members of the community, must assume a series of obligations which, in a certain sense, rank higher than those arising from voluntary agreements between themselves on relations of reciprocal justice. However fervent our national feelings may be and however legitimate the life of each nation may be, as it certainly is, the autonomy of a State is not absolute and is limited not only by the equal rights of other States but also toy the more general requirements of the good of humanity as a whole, without which it would be quite useless to aspire to the welfare of its members.
118.	Explicit recognition of the existence of an international public order, of a genuine jus cogens irrevocably binding all States, has just been given —  although the idea itself is much older — by the United Nations itself in General Assembly resolution 1902 (XVIII), in which it virtually associates itself with the report of the International Law Commission and especially the report on the validity, duration and termination of treaties. This, at any rate, confirms our belief that the Members of the United Nations have no objection to recognizing the existence of an international public order to which they are subject and that all that remains to be done now is to lay down in detail the rules or content which that system of public order must have.
119.	This, of course, will be no easy task. This year the Sixth Committee, when it meets, will discuss the report of the Special Committee which has been circulated recently and deserves the most careful consideration. My delegation does not think that there should be any difficulty in agreeing that some, if not all, of the principles stated in operative paragraph 1 of resolution 1815 (XVII) are, by their very nature, true rules of jus cogens. If this were recognized, it would represent a notable advance in the development and improvement of international relations. For the small States, in particular, an explicit acknowledgment by the international community that such principles as the equality of States, self-determination, territorial, integrity and non-intervention are essential elements of international public order and — as the International Law Commission stressed in the above-mentioned report — may not be the subject of negotiation, bargaining or compromise, since any treaty which violated those principles would become null and void, represents a valuable guarantee and probably, in a world in which the differences of power are so great, the only effective protection for small States against the pressures to which they have been subjected continually throughout their history.
120.	I have not yet referred to what constitutes, in this nuclear age, the sine qua non of the existence of an international community: peace and such measures as may ensure or lead to peace.
121.	Clearly, we small and unarmed countries can say little on the subject of disarmament except to reaffirm, in our speeches and by our votes, the support we have consistently given to every resolution which sought such lofty objectives. I do not need to repeat that Uruguay has always voted in favour of resolutions on disarmament, as it voted in favour of the resolutions on the suspension, cessation and dissemination of nuclear tests and weapons; that it sponsored and vigorously defended the creation of a denuclearized zone in Latin America and that it is prepared to support, with equal sincerity, any effort in this direction during the present session. It must be remembered that it is the so-called small countries that have made the greatest contribution to all United Nations peace-keeping activities, from their physical contribution to the "blue-helmet" contingents to their active participation in every committee or working group that has been set up for that purpose. It must also be remembered that, for the small nations, peace has always been a unique blessing. Prior to the nuclear age, other more powerful nations could sail the stormy waters of war, with varying fortunes. For the small nations this choice never existed. For them, peace has always been not only a prerequisite for their physical survival but also the only condition on which their Governments could fulfil their purpose and their mission: to secure the happiness of their peoples.
122.	But we aspire to a real and genuine peace, to that kind of peace which President Kennedy described in his memorable speech at the American University in June 1963, which is neither pax americana nor pax sovietica, to the peace which he defined, with unsurpassable precision and honesty, as "the necessary rational end of rational men".
123.	There is nothing unexpected about this attitude. Uruguay is not a great country, if we measure greatness in terms of military power — which is an illusory standard of measurement — but it is one which, because of a unique trait of national character, has made the struggle for justice and peace a national cult. We were one of the first, as early as The Hague Conference in 1907, to proclaim the rule of compulsory arbitration. Our Constitution provides that all treaties concluded shall include a clause to the effect that any disputes which may arise between the parties shall be settled by arbitration or other peaceful means. Moreover, of the 115 sovereign States represented here, the earliest recognition of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, in accordance with Article 36 (2) of its Statute, was that of my country.
124.	This zeal for peace was no sudden inspiration; like all nations, we had to serve our apprenticeship of peace and it was not an easy task. But we finally discovered that peace must be achieved through conciliation and a spirit of compromise, for history has shown that what might be called "total victory" does not exist. Peace is the result "par excellence" of political compromise. As our Secretary-General', U Thant, said when he took office: "No difficult problem can be solved to the complete satisfaction of all sides. We live in an imperfect world, and have to accept imperfect solutions, which become more acceptable as we learn to live with them and as time passes by."
125.	When we feel tempted to yield to impatience, it is well to remember that peace is the fruit of perseverance, modesty and patience and that experience shows that it is only by modest, patient and persevering efforts that good and lasting results can be achieved. Someone once said — and this definition has always delighted me — that God, too, is unlimited patience.

===== Session 20 - 1965 =====
149. Mr. President, I wish first of all to congratulate you on your election to the Presidency of the General Assembly. May you successfully guide this session towards achievement of the aims of the United Nations Charter, aims which, today as yesterday, are the indispensable foundation for the peace and security which will enable mankind to look forward to. the future without fear. I salute in you not only an illustrious statesman, but also the representative of that Italy which is linked to my own country by so many physical and intellectual bonds, and which is so enduring and magnificent an example of civilization and achievement.
150. I also extend my welcome to the new Member. States which have just joined the United Nations: the Gambia, the Maldive Islands and Singapore.
151. This session of the General Assembly, held on the twentieth anniversary of the signing of the Charter, represents a kind of rebirth. The fortunate solution which has been found to prevent a repetition of what happened last year leads us to hope confidently that the activities of the Organization will now go forward without interruption.
152. For twenty years, the United Nations has been the strongest bulwark of peace and international security. There have been, it is true, localized armed conflicts, but the general peace has been maintained. World public opinion, informed and critical, follows international problems closely and the United Nations is a forum for that opinion. A world unbelievably different from the one which saw the birth of our Organization understands that peace is inseparable from the maintenance of the United Nations and that without respect for law, without repudiation of force, without recognition of the dignity of man, without the sovereign equality of all States, and without striving against poverty, which always brings hatred and resentment, the future of our world will be dark and uncertain rather than bright and clear as we would have it be.
153. Uruguay, which unites to an unshakable tradition of peace, a repudiation of the use of force and faith in justice and law, the conviction that poverty, hunger and illiteracy are more dangerous than the ideological or political differences between Member States, has during these twenty years given its sincere and wholehearted support to the work of the United Nations.
154. We do not want a world characterized by the permanent confrontation of two antagonistic groups who hold mankind in a precarious peace based on the tension of the atomic terror. With all its complexity, and all the difficulties that it entails, we want an active and creative peace, based on law and international co-operation and born of the conviction that without such co-operation, uniting States of different systems in a common effort for peace and economic and social progress, nothing great or permanent can be created.
155. Uruguay is a member of the Organization of American States, a regional body whose existence dates back to the final years of the last century. We live within the inter-American system, convinced of its usefulness and of the fact, that the system of juridical guarantees it establishes is complemented by those of the United Nations. We have never been able to imagine that these two systems—the universal and the regional—can be in opposition. On the contrary, they must work together for the achievement of the aims of peace and security which are common to both.
156. Without the sovereign equality of States, without full acceptance of the rule of international law for all States, great and small, powerful and weak, there can be no true peace. My country, which has made respect for international law a fixed rule of conduct, has recently — and on more than one occasion — shown the extent to which it is prepared to state its point of view with the independence that comes from the conviction that in doing so it is defending a just cause.
157. The United Nations Charter clearly prohibits the use of force except in legitimate cases of individual or collective self-defence. From this stems our repudiation o£ any aggression, our constant criticism of any use of force, whatever its source and of any action not in seeping with the rules of the Charter.
158. Together with this primary objective of maintaining peace, and security by prohibiting the use of force as a means of resolving international conflicts, the United Nations — and the Charter is very explicit in this respect — has other objectives which are not only valid in themselves but indirectly constitute essential prerequisites for the existence of that peace and security. The process of decolonization, the work of strengthening the principle of self-determination for all peoples, has been one of the most outstanding and successful chapters in the history of the United Nations. The task of implementing the General Assembly's historic resolution 1514 (XV), a task to which my country has contributed with a steady devotion of which we think we can be justly proud, has culminated in the virtual elimination of the political colonialism which, until only a few years ago, darkened vast areas of the world and of which only the last vestiges now remain. In this respect the work which the Organization must do has not been completed.
159. The world-wide struggle against poverty, both of States and individuals, must continue with renewed vigour in order to achieve economic collaboration, fairness in the prices of raw materials and a system of international trade based on justice rather than spoliation. The unimaginable resources that are devoted today to the creation of almost diabolical weapons of destruction and to the outer space competition — which in many cases is but a pretext for perfecting and increasing the means of man's destruction — should be fundamentally directed towards the promotion, with the powerful means at the disposal of modern science and technology, of the economic development of a world community which understands that no one, in any part of the planet, can consider himself secure and happy while knowing that there are hundreds of millions of men who lack a roof over their heads, food in their stomachs and all hope of a worth-while future.
160. Today the United Nations is ecumenical in character; it is an association of peace-loving States which, regardless of their ideological, political or economic systems, have united to achieve their objectives through acceptance of its principles. Uruguay, a Latin American State founded upon a democratic political conception which seeks the happiness of man through respect for his freedom and recognition of his economic and social rights, strengthened, too, by a philosophic tradition that nourishes our culture and way of life, has shown that, without in any way renouncing these ideals, it is able to collaborate loyally with all other States. For all political forms must ultimately be directed towards the human being, whose future must be assured, a future of peace and happiness regardless of colour, race, religion or the political or economic system under which man lives.
161. This year the United Nations will receive the visit of His Holiness Pope Paul VI. May I salute in advance this illustrious figure, the representative of one of the noblest, greatest and purest of religions, a figure who is a symbol of peace and love and who, like his great predecessor, Pope John XXIII, has striven and continues to strive for the realization of the principles expressed in the encyclical Pacem in Terris, and which are shared by all men of goodwill regardless of creed or race.
162. I trust that his words of peace, in a world convulsed as it is today by social and philosophic problems, by internal and international differences, will be received as a truly significant message that will renew the hope of all the inhabitants of this earth for a better future.
163. Unfortunately, while the presence of His Holiness will fill this hall with a special solemnity and a particular devotion as we listen to his symbolic words, a devotion as we shall all feel, believers and nonbelievers alike, the account that we have to offer on the twentieth anniversary of the United Nations is not precisely the fulfilment of the great hope of those who planned and created it.
164. It cannot be denied that the United Nations has accomplished much in the years that have elapsed since the Charter was signed in San Francisco. The work now being carried out is important and it can be regarded with satisfaction and even pride. But it remains far short of what we must aspire to.
165. At a time when we hear the word peace on every side no false constraint need deter us from saying that, in our everyday language, we still use the word, "peace” to mean a goal which has not yet been achieved. We speak of peace, while staggering sums continue to be spent, day by day, on instruments of war; we use the word "peace" as a symbol while we squander our resources on arms, at a time when the world in which we live is suffering from hunger, a hunger which in some parts of the earth truly constitutes an accusation against the civilization of which we speak with such exaggerated pride. While we hoodwink ourselves by using the word "peace" like a handsome cloak, half or more of the population of the world can neither read nor write. In other words, the human being whom we claim to be defending is not receiving from us the true weapons of peace, the weapons of intellectual and cultural developments which would justify a civilization whose benefits are enjoyed by some to the point of excess while others suffer from want amid an indifference of which we are all guilty.
166. As a counterpart to the words of love and goodwill which His Holiness may offer us, it might be pointed out that today, in the year 1965, twenty years after the creation of this Organization which we should all like to be a model, there are in the 117 countries comprising it more than 500 million adults who are completely illiterate. That is surely not a symbol of which we can be proud.
167. As it has always been our aim, within the modest part we play in the concert of nations to preach by example, Uruguay has always acted in the regional organizations, the Organization of American States, as a firm opponent of any plan that might lead to conflict — as if the conflicts we are already enduring were not enough — and which, albeit unintentionally, might jeopardize peace. We have striven and shall continue to strive to prevent the creation, in nations like ours of the Americas — out of good intentions, we grant — of an armed force Which today may appear under the symbolic and apparently irresistible designation of being organized for pacific purposes. For no one can assure us that such a force will not tomorrow be a source of discord and of violation of the fundamental rules we have all undertaken to respect under the Charter.
168. To sum up, I should like to say that in my country we are tired of seeing the flag of freedom waved while the basest crimes are committed and while the principles of non-intervention and the self-determination of peoples are hypocritically flouted in the name of that freedom.
 
169. In the face of so much misunderstanding, Uruguay, on its own belief and as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, is doubly glad to welcome the sanity shown by two nations with whom we have friendly relations, Pakistan and India, which, understanding our good intentions and adding to them their own goodwill, have agreed to a cease-fire in their dispute. In that dispute our brethren on both sides were falling in a struggle which, for the very reason that it was a dispute between those we consider as brothers, was 'most distressing to us. The cease-fire must also be regarded as another and laudable triumph for the international Organization.
170. On 1 October Uruguay will assume the presidency of the Security Council. In that high office we intend to strive to convert what today is a truce into a lasting peace agreement between those two countries which are our friends.
171. I should like to conclude my statement today on behalf of my country, Uruguay, which though small in area stands for complete respect for the fullest freedom of thought — and that, we believe, makes it a force in the universal community — by quoting the words of the great Spanish philosopher, Ramón y Cajal: "The only men who deserve glory are those who, by intelligent and unselfish deeds, have beautified, improved and enlightened in some way the world in which we live”.
172. With that goal in view, and with that just saying in mind, Uruguay will work in this forum of the United Nations, which should be a symbol of peace and freedom.


===== Session 21 - 1966 =====

21.     In the first place, Mr, President, may I congratulate you on your well-deserved election and wish you success in achieving the objectives of the United Nations Charter, objectives which, today as in the past, provide the indispensable foundation of peace and security which will enable mankind to contemplate the future without fear or anxiety.

22.    Speaking for myself and for my Government, I also wish to thank Mr. Fanfani, who presided over the twentieth session of the General Assembly with the authority and efficiency which distinguish him.

23.    I further take this opportunity, on behalf of my Government, to welcome a fellow American country, Guyana, as a new Member State. Guyana was already a member of the community of free nations and it has now joined our Organization, an event which rejoices us all.

24.    A year ago when the General Assembly met to mark the twentieth anniversary of the United Nations [1347th meeting], the desire for peace was solemnly and unanimously affirmed and we heard the august words of the Supreme Pontiff in an unforgettable message appealing to the conscience of mankind to make peace and security a reality in international life, where co-operation and progress alone should prevail and whence hatred, aggression And violence should be banished for ever. Yet today the world situation, kept in a state of continual crisis which arouses anxiety in every country, has in no way improved despite the fact that in a few cases practical results have been achieved.

25.    Thus, as an instructive symbol of what can be done and providing a demonstration that discussion is the best way in which to reach mutual understanding, two closely related countries, India and Pakistan, showed us what the will for peace can achieve when it is exercised effectively and when understanding is sought through international organizations. And so the possibility of a new and wasteful armed conflict was avoided. Uruguay pays a tribute to the Governments and peoples of Pakistan and India for the practical lesson they have given to the international community.

26.    Or again, consider what has happened in America, the blessed land in which we live, where, despite all its social and economic problems, peace and the desire to co-operate prevail. In America we are witnessing concerted action so that we can face the future with unity of purpose, and an attempt to improve the regional system, which we visualize not merely as an organization to enable the American continent to fulfil the objectives of peace and security laid down in the United Nations Charter, but also as a means of achieving economic integration, cooperation in every matter and the progress of the American States, thus giving men a free, honourable and happy future.

27.    In this connexion, I should like to draw attention to the establishment of the Latin American Parliament, a forum in which the views of our peoples will be represented. This will further the process of integration in our continent.

28.    In 1966, another encouraging event took place in this region: the crisis in the Dominican Republic was successfully overcome by the free will of its people, through the exercise of their right to vote.

29.    At the appropriate moment, Uruguay clearly stated that its policy was one of non-intervention and it now confirms that policy. Events subsequent to April 1965 have proved that our views were correct and that the proper way to solve the difficulty was to rely solely on the conscience and will of the people.

30.    My Government does not believe that these events provide any reason for changing or qualifying the principle of non-intervention in force in this continent, a principle which was ratified by the General Assembly in its historic resolution 2131 (XX) of 21 December 1965 and one that is not incompatible with international action when such action is legally and politically relevant.

31.    From the point of view of harmonious relations in the American continent, my Government considers it important to draw attention to the following wise and categorical statement in that resolution: "No State shall organize, assist, foment, finance, incite or tolerate subversive, terrorist or armed activities directed towards the violent overthrow of the regime of another State, or interfere in civil strife in another State."

32.    Nevertheless, the existence of instances such as these — and others could be cited — where the situation today can be regarded as being better than it was a year ago, is in no way a reason for taking an optimistic view of the international situation. 

33.    We continue to live in a world in a state of constant tension, a world in which there are localized wars that endanger world peace, because peace is indivisible: in the modern world there is no important international problem which can be of no concern or significance to us.

34.    Uruguay is the smallest in size of the countries in the southern part of the American continent. It has no substantial mineral wealth; its economy is based mainly on the marketing of agricultural and stock-farming products. At first sight, we would seem to represent here only a small, poor country. I say "at first sight" because actually Uruguay can take pride in being a country of great wealth, since it is a genuine example of representative democracy, social well-being, full civic freedom and integrity in international co-operation.

35.    My country has consistently pacific traditions and sincerely and whole-heartedly supports the work of the United Nations, because it is convinced that in our time poverty, hunger, illiteracy, hatred, exaggerated ideas about national grandeur and the unbridled desire for power are more dangerous to peace than the ideological or political differences between Member States.

36.    My country does not want a world marked by the irreconcilable confrontation of two antagonistic groups which keep humanity in a state of precarious peace, as a result of rivalry based on atomic power. Despite the complications and despite all the difficulties it entails, what we want is an active and creative peace based on law and on international co-operation, a peace that is the fruit of a conviction that nothing great or permanent can be created without such co-operation, in which States with different regimes must be partners in a common effort to achieve peace and economic and social progress.

37.    There can be no true peace unless there is sovereign equality of all States, and unless there is full acceptance of the idea that international law applies to every nation, whether large or small, whether strong or weak.

38.    So, inspired by these ideas, by the proud example of our political structure and by our conduct in international affairs, we have on more than one occasion, both now and in the past, raised our voices in this place to urge strongly that world peace should finally become a reality.

39.    On this occasion, like many sincere and high-minded speakers, we should like to draw attention to the great and serious perils facing the world today.

40.    We read with deep emotion the recent Encyclical Christi Matri Rosarii in which His Holiness Pope Paul VI, after referring again to some of the ideas he expressed in his address to the General Assembly on 4 October last year [1347th meeting], states:

"A settlement should be reached now, even at the expense of some inconvenience or loss; for it may have to be made later in the train of bitter slaughter and involve great loss. But this peace must rest on justice and the liberty of mankind, and take into account the rights of individuals and communities. Otherwise it will be shifting and unstable."

41.    Let us bear in mind, too, the deep concern expressed by the Secretary-General — to whom once again I wish to convey in public my Government's hope that he will not relinquish his office — in the striking introduction to his annual report in which he paints this gloomy but realistic and sincere picture of the present situation:

"The international political situation has not improved. The cloud over Viet-Nam has grown larger and more ominous. The serious open conflict between India and Pakistan over Kashmir has, with the help of the United Nations, been calmed but tensions have been heightened and violence has erupted elsewhere. Nuclear as well as conventional armaments have developed apace. Comparatively little has happened to brighten the prospects of those who occupy the two thirds of the world where poverty, disease, ignorance and lack of opportunity are the most conspicuous facts of daily life. Frustrations have been more dominant than constructive change in respect of such longstanding problems as the situations in South Africa, South West Africa, and Southern Rhodesia, and such long-standing disputes as those in Cyprus and the Middle East.

"These are conditions which, even if they strongly underline the need for the United Nations, are at the same time not conducive to the most effective action of which the Organization is capable. Generally speaking and as reflected by positions taken in the United Nations, the powerful nations have not during this period shown themselves able to rise above the suspicions, fears and mistrust that spring from their different ideologies and from their different conceptions of the best interests of the rest of the world; nor the rich nations above their concern for the continuation of their own prosperity; nor the poor nations above the dead weight of their chronic poverty and their anachronistic social structures." [A/6301/Add.1, p. 1.]

42.    Those are the words of the Secretary-General and that is how he summarized the situation,

43.    For Uruguay the continuation of the conflict in Viet-Nam is — as U Thant also stated in his letter dated 1 September — a constant reproach to the conscience of humanity.

44.    Surely in the entire course of history no other generation has held such a responsibility as ours towards the whole of humanity. For we must bear in mind that we — all of us — are perfectly well aware that this conflict which is actually taking place and which we appear to wish to ignore may be the prelude to a general war and to a possible atomic holocaust, So we are rehearsing our own annihilation.

45.    People nowadays know full well that a conflict of that kind would lead to their destruction and total elimination.

46.    The United Nations cannot remain indifferent to this war, which grows more serious and more threatening every day.

47.    We must put an end to the distressing conflict in Viet-Nam. Public opinion throughout the world demands a solution to this long and bloody conflict which, as I have said, may have irreparable consequences if it continues.

48.    The most productive part of the land on which the conflict is taking place, the land of an ancient people whose existence goes back to the dawn of history, has been virtually destroyed. The country's youth, representing its hopes and its future, is being mercilessly liquidated. Young people are dying on either side, the victims of ideas that are no concern of theirs and using weapons provided by foreign Powers.

49.    What is the world waiting for, when this terrible conflict is daily becoming more serious and when it is confronted with the sufferings of Viet-Nam? Perhaps Schiller's words would be apposite here: "Since when have the seeds of happiness no longer been growing in this earth?"

50.    This peace which is essential, which the world desires and my country demands obviously cannot come about merely as a consequence of an admission that subversion and aggression have triumphed. Discussion and negotiation are essential and inescapable. We believe that by that method and by recognizing the fundamental principles of international law and justice, it would be possible to obtain a negotiated peace and one which at the same time would be just and honourable. The possibility of immediate negotiations without prior conditions could become a reality now if there is a sincere desire for peace.

51.    What the world longs for is that the two great Powers, the United States of America and the Soviet Union, in addition to the clear and emphatic statements they have made here and on other occasions that have attracted attention throughout the world, should, by adopting a positive approach and by deeds which speak louder than words, bring about the events which will lead to peace for this long-suffering Asian people. And so this people will be able to begin its life anew — a life disrupted for countless years by the scourge of war — to bring up new generations of its children and prepare them for the future, and to remove the scars of war from its martyred land, making it fertile and fit for sowing.

52.    In our view, Mr. Goldberg's recent statement to this Assembly [1412th meeting] on behalf of the United States, was a significant contribution to the settlement of the conflict. It was an important act of collaboration, since, on behalf of his country, he said that it was ready to undertake unconditional negotiations.

53.    That is how we see the present situation. So we cannot understand why negotiations with a view to a peaceful settlement are not being begun forthwith and why no attention is paid to the anguished appeals of all mankind. Meanwhile the war goes on, a war which will settle nothing and inevitably make our present problems more difficult.

54.    This question must arouse concern within the United Nations and fall within its competence. Although there are parties to the conflict which are not members of the Organization, Uruguay hopes — and indeed makes a fervent appeal to that effect — that the United Nations will give impetus to efforts to achieve a peaceful settlement of this conflict, thus making it clear that all its Members sincerely desire peace and that its purposes and principles, which are of universal application, must be complied with in order to put an end to any conflict which may endanger international peace and security.

55.    No one can doubt that it is desirable — indeed, I might say necessary — that the United Nations should achieve true universality of membership and that it should represent all States and all peoples. Surely it is a matter of worldwide importance that mainland China, with its 700 million inhabitants, should be a member of the Organization and that its voice should be heard in the United Nations?

56.    Yet, despite this, the truth is that today we cannot contemplate the possibility of membership in the case of a State which has not only made it clear that it is not peace-loving, a condition laid down in Article 4 of the Charter, but has refused to recognize the Purposes and Principles of the Organization, and continues to do so. So long as mainland China does not show that it intends to carry out loyally and in good faith the international obligations which it would incur under the Charter, it cannot be admitted, whatever the legal form in which the question appears in the agenda.

57.    Another relevant point that should be mentioned in order to clarify the position is the fact that no request for membership has been submitted by the Peking Government to the United Nations and that, strictly according to the applicable legal principles, it is questionable whether the United Nations is competent to decide, on its own initiative, the question of the legitimate representation of China in the Organization.

58.    Turning to another topic, we may well say that the process of decolonization, the ratification of the right to self-determination of all peoples, has been one of the most successful chapters in the history of the United Nations.

59.    The application of the historic General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), a task in which my country has played its part with constant devotion, has led today to the almost complete elimination of the political colonialism which until a few years ago cast its shadow over large parts of the world.

60.    Nevertheless, the Organization's work in this connexion is not only unfinished but complex and difficult as well.

61.    The campaign for the total abolition of colonialist oppression and for the eradication of the evil and abhorrent policy of apartheid must continue.

62.    In particular, Uruguay considers it essential to find a solution for distressing and dangerous situations such as that which exists in South West Africa.

63.    We feel bound to say, in this connexion, that the Judgment of the International Court of Justice of 18 July last astonished and saddened us.

64.    On legal grounds that in our view are wholly mistaken, the Court dismissed, for formal reasons, the application by Ethiopia and Liberia. This means that the Mandate for South West Africa will continue unchecked, at least for the time being. This deplorable judgement does not, however, alter the conclusions on the substance of the affair reached by the Court in its advisory opinions and in its decision of 1962. Consequently my delegation considers — and we shall make a special statement on this point when the actual item is under discussion — that the United Nations must continue to examine the problem with a view to taking decisions which, while respecting law and justice, will make it possible to put into effect the principles and purposes of the Organization with regard to the ending of colonialism, oppression and all policies of racial discrimination in South West Africa.

65.    The question of Southern Rhodesia has been a matter of deep concern to the United Nations in recent years, and its anxiety has increased since the crisis brought about last October as a result of the unilateral declaration of independence by the present minority regime in Southern Rhodesia.

66.    In the various organs of the United Nations, Uruguay has repeatedly upheld the right of Southern Rhodesia as a whole to self-determination and independence, and has opposed any political system based on racial discrimination and not truly representative of the majority of the population.

67.    In the Security Council [1261st meeting], the Uruguayan delegation fully aware of the gravity of such a step maintained that, as the measures that had been taken had up to then failed to produce the desired results, the time had come to apply certain mandatory sanctions of an economic nature, under Chapter VII of the Charter, against the Salisbury regime, in a serious and determined effort to ensure that the people of Southern Rhodesia became masters of their own destiny.

68.    As regards the question of the Malvinas and the question of Gibraltar, my country has made its attitude clear both in the Committee of Twenty-four and in the last session of the General Assembly. We wish to express our satisfaction at the start of the negotiations recommended by the United Nations with a view to achieving an amicable settlement of these two problems.

69.    Uruguay's pacific policy and its belief that any conflict, even if localized, constitutes a danger to world peace, lead us to hope that a final settlement will be found in the Near East by peaceful means, thus ensuring that States with whose peoples my country enjoys very special ties of friendship and co-operation will together live in harmony and go forward.

70.    The fight to establish an international order which will guarantee to every individual, irrespective of race, political ideology or religion, the recognition and enjoyment of all his personal rights, must go on unrelentingly.

71.    A matter of major concern to my country, which is a secular State, is the all too familiar persecution of religious ideas which unfortunately takes place in various parts of the world. In Uruguay, there is no official religion and the State permits the practise of any creed that believers choose to establish; we cannot therefore comprehend the persecution of people who make a pure offering to their religion of all that is best in themselves, mind, spirit and soul.

72.    As we all know, crosses and symbols may be buried, men may try to efface the figure of Jesus, close synagogues or shut mosques and other places of worship, but there is no known human force that can divest man's noblest sentiments of the symbol of his faith, which is itself the greatest hope that can inspire any inhabitant of this earth, be he rich or poor — and here indeed there is no discrimination.

73.    Uruguay therefore records its protest against any form of religious persecution and any attempt to close places of worship.

74.    My country, which has co-operated in all the attempts to achieve these aims and has helped in preparing the ground for the International Year for Human Rights in 1968, will support with its voice and with its vote in this Assembly any step representing real and positive progress in this sphere.

75.    The world struggle against poverty, whether of States or individuals, must be given fresh impetus, with a view to ensuring economic co-operation, a fair level of prices for raw materials and a system of international trade based on equality rather than spoliation. The unbelievable sums now devoted to creating almost diabolical weapons of destruction — a result of the failure of attempts at disarmament and of competition in space, which is often nothing but a pretext for perfecting and augmenting the means of man's destruction — should fundamentally be employed in promoting, with all the immense resources of modern science and technology, the economic development of the whole of mankind. No one anywhere on this planet can feel safe or happy as long as he knows that there are hundreds of millions of human beings lacking shelter, food and any hope of a decent future.

76. In conclusion, I wish to thank you for giving me the opportunity to express the feelings, opinions and convictions which stir the hearts and minds of the people of my country, Uruguay, on matters of international politics. Although I have done my best to explain the anxieties of my Government and my country, it is difficult for one man to give an adequate picture of the deepest feelings of my people on all these matters and so to reveal and explain to you what lies behind our policy.

77.    The wise saying of Heraclitus of Ephesus, handed down to us through the centuries, is perhaps a fitting judgement for us: "The fairest harmony springs from discord."

78.    Uruguay wishes to state once again that it is in favour of peace, respect for human rights, the policy of non-intervention and the maximum opportunities for the self-determination of peoples. It hopes that, when we come home, we can say that on this occasion and at this session of the General Assembly the dreams and hopes of those who conceived the San Francisco Charter are receiving a glorious fulfilment.

===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
1. The delegation of Uruguay shares the satisfaction expressed at the election of the President for this session of the General Assembly. His personal qualities, which have been justly praised, confirm our confidence in his wise guidance.
2. The many problems to be discussed in this forum place a grave responsibility on us, for the hopes of a world thirsting for solutions to the many and increasingly urgent problems besetting it are centred on us. It is, we believe, essential that these hopes should be put into proper perspective and balanced against the possibility of fulfilment; otherwise we risk causing frustration, for the world is understandably impatient to see concrete results.
3. It does the cause of humanity no good when disenchantment comes through loss of faith in our rulers. As we see it, the road to progress lies in joint action combining the untiring efforts of the developing countries and the generous co-operation of the developed nations.
4. This space-age generation is witnessing the birth of a new North Atlantic civilization consisting of highly industrialized nations on the shores of the Atlantic and their outposts in Asia and Australasia, just as previous generations witnessed the development of the Mediterranean civilization.
5. We sincerely hope that this civilization will not suffer the fate of so many others which ignored the fact that the existence of a peripheral proletariat of nations is inevitably a destructive factor. We hope too that as a result of the concerted co-operation of developed and developing nations the latter will not become the proletariat on the periphery of this new civilization, an element of unrest and backwardness. I use the term "proletariat of nations" not in the sense it has for philosophers of history, namely, elements cast aside or excluded from a civilization.
6. We know of many examples of blindness to these facts; but we also know, and this strengthens our faith in human redemption, of examples of historic vision and generosity, like the Alliance for Progress. We reaffirm our faith in the salvation of mankind through the generous efforts of those who can help combined with the energies and will-power of those who must seek their salvation first and foremost through their own resources.
7. In its mere two centuries of independent life Uruguay has done its utmost not to miss any opportunity to contribute to the furtherance of justice among nations and the development of international law. We have never annexed territories, we have never deprived peoples of their rights, we have never sought to impose ideas by force; and all because we are convinced that peaceful coexistence will be achieved only when no one feels that he has been exalted to a superhuman level, that he has a monopoly of the truth and tries to impose it. Ideas are transmitted, not imposed.
8. We are frankly afraid of the debasing dogmatism of those who, in their blind pride have failed to understand that man's ideas are circumscribed by the limits to what he can achieve. We believe that peaceful coexistence, so vital to the survival of the human race, will never be achieved so long as such dogmatism persists and so long as régimes endeavour to export ideas or forms of government. Our contribution therefore has always been and will continue to be the strengthening of the cause of international law and justice among nations.
9. We have never been a burden on anyone, nor shall we ever be. We have faced difficulties, and we shall continue to do so. These difficulties are partly our own fault and partly due to a system of international trade whose progress, so far as the developing countries are concerned, has so far been more theoretical than practical.
10. The nations are generally aware that in international organizations Uruguay's vote has never been traded for material advantages or conditioned by anything but our idea of justice as the embodiment of international law. I am proud, therefore, to be the spokesman of Uruguay, a country which does not and will not waver, and this will he our contribution to the tasks we have all undertaken together in this great Assembly.

===== Session 23 - 1968 =====
1. First, I should like to congratulate Dr. Arenales, Foreign Minister of Guatemala, on his well-deserved election as President. His intelligence and experience lead us all to expect that our affairs will be conducted with distinction. Our pleasure is enhanced because he represents not only Latin America but also a country which, though far from ours, is linked to it by strong ties of brotherhood and friendship.

2. We also wish to pay tribute to the tact and efficiency shown during our proceedings by the outgoing President, Mr. Corneliu Manescu, Foreign Minister of Romania. He represents a country whose political philosophy separates it from our own but which is likewise bound to us by an ancient and common Latin heritage.

3. Furthermore, we welcome Swaziland, which has now become a member of this community of nations and will, we are sure, play an effective part in truly uniting the people of the world and ending colonialism wherever it exists.

4. I shall be brief. I can add little concerning the policy followed consistently by Uruguay in international affairs. It is well known to the Assembly. The various encouraging or disappointing events that either promote or delay practice of the principles which are so dear to us only reconfirm our belief in those principles.

5. We are happy to say that in international law there has been steady even if slow and difficult progress. It can be compared mutatis mutandis with progress in private law. The delegation of Uruguay always comes to this Assembly in the hope of seeing the adoption of new measures for improving coexistence. I must confess that this makes us impatient, and we see the obstacles as reasons that reason itself cannot understand. This parliament seems to us slow to establish the rule of law in practice and to create awareness of its benefits. We know that there are factors beyond its control, but we have a common duty to correct them, because they not only endanger freedom and justice but also raise problems which affect intelligence itself.

6. We have to confess our disappointment at the outset of the twenty-third session of the General Assembly. We have recently heard arguments rather similar to those used in the distant past, back in the eighteenth century, to justify the distribution of spheres of influence, which recall the domestic law of feudal days.

7. In face of such theories, which endanger the very existence of nationality, we reaffirm our faith in the will to survive and the desire for independence of all the nations of the earth, especially the small and militarily weak which look for protection to the rule of law rather than to the political or economic paternalism of Powers whose real aim is to dominate on the pretext of promoting their own development or security. Uruguay once again reaffirms its belief in the principles of self-determination of peoples and non-intervention by States. We regard them as plain rules of positive international law. Every country has a right to its own culture, trade and government. To quote from Corneille’s “Cinna",

“Chaque peuple a le sien conforme à sa nature,

“Qu’on ne saurait changer sans lui faire une injure.”
(Each nation has its own true attribute that cannot suffer any change unscathed.)

8. Today no treaty based on such old-fashioned concepts can be viable. It would be incurably void, either for want of motive, or for defect in its spirit or letter where these purported to take away sovereignty. It would recall the Italian Popular Party’s counter-slogan to Mussolini’s electoral law: “We'll co-operate on our feet, not our knees.”

9. In 1928 at Havana, Uruguay proposed that the principle of non-intervention, based on the indispensable legal equality of all States without which this Assembly cannot even exist, should be made an institution. These joint efforts culminated at Montevideo in 1933 and were reaffirmed at Buenos Aires in 1936, in the Charter of Bogota in 1948, and more fully in Lima in 1938, Mexico City in 1945, Rio de Janeiro in 1947, Caracas in 1954, Santiago de Chile in 1959, and Costa Rica in 1960. It would be inconsistent not to call attention to every infraction of this principle, such as the one that has just occurred.

10. The United Nations has also ruled in this matter. In its resolution 2131(XX) of December 1965 the General Assembly voted in favour of this principle and referred specifically to the precedents mentioned above and to the charters of the League of Arab States and of the Organization of African Unity. It follows that this Assembly also should be consistent and vigorously reject all violations of the rule, regardless of their nature and of the attempts at explanation.

11. We reject intervention of any kind, not only flagrant military intervention but also other more subtle and cunning forms. Uruguay has established a stable, democratic system of government firmly based on popular support; it has brought about peaceful coexistence and has changed enemies into mere opponents, as can be seen in the membership of our own delegation, which includes representatives of all the democratic parties. Like other Latin-American nations, we suffer from the propaganda and activities of small groups with alien and undemocratic ideas which seek to promote, particularly among our young people, outlandish revolutionary ideas and to advocate violence as a means of progress. In financing this propaganda and these activities, other Governments commit actual unlawful and reprehensible intervention. Revolutions without any guiding philosophy destroy existing spiritual and moral values and prevent adaptation of democracy to modern times, which we seek as the way to orderly and peaceful progress. As has been said, we will not agree to any demand in the name of our principles for freedom to destroy freedom in the name of the principles of others.

12. We are concerned about the slow progress of disarmament, the insecurity and expense of armaments and the means of development of which they deprive mankind. In our view this is another obligation. Uruguay has always been a fervent champion of peace and believes that all efforts should be directed towards strengthening it. To strengthen peace is to do more than merely maintain it. Peace can be maintained through force or fear; it is only genuine when based on confidence and brotherhood. These presuppose duties and demand sacrifice. In particular they oblige the major Powers to assist in establishing peace. The results of the Second United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, for instance, give us no cause for optimism on this score.

13. The technological advances which should have opened a bright future have instead ushered in one of deep gloom. I would point out that Latin America, as in its advocacy of non-intervention, has again taken the lead here with the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which in the words of the delegation of Uruguay “is an exemplary instrument by virtue of its juridical acumen, its technical precision, its feeling for reality, and the clear-cut differentiation it establishes between the atom for war and the atom for peace”’. Nevertheless, Uruguay has subscribed to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons [General Assembly resolution 2373(XXII)], which was signed in Washington, London and Moscow on 1 July 1968, accepting it with its defects as a stepping-stone towards the solution of the problem. As we have said before, the Treaty “does not in any way deal with the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons but rather with the non-proliferation of nuclear States"; it does not really provide for the peaceful use of atomic energy for all nations, and, as was so aptly pointed out by the Argentine delegation, merely guarantees “the disarmament of the unarmed”’. Disarmament must be general and complete, and the guarantees should be given absolutely and convincingly by the armed. Only thus will peace through fear be ended, and the gap reduced between ourselves and those few countries that manipulate both the atom and the veto as instruments of obstruction.

14. Another factor for strengthening peace must be the settlement of all other conflicts, overt or covert. For the Middle East a complete solution must be found, not a partial or temporary one. We hope that such a solution can be reached through law and mutual understanding, and similar solutions for the other more serious conflicts that disquiet the world. That will be the way to win back the confidence of world public opinion in these organizations and in their thinking and procedures.

15. I cannot refer to all the items on our agenda, and if I could I should risk repeating what previous speakers have said here. But I wish to say a few words on one matter which has hardly been discussed but which I think is fundamental for this Assembly. It is the problem of man, or rather of the individual. Peace is indivisible, and there can be no lasting peace in the world unless all individuals can be at peace with themselves. The human personality is the pivot of the universal system.

16. There would be no point in organizing the law of nations or their coexistence if nations continued to have subjects but not citizens. The word “citizen” is not merely a convenient phrase; it postulates the enjoyment of rights and freedoms unknown in most of the world. Nor can any State be a genuine democracy if its internal domestic peace is imposed by force or fear. We therefore hope sympathetically for the liberation of countries with autocratic or totalitarian régimes kept in power by a system of repression that stifles freedom, or by a social system that insults justice.

17. The people’s misery undermines domestic order just as the misery of States undermines international order. That is why we are convinced that universal order cannot be strengthened without democratic States.

18. I have to point out that, as the name indicates, human rights belong not to the community nor to the State but to the individual. States owe a duty to ensure respect for human rights and must discharge it, just as they have duties towards each other for ethical reasons. The individual must also be given moral and material international protection. Self-determination for peoples is very good, but self-determination for the individual is better. He must be helped to strengthen his freedom; and, as Uruguay has already proposed, he should have access to international courts. If under recent international penal law judges are to be empowered to punish an individual, it would seem more logical that judges should also protect and safeguard his interests. Human rights are still in danger twenty years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights [General Assembly resolution 217(III)], which was proclaimed as “a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations...”.

19. Let us serve this ideal, which is a mainstay of coexistence!

20. The United Nations must redouble its efforts in that service. Perhaps the Commission on Human Rights should have the status of a Council and report directly to the General Assembly.

21. There can be no peace anywhere without justice, and in a country there can be no peace without social justice. Justice is endangered by lack not only of rights but also of equal economic opportunity. States must therefore develop in accordance with their people’s needs. A government has no right to demand or to receive aid that is not to be devoted to its citizens’ well-being without discrimination of any kind. Special emphasis must be laid on this need so as to speed economic, social and industrial work for the development of all nations.

22. In the world today we cannot allow hunger to persist, or the protein deficiency that is retarding irreparably the physical and mental development of more than 300 million children. Just as it is a common duty to distribute the new resources of the sea and of nuclear energy among all mankind, so it is a common duty to abolish these terrible evils. The greatest battle of all, in comparison with which all others are insignificant, is mankind’s battle against the shameful suffering in the world today — against the suffering of people who are not free, of people who lack education, health, housing, clothing, and hope. This is the great challenge, and we owe it to ourselves, as men and as leaders, to take it up.

23. The task before us is enormous and urgent. For my part, I pray that God will enlighten us in our work.

24. I would conclude by quoting one of the “thoughts” of Pascal which in a way sums up my whole speech. God grant that soon in this world “Justice will be forceful and force will be just”.



===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
1. Madam President, I congratulate you, and through you,
your great country, on the unanimous election which
entrusted to you the task of guiding the debates of the
General Assembly of the United Nations at its twenty-fourth 
session.

2. We welcome this election because it underlines your
outstanding qualifications and also because it is proof of
the growing participation in the world community of a
great continent, which strongly reflects the deep-rooted
aspirations of the peoples gathered here: to be free, to live
in peace and to have productive relationships that will
promote the spiritual and material development of mankind.

3. Still fresh in our minds is the vivid memory of Mr.
Emilio Arenales, our brother from Guatemala, whose
achievement during the twenty-third session of the General
Assembly provides a message that is relevant to our
work—that is, that we must all make the same controlled
and silent sacrifice so that in times of~trial we may
overcome the obstacles, both personal and collective, to the
attainment of the goals we have set ourselves, however
difficult and arduous the road may be. Having said this, I
should now like to touch on the matter which is of deepest
concern to us.

4. Many voices are being raised, both within and outside
this forum, to express scepticism about the work of the
United Nations. A pessimistic attitude is now being adopted
towards the destiny of our Organization. We must react
energetically against this unhealthy trend, which could
destroy the world community and involve us in the
uncertainty of an international policy dictated by events,
outside the framework of the agreed and freely accepted
law.

5. On behalf of Uruguay, I must make it plain that I have
not come to this Assembly to attend the funeral of the
United Nations. On the contrary, we have come here to
make a healthily realistic examination of the growing
difficulties that affect the Organization’s effective 
functioning, with the firm and unwavering intention of finding
solutions that will strengthen the Organization and increase
its competence and suitability as an instrument in the
service of the lofty ideals for which it was established in
San Francisco.

6. But I wish to make it very clear that Uruguay stands
within the Organization, not outside it. I now propose to
enlarge upon this statement. The policy of balance of
power, which took the form of alliances and covenants, led
to the First World War.

7. In the light of previous experience, the League of
Nations advocated and formulated the system of the legal
equality of States. Yet it failed to achieve its peace
objectives because, outside and apart from the League, the
same fatal system of balance of power continued in force
and finally led to the most recent world war.

8. The horrors of that terrible war brought forth a new
policy, which Uruguay described at the time as a potential
risk to the nascent Organization established in San Francisco: 
unity of power to preserve peace. Unity of power
implied—as events later proved—that it is effective for that
purpose as long as unity exists; but when unity is broken,
the policy of balance of power reappears, today in the
form of antagonistic blocs.

9. This is the picture we have before our eyes. Outside the
Organization, or at least beyond its framework, the force of
events determines the fate of this world community, which
today appears to be merely a forum for denunciation and
protest and no longer a tool for the preservation of peace,
our common and indispensable task. This is why, at the
very beginning of this Assembly session, we wish on behalf
of Uruguay to put forward a different view and to do
something constructive to strengthen the United Nations.
That is why we have come here.

10. I should like to repeat today what the Chairman of the
Uruguayan delegation, Mr.Secco Garcia, the Under-
Secretary for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, said at the
twenty-third session of the General Assembly:

“We are happy to say that in international law there has
been steady even if slow and difficult progress.” [1686th
meeting, para. 5.]

He added:

“This parliament seems to us slow to establish the rule
of law in practice and to create awareness of its benefits.
We know that there are factors beyond its control, but we
have a common duty to correct them, because they not
only endanger freedom and justice, but also raise problems
which affect intelligence itself.” [Ibid.]

Nevertheless, and in spite of these difficulties, we trust in
the instruments offered to us by the present Charter of the
United Nations. 

11. The conflicts that exist in the Far East and the Near
East, and the painful problems affecting parts of the 
African continent can and must find a solution within the
framework of the Organization that unites us. However 
disquieting and ominous the symptoms may be in those 
regions, there is still time to face them with resolution and 
vigour, with the indispensable goodwill, in order to achieve 
honourable agreements that will build a stable and lasting 
peace.

12. Uruguay condemns the use of force and terrorism,
recourse to reprisals and, in short, any act of violence. We 
believe that our Organization, through its competent
organs, is still able to arbitrate and find solutions that are 
acceptable to the parties in conflict and that will lead to
future co-operation and harmony. 

13. In this connexion, my delegation feels compelled to 
mention the regional policy of the inter-American system.
The inter-American Pact, inspired by genuine regional
solidarity and strengthened by long years of existence, has 
recently proved its effectiveness. A policy of promoting and 
implementing the law, with a brotherly and friendly
understanding of the factors of a dispute, is, in the long
run, the best policy.

14. We hope the world Organization will realize that, as
the provisions of the Charter indicate, might does not make
right or place anyone in a better position to negotiate peace,
and that peace is based on justice and justice on international 
morality, and ultimately the conduct of States must 
be adapted, not to the prevailing interests of the hour, but
to the permanent values of law, because law, regulating
peaceful coexistence, is the only instrument capable of
diminishing the policy of balance of power and restoring
the legal equality of those same States.

15. As a small State, but one inspired by its devotion to 
international law, Uruguay comes to the work of this
Assembly with faith and hope in the Organization and in
the solution that may stem from it. The success of our
meetings rests on the contribution of all to the supreme
blessing of world peace. By using our energies, our 
co-operation and all the other means at our disposal, by
supporting the existing organs and means in order to
overcome the grave problems of the world, and by
co-operating with the family of nations on a regional and
world-wide scale, we must make the utmost effort to sweep 
away the tight barriers that prevent us from reaching the
common goals which unite us.

16. We are not unaware of the fact that an appropriate
amendment of the Charter which governs our work may be
the most feasible means of achieving these objectives, but
we must not await that event. In the meantime we must
make the best of the imperfections of the existing system,
and work with confidence and faith to maintain peace,
which all mankind needs and is asking of us.

17. But peace cannot be achieved without an appropriate
hierarchy of values, international social justice requires an
equitable balance and a better distribution of wealth. The
specialized agencies of the United Nations are useful
channels for contributing to this vital equalization between
the rich and the poor countries.

18. At present the unstable and precarious peace in which
we live appears to be the result of our fear of a nuclear war.
But the strategic recourses for war include a weapon more
dangerous than this terrible power, and that is the power of
hunger, the power of the dispossessed, the power of those
who have been insulted and injured by the mighty of the
earth.

19. History teaches us that all empires pass away. No
matter how vast their material resources, how immense
their technological capacity, they will fall because of the
violence unleashed by injustice and because of the despair
generated by hunger. And hunger does exist on earth.
Therefore, it is for their own good and for the good of all
mankind that those who possess such power should realize
that power implies not privilege, but service, and that this
same power imposes greater responsibilities upon them in
these anxious times in which mankind is living.

20. I shall leave the specific items on the agenda for
discussion in the Committees. The particular instructions
given to the delegation of Uruguay with respect to those
items will be made known at that time, and we shall then
indicate the responsibilities of those who can and should
act, and offer our co-operation in seeking possible solutions.

21. I should now like to invoke the protagonist of our
endeavours. States and frontiers do not exist for the States
themselves, nor for the frontiers themselves; they exist for
man.

22. At a time when the substance and realm of the atom
have been laid bare by human intelligence, at a time when
man, following the plan of creation, has walked on the
moon and achieved mastery of outer space, at a time when
our entire technology indicates that man himself is capable
of achieving what he was created for, namely, of governing
the earth, at this very time man seems unable to govern his
own passions.

23. Acting through nations or communities, man seems to
and in opposition and contradiction to his fellow man.
Invisible but no less real, the man from all latitudes is
nevertheless present in this Assembly, calling upon States
and Governments not to forget his real existence, his
anguish and his fear, his hope and his faith, his ultimate
destiny.

24. Therefore, the primacy of spiritual values over the
material contingencies of the moment must govern our
work. The words of the Old Testament make themselves
heard among us today as they did at the time of the landing
on the moon: “What is man, that thou art mindful
of him?”.

25. The Assembly’s answer to the question that has been
asked since the beginning of time must be the one given us
by that same Old Testament: "Except the Lord build the
house, they labour in vain that build it".

26. On behalf of Uruguay, I express the hope that these
permanent spiritual values will guide our work, and that
when we return to our countries the common man who
suffers and hopes and has his eyes fixed upon us will know
that we have not laboured in vain because we have built on
the solid rock of ultimate values: law based on justice,
justice based on morality, and peace as the fruit of
international social justice uniting all men in a single
people, a single family, and abolishing all frontiers, so that
we may be bound together by brotherhood and love based
on a profound faith.

===== Session 25 - 1970 =====
37.	 On behalf of my country, may I congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election as President of this Assembly, a choice that not only honors a citizen of the noble nation of Norway and guarantees equanimity in the guidance of our debates, but also is a well-deserved tribute to a statesman and distinguished jurist who has rendered such valuable services to the United Nations.
38.	I also feel that it is my duty to pay tribute to Mrs. Angie Brooks-Randolph, the distinguished representative of Liberia, who presided over the past session of the General Assembly with undoubted wisdom and maturity.
39.	The twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations is an excellent opportunity for this Assembly to pause and ponder and discuss the progress and direction of the Organization, and carefully to take stock of the problems which it has dealt With and resolved and, in particular, those problems which are still with us in the present and lie before us in the future, darkening the horizon of our civilization which, in spite of the amazing progress of technology, seems to be about to lose control over the human and social problems which it must deal with.
40.	The world today is obviously not what it was twenty-five years ago. The political events which led to the creation of the United Nations are no longer as relevant, and the health of this great Organization cannot today be considered satisfactory. The faith, optimism and enthusiasm of which the founders of the Charter were possessed has very largely yielded to skepticism, disappointment and fear of the future.
41.	We must begin this plenary session which brings to a close a quarter of a century of work with the profound conviction that looking backward is of no avail if this is not accompanied by a firm determination to face and resolve, within the spirit of the United Nations Charter, not only the serious disputes and conflicts which are of concern to us today, but also those more vast and transcendent problems of universal dimension which will be of concern to mankind in the three decades before the end of this century.
42.	In order to achieve this age-old goal in an atmosphere of peace and progress, it is not necessary to create new and complicated international structures, nor for the time being will substantive changes in the United Nations Charter be required. On the contrary, it is sufficient to implement its provisions in good faith and, in particular, its purposes and principles which forbid the use or the threat of the use of force, and require non-intervention in the internal affairs of States, sovereign equality, the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with justice and international law, assistance to the Organization and its Members to maintain international security, respect for self-determination of peoples, co-operation in the economic and social areas and the constant development and furtherance of human rights. These purposes and principles were agreed upon at an exceptional moment in history and they reflect a level of understanding and agreement among States which it would be difficult to match in the present circumstances. We have, then, the institutional framework required for nations to face and successfully resolve the problems which we must deal with in the coming decades.
43.	Among these problems priority should be given to the need to attenuate or lessen the growing economic inequality which exists among nations, to control and slow down the burdensome arms race, to protect and improve the human environment and intensify food production to meet the needs of population of our constantly growing world. These are all questions which require more intense international co-operation on a greater scale, so that social tensions can be reduced and so that we can live in a better and more just world, in which men of all nations in their own countries may find the necessary conditions to develop their personalities and achieve the happiness they deserve as human beings.
44.	It is only in this way that the United Nations can secure the support of the peoples of the world and especially the support of "succeeding generations", as mentioned in the very first sentence of the Charter. We should not forget the fact that those born since 1945 make up more than half of the present population of the world.
45.	In disarmament problems, which play a prominent role on the agenda of the Assembly, there are unavoidable physical reasons why there are distinctions among nations. There are those nations which, like ours, have practically no armed forces on a worldwide scale and must therefore play the role of a non- protagonist which someone once compared to that of the chorus of ancient tragedies. In spite of this, Uruguay has supported and will continue to support all resolutions designed to bring about progressive and balanced disarmament, prohibiting the use of nuclear power for any warlike purposes.
46.	So it is that we have supported all initiatives to suspend nuclear tests and we have ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons [resolution 2373 (XXII)] and the Treaty of Tlatelolco. Uruguay, together with other Latin American countries, has introduced an item to the Assembly for consideration, to implement resolution 2456 B on the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol II of the Treaty banning nuclear weapons in Latin America.
47.	During this session the tenth anniversary of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples will be celebrated. One of the great achievements of the United Nations has been the role which it has played in combining the effort of the peoples of the world and the Governments of many countries, including several ex-colonial Powers, which is very much to their credit, in this process of decolonization, which is one of the irreversible signs of our times.
48.	Uruguay, even before the Declaration of 1960, when the membership of this Assembly was quite different from what it is today, adopted a very clear anti- colonialist position, for we felt that any colonialist ties or bonds were incompatible with the present system of the international community.
49.	My country was honored to be a member of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in its initial composition during the first seven years of its existence. We were determined to help make a reality the principle of the self-determination of peoples in the purest and most authentic sense.
50.	What remains to be done to put an end to colonialism throughout the world is one task before the United Nations which cannot be delayed. It is a task which all States must support most decisively.
51.	During this first stage of its existence the United Nations has adopted the Universal Declaration on Human Rights [resolution 217A (III)], the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its Optional Protocol and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights [resolution 2200A (XXI)], and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination [resolution 2106A (XX)]. Uruguay has given priority attention and firm support to all those covenants.
52.	Consistent with our deep seated political philosophy, shared by all our people, our country has always advocated broad and unrestricted recognition of human rights without any distinction as to religion, race or sex. And it does seem now that those principles, as principles, have peacefully been accepted by civilized nations.
53.	But that acceptance cannot be considered a goal. It is only a starting point towards a more arduous under-taking. We would be flouting humanitarian sentiments which are the heritage of mankind if we allowed those principles which have been adopted today not to be applied and respected. It seems quite clear now that we must, as we have proposed in the past, have effective means at the international level to protect the rights of human beings, and that this should be done primarily through judicial bodies to which individuals whose rights have been infringed upon may have easy access.
54.	It is only in this way that we can fully secure legal guarantees for human rights, which in the history of institutions seem to have been protected first by law, then by constitutions and finally by international convention. In this way their final protection will be entrusted to international bodies, which will act in accordance with objective, impartial and automatic protective machinery, which will not be of an ad hoc nature or dependent on the political expedient.
55.	One symptom of the deterioration of genuine international peace may be seen in conflicts which threaten to become chronic and which create fluid areas of strife filling mankind with fear, because we do not see the end of those conflicts and indeed we realize that they might expand.
56.	Recently the Middle East has been in the forefront of our attention. This is an area in which, in spite of the undeniable efforts of the United Nations and of Governments that have lent their co-operation, significant progress has not been made towards a just and lasting peace.
57.	For this reason we are pleased to point to the recent acceptance by States involved in that conflict of the plans presented by the United States of America, which seems to have had the beneficial effect of attenuating the dangerous spiral of violence which has been a characteristic sign of recent times.
58.	Acting from a feeling of solidarity with these peoples many of whose representatives live with us and are an important and conspicuous part of the population the Government of Uruguay invited its sister nations of Latin America to co-ordinate their views on this subject and to offer in the United Nations, if the opportunity presents itself, a contribution to the solution of the disputes in the Middle East.
59.	This initiative should not be interpreted as a new source of disturbance in the already turbulent area where so many forces are already at work on this problem. The sole purpose is to prevent possible dispersion of effort which would ensue if many Latin American countries, joined together by international traditions and peaceful and universal feelings, did not act together and co-operate in a way which they deemed most effective perhaps even by remaining cautiously silent in the face of this difficult problem which has disrupted areas so dear to our people and their traditions.
60.	One very prominent item on the agenda of this Assembly is the item on the sea-bed, the ocean floor and the subsoil thereof beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, which is closely connected with moves that have been made to bring about a new conference on the law of the sea.
61.	In this field, as is well known, the Government of Uruguay, taking into account developments in the international practice of States relating to the law of the sea and the oceans, decreed on 3 December 1969 an executive order which extended its territorial sea for the purpose of guaranteeing the defense of its national interests, the well-being of the people and opportunities for development and progress. In taking this decision it was borne in mind that in recent years an increasing number of States, particularly in Latin America, have extended their sovereign rights, demonstrating in this way the absence of norms of positive international law that are capable of limiting the power of States to establish the extent of their maritime jurisdiction and their territorial sea.
62.	In May of this year our Foreign Ministry arranged a meeting of Latin American States which had already extended the authority of the government to zones adjacent to the coasts. The result of that meeting was the Declaration of Montevideo, signed on 8 May 1970, which embodied basic principles on the law of the sea, on which participant States agreed unanimously. Pursuing this promising initiative, the States of Latin America, with two exceptions, sent their representatives to Lima to take part in another Latin American meeting on certain aspects of the law of the sea, which reiterated in very much the same terms the essential principles of the Declaration of Montevideo, and adopted other resolutions setting forth joint policy on the main problems of the law of the sea, particularly having in mind debates to be held in the sea-bed Committee and in this Assembly.
63.	Consistent with these principles, my Government, with regard to the convening of an international conference on the law of the sea, has as a matter of principle given a favorable reply, subject to the under-standing that we should like to see the items mentioned in resolution 2574 A (XXIV) of the General Assembly discussed at such a gathering. On the other hand, we regard as inappropriate the convening of one or more conferences with agendas limited to various partial aspects of the law of the sea.
64.	With regard to the extent of the continental shelf, my delegation is opposed to any reform of the definition of the continental shelf contained in the Geneva Convention on the Continental Shelf of 1958, which, as is well known, is Latin American in origin.
65.	In the enormous area of economic and social problems viewed on a world-wide scale, as this Assembly should view them, the star item remains underdevelopment, and we are inclined to believe that it will continue to occupy the leading place in the scenario, as it were, of our concern.
66.	To be understood in its proper dimensions, the basic aspect of under-development must be complemented by the realization that under-development of the countries of the "third world", and particularly the Latin American countries, contrary to earlier belief, can no longer be considered to be a mere stage in the life of peoples, comparable to certain short-comings which can be seen uniformly throughout the evolution of living organisms. Under-development is not a normal crisis of growth but rather a pathological disturbance within the economic and social evolution of human communities. Like any illness, it calls for adequate therapy. The responsibility of our generation is precisely to prove wise enough to determine what this treatment should be and to be strong enough to apply it. Contemporary man, more than man at any other time in history, feels that the world is not remaining static; it is necessarily changing, whether through evolution or revolution. Our difficult job is to place our faith and our hard work on the side of the balance where evolution lies, so that we shall not be caught off guard by the inevitable consequences of revolution.
67.	All this leads me to reiterate once again that the proposals for the Second United Nations Development Decade constitute one of the fundamental items of this Assembly.
68.	The Government of Uruguay has expressed in other forums of the United Nations, such as the Economic and Social Council, its resolute support for such proposals and also for the new strategy which they presuppose, emphasis being placed not exclusively on purely economic growth, that is, on increasing the gross national product, but on a more equitable distribution of income and on other social objectives such as the expansion of employment, the improvement of housing and opportunities for education in keeping with the needs of development.
69.	In particular my delegation welcomes the recommendation to intensify, through new agreements on primary products, international trade in those goods that have unstable markets. In our capacity as a producer and exporter of wool, my country regards as well justified the recommendation of the Committee for Development Planning in which "special recognition should be given to the difficulties encountered by producers of natural goods which face competition from synthetic materials", advising in such cases the elimination of "all tariff and non-tariff barriers against such imports, whether in primary or processed form".
70.	Beyond any doubt, the prime prerequisite to development is the determination of each country. My country in the past two years has made a tremendous and successful effort to hold back the scourge of inflation, which upsets and in fact makes impossible any real attempt at economic development. As Minister of Industry of my country at that time, I had occasion to initiate in June 1968 a policy of stabilization, which has become consolidated recently, with a sharp decline in the cost-of-living index, which now indicates an annual rate equivalent to only 10 per cent of the rate that existed in 1967. The increase in international reserves, the increase in exports and the considerable growth in the gross product, which in that short period was doubled all these are favorable signs that show the favorable results that can be brought about by a sound policy properly backed up by the public authority.
71.	As far as trade with developed countries is concerned, I should like to make a brief reference to the meeting of the Special Committee on Latin American Co-ordination, which was convened in Buenos Aires at the ministerial level to co-ordinate economic, financial and technological relations among Latin American States with regard to contacts with the European economic communities.
72.	It is our hope that, as is occurring in the dialog now proceeding between Latin America and the United States in regard to trade matters, a constructive under-standing can be arrived at, which will permit the tightening of our traditional economic bonds with Western Europe, inspired as the Declaration of Buenos Aires says, by principles of justice, equity, international solidarity and mutual respect.
73.	Among the questions that are of concern to the world today there is one which has particular political and social implications : that relating to crimes against humanity. In Uruguay we have had occasion to deplore a crime of this type which cost the life of a citizen of a country that is traditionally a friend of ours, an innocent victim of an act which stirred the deepest feelings of our people. I should like to reiterate here most solemnly, and in doing so I express the sentiments of the Uruguayan people, the angriest repudiation of that crime and also of the other kidnappings of citizens of friendly countries, committed by small groups of conspirators who, setting themselves up as crusaders for a new and violent gospel, perpetrate crimes of the most ruthless and arbitrary sort.
74.	Attempts were made through kidnapping to force the liberation of detainees and condemned persons who are not political prisoners but simply the perpetrators of common crimes and are subject to ordinary justice, which acts quite apart from political power, and within which they have access to due legal process with all guarantees for their defense. In such circumstances any attempt at extortion or blackmail is quite inadmissible, even where the noble purpose of saving precious and innocent lives is concerned; for that would presuppose not only a violation of the Constitution and laws but would set a very grim precedent for man's future as a member of society. The suppression of crime, essential for any human group that has gone beyond the primitive stage of private vengeance, would ipso facto be prevented, because it would be impossible then to punish those who break the penal laws, even those laws which protect the most sacred rights of man : life and freedom.
75.	On the initiative of the President of our Republic, Mr. Pacheco Areco, a policy was established as was explained by our country in the Permanent Council of the Organization of American States which has been recognized and understood by many friendly Governments as the doctrine which really constitutes the best safeguard for diplomats, since it prevents the kind of blackmail that seems to be constantly increasing and involving new victims or encouraging the commission of other crimes against humanity.
76.	Our Government, always a zealous defender of the principle of non-intervention, would state, as an essential factor for the development of this whole item, its belief that these matters which through their external repercussions can affect bilateral relations in the international field are by their very nature a subject which properly falls within the competence of each State, that each State should assert the right to handle these matters as it understands them, in accordance with the circumstances of time and place, it being understood of course that at same time a uniform mode of conduct in this respect, freely agreed upon by the different countries, would be the best way of guarding against this kind of ruthlessness.
77.	Important international gatherings, with the affirmative vote of my country, have decided that this kind of offense cannot be regarded as being covered by the treatment which, as far as concerns extradition and asylum, is reserved for political offenses. The raison d'etre for this kind of treatment is the idea that the political offender is not a danger in a foreign country, but on the other hand in his country the courts at a given time might not prove able to offer adequate guarantees of impartiality. This reasoning does not apply to criminals who have recourse to such measures as the use of foreign diplomats as hostages and victims, which is an act of odious barbarity prohibited even by the laws of war. Methods such as these strike not just against a regime or a given political system, but against all forms of organized society, whether internal or international; and they truly constitute acts of lese-humanity, offenses which no longer are jure civitate but jure gentium.
78.	Acts such as these, as we have demonstrated, which try to break up the cohesion necessary for any organized social group, creating in the chosen sector the tense atmosphere caused by repeated acts of terrorism, which many times affect innocent civilians  such acts are not the sad privilege of just one country or one continent. Everywhere, on all sides, you see kidnappings, hijacking of aircraft, coercion on the normal development of individual freedoms, on the exercise of public authority. All these acts are carried out with ambivalent purposes for the publicity thus gained or for the ransoming of accomplices who have been apprehended by the duly constituted authorities.
79.	In the light of this picture my Government feels that this Assembly could well devote its attention to an analysis of the idea behind the interesting initiative recently presented at the meeting of the Organization of American States in Washington, designed to provide special protection for affected property and persons, and this for the benefit of international relations and the progress of mankind as a whole.
80.	Our Government has co-sponsored the inclusion in the agenda of the Assembly of the item referring to the revision of the functioning of the International Court of Justice.
81.	By historical tradition and also through constitutional precepts, Uruguay is always prepared to accept the peaceful solution of any international controversy and is a resolute supporter of judicial and arbitration procedures. Fifty years ago, in 1921, Uruguay accepted without any reservation the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. This declaration, which still remains in force, is the longest-standing case of acceptance of the optional clause. We also ratified the Pact of Bogota in the drafting of which the Uruguayan internationalist Dardo Regules took part. The essence of this instrument lies in the undertaking entered into by the American States to resolve their legal differences by having recourse to the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
82.	Therefore my country cannot simply remain on the sidelines, seeing the difficult situation in which the Court finds itself now, having no business before it, especially when this comes precisely at about the time that the Court has finished its first fifty years of existence, Happily, this situation has been corrected with the important and happy precedent set by the Security Council in calling, for the first time, for an advisory opinion from the Court.
83.	Notwithstanding this, we also regard as a very timely and useful idea the study which we have pro-posed, and we will promote the need for a more general acceptance of the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.
84.	We must sincerely recognize that this Assembly would be rendered incapable of carrying out, the sacred functions which belong to it on a world-wide level if it did not succeed in perceiving with all clarity that the world as a whole wishes to shake itself free from its classic structures.
85.	It is only by remembering this truth, and some-times because it is so obvious we forget about it, that we can raise our eyes and our efforts and join this earth such a hapless and wretched earth to that remote infinite point towards which we are drawn all the time by that thirst for perfection that all men harbor within themselves and which draws them towards the perfection of created things.


===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
80.	 I have the honor of setting forth the position of the Government of Uruguay as the work of this session begins, a session of such crucial importance for the future of the Organization.
81.	The idea has emerged that this Assembly will be known as the Assembly of universality. The movement to achieve universality in the United Nations has of late gained considerable momentum. We are eager to give it our support in an effort to ensure lasting peace and active coexistence among all peoples of the world.
82.	The resistance born of rigidly antagonistic positions is giving way to understanding and willingness to engage in dialog.
83.	Plans involving disarmament, especially nuclear disarmament, that a year ago appeared impossible are today emerging as positive solutions assuring peace and guaranteeing the future of civilization. Progress in world solidarity and advances made in scientific discovery have turned the entire earth into a single territory for development.
84.	May I, at the beginning of my statement, offer my greetings to the President of the General Assembly, who was chosen by a consensus of the States Members of our Organization. He thus guarantees that there will be fairness and justice, in view of his career as a statesman and his many activities as representative of the Government of Indonesia in the international arena in recent years.
85.	May I also add our greetings to the outgoing President, Mr. Hambro, who conducted the work of the Assembly during its twenty-fifth session with such great ability, giving further proof of his devotion to the cause of the United Nations.
86.	This historic Assembly coincides with the tenth anniversary of the distinguished SecretaryGeneralship of U Thant. We should not spare any effort to dissuade this citizen of the world from his intention to renounce his lofty post in the United Nations; but in any case, the time has come to pay a great tribute to so devout a servant of the international community. His name has already found its place among those of the great figures who have fashioned the new image of the world in which we live, thanks to his tireless efforts for peace and his ideas that have always served as an inspiration to those seeking to bring about a world in which friendship and international cooperation reign supreme.
87.	The report of the SecretaryGeneral to this Assembly OR the work of the Organization [AI8401 and Add.l] contains a comprehensive treatment of the problems before us. It is an expression of his calm and selfless determination to serve the cause of the United Nations. Perhaps the best tribute which, on this occasion, we could pay to our SecretaryCenerai would be to recommend that the Assembly study the text of his message, which summarizes with lucidity and courage the difficulties at present being encountered by our Organization, and which states the courses of action which may be adopted to save our Organization from its own ruin.
88.	It is our desire that these proposals and considerations by the SecretaryGeneral should be considered by a group of experts appointed for the purpose, with a view to producing recommendations or draft resolutions for the General Assembly.
89.	Every year we assess the achievements which we have to our credit and lay down new goals for the international community in a dynamic process which can never come to an end, since to come to an end would mean to stand still. As we achieve the goals and objectives which have inspired us, new prospects loom on our horizon obliging us to redouble our efforts towards still more fruitful and positive achievements in the history of mankind.
90.	We cannot fail to recognize some of the major contributions which our Organization has made and which have led to permanent and concrete benefits for our countries in the economic, social, cultural, scientific and practically all other areas.
91.	At the present time, as nations develop at an accelerating rate, the United Nations has been the dominant force in promoting decolonization. I would make so bold as to say that decolonization is one of its greatest achievements, making it possible for States representing many cultures to attain independence and to participate collectively in our work fbr peace and the well being of mankind.
92.	The task of decolonization cannot now come to an end; a second stage must begin. All peoples now fully share in the benefits of progress which have been brought about by new political, ideological and technological values and by full access to world markets, and we are now all working for the greater well being of all mankind. Nevertheless, we must continue to work harder to eliminate the deficiencies which beset us. Our faith in the international community is not diminished because of the magnitude of the deficiencies which still remain. Our faith should serve to encourage us to abolish the shortcomings which we have noted.
93.	We have always said that the best approach is to act in accordance with the fundamental principles of the Charter of the United Nations* whose objectives have to a large extent remained unattained.
94.	On many occasions we have declared that even some achievements which seem to be desirable will not have a decisive effect if they are not attained in accordance with the principles of the Charter. We believe that the fate of the Organization depends on our acting in accordance with these principles. Our Organization has at times been reduced to the position of a mere observer of the great problems of our time, and this may have been due to lack of determination or of faith on the part of some of its Members when they have refused to submit the conflicts and problems which have arisen to the procedures provided for peaceful settlement.
95.	The spectacle of the International Court of Justice, which we have endowed with prestigious machinery for solving international problems, remaining immobile is a sorry demonstration of this lack of faith which I have denounced. When we signed the Charter of the Organization in 1945 we said that effective universal order was impossible without a permanent and binding system of justice. We continue to emphasize this point, which this year is particularly relevant because we have an item on our agenda instructing us to consider the possible expansion of the tasks of the International Court of Justice.
96.	From the very outset Uruguay unreservedly accepted the binding jurisdiction of the Court, and we shall continue to promote the idea of submitting the largest possible number of international disputes and questions to our highest tribunal of justice for settlement. Peace is the fruit of justice, as the Scriptures say. There is a link between justice and peace, on which the destiny of mankind possibly depends. There can be no justice without peace; there can be no peace without justice. This idea ha% been the basis of the thinking of the Holy See in its preparations for the world Day of Peace in 1972. If we desire peace we must work for justice in order to bring about a better distribution of property, and we must adopt an open minded attitude to social justice and eliminate unfair or artificial differences which have been created to divide and subjugate men and communities who suffer from hunger and poverty. If this is not done, if we do not resolve this terrible problem, we shall continue to live in a false peace and also with a false justice.
97.	We are concerned about the difficulties being encountered by the Security Council as it endeavors to discharge its responsibilities. The report of the SecretaryGeneral states that, as we endeavor to establish a system of collective security, we find instead collective impotence.
98.	In the efforts to strengthen the action of the Security Council, a few initiatives meet with our complete approval and could be considered. In order to eliminate the inertia of the Council, changes in its procedures have been proposed which would strengthen the capacity of the United Nations in the area of international peace and security. On 3 April 1970 the Government of Brazil submitted a proposal for the creation of ad hoc committees dependent on the Security Council, for the peaceful settlement of the disputes brought before that body [see A/7922], Although the proposal of Brazil was coolly received by some Powers, nevertheless it did receive the support of others which are in favor of the Security Council's appointing fact-finding groups or groups of inquiry with regard to disputes submitted to the Security Council.
99.	The conflicts which continue in the Middle East and in the Far East, the problems which beset millions of displaced persons in the eastern area of Pakistan and also the distressing events which have occurred in certain parts of the African continent cannot fail to be a source of concern to us, and we would appeal for a solution to these problems within the only propitious framework that exists the United Nations.
100.	Our land has been in the past and continues to be a refuge for millions of emigrants who now form a vital part of our society. Together in our country, men from various races have managed to reconcile their differences and overcome them and have been able to bring about a nation with ideological and spiritual unity.
101.	Arab, Jewish, Armenian and other racial communities have all come together to raise their collective voice in this international body. We have repeatedly reflected their concern in the abiding conviction that we are discharging a moral responsibility which cannot be overlooked, in the confidence that we shall receive a calm and balanced response from the Members of this Organization.
102.	The most important item before the present session of the Assembly in our efforts to achieve universality is unquestionably that concerning the plans to facilitate the admission of the People's Republic of China. Due consideration would thereby be given to a large sector of the population of the world. We trust that political and juridical interests will be reconciled and that there will then be a realistic consideration of the situation, for a concerted solution is required which will bring about the coexistence which only very recently seemed impossible.
103.	As regards the various proposals which have arisen, we would add that we are opposed to the exclusion of the Republic of China, for it is a country which has not violated any of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations requirement of Article 6 of the Charter for justifying expulsion.
104.	We should like to make special reference to the question of human rights, the affirmation of which remains incomplete. Our world is a sorry spectacle of millions of human beings deprived of the most fundamental economic, social and political rights. Just as every nation has the inalienable right to independence and to the choice of its own destiny without any foreign interference, so every individual has the right to dignity and to the fruits of his own labor. In this Organization there has emerged the idea of international protection of human rights. We have created a whole range of instruments of lofty inspiration based on the principles of our Charter and in particular on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These principles have been reaffirmed in various international conventions for the protection of these rights.
105.	Mere formulation of these principles is not enough to ensure their proper implementation. It is not enough only to have a Declaration and a few conventions establishing norms. It would be preferable to have fewer norms but greater respect for the principles.
106.	We have tried to identify the causes of this crisis. We should like to suggest some remedy. We continue to defend the idea of establishing the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, who would be able to work actively with Governments for the implementation of commitments. The High Commissioner would be able to give swift attention to the needs of our time whenever human rights are violated without undue interference,, or hesitation. If we have problems in respect of refugees in Pakistan, perhaps we should have a High Commissioner for Human Rights who could consider the matter and report to the United Nations.
107.	We should also help young people to participate in social and economic development, in the promotion of peace and international cooperation and in the protection of human rights. They must be given the proper ways and means to carry out their obligations in the national and international arenas. These are rights they have demanded. I think we should promote active participation on the part of young people in ail matters and in all bodies where the United Nations lays down development plans. They should be assigned a role in the execution of those plans, especially those which have implications for the social, economic,
scientific and technological future of our world. *
108.	I should like, briefly, to acquaint this Assembly with the great interest that my country has long had in the efforts of the United Nations and its competent bodies to bring about solutions with regard to environmental factors which sustain life, in view of the deterioration that has been brought about in the environment by scientific and technological progress which poses a threat to the future of mankind.
109.	It is my firm conviction that our civilization will successfully pass this crossroad. Hie distressing picture which is before us is the product of development . It is very possible, in accordance with recent scientific findings, that development itself is, through its unforeseeable advances, quite capable of correcting its effects which are adverse to the welfare of mankind.
110.	The subject of the international regime for the exploration and exploitation of the seabed and ocean floor
' certainly, among the various items before this General Assembly, deserves special consideration. On a number of occasions there have been appeals that our work in this area be expedited in view of the scientific and technological progress which has been made in the exploration and exploitation of the seabed and ocean floor, and in view of the fact that it is quite definite that even greater progress will be made in the future. It is therefore especially urgent that the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the SeaBed and the Ocean Floor beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction discharge its mission and prepare for the creation of institutions and legal norms to govern the new realities which have arisen from such progress, and that it regulate international relations in keeping with these realities and in accordance with the principles of reason and justice.
111.	The world production of underwater minerals in particular petroleum, gas, coal, sulfur, iron ore and manganese nodules has already reached considerable proportions. Geological data prompt one to believe also that underwater petroleum resources will prove to exist in greater quantity than continental resources, and that the value of world production of petroleum from the seabed will exceed that from other resources of the sea.
112.	It should be encouraging and comforting, in looking after the interests of present and future generations, to know that underwater resources will be available in far greater quantity and that the groundwork has already been laid for a regime to govern and control them in keeping with a new revolutionary spirit in international relations.
113.	The new law which has come into being from these realities and the economic importance for our people of the exploration and exploitation of the seabed has also led certain Latin American States, like Uruguay, to take a very firm position in favor of the authority of the coastal States to establish the extension of their junMction, although it
should be limited to a reasonable distance, taking geographical and biological factors into account.
114.	The principles underlying this doctrine and its progressive development are quite in accordance with the principles of modern international law. The objectives are economic and social, for the peoples of these countries would stand to benefit from preserving and developing the resources of the sea. The so-called 200 mile doctrine is already finding universal expression and it may well be recognized in the work of the seabed Committee of this Assembly, which is preparing for the forthcoming conference on the law of the sea. We are confident that the restrained attitude of our countries, which wish to demonstrate their interest harmonizing the legitimate defense of significant factors which seriously affect their economies with the traditional freedoms of the seas, will be appreciated by the countries which still at times hold to rigid positions which are not in keeping with the dynamic spirit of our times.
115.	In the area of economic relations, once again we have seen profound changes in world politics. With some delay, unfortunately, we have for the first time seen recognition being given to the fact that the principle of the most favored-nation clause, applied unequally, leads only to a consolidation of the international status quo, where the less developed countries are dependent on those who have achieved a higher degree of economic, scientific and technological development.
116.	The international community, aware of the new realities in this area, began in 1964, at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, to study formulas designed to bring about a fairer international distribution of labor. Finally, last year, after long years of negotiation, approval was given to a generalized scheme of nonreciprocal preferences for the developing countries  and this constituted the first positive step taken by the international community towards the objectives laid down for the Second United Nations Development Decade. Let us not forget that the overwhelming majority of the world lives in the developing countries. We must not take any backward steps now if we wish to act in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations.
117.	The international economic situation has been affected by policies which seriously jeopardize commitments recently entered into. The action taken by the Government of the United States to bring about some balance in its economic position with other industrialized countries is only another application of the principle of nondiscrimination among unequals, and we have found that this is an improper means of regulating economic relations among countries of different degrees of development.
118.	The countries of Latin America at Panama recently declared that it is unfair to have to bear the consequences of action to correct the deficit in the balance of payments of the United States, in view of the fact that the developing countries are not responsible for this deficit.
119.	We do not wish to level any criticism or recriminations against sister nations whose undisputed international role we recognize and very much admire. They have made an immense effort to help the world develop, as we have recently seen. But we do wish to say that the logical arguments, accepted by the international community, in favor of putting into effect the generalized scheme of preferences in favor of the developing countries, clearly a departure from the most favored-nation principle, are equally valid when restrictive measures are being applied to their possibilities of economic development.
120.	Although we understand the difficulties encountered by the Government of the United States at this crucial moment, we are confident that systematic and constant dialog and consultations through multilateral negotiation machinery will make it possible for us to achieve a satisfactory settlement in this situation which, in the present circumstances, so seriously affects the developing countries.
121.	We place our trust in these consultations; we place our trust in this dialog, in consultations and in understanding among men.
122.	The 10 per cent surcharge by the United States on exports from developing countries affects these countries much more than it does the highly-developed industrialized countries and it is, indeed, a real blow to them and has obstructed their economic development and the economic development of certain regions of the world, such as Latin America,
123.	In the monetary area, we are also going through a period of acute crisis. We have noted the upsets and friction produced by a monetary system which is out of step with present-day realities. We can affirm that the decade of the 60s was characterized by a constant search for temporary solutions to problems and shortcomings in an international monetary system which was laid down in Bretton Woods to meet the needs of the postwar period. But this system has for some time sot. been fully relevant.
124.	At the present time we do not wish to delve into th<* technical aspects of a possible solution to the problem; but we would like to stress the fact that any measure for meeting the present inadequacies of the system should be adopted after consultations and the approval of all the members of the International Monetary Fund. In view of the present weaknesses of the developing countries, they should unite their efforts at the regional level and so attempt to strengthen their negotiating power and to have a positive effect on the decision which will eventually be adopted.
125.	Another matter about which something must be done at this time of distressing social problems is the prevention and repression of certain forms of international crime. In a note presented to the Commission for Social Development at its twenty-second session in March 1971, the SecretaryGeneral stated:
"Crime problems facing the world today indicate clearly the need to intensify national and international action to obtain a more adequate understanding of the forces involved and a more effective set of solutions than are now at hand. In this endeavor, the leadership role of the United Nations is well established and extends back to the earliest days of the Organization.
"It is quite apparent that, internationally, too little energy and too few resources are as yet being devoted to the elucidation of a problem which is now recognized.as being of major importance to the future of society and to the humanitarian ideals which inspire the United Nations." 
126.	The Fourth United Nations Conference on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, which was held in Japan in August 1970, adopted a declaration calling on all Governments to adopt effective action for the coordination and intensification of their efforts to prevent crime and urged the United Nations and other international organizations to give priority to the strengthening of international cooperation ii> the prevention of crime.
127.	Within these guidelines, the General Assembly, in resolution 2645 (XXV) considered that the hijacking of planes and civil aircraft was a form of international crime. In accordance with this resolution, a conference was held at The Hague in December of last year and adopted a Convention on the subject,  which may constitute an effective instrument for international cooperation in the prevention and repression of this form of crime.
128.	In respect of other forms of crime, action has not been as effective. I am referring to acts of terrorism and crimes committed against diplomatic and consular agents and other international civil servants; there has been a certain reluctance to give Mi recognition to this problem and to take the necessary action at the international level. The Organization of American States, at the third special session of its General Assembly, adopted, on 2 February of this year, a convention calling for international cooperation to prevent and punish acts of terrorism, but unfortunately, we have not detected the same interest or concern in the United Nations. For these reasons, and in view of the particularly reprehensible nature of these forms of international crime, which have in fact occurred with increasing frequency in recent times, our delegation will, later on in this session, submit a report and a draft convention on the subject.
129.		In addition to the many different forms of social disturbance which have occurred in various countries and have affected a large number of members of the international community, there has been a widespread increase, in violence, crime, thefts and hijackings. My country is now experiencing a unique period in its history in this respect.
130.	Uruguay has responded to this challenge by using its free democratic institutions, complying with its constitutional norms, electing its leaders at regular intervals
established by the Constitution itself in accordance with free electoral principles, exercising its parliamentary procedures and by giving absolute authority to its high tribunals of justice, which are ready to hear any case regarding violation of the law. The principles we apply are deeply entrenched in our people and we strive to defend and protect the rights of all human beings whom we wish to see free from pain or suffering.
.131. We do not accept the idea of a revolution against democracy. The present world revolution must be, as the United Nations would have it be, a scientific revolution leading to greater moral and material conquests in the service cf mankind against violence.
132.	As Pacheco Areco, the President of our country, recently stated, there are men who destroy and men who build. There are revolutions leading to death and revolutions which give life.
133.	In combating crime and terrorism, my country has defended life and has fought to improve its standards of living.
134.	This is the tradition of Uruguay, which is sustained by the life force of its sons .






===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
My country is once again attending the General Assembly in the same spirit of co-operation and hope as has always prompted us in regard to the vast objectives the world Organization is called upon to fulfill. I should like to express first of all my congratulations on the wise election to the presidency of the Assembly of the representative of Poland, whose eminent qualifications and dedication to the cause of the international Organization give us a complete guarantee of his conduct in such a prominent post.
97.	The present session enables us to renew the periodic analysis of the status of the compliance or response of the United Nations in regard to the complex problems which have arisen in our community.
98.	In my opinion, important progress has been achieved despite the recognized shortcomings of a system which has not yet reached the desired affirmation of a new international order. Nevertheless, none can fail to recognize that in the 27 years of the existence of the Organization we have witnessed a forward movement of a universal concert of the most varied tendencies, marching towards the erection of a global structure of mankind, bringing closer communications and closer political and social interactions among peoples, without the abandonment by those peoples of their special characteristics, whether of culture, religion, race or otherwise. This enables us to understand the difficulties for an Organization which has not yet achieved its full development in fulfilling the main purposes which led to its establishment.
99.	Uruguay had the privilege of being part of the original group of the United Nations and at San Francisco we accepted the reality of the great Powers, which were largely entrusted with the maintenance of peace, so that by this means they could facilitate social progress and the raising of the standard of living of all peoples and respect for the obligations flowing from treaties and other sources of international law.
100.	Confronted with the picture now before us in 1972, we find a fact which is up to a point encouraging in ensuring that responsibility of the great Powers for peace. Obviously there has been progress, since there has been a lessening of tension between the great Powers. Together with the universality we have approached with the entry of the People's Republic of China into the United Nations, we also have observed better prospects in the relations between the permanent members of the Security Council, in such a way that we can think that increasingly any idea of a third world war or of a conflict which would threaten the existence of our planet is being further removed.
101.	The Secretary-General of the United Nations has just affirmed that "the process of detente among the great Powers is certainly a historic event of the highest importance" [A/8701fAdd.1, p. 1]. This fact has led to what has been called a "balance of prudence" and permits us to hope for better results in the not-too-distant future. Despite these encouraging circumstances in which understanding and negotiations have begun in areas in which before they only moved within an atmosphere of confrontation, it has not yet been possible to eliminate conflicts which entail military hostilities, with great human losses, serious destruction and innocent victims, because of acts of violence and uncontrolled aggression. It has become obvious that the United Nations has not been able to put an end to or resolve these situations which have so gravely threatened peace and which in some cases have unleashed actual armed conflicts, which we still witness with grief, because of the powerlessness of the means called upon to maintain peace and security, indeed the principal objective of our Organization.
102.	It would be unfair not to recognize the position in the world with regard to colonial liberation, which is a primary task of the United Nations. The history of mankind has accelerated dramatically in recent years in a direction favorable to mankind. The liberation which has been achieved is an admirable success of this Organization, which has been able to overcome the barriers of despotism and the scourge of colonial exploitation as part of an effort of immense courage and social redemption, which makes it possible to see many peoples now among the free nations after a lengthy period of decolonization. As a citizen of Uruguay I observe the often tragic history of the independence of our countries of Latin America, with constellations of glorious deeds and warlike struggles, and I think that we did not have this tremendous accelerating drive which in recent times has been the decisive work of our community in action. This has created an international conscience which fights more effectively than armies themselves in those areas where complete liberation has not been attained and where barbarism and oppression still reign. We have worked out new formulas to resolve injustice and imbalance among the nations, applying to international life the inspired concept of complete equality of rights for all human beings. That is the task which our Organization has started in order to bring closer together nations which at times remained apart because of external influences or hegemonies, or for other sterile motives, nations which we now see coming together under the imperative course of history, compelling us to bring justice and well-being to all the areas of the world, which today we see united into a single territory destined for development and universal progress. The rate of these conquests is still slow, but they proceed inexorably.
103.	We consider the initiation of contacts between governments such as those of South and North Korea to be auspicious and we predict fruitful results from these initial understandings, as well as from those between the two German States, which have been able to find a more favorable path towards a rapprochement. The Simla Agreement of 3 July 1972 between India and Pakistan can also be mentioned as an event full of good prospects capable of permitting a permanent peace between those great nations of Asia. With regard to the Middle East, we are saddened by the repetition of events which prevent the consolidation of a state of peace for the region, which in our opinion could only be achieved by the complete application of all the provisions of Security Council resolution 242 (1967).
104.	Our country maintains excellent relations with the Arab States and with the State of Israel and tries to maintain an impartial position which will permit it, as a Member of the United Nations, to do its utmost to co-operate towards a conciliation which is becoming increasingly urgent and necessary. Uruguay has distinguished groups and contingents of Arabs and Jews in its territory and has also received members of other communities, such as the Armenians, who have found protection and shelter with us as host country and as a free refuge for immigrants, the • dispossessed and the exiles of the world. These communities have become bulwarks of civilization and progress in our midst and live together peacefully. Today they enjoy full citizenship, and we want justice and well-being for all, while respecting the traditions of their countries of origin. It is to be hoped that as negotiations and dialogs go on in other areas of the world it will also be possible to open up similar prospects in the Middle East between States and peoples which are today separated and which history has called upon to live together as good neighbors and to co-operate in progress not only in that area but in the world as a whole.
105.	We cannot fail to mention the burning issues related to the still existing colonialism and the conditions which the African nations consider to be essential to complete the total liberation of their continent.
106.	Our country has played an important role in the process of decolonization. We were members of, and presided over, the former Committee on South West Africa and we were members of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples from its establishment and for seven years. In all forums Uruguay has advocated greater speed in meeting the task of contributing to the achievement of independence by all those territories.
107.	We do not abdicate today our position of yesterday when we point out that the work which remains can only be carried out with respect for the principles of our Charter and its standards, since these achievements will be final only when they bear the imprint of international law. The path of international law and justice is at times a painful one, but it is increasingly less slow, as is proved by the presence here of so many sovereign nations; but it is the only course we can follow to put an end to colonial domination and discrimination of any kind whatsoever.
108.	As regards natural resources and the law of the sea, we have reached a point at which the imperatives of technology, science and conservation itself may come into conflict with archaic concepts and the most deep-rooted nationalism. We must find a way to build a world in harmony with these new realities. The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, held at Stockholm in June 1972, proved to us the urgency with which we must set out to resolve these pressing problems.
109.	A new law of the sea is the most important event in this field and a growing number of States have extended their maritime jurisdiction with the object of preserving and making better use of those vast areas for the benefit of their peoples, for whom they are often the primary source of survival. A large number of countries of Latin America favor an extension of their territorial waters to 200 miles. In this field significant progress is being made in finding criteria which will make it possible to present a common front, whatever the name given to the territorial sea: economic sea, or patrimonial sea, or zone of conservation of the species or of the right to fisheries.
110.	At the. same time that we hope to arrive at satisfactory solutions in this field we recognize also the importance of establishing a regime for the sea-bed and the breadth of the territorial sea* The Declaration of Principles adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-fifth session [resolution 2749 (XXV)] is of outstanding importance in that it establishes the principles that are to govern the sea-bed and ocean floor and the subsoil thereof. In that resolution the United Nations has declared that the sea-bed and ocean floor and the subsoil thereof beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, together with the resources of the sea-bed and ocean floor, are the common heritage of mankind. In this sense, no State may claim or exercise sovereignty or sovereign rights over any part whatsoever of the oceanic area. We hope that the conference on the law of the sea that is to be convened next year will be able to consider these specific points and that it will succeed in offering solutions that will take into account the fundamental interests of all countries not only the coastal countries that are to benefit by the international regime that is to be established.
111.	The problems of the human environment and the results of the Stockholm Conference will undoubtedly call for special attention from the present session of the General Assembly.
112.	It cannot be denied that modern civilization has had as its consequence, in addition to inestimable progress, serious shifts in natural ecology, alterations in the environment and the indiscriminate exploitation of the flora and fauna of the earth, as well as the grave harm done through air pollution.
113.	The Latin American Regional Seminar on problems of the Human Environment and Development, held in Mexico City in September of last year, established that the principal source of environmental' pollution and the pollution of water, land and sea on the international level must be attributed principally to the activities and policies of the developed countries.
114.	The problems of human environment and development undoubtedly reveal differences among the industrialized States and those in the process of development. Therefore, action intended to preserve a sound ecological balance will require international co-operation in the sense of a general mobilization involving specific solutions for each region, so as to promote material development and the greatest possible prosperity for humanity in all parts of the earth.
115.	Turning to the matter of international economy and trade, the Second United Nations Development Decade has not shown any success in the effective fulfillment of its programs, but there do exist encouraging signs in the co-operation between prosperous nations and those in the process of development.
116.	The third session of UNCTAD, held in Santiago, Chile, last April and May, produced no concrete results in some very sensitive areas, but it did nevertheless represent a step forward and it emphasized the need for rapidly finding suitable functional means for reducing the existing imbalance. In the field of international trade, some results have been achieved that must be supplemented by increasing assistance from the world institutions of credit and financing. Only through the effective utilization of the resources of the developing countries and the transformation and expansion of units of production, together with the required transfer of technology, can an acceptable economic balance be achieved.
117.	We wish, further, to repeat our most resolute support for special consideration of the international monetary situation. In particular, and in connexion with the Inter-national Monetary Fund, it seems to us that the time has come to make its procedures more flexible, adjusting them in clearer fashion to the specific conditions of the member countries.
118.	We agree with the position maintained by the developing countries, which have affirmed their vital interests and their full right to participate in most active fashion in all aspects connected with reform of the international monetary system. Likewise, we believe that, when the reform is carried out, special consideration must be given to the fact that it should facilitate additional aid for development and should not represent simply an instrument for consolidating the situation at present prevailing.
119.	The Government of Uruguay firmly supports the initiative of the Secretary-General in submitting to this General Assembly a request for the consideration of the problem of terrorism [A/8791 and Add.l] with a view to having it adopt effective measures for the prevention and repression of terrorist acts. I should like to recall that, at the last session of the General Assembly, on behalf of my country I submitted a working paper concerning the question  which contained a draft convention for consideration by the International Law Commission to ensure that the problem would be considered at this session of the Assembly. On that occasion I stated to the Assembly the following:
"In addition to the many different forms of social disturbance which have occurred in various countries and have affected a large number of members of the inter-national community, there has been a widespread increase in violence, crime, thefts and hijackings." [1941st meeting, para. 129.]
Recently occurring events in various parts of the world demonstrate how urgent it is that this matter be dealt with so that international action may be taken to defend the community from the continually occurring crimes afflicting it.
120.	International terrorism has taken on an extraordinary virulence in recent days, and this crime, in all its varied forms, assailing as it does the values consecrated by the civilized conscience and attacking innocent victims in absolutely cold blood, constitutes a constant terror which the international community cannot disregard, and the latter must therefore react in defense of the peace and tranquility of all peoples.
121.	When I raised this item last year, I stated that Uruguay had, in this regard, lived through an experience unique in its history [ibid.]. I added that, to the challenge thrown in its face, our country responded with all the vigor of its free institutions, with full adherence to its constitutional standards and with the election of its leaders, held at the regular times specified by its constitution, and accompanied by broad and free election campaigning amid the full exercise of its parliamentary procedures and the absolute authority of its institutions of justice [ibid., para. 130]. The doctrine governing Uruguay in the face of violence was that of strengthening law and the rule of law.
122.	To us, the answer to violence must be the firm application of the law. In that connexion, we approve the idea of agreeing on an international convention to establish positive applicable provisions for preventing, or applying
. sanctions to, crimes of terrorism in their various manifestations.
123.	We cannot accept terrorist methods as a legitimate weapon of political action. In this connexion the people of my country, in the last elections which were held at the end of last year, showed its total repudiation of such methods and firmly supported democratic institutions and the consolidation of its institutional life, which had been gravely threatened. Those circumstances enabled President Bordaberry, shortly after taking power, to arrive at a national agreement between the traditional political parties and immediately and emphatically to start the struggle against violence. President Bordaberry said that the confrontation with that state of subversion was difficult because of the absence of legal texts which would have authorized the Government to undertake really effective action. He added that in our opinion, it is essential that the political parties should reach agreement to alter the existing legal texts in such a way that, while respecting individual rights-and it could not be otherwise-the public power would be enabled effectively to deal with the situations which it was facing.
124.	That is the contribution which Uruguay, within its limited resources, has been able to make in the defense of human values and the legal and social order, when it is confronted with crimes of violence.
125.	We hope that the results of the studies and the resolutions which will be adopted on the basis of the drafts submitted will make it possible to take positive steps in the defense of man and his fundamental rights, which constitute the high goals my country has fought for throughout its history. Those are the same purposes and principles established by the Charter of the United Nations to ensure peace throughout the world, and we are at the service of these purposes and principles of our world Organization.


===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿ Mr. President, may the first words spoken by the delegation of the Republic of Uruguay be words of congratulations and greetings to Mr. Leopoldo Benites, a distinguished Ecuadorian and, as such, a member of our Latin American family.
2.	I am happy to emphasize Mr. Benites' outstanding personal and intellectual qualities, a certain guarantee that he will conduct our deliberations with wisdom. May I also be permitted, as a Uruguayan, to recall with sincere friendship for him and for his country, our sister nation, the valuable mission he discharged in my country as Ambassador of Ecuador, and also to recall the permanent ties that link him to Uruguay, which is a symbol of the relations between our two countries.
3.	May I also extend a greeting to the representative of Poland, Mr. Stanislaw Trepczynski, who guided the work of the twenty-seventh session of the General Assembly with dignity and great skill.
4.	My country warmly welcomes the entry into the United Nations of the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic. This event constitutes a historic step along the road to peace and understanding. The Commonwealth of the Bahamas has now joined our Organization. We extend to it a cordial welcome to this forum and to the work of our Latin American regional group. Thus does the process towards full universality in the United Nations continue.
5.	Each session of the General Assembly is an inevitable confrontation between the magnitude of our ideals and reality, which at times is difficult to mould to our hopes. This repeated and dramatic experience, however, is not interpreted by Uruguay as a sign of ultimate failure but rather as proof of the very nature of this complex task to which the answer is clear: we must multiply our efforts, confirm our commitment to the purposes of the Charter and work untiringly to achieve them.
6.	Consistent with this view I wish, on behalf of my Government, to express our faith in the principles that gave life to our Organization and our permanent devotion to their promotion.
7.	My country, to the extent of its possibilities, has contributed with perseverance and good faith to the building of a world governed by law. The observations we all make about the flaws and shortcomings of the system do not discourage us. Rather, such failings show, by their imperfections and through their consequences, the need for a legal order in force for all, a legal order that will link the community of nations, that will offer the climate of security necessary for effective political independence and economic and social development, that will offer essential guarantees to small nations and will remove the shadows of arbitrariness.
8.	Very often the flaws in the law have been covered by the makeshift device of an ad hoc political arrangement applied to specific situations: barely to close the deepest gap and to staunch the most serious wounds resulting from that disruption. Although that is valuable, we must study the matter further and not only cure the disease but try to prevent it, not only treat those who are ill but try to improve their health and make them well. That is why I venture to suggest that this sporadic political arrangement be applied now in a permanent manner and on a priority basis to arrive at the true enforcement of international law. The more Utopian it appears, the more necessary it is to achieve it in order to discipline the chaotic reality, which is sometimes unjust and violent, and bring it into line with the law.
9.	This effort, so vital for our Organization and, even, I would say, the very raison d'etre of our Organization, must be included in the contemporary context which over the past 28 years has displayed certain definite characteristics. The birth of a number of new independent States throughout the world, the complex structure of relations between the great Powers, the multiplication of plans for political, economic and social organization in the different countries, the opening of prospects for a single mankind, however diverse it may be in its manifestations. At the same time, research and scientific reflection, the requirements of the 

economy, and the progress of technology lead irrevocably to an interdependent world and, whether we like it or not, to a united world through an indestructible network of links and relations. It is in this perspective that our action takes place.
10.	Many steps have been taken in our search for roads towards an integrating synthesis of this diversity without harming it. That must continue on the strength of the principle that we shall not dissolve what is different, but shall rather seek out the common points. In a word, this is the need to develop solidarity among peoples and to organize it, identifying and recognizing common interests in relation to universal questions.
11.	Efforts along these lines are to be found in fields such as peace and security, natural resources, the human environment, health, communications, trade, finance, the strategy for development, and so many others. Here, despite natural discrepancies, little by little we see a progressive acceptance of principles and behaviour reflecting the consensus of the international community and representing, as it were, the common denominator of common interests. To apply development along these lines is to work for peace and solidarity.
12.	The existence of this process of convergence, impelled by both ethical and philosophical needs, as also by material demands derived from the nature of things, does not, however, preclude the survival of anachronistic trends inserted in the process itself, which sometimes make use of it but which, more often, seek to impose some form of political domination or covert machinations designed to impose an ideology. In these trends and forms of conduct, the violence of the struggle for power suffered so long by mankind persists and overwhelms the small nations, through insidious infiltration of their institutions or the outbreak of terrorist cruelty or open aggression.
13.	In the face of this, Uruguay reaffirms once again its respect for the various paths chosen by each of the
-members of this community to organize its political, economic and social life and structures. We recognize the important contribution made by different cultures to the common patrimony, enriching it through new perspectives in what has been called the "dialogue of civilizations".
14.	For our part we are faithful to the pattern we have chosen and will continue to be so. Within the simplicity and . modesty of our own customs, we proclaim with pride our fidelity to our own way of being, our national traditions, and the political, economic and social forms that we have freely established for ourselves. That is why, while we confirm our absolute respect for the choice of other nations, we demand equal respect for ourselves, not only in the shape of outer forms, but also in the very, substance of international conduct.
15.	Resolution 2625 (XXV) takes up these principles. I believe that its permanent and scrupulous observance is indispensable if we are to make possible international co-operation and even coexistence itself under international law. Only thus can the plurality of patterns that are merged in the different political societies cease to be a factor of divergence and tensions and become an enriching element for constructive world co-operation.
16.	My country will give of its best in this undertaking to build up co-operation among nations, but at the same time will be watchful of its national individuality in the face of any possible intention, whether overt or covert, to subvert its character.
17.	At the same time, together with observing these political rules, we must go deeply into world processes in many areas to prevent the very dynamics of such processes extended throughout the world from changing the characteristics of the small nations.
18.	We maintain as a principle that the construction of world co-operation and technology shall not be based even involuntarily on the elimination of national idiosyncrasies. The challenge we confront, therefore, is twofold: to organize constructive co-operation in a multiple world, and to eliminate from that process any aspect of a policy of power, of influences, interventions, and diktats, in order that each country may be authentically free in an interdependent and united world.
19.	In the light of these perspectives, Uruguay will advocate and live a united nationalism in keeping with its history and integrated with the present reality of the world, while being ready to participate in the building up of an international community marked by peace, justice and co-operation. When I say "united nationalism" I want strongly to affirm the values of the nationalism of my country, of its own peculiar forms and characteristics and to make a strong affirmation of the values that are our own, of our sovereign right to govern ourselves freely and to choose our own patterns of development and national solutions.
20.	But, at the same time, when I speak of "united nationalism" I wish to express our indeclinable universal vocation and the feeling that we belong to a single mankind, to which we are integrated in spirit, within which we enjoy the same rights and obligations and to which we are united by our natural patterns, and associated by the interdependence of economies and technology.
21.	Thus we wish to participate in the universal task and contribute to the effective establishment of solidarity. That is why we share and shall continue to share in a brotherly manner the common endeavours of the human species and will participate in the task of building a united and more co-operative world. We shall do so, however, with our own and unchangeable national personality.
22.	I have drawn on these reflections concerning the philosophy behind the participation of Uruguay in the Organization in order to explain from this high rostrum the spirit that guides us in this solemn moment in history in which we open a new era of authentic national and popular development. These principles which we have chosen freely to guide our destiny are combined with those of the Charter; they are the manifestation of the creative will of our people; they represent the practical expression of a multiple world, and guarantee from the point of view of the international community our constructive desire to participate in the task of co-operation.
23.	That is why, in renewing our expressions of adherence to the universal objectives of the Charter, we do so today with the new vitality derived from a process of profound national affirmation and with an international vocation which is in keeping with our history.
24.	We trust that militancy in solidarity represents the path to a better international community. But there is no doubt that this positive road cannot be followed to the end if when we begin it we do not simultaneously open up actions designed to face the main negative questions affecting world peace and security.
25.	It will be difficult to build a renewed world in solidarity unless we are able to apply a similar spirit to our daily and immediate endeavours-if we cannot duly harmonize our short-term interests with the demands of those same interests considered from the long-term view.
26.	With this criterion we shall approach consideration of the main items on the agenda.
27.	One of the main questions before us is that of disarmament. In our condition as a peaceful country we have worked towards that goal, advocating that the conference on disarmament be open to all States. We regret the meagre results achieved. It is necessary for States to strengthen their will to make progress in this area. Undoubtedly, the permanent members of the Security Council have in their hands the possibility of creating appropriate conditions so that the international community may benefit in a climate of security from a policy of disarmament.
28.	We also wish, with pleasure, to point to the opening in Helsinki of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe as a valuable effort at relaxing tension. Similarly, we are happy to point to the progress towards peace made by the United States and the Soviet Union in their talks on the limitation of strategic armaments. Although we recognize the practical difficulties of the process, we insist on the need for it. The construction of new plans for co-operation throughout the world and prospects of a more just organization of the economy are delayed by the pressure of existing armaments.
29.	Uruguay have mentioned its permanent desire for nuclear energy to become an instrument for a task of civilization. Hence, we have subscribed to the Treaty on the N™-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons /see resolution 2373 (XXII)j, and in this spirit we have given life to the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco), which, for the first time in history, establishes a denuclearized zone covering a surface of 8 million square kilometres with a population of about 200 million inhabitants. With this contribution by Latin America, one of its greatest contributions to peace, we claim today the support of all States which may become parties to that Treaty, and specially to its two additional protocols.
30.	Moreover, I feel it opportune to recall her? General Assembly resolution 2934 (XXVII), proposed last year by 14 Latin American countries and approved by a large majority, in which we reiterated, once again, the condemnation of all nuclear weapons tests. We believe that there is already a universal awareness of the need for absolute prohibition, and we deplore the fact that the appeals made so far have not yet been heeded.
31.	With regard to the painful question of the Middle East, Uruguay, which has no material or political interest except that of co-operating with the nations involved, hopes that steps will be taken soon and in an effective manner to alleviate tension first, and later to arrive at permanent formulas ensuring peace on the basis of law.
32.	With a conciliatory outlook towards opposing views and a realistic view of just and balanced solutions, we come again this year to the General Assembly.
33.	It is our desire-and we shall fight for this constantly-to support formulas that may bring us close to the objective. We hope that a more understanding climate will prevail. We hope that the effort of the international community will concentrate on the basic purpose of applying international law and that other aspects not directly connected with the question will be left out of the discussion.
34.	Uruguay is happy to see the efforts made by the United Nations, as well as bilateral efforts, in the hope that both may lead to a final settlement and complement each other. Our delegation is prepared to co-operate, within the context of the Charter, towards a negotiated solution allowing for the establishment of peace in the area, fully in keeping with international law and with all other aspects of the problem.
35.	As regards human rights our position is that we must accentuate the effective protection of these rights, whose recognition has been made general but whose application is still imperfect. For this reason we insist again on the creation of a United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, and we believe that this kind of mechanism can be instituted with the agreement of all our States, become a true promoter of peace and prepare the advent of a system based not only on a declaration of rights but on a legal statute governing, through the sentences of tribunals, the international protection organized by law.
36.	There is no doubt that, together with the instruments we have mentioned we must create an international climate that is in keeping with the peaceful coexistence of all States. In fact, it is well known that external factors which sometimes unlawfully affect internal affairs in many countries are hotbeds of imbalance and tension, change the structure of the coexistence within communities and thus create negative conditions for the preservation of human rights.
37.	We have arrived at similar conclusions as to the need to strengthen international security. Since the creation of the Permanent Court of International Justice over 50 years ago, Uruguay agreed unreservedly to take its problems to that high jurisdiction, and still maintains those principles today in the firm conviction that at this stage of the development of the international community perhaps the greatest shortcoming lies in our disregarding the essential past of any system of law, which is the judiciary.
38.	Our submission to such a norm is the best way of living up to the principle of the legal equality of States, and the day we see that jurisdiction consolidated and become an unconditional and automatic power we shall have finally created an authentic international order.
39.	Faithful to these convictions, my Government hopes to solve international disputes with a clear bent towards peaceful solutions and reaffirms its allegiance to the tribunals of international justice.
40.	My Government wishes to express, with regard to international terrorism, its decision to support, as it did in the Ad Hoc Committee on International Terrorism which finished its work a few weeks ago, the adoption of specific measure allowing for the prevention and condemnation of this growing mode of violence whose inhuman methods create a climate of insecurity and danger and provoke the loss of innocent lives.
41.	We believe that no pretext can be invoked to delay this absolute obligation, and although the study of the ultimate causes of terrorism deserves analysis and reflection, we must avoid a situation in which any delay in energetically condemning and repressing these acts would be interpreted as a demonstration of weakness or of dangerous tolerance. This would encourage the perpetrators of such acts to continue them.
42.	Ever since its inception, the United Nations has followed a clear policy designed to lead to decolonization and to combat the manifestations of racial segregation. Uruguay has lent, and will continue to lend, its militant support to this trend, which is why we must today deplore the persistence of such practices. We cannot say we have exhausted all peaceful means of solving these problems, and therefore we must multiply efforts to achieve constructive dialogue within the framework of the United Nations in order to speed up the process and avoid painful confrontations.
%
43.	The economic and social growth of nations has frequently been conceived and practised as competition, as a pitiless struggle for better possibilities, which has led to a lack of morality in certain economic and trade practices, at the expense of the weaker developing nations. This has taken place due to the lack of balanced rules of conduct that would temper the rigours of confrontations that only impair justice. This situation has encouraged the concept of class struggle on the international level, among categories of countries.
44.	My Government cannot go along with such a concept, nor can we accept the dialectics of hatred and opposition. We affirm, instead, the responsibility of all nations in the struggle for development and the establishment of more just-trade relations. It is a common, responsibility that flows from international solidarity and from the indivisible unity in present-day world economy. This is a responsibility that does not involve identical duties for each nation; rather, each must assume the contribution that each must give in order to ensure the public wealth. As Pope Paul VI declared in paragraph 86 (b) of Gaudium et Spes, "As for the advanced nations, they have a very heavy obligation to help the developing peoples. . .".
45.	The developing countries themselves, however, must take a hand in their own evolution, for nothing can be effective unless it is the product of one's own efforts. Thus my Government attaches special importance to the establishment of international machinery and norms which will allow the efforts of the developing nations to burgeon freely. Each one must determine its own course and its own procedures and machinery. The international community will merely have to make sure that the common undertaking is based on justice. Hence Uruguay supported, during the meetings of the third session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development [UNCTAD], the Mexican initiative for a charter of economic rights and duties of States.
46.	Today the atmosphere is conducive to an undertaking of the required profound changes in the international economy along those lines. But the monetary system has reached a critical moment where a revision is called for, and the needs and requirements of the developing nations must be heeded. In this respect, it is indispensable that the means of international payment should be such that development can be financed adequately, and that there be a monetary reordering that will take into account the interests of all nations, and not only one group of them. At the same time, in the financial field, the international community must recognize the very serious situation created by foreign debt on the less developed nations.
47.	International finance cannot be used as a means to strangle the progress of the more backward nations, nor can it give exaggerated remuneration to the advanced nations. A policy of balance must be created that will ensure economic dynamism all over the world, in keeping with the diversity of situations and the degree of progress of each nation. Only thus will the requirements of solidarity be met.
48.	The work of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) has formally begun in Tokyo, and the figures are extremely enlightening that have emerged: they show a loss being suffered by the developing countries, despite the fact that world trade as a whole has grown. This indicates that the greatest benefits flowing from that increase are concentrated in the most highly developed nations.. We must therefore deduce that general non-discriminatory preferences have not produced the hoped for effect, both because of the limitations those preferences imply as far as products, stability and quotas are concerned, and because of the failure on the part of some nations to put those policies into practice. By the same token, we must also point out the protectionist policies of certain developed countries towards their own agricultural production in sectors that arc usually the main source of income for many of the more backward nations.
49.	We would hope that this new series of GATT negotiations will produce operative results leading to a true opening up to our nations of a substantially increased participation in world trade. This requires a new ordering of trade patterns to include increased participation by the developing nations. We believe that GATT and UNCTAD must work together so that all nations may join in more dynamic international trade relations.
50.	As Uruguay has reiterated elsewhere:
"The defence of permanent sovereignty over the natural resources of each nation meets one of the most obvious requirements of international justice and- is in keeping with the efforts of the developing countries to shake off economic dependency and to raise the standards of living of their peoples."
51.	But together with trade and financial resources, fully exploited natural resources are just so many other fields where development can take place. The effective utilization of all these economic factors is the condition for progress. Therefore, the international community is in duty bound to regulate those processes with justice, and, considering the inequalities that exist among nations, to mobilize every possible effort to ensure that development is a true common undertaking.
52.	That is why my Government attaches enormous importance to the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade [resolution 2626 (XXV)]. I appreciate the value of all the efforts that have been made, but I must stress the need for obtaining more immediate practical results and a more prompt implementation of the principles that we recognize as underlying our own system. The peoples of the world are looking to our deliberations with the expectation of greater executive ability. Everywhere, we are confronted by a public opinion that is increasingly well-informed and, therefore, more critical, specific and demanding in its expectations. The challenge lies in activating the achieving capacity of our community and in thus turning into deeds our good intentions.
53.	We admire with amazement the prodigies of science and technology; we recognize in their accomplishments positive conquests for our peoples. But at the same time, we must warn against the risk that surrounds this progress, which, at its furious pace, threatens to reduce the individual to a mere component part in a process that 'is measured only by its efficiency and economic benefit. This does not mean, of course, that we think that we must abjure the marvels of applied science; but it does bespeak the international community's need to recognize fully the existence of this question and to live up to its responsibilities in order to create a civilization that will be in keeping with the material needs of human welfare.
54.	We are approaching the point, I believe, where we will have more firmly to direct our development strategy towards what must be the true destination of progress. This is the moment of truth, when we must inscribe in the very heart of the computer a single, supreme human objective and multiply it thus as the only purpose and target of our efforts.
55.	With that prospect in mind, mere economic indicators can de deceptive as far as the facts of development are concerned, to the extent that they set aside the higher values of the spirit and the very quality of life, the type or condition of existence, and welfare in its widest sense. We aspire to an international community that will re-embrace these concepts and, even at the risk of shattering the clear-cut starkness of statistical tables, introduce the notion of the quality of life, replacing growth and economic development with growth and human development - replacing it with net national welfare, as it has been called.
56.	The subject of the environment is a true challenge to all countries, requiring a new effort on their part to co-ordinate their energies; and therefore we must all take an attitude consistent with protection of the atmosphere. My country has made specific efforts in this respect, but it. is the industrial countries that have the greatest responsibility in this united effort. We can hardly consider that preservation of the environment can be at the expense of the development of the least developed countries, which are only now beginning, timidly, to take their first tottering steps on the industrial and technological scene.
57.	The institutions and machinery of the law of the sea must be restructured in order to ensure a dynamic and effective harmonization of the interests involved. We must appropriately order their legal protection and achieve a correlative distribution of responsibilities flowing therefrom, and do so on the basis of international justice, peace and security.
58.	The General Assembly responded to this need by creating the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the Sea-bed and the Ocean Floor beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction, entrusting it with the task of preparing for a conference on the law of the sea.
59.	But Uruguay is concerned over the fact that this work has not progressed as we had hoped or foreseen. Consequently, we deem it necessary that this General Assembly adopt the necessary decisions that will allow for a further preparatory stage to be undertaken so that we can be reasonably assured of positive results without necessarily postponing its convening unduly. Such a preparatory stage must, we believe, involve the widest participation of the States that will be attending the conference later.
60.	Once again, before this Assembly, Uruguay wishes to reaffirm its decision to preserve its sovereignty over the 200 miles of its territorial sea. This is based on elementary reasons of justice and is in accord with the geographical, geological and ecological characteristics of our adjacent sea, and with our inalienable rights to promote the development of our economy and to safeguard the health and well-being of our population, without prejudice to the guarantees provided by the exercise of the rights of international communication. Up to the present we have co-operated with the greatest willingness in the search for an international consensus to safeguard all those rights, and we shall continue to do so.
61.	In the introduction to his report on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-General raises the question of the very fate of the Organization and gives us observations and comments as a basis for a very constructive discussion on the matter.
62.	My Government wishes now only to refer to some aspects of that and to refer to the beginning of this statement, when I defined the nature of Uruguay's participation in the Organization.
63.	We are convinced that both political and philosophical beliefs with regard to the requirements of modern life strengthen the ties between nations. Those increased relations must obviously be administered in accordance with law. Certain basic principles must be safeguarded: independence, justice, solidarity and equality among States.
64.	At the same time, modern law must give up those rigid criteria of a formal nature and must enter more deeply into this reality of relations among countries and consider the specific idiosyncrasies of each. Thus the normative order will ensure the substantive validity of the principles as such and not merely their appearance. The organized international community will have to strengthen its capacity to achieve in order to transform declarations into deeds. But in the meantime we must link and tie our immediate and circumstantial interests to objective targets based on a true understanding of the community of interests.
65.	At the same time, we must be ready to correct any possible mistake that power politics and ideological penetration may introduce in the development of international solidarity. If I may, I shall put it another way: we must create and maintain an atmosphere of political security that will guarantee the free development of the community.
66.	These and other more concrete tasks, all equally urgent, are tasks that can be discussed in the United Nations as the most appropriate body. We believe that at the same time it may lead to the creation of the atmosphere we require for these transformations. They are linked in an extremely complex and complicated play of fields and planes, that calls for spiritual and material changes in order to create a new prospect for mankind: international solidarity without destroying national characteristics.
67.	That is why we agree with the Secretary-General that we should create for our Organization the target of making it "a more reliable instrument of world order and cooperation, accepted and respected by all Governments and capable of safeguarding the common interests of mankind in a crowded world of increasingly interdependent but sovereign States". Only thus will we be consistent with the responsibilities we have assumed.

===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
1.	Mr. President, first, it is my pleasure to welcome and to express my congratulations to Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Algeria, whose unanimous election enables us to count upon his abilities and long experience, which, though certainly not consonant with his youth, have been demonstrated in the exercise of high office since his noble country began its independent life.
2.	I should also like to welcome Mr. Leopoldo Benites, whose presidency has elicited widespread approval. During an especially difficult period he once again demonstrated his even-handedness and diplomacy in the effective guidance of our deliberations.
3.	Departing from my text, I should like to express, on behalf of the Government and people of Uruguay, our profound condolences concerning the tragedy which has afflicted our sister republic of Honduras, a tragedy and a distress which we feel as our own. The support and solidarity of the whole international community, not only of the States of Latin America but of the whole of the membership of this Organization and of all its organs, are necessary in order to alleviate the damage and the distress from which the people of that country are suffering and will continue to suffer in the future.
4.	Again departing from my text, I should also like to express the pleasure of my country at the admission to membership in this Organization of three new Member States: Guinea-Bissau, to which this membership represents the culmination of a long struggle for independence; Bangladesh, which
has also been the scene of so much suffering; and Grenada, which is also joining this Assembly and, in this way, the family of Latin American countries.
5.	At the beginning of this new session of the General Assembly as is usual we are offered a new opportunity for reflection. However, this time the required reflection is more urgent, more stern and at the same time more profound.
6.	To the matters normally occupying our attention are added others which were not previously unknown to us, to be sure, but which emerge today with particular force, revealing deep maladjustments in the very essence of coexistence. So above and beyond the peculiar features of each specific problem we discover a close and increasingly acute inter-connexion with other problems, a kind of common substance in the economic and political life of the world today. Hence, our efforts to solve specific problems frequently seem to be overwhelmed by the paucity of global solutions. There are no isolated questions, all questions are varying manifestations of the same problem, and we are compelled to seek the core of the problem underlying the different manifestations.
7.	Thus, while immediate and evident conflicts occur and more tangible needs and problems arise, the disruption of the international economic system is already making itself felt. Simultaneously, the contours of the great questions of the future emerge intertwined with day-to-day business.
8.	Uruguay therefore wishes to focus attention in this supreme world forum on this new perspective, so that the consideration of each specific item on our agenda will still be consistent with matters which are neither merely a backdrop nor an anticipation of the remote future, but are germane to the present problems of the international community.
9.	My country advocates, therefore, that integrated perspective in which States Members of the United Nations can jointly formulate rules and co-ordinate courses of action for a new system of coexistence among nations to meet the current needs of most of our peoples. Otherwise solutions will deviate from their essential human objectives and may become mere dialectic exercises veering farther and farther away and never penetrating the core of the truly crucial questions.
10.	It is with this idea of renewal that I mention the structure of the international economy. There is no doubt that the grave deficiencies and tensions of recent years, disguised at first, are now becoming manifest and turning into a vast crisis affecting currencies, trade, and production, and thereby the whole economy. The shock of the petroleum crisis now is spreading like an expanding shock wave within the general disruption of the established economic order.
11.	At the sixth special session of the General Assembly [2211th meeting] I had occasion to indicate, on behalf of my country, the need for far-reaching reform to get to the true root of the matter, taking it not simply as a technical problem to be solved by merely rearranging economic factors, but more importantly, as a political and social problem involving everyone. Hence, if this reform is not founded upon justice, only limited and unstable results will ensue and peace will be constantly endangered.
12.	This leads me to refer to what my Government considers to be the crux of the matter. Indisputably, the recognition of the political equality of nations is a fundamental achievement of international law. It is equally undeniable that the same concept of equality cannot be projected into the economic sphere, where the degree of potential or development differs, without any doubt, with regard to each nation.
13.	This reality must be contemplated in the building of new international economic structures and also in the simple readjustment of those that already exist. Any system that applies identical patterns to societies with differently developed economies will not be just, nor should the resources of the international community be channeled in disregard of existing differences.
14.	Even when to a certain extent some of these concepts underlie rules now governing international co-operation for development, they are only marginal within the total context. The substance of economic relations remains intact, not corresponding to these realities. They must be acknowledged as guiding principles of the international economy as a whole, of its monetary, trade, finance and investment systems and in the conduct of large multinational corporations. The IMF, for example, must achieve the effective transfer of real resources to the developing countries. Until the rules treat societies which have already reached the post-industrial area and those which are struggling timidly to venture into the world of modern technology as equals, the international economy will be a source neither of development, nor of justice, nor of peace.
15.	So true is this that today, although all countries are shaken by the same crisis, the strongest and most developed economies have within themselves the necessary reserves and resilience to respond to the threat, while the weaker nations suffer from the unabated onslaught of new events.
16.	Energetic protest is called for when within the dramatic context of small and medium-sized countries such as Uruguay, the situation worsens because the more developed countries, in an attempt to safeguard their own prosperity, are imposing protectionist measures which drastically cut the exports of raw materials from the developing world, or use "dumping" to depress prices of these exports to intolerable levels.
17.	It should be pointed out that such policies and practices, unjust and counter to recognized principles of international co-operation as they are, also run the risk of causing a dangerous trade confrontation which could bring the entire world economy to a state of collapse.
18.	Unfortunately, the solutions urgently demanded of the international community at the sixth special session last April have not been applied, as immediate, practical and workable machinery has not yet been put into operation. The entire effort of the General Assembly at that time and the acknowledged consensus that effective action should be taken have apparently become merely pious utterances on the part of our Organization and its agencies, without that obvious political decision having been translated into reality. I do understand the difficulties inherent in such broad action, but the magnitude and urgency of the task require an unprecedented effort. Similarly, my Government today reiterates its statement that the surplus resources generated by new prices must be channeled to the developing countries most deeply affected by the petroleum crisis, thus avoiding the paradoxical situation where these resources would primarily strengthen the more developed economies. I think that in keeping with the spirit demonstrated at that meeting, it will be possible to agree upon multilateral channels to guide this process without prejudice to direct support through trade and investment.
19.	But it is not only purely material factors that motivate Uruguay to postulate the reform of the international economy as a central topic. Recently, in Bucharest, the World Population Conference dealt with an essentially human question touching upon rights intrinsic to our nature and our life. My country cannot accept the restriction, not to say the mutilation, of these rights and the moral and spiritual values they enshrine through the application of economic rules ensuring the prosperity only of some. As the delegation of Uruguay stated in Bucharest: "It is inadmissible that the possibility of population growth should be the exclusive right of those nations possessing a high degree of development". Instead, we have held that the physical basis for cultural and spiritual development must be established so that the sacred mission of transmitting life may be responsively exercised everywhere.
20.	Without any doubt, this objective cannot be achieved as long as considerations such as those which doom large segments of mankind to hunger and a marginal existence persist, and while existing conditions denote the simultaneous presence of a crisis of excess and one of scarcity.
21.	There is one fact more than any other that constitutes a serious indictment of the existing international order and our lack of the will to reform it: in order to safeguard the well-being of the few, the prices of staples as well as of luxury items must be so high that they elude the grasp of the many, and, inversely, an over-supply of these goods can ruin those that produce them.
22.	All of that conspires to impede a rational and human organization of trade and production. Some years ago my country proposed in FAO the creation of a system with a real "food bank" in which the need for stable and remunerative prices as a fair return for productive effort would be reconciled with the needs of those who cannot buy such goods because they are so expensive but desperately require them in order to survive. I consider that it is an inescapable responsibility of the world economy to work in that direction, and my country now pledges its best efforts to that end.
23.	Since the historic United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, held at Stockholm in 1972, another topic has been attracting increasing attention: the environment and the fate of the biosphere, mankind's present and future home.
24.	Apart from the undoubted need to safeguard and restore our environment and to use it in a rational and far-sighted way, surely the economic and financial burden that this entails cannot be shared equally among all nations. Rather, it should weigh more heavily on the most developed nations, which unwittingly have done the most to cause the environment to deteriorate.
25.	Just as access to life cannot be limited in order to protect the status of some, so the use and enjoyment of nature cannot be regulated to the almost exclusive benefit of an already developed segment of mankind.
26.	In the same spirit, my country would like to refer to the new riches that are becoming increasingly available to the peoples.
27.	We are pleased to note that an initial success was achieved in the long struggle of the Latin American countries to assert their rights over the seas adjacent to their coasts when the universal recognition of the maximum limitation of 200 miles emerged from the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, recently held at Caracas.
28.	We also cherish the hope that soon the necessary agreements will be achieved in order to adapt the law of the sea to the realities of the contemporary world and to satisfy the requirements of the peoples, particularly in the developing countries.
29.	We also wish to express our firm conviction that effective formulas can be agreed upon to implement the historic resolution in which it was solemnly declared that the sea-bed and ocean floor, and the subsoil thereof, beyond the limits of national jurisdiction are the common heritage of mankind [resolution 2749 (XXV)].
30.	My Government is well aware of the myriad difficulties to be overcome if far-reaching changes within such diverse fields are to be achieved, but we are also convinced that trying to effect these changes is the only way to deal with the very root of these problems. Only by such means can true solutions be found. Otherwise, we will be attacking only the superficial manifestations of the underlying problems. Therefore, although it seems mere speculation that, given the magnitude of the problem, it can be solved, this is the crucial task that faces us. If the challenge is to be met, imagination and daring must be mustered in this forum, whence political inspiration flows to others, and in all the other bodies of this great United Nations system.
31.	One may well wonder if we will be able to devise -and even more important to implement- within a reasonably short period of time a new international economic order which will be both just and creative and which will have the basic features so well known to our peoples, and especially our youth: freedom from any attempt to destroy the basic tenets of the economy but, rather, a human and equitable use of those tenets; a pattern implying no holding back of the more advanced or regression to lower levels but, rather, promoting those who have been left behind by giving them a fair share of the benefits of the highest civilization; extension beyond material goods to reach horizons of culture and spirit; integration of problems of population, food, environment and culture within a comprehensive framework in which countries are treated in accordance with their particular degree of development so that the economy will render truly equivalent results for its participants.
32.	In the world political arena, there is an atmosphere of detente and a universal desire for peace is spreading. My country, in accordance with a tradition it has unswervingly maintained since its very inception, adheres to that spirit, not only in the external conduct of international affairs but also as a reflection of the very deepest convictions of the nation.
33.	Nevertheless, detente does not seem to be sufficient to clear the air entirely.
34.	The IndoChina peninsula is still bitterly racked by varying degrees of open warfare. It is unfortunate that the Viet Nam peace agreement has not yet been fully complied with and that aggression in that Republic and in the Khmer Republic still persists. It is to be hoped that these circumstances will not be overlooked and that appropriate measures will be adopted to strengthen peace and bring an immediate end to the war which torments that region.
35.	Cyprus has been shattered by a violent crisis, with painful consequences that my Government deplores. I believe that we the nations represented here without exception must unite solidly behind the people of the island and help to alleviate their suffering. We must also unite in support of the decisions of the Security Council and encourage international action to protect a Member State. The observance of United Nations agreements is essential for peace there and elsewhere, and Uruguay will always act in accordance with that principle.
36.	Once again we have to refer to the tragic sufferings of the people of the Middle East. I should like to note with appreciation the bilateral action taken, the conversations initiated and the results achieved regarding extremely sensitive military and political aspects. None the less, I cannot pass over in silence the concern of my Government about the future of that long-suffering region. I think that the international community represented here could play a most important part if it were to create a world climate on the basis of principles widely acknowledged as workable. That is a way in which this complex question could be approached in all of its aspects.
37.	It is clear that legally speaking military victory confers no rights, especially with regard to territory. Similarly, the community of nations recognizes the right of each nation in that region, and in all others, to live in peace within secure and recognized borders, enjoying sovereignty, integrity and independence.
38.	All those directly concerned should, therefore, seek a way to ensure through negotiations and other peaceful means, the full observance and implementation of those fundamental concepts of international law, which my Government unreservedly supports. A comprehensive study of this topic in all of its dimensions must include an essential chapter, in view of both its political and its human significance. 1 am referring here to the fate of the Palestinian people. My Government has no doubt that until a just solution is found for what the Security Council in paragraph 2 of resolution 242 (1967) calls "the refugee problem", any settlements designed to ensure peace will be merely temporary. With due regard, of course, for the steps taken elsewhere towards peace and while supporting the immediate measures the United Nations is taking to alleviate this distressing situation, my Government advocates more deep-rooted solutions which should encompass the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people and squarely confront the problem in its real political, social and, finally, human significance all, of course, within the framework of comprehensive peace negotiations.
39.	As an expression of our sincere concern for peace in the Middle East, 1 should like to renew the commitment announced by my delegation at the twenty-third session [1686th meeting] to support, within the framework of the Charter, a negotiated solution to ensure lasting peace in this region in full accordance with international law and all the imperatives of the question,
40.	Under the general topic of international peace, I should like to express Uruguay's appreciation of the success achieved by the Special Committee on the Question of Defining Aggression. This represents a positive step towards the clarifying of an important concept and also demonstrates a promising of understanding which suggests that more progress may be made in this connexion.
41.	1 am pleased to announce that my country supports with satisfaction the efforts made to establish a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean. This attitude is consonant with our position in Latin America, where we are a party to the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco).
42.	For the same reason we deplore atomic weapon tests and explosions performed since last year by the various Powers in different parts of the world. The signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I to the Treaty of Tlatelolco will signify a positive step towards rectifying the situation. These explosions, which cause ecological damage and which continue, moreover, to cause tension, are contrary to detente and entail the continued spending of huge sums in an endeavor of no importance to mankind.
43.	At the same time my country favors renewed efforts to achieve general disarmament. The negotiations to reduce the possibility of conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union fall within this context. My country will also resolutely support the careful preparation of the World Disarmament Conference and any reaffirmation of already enunciated recommendations on nuclear testing and, most importantly, their speedy implementation, which is so long overdue.
44.	As is Uruguay's custom, 1 should like to refer exclusively to the topics of decolonization and racial discrimination. Recent events have sparked the hope that more African people will soon gain independence. The outlook now looks bright and we hope that the optimism will be consolidated into fact in the full exercise of self-determination and freedom from foreign influence, as in Latin America. With regard to racial discrimination I renew today the support of Uruguay for measures adopted within the framework of the Charter so that mankind may become truly united.
45.	This brief examination of some of the items of the agenda clearly shows that the policy of detente must be expanded and deepened so that its positive influence may extend to matters which today remain outside its scope. Uruguay will do anything within its power to work resolutely in this direction.
46.	However, together with geographically localized political problems, the significance of other less well-defined problems of international peace and security must be recognized. I refer to terrorist acts and subversive movements, which are frequently interconnected. The entire world has been the witness of this phenomenon, which now respects no borders. The moment has perhaps come for the international community to realize what risks such activities entail. This motive does not derive from the diverse ideas frequently posited in an attempt to justify these acts, as ideological differences are quite normal in a world as diverse as ours. The fact is that civilization itself is threatened when a constant undercover war being waged by interrelated movements operating outside international law is provoked and tolerated. Paradoxically, as the risk of nuclear catastrophe, or even large-scale conventional war, diminishes, unease, tension and casualties of this new kind of warfare are on the increase. Thus, an unexpected situation may arise in which peace, so fervently sought in more conspicuous areas, may yet disappear.
47.	My Government also considers that other steps should be taken to consolidate and strengthen peace. The atmosphere of detente, so fortunately apparent among the great Powers, must also create an atmosphere of security for other nations. Improved relations among these Powers is indeed not enough. It is imperative finally to eliminate distortions of international coexistence caused by power politics and ideological penetration. Only when non-intervention and self-determination become rules of conduct observed by all nations can peace be said to be truly at hand.
48.	Uruguay once again pledges its commitment to this conduct as an indissoluble part of its national identity and reaffirms its will to co-operate with all international courses of action to ensure full respect for such conduct within the community of nations. Only in this way can peace and co-operation exist in our interdependent and pluralistic world.
49.	Throughout our work we review and discuss many topics which demonstrate the complex and multifaceted world of today. As each topic is examined separately because of its specific features we must all regard them as independent entities. Nevertheless, all pose essentially the same question. What will be the nature of international relations? Will law or force prevail? Will the world's economy serve justice or convenience? Will each nation freely develop its own identity or will this identity be imposed from without? Will the diversity of national solutions enhance international co-operation or hamper it? Will detente create a true respect for all? Once defenses have been reduced, will undercover warfare and penetration become the agent of power to penetrate the small nations? Will terrorism and subversive warfare be given free reign in the world or will the community of nations thwart violence?
50.	Uruguay has chosen a clear-cut path in keeping with the character of its people and the nature of its history. We are resolutely in support of the principles of justice, law, liberty and independence, and the right of each country to choose and follow its own model. We are working for international coexistence, with peace and co-operation as its hallmark. We reject terrorism and subversive violence; we remain open to the other nations of the world.
51.	This fundamental definition of principle in international order is consistent with the political process of my country, which, together with a strong sense of national pride, maintains its solidarity with other countries. It fully respects all nations and demands no less for itself, without foreign influence or interference, which it neither accepts nor tolerates nor practices. In this way its institutions have been substantially transformed in order to enshrine the values recognized by the Uruguayan community as its national and popular objectives: independence, development and peace for the benefit of the human being. It is a process aiming at peace, construction and justice, without hatred or violence. Imbued with the spirit of understanding and solidarity, Uruguay will work in world affairs to promote mutual understanding and conciliation and mutual respect.
52.	The international community must bring these already recognized principles to life. Equally urgent is the task of devising new principles for new situations: population, the biosphere, the riches of the sea and other unexploited regions; outer space, energy, spiritual and cultural matters; man's place in the technological universe and a new economic order.
53.	May our efforts now solve the problems of today. May they serve to build a better tomorrow. We bear this responsibility to youth throughout the world. By that shall we be assessed.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====
The delegation of Uruguay would like at the outset to congratulate Mr. Thorn, the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Luxembourg, on his election as President of the General Assembly. We welcome the choice of a young but at the same time mature statesman of a noble country, with great traditions from the past and a great capacity for action in our time.
66.	We also pay a tribute to Mr. Abdelaziz Boute- flika, the Foreign Minister of Algeria, who presided over the work of the General Assembly during a particularly dynamic year in the life of the Organization.
67.	We welcome the admission of the new Members  the Republic of Cape Verde, the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe and the People's Republic of Mozambique which thus carries forward our progress towards universality.
68.	May I be permitted, first of all, to make a statement general in nature, one which will be especially appropriate inasmuch as this is the thirtieth anniversary of our Organization. Uruguay comes to this new session of the General Assembly animated by the same spirit by which it was inspired when we signed the Charter in San Francisco.
69.	Today, we share, as we did then, the objectives of the Charter, and we will work tirelessly to attain them in the context of a policy of peace and co-operation with all nations. In accordance with its tradition, Uruguay hopes that international coexistence will be consistently governed by law, and that within that context every people will be able to achieve its own destiny, free from interference by others.
70.	As a symbolic manifestation of respect and fidelity to the objectives that brought our Organization into existence, and as an expression of the permanence and continuity of our foreign policy, my Government has chosen to incorporate into our delegation at this session two distinguished personalities of our country who were among the signatories to that historic document.
71.	I have preferred to depart from the traditional approach of analyzing one by one the principal items of the agenda, and instead will concentrate my attention on the most important concepts and facts of international politics and economics as we in Uruguay see them. I believe that the general debate will thus gain in depth and will shed greater light on the essence of each country's thinking. The Uruguayan delegation wilt set forth, in the appropriate Committees, its specific views on each item. For the moment, I shall state specifically that there is no change in the traditional political line of my country. As always, that line gives expression to a position that is independent and cannot be categorized. It does not act in accordance with the needs of any bloc, but rather from a faithful assessment of the facts in accordance with our own principles.
72.	For this very reason, Uruguay will energetically oppose any attempt to use the machinery and institutions of the United Nations for promoting any propaganda objectives or encouraging any type of ideological domination. Such action is contrary to the spirit and letter of the Charter, and from the political point of view is a source of discredit to this Organization and makes ineffective the impartial performance of the lofty duties with which this Organization is entrusted.
73.	The United Nations was born in order to save the world from a new war, a war like the one that was just coming to its end. That type of war, the weapons that existed at the time, the causes and motives that precipitated that conflict, the ideologies that brought the factions together, the power relations existing among the victors, and the general feelings of all the other nations all these were the realities and the known elements of that time.
74.	In the time that has elapsed since there have been notable and overwhelming changes. Today, the original group of founding Members sees its number tripled. A large and varied assortment of items involving the most complex technical questions and the profoundest aspirations of men all over the world now enriches the agenda of the General Assembly.
75.	Ideological divisions and political and economic power have followed tortuous and often surprising paths.
76.	Conflicts have broken out which at the time could doubtless not have been foreseen, and the course of those conflicts, in general, has been very far from feeling the beneficent effect of the governing machinery provided by the Charter. Even the kind of war which today we may fear or undergo is different.
77.	Perhaps this change, which has been so profound in so short a time, is what distorts our understanding }f the new facts that refuse to fit into the traditional categories.
World war gave way to the cold war, and the rold war, in turn, to coexistence. Each of these periods vas a milestone in the history of this Organization.
79.	In the political field today the most noteworthy fact is detente. My country, of course, fully supports the aim of reducing tensions and warding oft the danger of an atomic disaster. I believe that all nations must unreservedly and unhesitatingly give their support to that aim. We must, however, state that such a policy is limited in scope, confined as it is to relationships among the great Powers. To be sure, it reduces the risk of nuclear war, even the danger of a wide-scale conventional war. But for dozens of small and medium-sized nations that want to live in peace and build their lives for themselves, free of foreign interference, this does not represent a concrete solution.
80.	As a matter of fact, detente does not do away with power politics or the ideological struggle. These today take different forms; the battlefield changes and the weapons employed change; from war declared between nations we have now passed, over and under frontiers, to war that is undeclared and within nations. No longer is it a question of mere propaganda intended for theoretical dispersion; it is a combined action utilizing all media and resources.
81.	Terrorism and subversion are its concrete expression. These obstruct the development process and impair political sovereignty in determining a future in keeping with the values that characterize each society. Closely tied each to the other, so that they are almost one and the same, united in an international activity that recognizes no limits and that day by day reaches into more countries, they still are able to enjoy the open and explicit support of certain countries.
82.	We must bear in mind that these activities do not affect one country or one group of countries alone; they affect even the most highly developed ones, those with the highest social and economic standards. Prosperity and culture do not serve as barriers. It is one and the same destructive design which in each area assumes a different political guise, adapted to local circumstances, but always with the same urge to violence and domination as the concrete expression of power politics.
83.	Its very behaviour represents a return to outmoded forms of coexistence and a sure obstacle to the free development of every community, even though this inhumane and irrational tendency claims at times to have a monopoly of change towards a new society.
84.	We should try to achieve, therefore, a clear awareness of the fact that, despite declarations and agreements, there is a pitiless struggle for power taking place on as many fronts as there are nations, and that the very principles and basic values of civilization are everywhere imperiled.
85.	Without this awareness it will not be possible for us to understand the most frightening political phenomenon in the world today, and even less to face the challenge it represents,
86.	This is not the first time that my country has spoken about such facts, We did so, quite properly, when we ourselves were subjected to a similar type of activity. Perhaps for that reason the international community did not at that time fully understand the magnitude and significance of the danger and tended 
to attribute it to local factors, as was claimed in certain distorted and false propaganda. Now that we have succeeded in pushing back the massive attack launched against us, and while we are mounting a permanent guard against any other such attempts, I wish to repeat once more our warning to all countries and to urge the community of nations to act against the unmistakable international wave of terrorists and subversives motivated by clear political aims of domination or, if that is not immediately possible, destruction.
87.	I wish to call attention to these facts, for my country cannot and does not rest content with an international peace that is superficial and limited to the immediate concerns of the great Powers.
88.	Uruguay wishes to see international law respected. Let each country develop from its own strength and in accordance with its own values the response it regards as appropriate to the arduous problems of coexistence. Let no one set himself up as a censor of other people's political, economic and social systems, Let a plurality of political and ideological solutions be respected by all. Let no one infiltrate, subvert or commit aggression against others, or seek to exercise domination over others.
89.	All this is more than a starting-point; it is at the same time an objective of international law. If there is no strict compliance therewith, there will be no peace in the true sense. And the small and medium- sized nations will have to continue to mount a constant guard over their freedom, menaced by a war that cannot be prevented by detente.
90.	When the Charter was signed the dominant economic concern was the devastation wrought by the war and the need to get the economy back on the traditional course. Thirty years later, aware now of the interdependence of all nations, we are trying to meet the needs of developed and developing countries and bring them together in a more balanced and just system. At the same time we are trying in the immediate future to attenuate the effects of the present crisis.
91.	As soon as the first indications of the magnitude of this crisis appeared, by the end of 1973, all major international activities in the economic field assumed a dual purpose: on the one hand, the search for a global organization of the world economy and, on the other, the need to assist those affected by the emergency.
92.	I should like to say very firmly that my country is in strong disagreement with the orientation and results of this general process on both sides of the picture, and we say this in a very forthright and direct manner.
93.	First of all, in general an attitude of confrontation has prevailed. In practical terms, that attitude could not and did not lead to any concrete results.
94.	If we are trying to lay down guidelines for restructuring the international economy, there must be a straightforward, genuine and sincere consensus among all participants, and that can be reached only on the basis of generally acceptable and negotiated formulas.
95.	Building up majority votes in international organizations in favor of specific resolutions is not enough for us, the developing countries, nor can that satisfy our legitimate and vital interests, if it does not lead straightaway to concrete and tangible action.
96.	In today's interdependent world, solutions adopted in isolation or antagonistic solutions are no longer feasible. There can be no response to a given problem unless it comes as a result of co-operation on the part of all.
97.	Secondly, the idea of reform of the whole international economic order, unless it is practical and realistic, will not have any effect on the most urgent problems. At times it may, and indeed does, happen that the proposal that appears the most ambitious and far-reaching will delay steps that are already clearly needed and, by their very nature, indispensable for any future order.
98.	It is clear that with regard to such vital and urgent questions as those of agriculture, food and population, there cannot be complete understanding on all aspects of the world economy. I believe that if we can agree on satisfactory formulations in these essential areas, it will be sure to have a multiplying effect, promoting mutual confidence among nations and opening the way for the integrated solutions we all desire.
99.	My country, therefore, proposes that international efforts be concentrated on those areas, which are recognized by one and all as priority areas, in an attempt to reach solutions and adopt practical measures based on a broad political consensus.
100.	Thirdly, I shall now speak of the inadequacy of the means of action taken in the face of the crisis. In April 1974 I explained in the General Assembly how my country had been adversely affected by increases in the prices of oil and other raw materials, I mentioned then certain encouraging figures concerning the Uruguayan economy towards the end of 1973, and spoke about the favorable outlook at the time; but I also spoke about the negative effect that importing 100 per cent of our fuel at the new prices would undoubtedly have on our economy.
101.	The forecasts made at that time applied not only to my country, but to a broad range of countries that were at one and the same time developing countries and net importers of oil. Unfortunately our predictions have been borne out by the facts. In Latin America in one year the deficit in the balance of payments of oil-importing countries tripled. The deficit then amounted to the value of half of all the exports of those countries.
102.	Another prediction that was proved true concerned the fact that the industrialized nations would be able more rapidly to absorb that deficit, by relying on the diversity of their economies, on their capacity to attract surplus capital, and unfortunately on restrictive measures with regard to imports from the most severely affected countries.
103.	Clearly, this situation has resulted not entirely from any action or failure to take action, but is due to external factors over which Governments and peoples have no control whatever.
104.	It was only natural, then, to assume that the international community would adopt a policy of decisive support for those who were suffering this grave affliction. I must say, however, in all frankness that the activities of the innumerable meetings which have been convened on the subject have not so far produced any effective measures. The amount of special resources devoted by the international community to this end is far from sufficient to meet the needs; the inadequacy of the resources has forced countries to resort to commercial loans, frequently on very difficult terms, in order to offset the debts incurred as a result of higher oil prices; even international loans, such as the oil facilities of the International Monetary Fund, have to be repaid over a fairly short period of time, require the payment of interest and increase the foreign debt, thus limiting the credit margin available for development. All the additional resources have to be devoted exclusively to the maintenance of a normal level of fuel supply and cannot be invested for economic and social development.
105.	To this we should add a very important negative factor. In the Special Program that was adopted by the General Assembly, it was specified that the purpose of emergency assistance was to meet the needs of those countries most affected by the crisis, and a set of criteria was laid down to determine which were those countries [see resolution 3202 (S- VI), sect. A'].
106.	However, in the distribution of assistance, the per capita income alone has been taken as a criterion, and as a result a number of seriously affected countries have been excluded. It is clear that that criterion by no means indicates the degree to which each country has been affected.
107.	In this regard, the Organization of American States last week unanimously recommended that international and regional financing organizations should revise that criterion. According to the present manner of applying the rules, with per capita income as the criterion, in Latin America only two countries could qualify for special assitance. In the circumstances, nations which as a result of the crisis are facing the worst of problems are not receiving the special assistance which was provided precisely to meet the needs of the crisis.
108.	I should therefore like to make clear my country's strong disagreement with application of the criterion. Not only does it not conform to the rules contained in the resolution of the General Assembly; unfortunately by reason of its limited and haphazard character it also has no significant impact on the situation of the poorest countries, which, in the opinion of my country, are not being helped by present resources, For them, massive amounts of resources should be accorded in grant form.
109.	Here I should like to say that the tendency to use emergency assistance for permanent problems conceals the fact that assistance specifically intended for the poorest countries provided by countries with the greatest resources has decreased in absolute value and in real terms. The commitment to contribute 0.7 per cent of the gross national product, in accordance with the goal of the Second United Nations Development Decade, is not being fulfilled. If that contribution were actually made, it would solve the problems not only of the poorest countries, but also of the rest of the developing countries.
110.	The situation is the same, for example, with regard to the replacement of the resources of the International Development Association, which provides loans on favorable terms to countries with the lowest incomes.
111.	The inadequate contributions of the industrialized countries and those countries that have profited by the new oil prices cannot be supplemented by emergency resources that are intended precisely for the countries most adversely affected by the present crisis.
112.	This trend has even deeper implications and goes beyond the question of the distribution of emergency resources. Implicitly, yet with singular force and clarity, it raises the question of whether the development of the poorest countries should be achieved through a reduction of the standard of living of other countries, including not only the industrialized countries but also those developing countries with the most promising economic and social statistics.
113.	To put it another way: should the vital and unchallenged needs of the most backward countries be met by reducing the moderate amount of progress achieved by the less backward? Should not the international community rather promote the progress of those countries whose economies are backward without inhibiting progress in other countries?
114.	Neither on the international nor on the national level does my country accept the class war in either theory or practice. Instead, we believe that it is an imaginative, constructive and concerted effort which will make it possible to maintain and increase progress in the most advanced countries and at the same time promote a more rapid advance on the part of the backward countries.
115.	This opinion is not only the result of our political and ethical convictions; it is also based on our practical experience of present-day economics: in our interdependent world there can be no solutions adopted in isolation. Prosperity, if it is to be lasting, must be widespread.
116.	I should like to bring out another point with which we are not in agreement. The inadequacy of international financial measures is revealed at a time when restrictions are also being imposed by the developed countries, and by EEC in particular, on imports of certain primary commodities which are essential to the economies of the developing countries affected by the crisis. This is true of meat. The Organization of American States at last week's meeting took a stand on that subject, expressing deep concern over the matter and hoping that the restrictions would be lifted.
117.	Thus the situation arises where a group of nations severely affected by the rise in oil prices are at the same time prevented from exporting to their usual customers, the developed countries, those products which are the mainstay of their economies. Furthermore, those same developed countries, by means of a policy of subsidies, are vying with one another in other markets, by reducing their prices and flooding the market.
118.	This complicated set-up has a critical effect in the present circumstances. It is also a grim expression of an underlying problem. 
119.	First, the international community has not found the means to ensure the stability of the basic exports of the developing countries. Without the condition of stability it is impossible to save or to accumulate capital to allow investment for the diversification of the economy. Any employment policy is also inhibited thereby.
120.	Secondly, the rules governing the world economy all conspire to force the infant industries of the developing countries to confine themselves exclusively to a policy of efficiency and competitiveness. But no such criteria are applied to the agricultural policies of all developed countries, and as a result there is distortion and waste.
]2h It happens then that in developed areas of the world, industry subsidizes inefficient agricultural production, blocks the access of products produced more economically in other areas, and even competes in third-country markets with the help of subsidies.
122.. Thus a paradox arises: economic rules, instead of being more flexible to help those countries which are most backward, are, in fact, less rigid for the most advanced countries.
123.	We wish to point an accusing finger at this unjust contradiction.
124.	We are all familiar with the harsh laws and practices of international economic life. But faced with such a simultaneous accumulation of negative factors, with no particular attenuating circumstances, one cannot help but wonder what outlook there is for co-operation to foster development.
125.	As I have already stated, there can be no doubt that it is necessary to give top priority to the questions of agriculture, food and population. Together with their tremendous economic significance, they have ■ven greater humanitarian implications.
26. Recently we have heard many pleas for an increase in the production of food as a means of meeting vital and growing human needs.
127.	That brings home one of the most startling facts, which is, without exaggeration, both an indictment of and a challenge to the present international order: namely that there are some peoples which are experiencing serious difficulties in selling the food that they produce and at the same time there are some peoples which go hungry because they cannot afford to buy that food.
128.	Thus it is not production capacity that is lacking in these cases; there is only a lack of international financial machinery to co-ordinate supply and demand; international machinery to bring, for example, proteins produced at the lowest cost in the Southern Hemisphere to the millions of undernourished human beings everywhere,
129.	It is my belief that concentrating our efforts to find a concrete answer to this question will help us to set aside our abstract speeches and our documents, replete with generalities, to get away from the "ins" and "outs" of United Nations procedures and to embark on a practical and eminently humane task.
130.	Many years ago, when Uruguay's commodity trade was flourishing and prosperous and when the outlook was even more promising, my Government proposed the creation of a food bank as a way of simultaneously meeting the financial needs of production and consumption of the countries with the lowest incomes. We acted out of a deeply held sense of solidarity with the poorest peoples and we felt that it was our moral duty to use our food-producing natural resources in the widest possible way and not just to benefit the richest societies.
131.	Today we renew that proposal, which is more urgently needed than ever. It is a material and moral imperative.
132.	At the same time we must express our disappointment over the operational failure of the machinery set up by the World Food Conference which was held last year within the framework of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
133.	On behalf of my Government, I repeat that we firmly intend to increase our food production in so far as the terms of trade and of financing allow.
134.	During the recent seventh special session of the General Assembly a resolution on development and international economic co-operation [resolution 3362 (S-VIJ)] was adopted.
135.	In spite of our general disagreement with many issues, this is promising. The substance of the discussion was more constructive. Practical ideas were presented by industrialized and developing countries in a search for joint solutions.
136.	We believe that the ideas put forward by the delegation of the United States,-1 for example which met with a favorable response in other countries- represent a very profound approach to many problems which are of interest to the entire world. The document of the Group of 77 is an important statement of the views of the developing countries. A financial security network for Latin America was proposed that, in addition to being a system that would benefit the whole region, might help to raise income levels and improve employment conditions in those countries for which Latin America is an important market,
137.	The final resolution reflects many of the ideas which were contained in the documents I have just mentioned and thus represents a step forward towards a definition of principles. But I very much fear that if its implementation is postponed and if too many subjects are taken up, it will be difficult to put into practice and the solution of urgent problems may be delayed. Moreover, if the present criteria continue to be used with regard to the allocation of assistance  as I mentioned earlier then the international action we are trying to initiate now will have no practical effect in many countries.
138.	Uruguay will support the implementation of the various guidelines set forth at the seventh special session; but we shall pay special attention to case- by-case solutions that concern vital aspects of the present situation.
139.	I should like to refer to a few of the more outstanding issues in an effort to make a contribution to concrete solutions.
140.	My Government believes that a fund to stabilize income from the export earnings of developing countries is of the greatest importance and therefore we give it our fullest support. We should adopt a very careful scientific approach with regard to the manage-ment of the fund so as to prevent the exclusion in practice of certain nations by the establishment of general rules.
141.	My Government also concurs with the belief that trade is the chief means of promoting development. For this reason, we support Brazil's valuable proposal to negotiate a general agreement on trade between the developed and developing countries.
142.	If expansion of trade is to take place then, first, negotiations within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade [GATT] must not be confined just to subjects of major interest to the industrialized countries. They must come up with special rules to govern trade between developed and developing countries, bearing in mind the concept of non-reciprocal treatment stated in the Tokyo Declaration issued by the Ministerial Meeting of the Contracting Parties to GATT held from 12 to 14 September 1973.4
143.	Secondly, we believe that the agricultural policies of the industrialized countries, particularly EEC, and agreements on products which were concluded between those countries should not restrict trade in those products through protectionist policies and should not lead to sharp fluctuations in international prices to the detriment of the developing countries,
144.	Thirdly, non-tariff barriers should be changed in keeping with the technological possibilities of developing countries; and health regulations should not be more restrictive for foreign exporters than for nationals.
145.	Fourthly, exports of manufactured and semi-manufactured goods from the developing countries should enjoy a stable system of access to the markets of the industrialized countries.
146.	Lastly, I would like to mention the fact that my country is ready to enter into agreements on commodities with exporting and importing countries in an attempt to better organize production and trade. These agreements should not be limited to a narrow range of products which are of interest primarily to industrialized consumers. They must cover each and every product which is of substantial interest to one or more producing country.
147.	My Government believes that dialog and the joint working out of solutions are the right course to take.
148.	It is precisely in that context and in that spirit that Uruguay has presented its views in various forums. We have done so firmly and dispassionately, and we have tried to show the realities, as dramatic as they are little known, in certain countries very directly affected by the crisis.
149.	The President of France himself recognized this situation in a recent statement when he said:
"As regards the developing countries which produce few goods, the prices of which have not increased and in certain cases have even decreased, their situation is tragic inasmuch as they must bear
the burden of the increase in the prices of oil, foodstuffs and manufactured goods".
150.	It is obvious that some solutions which are desirable in themselves such as access to capital markets, and increased exports are not feasible in practical terms over the short term.
151.	In order to arrive at appropriate solutions we must approach the present situation on the basis of concrete criteria. In this spirit, I should like to sum up the measures which my Government thinks should be adopted.
152.	The trade rules and policies of the industrialized countries must be revised, including the elimination of protectionist policies, as regards the commodities and manufactured goods of the developing countries. The resources provided by industrialized and oil- producing countries must be increased in order to contribute to funds for assistance to the poorest countries, in particular the International Development Association. Countries whose balance-of- payments positions have been most adversely affected by the prices of oil and other essential imports must be helped, and the criteria used in the distribution of resources must reflect the harm which has been done. A fund must be created as soon as possible to stabilize the export earnings of developing countries, and buffer stocks must be established. Effective machinery must be established to provide incentives to agriculture in the form of a food bank which will ensure economic conditions for the production of agricultural products and access for the most needy, and there must be basic commodity agreements between producers and consumers on each and every product of substantial interest to one or more producers. There must be appropriate institutional reforms within the United Nations system to concentrate and better co-ordinate action on the part of the international community to benefit those countries most adversely affected by the emergency and those most in need of assistance.
153.	Finally, I should like to say, on behalf of my Government, that we wish to put forward a concrete proposal concerning financing for countries at the intermediate level, the developing countries with medium and higher levels of earnings. Many of them are Latin American countries which have been left on the periphery of the most urgent international assistance. A mechanism should be created for them similar to the "third window", which might be called the "fourth window, and which should deal with the tremendous additional needs of those countries by means of a specific financial instrument with relatively higher interest rates.
154.	If any subsidy were necessary it would be limited to reducing the tariff which the administrators of the system, whether the World Bank or regional banks, those who lend the funds on terms compatible with development financing needs, would have to pay.
155.	The United Nations today is at a cross-roads: either we shall be satisfied with a rhetorical and ideological, purely superficial, approach to problems, or we shall penetrate to the substance, the essence of situations in order together to find generally acceptable solutions which reflect a genuine consensus.
156.	The first approach, obviously the simpler one, could lead to ineffectiveness and discredit us in the eyes of world public opinion, which, little by little, would separate the Organization from all relevant issues.
157.	The second course offers more difficulties, but is the only way for the United Nations to play a significant role in the world, enjoy the respect and confidence of all and achieve the objectives and hopes of the founders 30 years ago, of its new Members and of all the peoples of the world.






===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
First of all, I should like to express my warm congratulations to Mr. Hamilton Amerasinghe on his election as President of this Assembly and to extend to him every good wish for the success of his noble mission. At the same time, I should like to extend my greetings and my thanks to President Gaston Thorn for having carried out such excellent work in this capacity at the thirtieth session.
134.	Uruguay also would like to extend a friendly and cordial welcome to the Republic of Seychelles on its admission to our Organization and on having attained full participation in world affairs.
135.	Just as at the last session I intend to give the general lines of my country's thinking about international economics and politics without entering into detail about the numerous items on our agenda. These general lines describe the foreign policy of Uruguay, which remains unchanged in accordance with the traditional principles which constitute its essence and in accordance with the deep-rooted feeling of its people.
136.	It is a commonplace to say that modern weapons technology has created special conditions in international politics which are very different from classical concepts. Hegemony cannot be acquired through traditional means, except on very rare occasions and in very limited ways. Therefore, an attempt is made to try and achieve this through new means which in substance pursue the same end, domination. Thus the conquest of countries is sought by means of subversion and guerrilla warfare; constant agitation to destroy the economy; external selective support (from the supplying of money to the sending of weapons and combatants); infiltration in countries' institutions; campaigns of international deprecation with a view to isolating the country; all this in close connexion with the various subversive movements, at both the operative and ideological levels.
137.	All those actions, therefore, are instruments or means placed at the service of one sole objective, namely, to impose upon countries radical changes in their political, economic and social systems as well as the very characteristics of their national identity.
138.	What cannot be attained directly, because of conditions of strategic equilibrium, are sought to be obtained indirectly. The battlefield, so to speak, has moved within countries, thus giving rise to violence and agitation. What is involved is a real war within a purely formal peace.
139.	In this context the relaxation of tensions among great Powers is, in the view of my Government, one aspect- obviously a very important one, but nevertheless a partial aspect-of the question. It avoids atomic crisis and brings about forms of co-operation between those Powers, but it is not comprehensive in providing moral, political and practical assistance to each country in achieving its own national life, safe from interference and aggression.
140.	The fact of the relaxation of tension, therefore, is insufficient, and does not create either the appropriate atmosphere or conditions for security. Reality shows that the current and concrete threat for most nations does not come from any possible atomic holocaust or any conventional invasion; that threat consists in the utilization of certain of the instruments of struggle which I have mentioned and which could be referred to generically as organized subversion. These instruments are implanted in and made part of any of the many motives and causes of domestic conflict and tensions which are inherent in the internal life of countries and which cannot be eradicated completely. Thus in this way those motives, those causes, lose their original characteristics when injected with an ideological content. They are used as pretexts for the true purpose of violently imposing on countries radical changes in their systems. Conflicts and local tensions are in this way brought into a field of outside forces, thus forming part of an alien universal strategy in the midst of ideological confrontation. Tensions and local conflicts become part of the world situation and of the balance of power.
141.	Consequently, it is clear that until such time as covert policies carried out in new forms of struggle are ended, conflicts will continue, since an extraneous element, political and ideological in nature, is added to their original factors, preventing them from being resolved. Then insecurity and violence will continue gaining intensity in the world. It is even possible to foresee that the various disarmament initiatives will lack any scope as long as this situation persists, because if the conquest of countries through indirect means persists the necessary basis of confidence to achieve this will be missing.
142.	In this context, if the relaxation of tension between the great Powers is to be complete and benefit all, it should also include the rapid reduction, leading ultimately to the complete elimination, of the new forms of struggle and conquest. This is the major issue to be solved.
143.	My country hopes that an increasing effort made by all countries in this connexion, together with a constant policy of international security, will enable self-determination to acquire real effectiveness as an expression of the freedom of peoples and the creative capacity of the human mind.
144.	Uruguay for its part is carrying out in this connexion a political process of development and institutional restoration which is truly its own and has a national character free of any extraneous influence, in order to give new juridical forms to its continuing ideals of freedom and democracy in an integrated and just society.
145.	As my country scrupulously respects the path chosen by every other nation, by the same token it demands equal respect in turn. The respect for national personality is the true and only path towards international peace. Until such time as this principle is firmly established in the international community my country, resolved to defend its national individuality and the free development of its political processes without interference, will assume, as it has done thus far, full responsibility for that defence using the resources available to it and, under domestic and international law, will prevent the occurrence on its territory of the phenomena of violence to which I have referred.
146.	The initiatives announced for joint action to combat terrorism can therefore count on the resolute support of Uruguay, which for many years has been vigorously pressing, both in this Organization and elsewhere, for action on this matter, in line with the thoughts I have just expressed, inasmuch as we reject all forms and pretexts under which this manifestation of violence appears.
147.	Therefore I cannot fail to express the pleasure with which the delegation of Uruguay welcomes the comments in this connexion contained in the Secretary-General's introduction to his report on the work of the Organization [A131/1 Add.l, sect. VI], as well as all initiatives taken on this matter. My delegation trusts that these will be given specific form during our present session.
148.	However, I should like to draw attention to the fact that such initiatives are limited to one aspect of the situation and do not cover the whole problem. In actual fact the terrorist phenomenon of our day generally occurs not as an irrational action of a few isolated individuals, but as a method of struggle adopted by vast and complex subversive organizations with an ideological motivation, which are very closely interrelated, giving each other mutual support at the international level. Therefore these are, I would say, the multinationals of violence.
149.	This necessitates concerted and far-reaching action, in keeping with the nature of the challenge, which will disrupt their operations. Otherwise we would be attacking only one aspect of the phenomenon, leaving all the others intact, as well as the real inspiration of this activity. That is to say, it is not enough to focus attention on the terrorist agent and leave aside all the organizational structure of a subversive nature which makes the terrorist action possible.
150.	Initiatives with regard to terrorism are usually presented in conjunction with others relating to human rights. The link between the two topics, in my Government's view, deserves very precise comment.
151.	First of all, it is necessary to distinguish between concern with human rights as such and the use of this subject as an indirect way of attacking countries which resist the new modalities of struggle and domination.
152.	With respect to the substance of the topic of human rights, in its internal aspects, my Government attaches priority attention to this and reaffirms its continuing efforts to maintain and improve the high levels attained throughout the history of Uruguay. This does not stem from circumstantial motivation nor from rhetorical declarations of the moment, nor does it come from external or international factors. It results from the existence in my country of moral and political patterns which are very demanding and which stem from a free, civilized and cultural society.
153.	With regard to the international aspects, my Government rejects beforehand and with equal resoluteness the use of any mechanisms in this connexion aimed at interfering in its domestic political processes or favoring the forces of subversion and intervention under the pretext of protecting human rights.
154.	International activity, if it is sincere and Motivated by genuine feeling, cannot be discriminatory and concentrate almost exclusively on a few countries, which happen to be the same which, through their own efforts, have succeeded in checking the action of internal and external factors threatening to corrode and destroy its national personality. Such international action should be extended simultaneously everywhere, with equal intensity and depth, and include in its investigations similar and comparable periods, so that it will express true humanitarian concern free of political or ideological colouring. Greater demands should not be made of one than of another. Otherwise, all international machinery in this matter would fall into increasing and wide-spread disrepute which would inevitably render them practically powerless.
155.	For this reason, my country, consistent with its traditions, considers it necessary to bring about a far- reaching change in the approach and in the means used up till now at the international level. It proposes, for our joint consideration, a new approach in order to free the concern for human rights from any trace of political or ideological purposes which perturb judgement: instead of concentrating on the formal defence of partial aspects, this new approach should assume a positive role in promoting the true substance of human rights, encompassing all their aspects.
156.	The community of nations should, therefore, embark upon a far-reaching process of review with regard to the status of human rights throughout the world in each and every country and carry out a mature and meaningful analysis of the real effectiveness of these rights everywhere. This review, however, should not be limited to a few isolated cases of presumed violations. In the present circumstances of tensions and struggles in which slandering countries is a political instrument for undermining their progress, an analysis of isolated cases, in only a few countries, lends itself to political manipulation or publicity or as an instrument of coercion to bend the will of States. The approach is fragmented, with events disconnected from the real context in which they occur and which frequently reveals their true causes. We lose sight of the general level of the effective observance of rights in a given society and are implicitly making over-all judgments on the basis of partial samples. Therefore this review should cover the totality of human rights in its broadest meaning and be carried out according to models and methods which are comparable in both time and space. What should be determined is how in fact the men and women of all our countries live; whether they are members of free societies in which each human being is of value per se, or if, on the contrary, they are members of totalitarian societies in which everything is regimented; even the most intimate aspects of human life and in which personality disappears, dissolved into abstract categories; what inter alia are the conditions in which the members of those societies work, whether they can choose or change their jobs,-what social protection they have against abuses; whether they have free education and access to higher levels of culture; what is the degree of their social mobility and their real possibilities of acceding to key positions in the various fields of endeavour, including political affairs; whether they have freedom to obtain information and to express their views; how public power is really obtained; what are the conditions in prisons and of prisoners; whether the death penalty or life imprisonment is meted out; what are the general conditions of health, hygiene and life expectancy, the level of nutrition, the absence or lack of absence of discrimination as to sex, race or religion, the way in which wealth is distributed, the existence of conditions of security and tranquility for the life and honour of persons, or the degree of violence which prevails in a community.
157.	All of this, however, should not just be the letter of the law but should be a living and concrete reality in the daily acts of life. This is a matter which concerns, whether we are capable of collectively assuming an attitude of self-analysis and examination without exceptions or concessions, without hypocrisy and without any political use being made of human rights.
158.	As long as this path is not embarked upon, my country will, within the frame of international law, continue to exercise, in this field as well as in others, all its attributes as a sovereign State, without permitting any interference or directives and without accepting or tolerating distortion of international mechanisms by political factors.
159.	These considerations and these rules of conduct are surely applicable to international relations; they are a fortiori applicable to the unilateral conduct of countries. Thus, it is inadmissible for a State or an organ of a State to go beyond the sphere of action defined by international law and to claim, for itself and on its own, the function of judging other countries or Governments on the-sole basis of its material power, or in other words to assume, for itself and on its own, a supposed universal code of the political and moral values without any validating international title.
160.	Still less admissible, if possible, is that such an attitude should be used to bring to bear selective and discriminatory criteria of evaluation or arbitrarily to choose a target for attacks in the light of circumstantial political sympathies, disregarding the real levels of the over-all effectiveness of human rights.
161.	I am, of course, referring to the measure which was taken against my country by the United States Congress this week. In this case or in any other similar case, relating to my country or other countries, Uruguay will systematically oppose decisions such as the one I have just mentioned which, aside from the undeniable internal authority of a national organ to dispose of funds as it sees fit, means in its international projection an offence to national dignity and interference which is totally unacceptable and which my Government rejects sharply and vehemently.
162. Therefore I say, repeating what has been said on numerous occasions, that these or any other actions from wherever they may come, will not change the path followed by my country in pursuit of its national objectives. On the contrary, such actions will be a reason, as in the present case, for greater consideration and unity against this interference.
163. In the context of these various aspects which I have just mentioned it is quite clear in the world of today, and perhaps more now than ever before, that the maintenance of international peace and security depends basically on full respect of the principle of non-intervention and rejection of the use of any coercive measure, including economic measures, which would tend to induce any State, unlawfully, to adopt a given political conduct. These two principles are binding on all States in the international juridical order but in the order of ideas to which I have referred they should constitute the point of departure in relations between the most powerful and the less powerful.
164.	We cannot attain in an effective way an order of peace based on law for the achievement of values of justice as long as interventionist practices continue, whatever their purposes or the pretexts used to justify them.
165.	We will not attain a real policy of security and the relaxation of tensions as long as we continue in the attitude of wishing to impose in an exclusive and intolerant way concepts and points of view which for some may have the virtue of truth but which for others give rise to the exercise of the inalienable right to hold a different view.
166.	It is therefore in adherence to the principles and norms of international law that we must seek the solution to disputes as the only valid path towards international justice, peace and security.
167.	Permit me now to refer to certain economic aspects of the present world picture.
168.	A brief analysis of economic developments over the past year shows that the forecasts made by my country during the thirtieth session of the General Assembly  have been fulfilled and the trends outlined at the time have persisted.
169.	The measures undertaken to alleviate the crisis of 1973-1974 proved to be inadequate to help the oil- importing developing countries, which are affected both by the increase in import expenditures and by the drop in their export earnings. The deficit in the current account of those Countries, according to the International Monetary Fund, went from $10 billion in 1973 to $37 billion in 1975. Those nations have participated only in a very limited way in the so-called recycling of the greater part of the earnings from increases in the price of oil. They have encountered very serious obstacles in commodity trade owing to the
protectionist measures adopted by the industrialized countries.
170. The developing countries with medium income have not been given adequate attention, since they have been left out of the emergency plans devised by the United Nations and the "third window" of the World Bank. The trade prospects for those countries have been limited by the protectionist policies of the industrialized nations.
1-71. The economy of the Industrialized countries, as was to be expected, reacted more rapidly than that of other countries. Thus, for example, in Latin America 16 countries showed lower growth rates in 1975 than in 1974 and only two showed any increase. The rate of growth for the whole of Latin America was over 3.5 per cent, as compared to 7.3 per cent in 1974. In the main industrialized countries the estimated gross product for 1976 showed an increase of 5.5 per cent, which is markedly higher than that for 1975, which was negative.
172.	The attempts to overhaul the international economy are far from their attaining their objectives. The various forums in which the main international economic questions are discussed have still not made any significant progress. Therefore efforts must continue to bring into operation such machinery as the integrated commodity programme, the common fund for buffer stocks of commodities, and the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
173.	The picture that I have just described shows clearly the lack of specific solutions for the situation of medium- income developing countries which do not export oil. Uruguay has faced this adverse situation by opening up its economy, liberalizing its system of foreign trade, diversifying its exports through internal efforts, seeking new markets for its traditional products and adjusting its currency in realistic terms. It has compensated for the inadequate response from the international community as a whole by an active policy of regional ties.
174.	Now I should like to outline my country's position with regard to the picture that I have just described.
175.	Uruguay will continue to co-operate constructively in the various forums in efforts to devise global solutions through negotiation and accommodation, and it will be glided by the following criteria: first, it will seek preferential treatment for developing economies in all existing machinery, including the middle-range economies'; secondly, it will promote understanding and progressive association between the developed and the developing countries in respect of constructive and mutually advantageous solutions, taking account of the difference in their levels of development and seeking consistently the growing expansion of their economies and trade; and thirdly, it will seek the opening of markets generally, including rectification of protectionist policies in developed countries and the quantitative and qualitative expansion of preferences for developing countries.
176.	There is no doubt that the reality of interdependence at the world level necessitates global situations which must also be adopted at the world level. However, the search for joint over-all plans should not interfere with the solutions that must be found immediately to certain problems.
177.	In this connexion my delegation suggestions are focused on two aspects, namely the promotion of regional agreements which progressively will cover the fabric of international relations and the intensification of efforts on certain subjects or sectors which, because of their nature or the urgency of the problems they involve, should be given priority.
178.	Uruguay wishes once again to stress the important role which regional efforts can and must play in the task of organizing and rationalizing the relations of interdependence. Naturally, I should like to stress in particular the position of Latin America, where most countries are at an intermediate stage of development with special features. The main economic and social indicators and the growth rate of the Latin American economies show levels which, generally speaking, are higher than those in most developing countries. However, on the whole Latin America is still far from attaining the higher stages of dynamism and strength. This region has old economic relations with the developed countries and in recent years we have begun to discern a very intense interregional economic activity, which thus is added to the old cultural and historical ties of the continent.
179.	This singular set of circumstances places this region in an exceptional position to achieve great advances in the formation of more orderly and more advantageous mutual relations and to contribute to a greater understanding at the world level between the various areas of development -that is, between the developed and the developing world.
180.	My Government considers that this outstanding role in the building of a more co-operative and stable world is consonant with the traits that characterize America and is consistent with its contribution to the Charter of San Francisco and its participation in much of the work of the Organization. I offer Uruguay's willingness to co-operate with the other nations of the American continent with a view to reshaping the area's function in the world context and its constructive and independent support, seeking, not confrontation, but agreed formulas and a balance in these main topics of international economics.
181.	This morning, at the 13th meeting, we could discern the spirit which inspires Latin America in the comments and exchanges of view between the Foreign Ministers of Peru and Ecuador, who dealt with very delicate subjects for their countries and their mutual relations in a cordial, constructive and balanced way. This confirms my optimism about Latin America's ability to make, together with other nations, an important contribution to the building of a more co-operative and peaceful world.
182.	I should like now to indicate the second direction: solutions for priority matters.
183.	Special reference should be made to agriculture and food, two subjects that are closely interconnected with the problems of population. In the opinion of my Government, this is one of the most critical areas not only in economic terms but also from the political and moral points of view. No system can indefinitely support a situation in which many lack food-stuffs vital for survival, while others face serious difficulties because they cannot find a market for
these same products. In the face of this contradiction, any agricultural development programme to increase world production of food loses all effectiveness. This dramatic vicious circle causes more suffering and death than any other factor. This criterion will continue to be the pillar of international economic policy.
184.	In this connexion, I should like to pinpoint certain aspects which we think might guide us in solving this dilemma.
185.	First of all, a financial mechanism which will stimulate the production of food-stuffs and simultaneously make them available to peoples with lowest incomes must be established. This point is what Uruguay calls a food bank and which I would like once again to put forward for your consideration.
186.	Indeed, I must lay special emphasis on the fact that the agricultural programmes and the funding to support them will not be effective unless mechanisms for stable marketing can be found for the increased production. Otherwise, we may find paradoxically that these surpluses will give rise to economic and financial disaster for their producers, while failing to reach the people who need, but lack the means to acquire, such products.
187.	In the second place, upsets in food-stuff production and trade must be avoided. I am referring now to the agricultural policy of the developing countries, and, in particular, of the European Economic Community. It is obvious that the protectionist policies followed, with their restrictions on trade, subsidies and dumping, disrupt the market and discourage agricultural production in developing countries. This results in a drop in the over-all world supply of its products because it eliminates all incentives and even minimal security for farmers. In the case of Latin America, these practices disrupt the formation of the regional agricultural market, substituting subsidized and uneconomic production for regional supply at competitive and efficient levels.
188.	The adoption of unilateral policies is inadmissible because this would bring about tremendous disruption with far-reaching consequences for the economy and for man-kind. We must therefore all look at this problem together. In a joint approach, we must make appropriate proposals to try to reconcile the social interests involved with the principles of sound economy, making a comparison of the relative advantages. My country is prepared to discuss this problem as part of its policy of co-operation. We are sure that a similar spirit also inspires other developing countries and we hope that this position will find an equally constructive echo in the developed countries so that the present unjust unilateral policy will be transformed into a constructive association beneficial to the lofty values involved.
189.	With regard to energy, I should like to reiterate that which I have repeated on several occasions since 1973. It is certain that developing countries which do not produce oil have had to face a rise in energy prices that has entailed greater indebtedness and internal upset in their fledgling productive structures.
190.	The international community must devise special measures to alleviate the burden of indebtedness already contracted in order to mitigate the cumulative effect that this phenomenon will continue to have on weaker economies. The resources devoted in the past to this emergency have been insufficient and, with regard to my country, have been limited to facilities formerly offered but now discontinued by the International Monetary Fund.
191.	The topic should be looked at as a whole: not solely as a temporary emergency, but as an ongoing factor permanently affecting development.
192.	I believe that the United Nations can play a very significant role in the co-ordination and promotion of projects and proposals emanating from the various international agencies with regard to the priority topics of food-stuffs, agriculture and energy. This would represent a specific step forward along the road towards world co-ordination.
193.	I have referred to the political and economic aspects of the world as seen by my country. We ;are obviously living through an era of threats and hopes, of violence and of achievements. It would be easy to give way to the temptation to bend our efforts in one direction only: to concentrate on the task of building and achieving in accordance with aspirations and hopes, or to concentrate on defence against the threats and attacks which surround us. To do so, however, would incur great risks and the result would be negative. If we were to opt exclusively for vigilance and the prevention of attack and aggression of any kind, development and levels of living might suffer irreparably. But if we opt solely for the promotion of economic and social expansion, we risk the loss of our freedom in the context of power politics.
194.	The road to follow is not easy, but it is clear. The characteristics I have described of politics in our time impose on us the immense task of doing both things at the same time: to defend ourselves from attack and to find the answers to economic, social and human development. We must balance the exigencies of an undeclared war against the growing requirements of our peoples. Uruguay is willing to do this at both international and national levels, in the context of its policy of development in security.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿156.	 Mr. President, I should like to take this opportunity to offer you my congratulations on your election to preside over this session of the General Assembly. Your election not only represents a tribute to you personally but also does honour to your country, Yugoslavia, with which Uruguay has maintained cordial relations for many years.
157.	On behalf of my delegation, I should also like to hail the accomplishments of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, and in that connexion to lay particular emphasis on his enduring concern for the political and economic problems of the developing countries.
158.	Thirty-two years ago, we, the peoples of the United Nations, resolved
 ... to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war ... to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights ... in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, to establish conditions under which justice and respect for ... treaties ... can be maintained, to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom, and... to practise tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours ... .
Since that time, those high aspirations have represented the focal-point of our endeavours and the hope of our peoples. The balance-sheet of achievements to date would show important gains on the credit side, but on the debit side it would draw attention to much that remains to be done.
159.	Notwithstanding the lapse of time and the work accomplished, the world is at present living in the midst of crisis which is both moral and material; it is sick not only in spirit but also in the state of its economy. As was the case 32 years ago, the anxious eyes of the whole world are once again focused on those same high goals and objectives for national and international well-being and on the practical results flowing from our deliberations and our work-because there is no other reality or dream of which they can take hold.
160.	As on other occasions, the present session will permit us to measure the throb of the political realities faced by countries, as set forth by their heads of delegation. This shows clearly that this United Nations forum continues to be universally recognized as representing the best hope for the resolution of conflicts and antagonisms, for encouraging closer and more productive relations among nations, and for promoting mutually beneficial international co-operation in the economic and social fields. That was the hope of our predecessors when they signed the historic Charter of the United Nations in San Francisco.
161.	Therefore let us not be diverted from that hope or that struggle because we will vitiate what has been achieved to date and compromise everything that remains to be done. Let us rather dedicate ourselves anew to all that yet remains to be done. That is surely our first and heaviest present responsibility, and it can be neither diluted nor dodged. We are starting this new session in the belief that acute problems are looming which place in jeopardy the long and arduous work of our Organization for the achievement of peace and justice in the international community and that solutions to those problems must be found if the Organization's goals and objectives are to be attained.
162.	I should like to refer briefly to the most important of those problems which can be solved only through the participation of all in collective and concerted action.
163.	Until a more healthy and just economy can be guaranteed, it will not be possible for the world to achieve lasting stability and peace. It was therefore encouraging to learn from the declaration of the Heads of State of the principal developed countries at the Downing Street
Summit Conference in London last May that the world economy could only achieve sustained and even growth provided the less industrialized countries participated therein, in so far as the well-being of the developing and the developed is interlinked as world prosperity is a single and indivisible whole. Even a superficial analysis shows, however, that the practical progress achieved during the past year is not consistent with the proposals for reform implicit in those declarations.
164.	In reality, North-South relations continue to be of marginal interest to the advanced countries, except as regards the supply of certain important raw materials, such as petroleum. As Uruguay has pointed out in the past, substantial differences of approach remain, sad they prevent effective progress towards satisfactory solutions.
165.	In the opinion of Uruguay, the North-South dialogue cannot neglect the grave problems of the middle-income developing countries, whose efforts to achieve more satisfactory growth rates and living standards for their populations have been thwarted by recent changes in the world economy, by the reality of international trade bristling with useless barriers, and by the inexcusable lack of financial assistance.
166.	The developing countries—as much as or, indeed, more than any others—stand in need of a properly functioning international system organized on just foundations which will not prejudice their sustained economic growth but will assist them to exploit their own material and human resources.
167.	Uruguay has launched a vigorous effort to open up its economy with a view to overcoming the rigid limitations within the domestic market. It- has accordingly lowered substantially the protective barriers against imports and is at the same time trying to promote exports of manufactured and semi-manufactured products in which it enjoys a competitive advantage; it has achieved conspicuous success with a number of those product lines.
168.	Unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly evident that that effort is running into the strongest opposition, in the form of proliferating and constantly increasing protectionist measures in the principal world markets.
169.	There is much talk about the advantages of free trade. Such proclamations become a mockery when the structure of 'production and trade in a sector of such importance to humanity as agriculture-in which the natural advantages of the developing countries offer the possibility of optimum efficiency levels—is constantly distorted and shackled by the developed countries through a multiplicity of practices, which in effect negates free trade.
170.	Today more than ever the world food problem cannot be solved by stimulating expensive agricultural production in certain developed countries behind tariff and non-tariff barriers, subsidies and support prices, as the need will arise at a later stage to dispose of the agricultural surpluses thus encouraged, through the use of  dumping  prices and even, on occasion, by unilaterally labelling them as development assistance. Instead of alleviating the world food problem, such actions aggravate it by disorganizing markets and by interfering with the growth of the productive capacity of the developing countries in an area in which they have a clear comparative advantage.
171.	While the developing countries are faced with the daily threat of protectionist barriers, the dialectics unleashed within the framework of the North-South dialogue are of little relevance.
172.	The developing countries are seriously handicapped by the present lack of rules which would take proper account of their situation and which would be respected by the industrialized nations. The developed countries are protected by their economic weight against the protectionist designs of their trading partners. Their capacity for retaliation represents an effective deterrent. But this factor is of no help to the great majority of the developing countries which can do little or nothing to defend themselves but nevertheless risk becoming proving-grounds for the protectionist experiments of the developed countries.
173.	Uruguay supports the international organization of production and trade in raw materials in accordance with an integrated programme which would take account of development targets, and also the establishment of a common fund which would serve as a fundamental instrument for achieving those goals.
174.	The restructuring of the world financial system should also be designed to assist development and in particular should make it free from all political considerations, bearing in mind that by their very nature the latter should be kept separate from financial programmes.
175.	The events of recent years have had a serious impact on the developing countries, which have been damaged by the loss of stability in exchange rates and by the abandonment in practice of the prohibition on competitive devaluations, without gaining offsetting advantages from the creation of international liquidity.
176.	The creation of international reserves should correspond to the needs of real, potential and non-inflationary growth of production and world trade; but above all it should serve the overriding objective of stimulating development.
177.	At this point it is relevant to mention that one of the major defects of the North-South dialogue is rooted in the apparently intentional lack of co-operation shown by a substantial group of countries in this particular area.
178.	The problem of development concerns not only the Western world, and attempts to make it appear so must be firmly rejected. The economic structure of the socialist countries does not represent a real obstacle to their participation in efforts to assist development, in the same way as a state monopoly of trade cannot reasonably hinder support to such efforts.
179.	The international community should not accept with passive indifference that one group of nations should adhere to commercial practices in their dealings with the developing countries while, at the same time, justifying severe condemnation of the same practices when applied by market-economy countries.
180.	To the extent that their present commercial practices force the developing countries to remain suppliers of natural raw materials from whom no products containing any added value are purchased, the developed socialist countries are placing obstacles in the way of the development of the industrially less advanced countries and are hurting the living standards of their inhabitants.
181.	There is no question but that drastic action must be taken on such questions as the burden of debt of the developing countries, the maintenance of the purchasing power of their export earnings, as well as in matters of trade, industrialization, agriculture, food, the transfer of technology, the restructuring of raw material markets, the negotiation of the Integrated Programme and the common fund, development assistance and the fight against inflation.
182.	The list of economic questions to which I have just referred makes it imperative that efforts should be continued which will test the efficacy of the present economic system of the United Nations as the principal forum for negotiations in the North-South dialogue.
183.	International terrorism continues to present a grave threat. A few months ago Uruguay took part in the most recent meeting of the Ad Hoc Committee on International Terrorism, and it is a matter of regret that no common political will could be found to face up to this modern scourge of humanity.
184.	As the representative of a country which endured more than its share of terrorist violence and which saw the traditional values of an open, united and democratic society threatened by it, I believe that our Organization should express its collective and most energetic repudiation of such hate-inspired forms of aggression and should encourage universal respect for law and order.
185.	If all nations do not co-operate in the observance of those principles, then disintegration and chaos will rule society with all their terrible consequences, and the United Nations will suffer a severe blow to its prestige, already weakened by the vacillations of many Members, and even by the covert or open support given by others to those who commit terrorist acts.
186.	Even the most noble cause of the liberation of peoples is tainted when recourse is had to certain repugnant forms of violence which, in the main, strike down innocent people, and represent a flagrant violation of human rights and of those other goals and objectives of our Organization which I mentioned earlier.
187.	Uruguay has always been a strong supporter of human rights and, from the early days of the United Nations, has striven to find the most effective means of implementing the provisions of the Charter and of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Uruguay accordingly proposed the establishment of a truly international legal body which would advise on all cases of violations of human rights and would set up a consultative mechanism to prevent unlawful interference or intervention. That proposal, submitted more than 20 years ago, was later taken up by Costa Rica which, using the same principles as a basis, gave it the new form of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Uruguay, together with Costa Rica-known for its clear humanist principles-has continued work on this idea which, although it could not be implemented, nevertheless remains alive, and we give it our renewed support.
188.	Notwithstanding this background, we have in recent years been the object of an international campaign of slander which sought to pervert the meaning of the crisis which beset our country in such a way as to give the impression that the framework of one of the exemplary societies in matters of social justice and respect for human rights had been fundamentally changed.
189.	On that point, I would like to state that Uruguay was forced to carry out a hard struggle against subversion and foreign intervention without the slightest support from even the traditional allies of the free world.
190.	Today the skies are clearing and our Republic is on the road back to full institutional normality following a period when overriding reasons of necessity and emergency forced us to take certain temporary measures as an unavoidable duty of national survival.
191.	We were, and continue to be, the only actors in a drama involving the defence of our national character in which we are not prepared to admit either foreign admonitions or ideas. In the field of human rights we have, with a great effort, maintained a normal dialogue in which we have always played the role of inspirer and active participant.
192.	In maintaining and increasing the degree of protection for human rights-which never lost their force in Uruguay—and in correcting unavoidable short-comings, the members of my Government have the moral support of their own consciences and their incorruptible sense of responsibility.
193.	At the same time Uruguay takes a firm stand of principle against the politicization of the issue of human rights and is opposed to any attempt-no matter from what quarter-to employ it as an excuse for interference in the internal affairs of States and, in particular, in their political process or as a form of aggression against their sovereignty, independence or integrity.
194.	Full respect for fundamental human rights and liberties must be completely independent of the internal procedures of States and of systems they may have found it necessary to adopt within the limits of their respective sovereignty.
195.	Protection for those rights and liberties represents an international obligation of binding character and therefore, under international law, it is the responsibility of every State, within the area of its exclusive authority, to adopt such measures as it may find appropriate to implement its international obligations in this as in any other matter.
196.	Uruguay also categorically confirms its traditional principles in so far as it does not accept discrimination- whether racial or otherwise—no matter what reasons are used in justification or in what regions they may be practised.
197.	The difficult situation in the Middle East is a matter of special concern to my Government as its excessive prolongation threatens peace and international security.
198.	My delegation has taken the opportunity of expressing Uruguay's views on this problem during other sessions of the General Assembly, and I would like to repeat these today.
199.	From a purely legal point of view, it is clear that military victory confers no rights and, still less, territorial rights. Accordingly, the community of nations accepts the principle that each has the right to live in peace, within secure and recognized borders, enjoying respect for its existence, sovereignty, integrity and independence.
200.	In any examination of the over-all problem of the Middle East, account must be taken, both on political and human grounds, of the fate of the Palestinian people, and formulas must be found within the framework of the peace negotiations which will secure their legitimate aspirations.
201.	We believe that those directly interested should, as soon as possible, negotiate appropriate and just understandings based on the principles of international law with a view to finding a comprehensive solution to this question, so that finally a fully adequate peace agreement can be achieved in this area.
202.	The agenda of the present session contains more than 20 items on disarmament, on which the General Assembly has in the past expressed its views.
203.	It seems to us that the peoples of the world are under the impression that disarmament is exclusively a subject for rhetoric which they support as a matter of course as a. worthy cause, whereas the reality is that, with the passage of time and contrary to what might be hoped, armaments of an increasingly sophisticated and deadly nature are escalating in all regions of the globe.
204.	For a variety of reasons, vast amounts of the incomes of States and -the resources of mankind are poured into the stockpiling of means of destruction, while millions of human beings are dying in the streets for lack of food and while others exist in subhuman conditions for lack of proper integral development.
205.	It is urgently necessary in this field as in others to achieve solid results which will not only serve to maintain international peace and security but will permit us to continue to speak with moral authority and to rely upon the confidence of our peoples on an item so perverted by reality.
206.	If within the framework of known strategic concepts the maintenance of international peace and security has hitherto depended on an equilibrium of force or power of an assumed permanence dictated by the technical and 
scientific advances of our era, it is surely time to buttress this equilibrium with more solid support, while renouncing—in a sincere and tangible form—all designs aimed at domination, conquest and political expansion. Such a course of action would not only have favourable repercussions on the different items which together represent the field of disarmament but it would also free vast potential resources in every country of the world, for the creation of entire societies-more just and happier in character-to the benefit of peoples and the whole of humanity.
207.	Our Organization is at present making preparations for the special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, to which we, as a small nation, give special importance.
208.	In this regard I wish to reaffirm the function of law as a fundamental factor in the agreements which are to be studied and adopted next year. I speak not only of law as an abstract; technical formula but also of its essential corollary: the implementation of international justice through its highest tribunal, the International Court of Justice.
209.	Uruguay has repeatedly confirmed its international role, which has always been based on those principles and, more than 50 years ago, it was the first country to accept without reservations the jurisdiction of the then Permanent Court of International Justice. Faithful to those principles,  my country will strive to ensure that the Court is given the primary function of resolving the problems which will flow from future agreements in the field of disarmament.
210.	I have already referred to many important matters which, in our opinion, still require to be faced or resolved if we are to achieve a just and peaceful international community, but I would be ignoring the realities of the international situation if I failed to mention the positive steps which have been taken by Member States in the pursuit of the known and well-defined purposes of our Organization in the field of the peaceful settlement of disputes and the revision of treaties sanctifying unjust situations. I am referring in particular to the Treaties on the Panama Canal, recently agreed upon between a brother country of Latin America and the United States of America.
211.	My Government takes particular pleasure in the agreement reached between the parties in so far as—with the blessing of the whole international community—it has brought to an end one of the historical disputes of this hemisphere, as was also the case with the Treaty on the River Plate between my country and the Argentine Republic. Faith in dialogue between States, in peaceful solutions and in justice has thus been reconfirmed.
212.	We hope that other pending questions will soon be resolved, such as the granting of access to the sea to Bolivia, the situation in the Malvinas and the question of Belize.
213.	My Government attaches special importance to the forthcoming seventh session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and believes that it represents a decisive step in the process of building the new juridical order which will regulate the activities of States.
214.	My Government also attaches particular importance to the establishment of the exclusive economic zone and the new institution to be established under the law of the sea. This will not follow the classic pattern, as the area in question is neither territorial sea nor high sea and is therefore to be placed under a special legal system.
215.	I should like to emphasize that any text which hopes to be successful must be based on the sui generis nature of the exclusive economic zone. This special juridical character represents the fair balance between all the legitimate rights and interests involved.
216.	The coexistence of sovereign rights and exclusive jurisdiction, on the one hand, and of liberties and related rights, on the other, calls for a special system in which both groups of interest must be given clear guarantees, with a precise distribution of the related residuary rights; this system must completely clarify this new formulation of the sovereignty-liberty equation, always within the framework of basic institutions of the law of the sea.
217.	The integrated text for purposes of negotiation which was put together during the sixth session of the Conference, without prejudice to the reservations called for by certain of its provisions, represents an acceptable basis for continuing negotiations towards the conclusion of a draft convention.
218.	Having said that, I would like to repeat that it is the decision of my Government to encourage the building of peaceful order on the oceans.
219.	I hope that the concrete examples I have cited will serve as a stimulus and as a source of inspiration in the future as we face the serious problems menacing the international community. Some of them call for speedy clarification. I am referring in particular to such problems as international subversion and terrorism, racial discrimination, the international economic order and the situations which have developed in the Middle East and in southern Africa.
220.	If, as I believe, we continue to have sufficient will to maintain international peace and security, we must confront those problems immediately, in all sincerity and understanding, remembering that mankind, notwithstanding differences, is, in our era, increasingly reluctant to tolerate injustice in any form.
221.	Before leaving this rostrum, allow me to express the sentiments of the Uruguayan people by paraphrasing the words of our illustrious Rodo: I leave here my ardent prayer that the symbol of the United Nations will rise in ever more serene skies; that its splendour will illuminate ever purer glories, ever wiser laws, ever more abundant crops, more freedom and greater happiness; and that, shedding its light on the permanent harmony which flows from love and justice, it will maintain for current and future generations of humanity a better, more beautiful and a greater order than any that the world has hitherto seen form and dissolve as the centuries roll on.
 



===== Session 33 - 1978 =====
﻿



1.	First of all may I congratulate you, Sir, as a representative of Latin America and Colombia, a country of noble traditions and respect for the rule of law and international understanding, on your unanimous election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. We are sure that you will be as successful in directing our work as you were at the head of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of your country.
2.	To the outgoing President, Mr. Lazar Mojsov of Yugoslavia, we express our congratulations and gratitude.
3.	The sad news .from Vatican City this morning, which has caused such deep consternation, impels me to make, use of my presence at this rostrum to extend our deepest condolences to the Holy See through Archbishop Giovanni Cheli, its Permanent Observer to the United Nations, on the death of His Holiness John Paul I.
4.	Today we welcome with satisfaction the admission of Solomon Islands as a new Member of the United Nations.
5.	Uruguay is aware of its position and responsibilities in the international arena. We know that the world is undergoing a period of transition and a crisis of values, an age in which the acceleration and diversification of every relationship, be it cultural, political, economic, or technical, make our planet a one-way circuit, where no one can ignore anyone else's fate.
6.	Interdependence and, consequently, solidarity, which, after all, are the only valid answers, have ceased to be an option and have become a necessity and an imperative need. Therefore, and although it could be argued that the world's fate and the solution of its great political problems depend partly on an agreement and the goodwill of the world Powers, we must be concerned with everything that happens for we have not only the right but the duty to put forward our opinion and contribute with our thoughts to the search for rational solutions.
7.	The change from an age characterized by the existence of a plurality, of States and centres of Power living in relative isolation, where the framework of political, economic and legal options covered a wide range of possibilities, to an age of increasing interdependence and unavoidable solidarity is not carried out without conflicts and pain.
8.	We should always bear in mind when we think and when we act that respect for national individuality should run parallel to the fundamental notion of equal participation by all peoples and regions in the production and enjoyment of our planet's resources.
9.	Uruguay considers that in this complex labyrinth of conflict, aspirations and claims, the rule of law is the landmark and the essential requirement for any progress as such;, namely, that which ensures and promotes the reign of civilization and peace and a full and dignified life for all individuals, peoples and nations.
10.	Uruguay respects the rule of law including, naturally, human rights, and has a long and deep tradition in our laws and practices that constitutes an essential and indispensable part of our profile as a national community. That is why at this session of the General Assembly, which commemorates the thirtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the delegation of Uruguay emphatically reaffirms its respect for and adherence and obedience to norms that undoubtedly constitute a fundamental stage in the long march of mankind towards the realization of its aspirations, takes part in the celebration of the anniversary with full conviction, and sincerely desires that human rights become an authentic and living reality the world over.
11.	My country has given special attention to the question of disarmament. This is a question that must engage very specially the efforts of our Organization. That is why at the tenth special session of the General Assembly our delegation joined its efforts with those of other delegations which, like ours, sincerely desire the., achievement of satisfactory solutions. The results obtained thus far should be encouraging for they augur well for a future agreement, the importance of which cannot be ignored.
12.	While one of the primary goals of international law is the maintenance of peace, its fundamental requirement is obviously general and complete disarmament. The staggering figures involved in armament transactions in themselves show with sufficient eloquence the gravity of the armaments problem and remind us of a reality which is sad and depressing, for it constitutes a negation of the noble and still theoretical goal of disarmament.
13.	We cannot but refer to international terrorism, that ruthless form of violence that threatens the right to life, freedom and tranquillity of all citizens, especially in those countries which enjoy a free and liberal legal regime. It must be stressed that terrorism implies the most brutal trampling underfoot of human rights and that no terrorist can ever shield himself behind such rights in order to justify his actions.
14.	Uruguay has undergone a tragic experience in confronting terrorism and subversion, against which it had to defend itself energetically. The country has learned a hard lesson and will not accept a repetition of the situation under the pretext of respect for the human rights of those who ignore any right, to the detriment, precisely, of the prerogatives, attributes and dignity of those law-abiding citizens who cherish liberty and freedom and scrupulously respect the juridical order as the supreme guarantor of peaceful coexistence.
15.	Furthermore, it cannot be accepted that human rights can be invoked for political ends, transforming the so-called defence of those rights into an instrument of aggression and intervention, especially when this is promoted by those countries with a record of intolerant and authoritarian international behaviour.
16.	The United Nations has tried year after year to find appropriate means of combating international terrorism. Uruguay is a member of the Committee appointed by this Assembly to find solutions to this question  and we should like to stress, once again, our disenchantment with the lack of specific results. My delegation would like to insist once again on the adoption of collective measures against terrorism, trusting that such measures will cover all its excesses and aberrations, a subject to which there was very fittingly special .reference in the report of the Secretary- General on the work of the Organization.
17.	Furthermore, we have publicly expressed our support for the recent statement adopted at the Bonn Economic Summit Conference, which we consider as a serious attempt to combat some very important aspects of international violence.  Similarly, we shall continue to provide assistance in the work of this Assembly aimed at drafting a convention on the taking of hostages.
18.	Our country favours the adoption of comprehensive and far-reaching measures to combat terrorism and to this end has presented concrete proposals, being acutely conscious of the difficulties and obstructionism in this connexion caused by certain sectors of the international community.
19.	Uruguay attaches special significance to the next session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, to be convened during 1979, at which the decision-making stage will have to be reached.
20.	Unfortunately, this year the work of the Conference was influenced by the crisis surrounding the presidency. We repeat on this occasion the reservations of a legal and political nature expressed at the time by the delegation of Uruguay with reference to the decision adopted by the
Conference, which ignored the terms of the rules of procedure and the general principle of international negotiation according to which a diplomatic conference made up of the representatives of States cannot be presided over by someone acting in a personal capacity, or, in other words, without a mandate and not representing one of the participating Governments.
21.	The expectations of all the peoples and Governments of the world concerning the development of the negotiations on the law of the sea, which have already lasted five years, cannot be indefinitely postponed. The feeling of frustration that this would create would be most harmful to the attainment of the vital goal of establishing a new legal order that would be an authentic guarantee of peaceful coexistence with regard to the seas, mutual respect for the sovereignty of all, full recognition of the rights and obligations of all States, the protection of the marine environment, the rational exploitation of its resources and effective administration of the common heritage of mankind.
22.	We are now reaching the final stage of informal negotiations.
23.	Finally, the Conference should concentrate its efforts on the attainment of compromise formulas conducive to the settlement of those important questions which are still pending, and avoid the insistent and stubborn presentation of amendments to those parts of the informal composite negotiating texts which was so long and arduously discussed and so carefully balanced, and which reflects a generally acceptable basis for agreement.
24.	We particularly emphasize that any text not originating in the concept of a status sui generis for the exclusive economic zone has no possibility of success. The juridical sui generis nature of the exclusive economic zone-that is, as a part neither of the territorial sea nor of the high seas—represents the true balance of all legitimate rights and interests involved and expresses the true characteristics of an institution already in the realm of international common law.
25.	We also consider that the establishment of the outer limit of the continental shelf in those cases where this extends beyond 200 nautical miles from the base line from which the width of the territorial sea is measured >s one of the most important questions among those that are pending, and that in this respect the formula advanced by Ireland  and supported by a large majority of States participating in the Conference represents an acceptable compromise, since it has a scientific basis and offers a juridically viable and politically realistic solution.
26.	We should like also to reaffirm the applicability of the Declaration of Principles Governing the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor, and the Subsoil Thereof, beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction, contained in General Assembly resolution 2749 (XXV), and especially the principle that the sea-bed and ocean floor beyond the limits of national
jurisdiction are the common heritage of mankind, thus constituting one of the bed-rocks of the new law of the sea as well as its main corollary, the international legal regime governing the sea-bed.
27.	We also reaffirm the applicability of resolution 2574 D (XXIV) concerning a moratorium on the exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed, strict compliance with which is a necessary condition, from the ethical and juridical points of view, of any honest negotiation on the establishment of the international regime, including the international authority for the sea-bed. Therefore Uruguay is deeply concerned at the attitude of certain States which seek the unilateral adoption of national legislation to govern the exploitation of the resources of the sea-bed beyond national jurisdiction. That legislation and the actions initiated under its protection violate the above-mentioned General Assembly resolutions and, therefore, are contrary to international law and devoid of any legal value.
28.	Faced with these threatening prospects and the difficulties still confronting the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, Uruguay expresses the earnest hope that in the end common sense and the spirit of international co-operation will prevail. In this spirit, my country reiterates its sincere readiness to help to establish among all States and peoples on earth a true order of justice, peace and mutual and fruitful co-operation in the seas.
29.	Together with these major issues of a general nature to which we have referred and which affect international politics as a whole, there are several concrete problems of specific significance because of the principles involved and their obvious or latent danger to peace. Because of their importance they should be faced in the most fair, equitable and restrained manner possible, for only in this way will we be able to arrive at a more efficient pattern of action.
30.	One of the oldest and most bitter problems is that of the Middle East. Its origins go back to the-earliest days of the United Nations and the partition of the territory of Palestine.
31.	The delegation of Uruguay has argued, and still argues, that all conflict can and should be resolved through dialogue and negotiation, in the light of the principles of justice and the precepts of the Charter.
32.	We consider that Israel, born as a State through a resolution of our Organization, is an irreversible reality and that its right to exist as such demands the recognition of safe and secure borders.
33.	My delegation also considers,- in accordance with the principles guiding the thought and philosophy of Uruguay, „ that the Palestinian people have a right to self-determination, namely, to the recognition of their individuality and autonomy in the international arena, and consequently
to form a free and sovereign State.
34.	It is because of all the foregoing that Uruguay views with satisfaction the steps taken and the ones being taken in this direction and enthusiastically supports the efforts being made in the international arena to bring the parties
involved closer to a fruitful understanding which will put an end to this situation.
35.	In the specific case of Namibia, our delegation considers that the Namibian people can and must accede to independence, and that there should not be any kind of foreign pressures involved.
36.	The last great problem of a general political nature that we should like to mention here is that of racism, and specifically apartheid.
37.	The policy of Uruguay on this question is too well known to require a detailed explanation. My country has been and is against all forms of racial discrimination and will support those measures adopted by the United Nations to combat this remnant of colonial barbarity as long as the means to do so are compatible with the legal principles of the Charter.
38.	Discrimination has become historically untenable, and we see no reason why an understandable but misplaced impatience should encourage resort to blind and indiscriminate violence that will make it impossible in the future for the different groups to coexist peacefully and harmoniously.
39.	On another subject, the environment crisis, with the dangerous deterioration of ecosystems, the accelerated extinction of animal species, the rapid exhaustion of natural resources, the insurmountable advance of desertification and the extremely disquieting pollution of all the living environment, is not an accident unconnected with the general crisis we are experiencing. The key to the success of our efforts lies in achieving the adjustment and adaptability that can reconcile man with nature.
40.	As regards this question, my delegation supports the report of-'the Governing Council of UNEP, whose detailed study [Aj33/25] we shall present to this Assembly. We consider that this is a high-priority item and trust that the implementation of the projected programme will not be subjected to delays and difficulties of any kind.
41.	We consider that the adoption of measures aimed at stopping the process of soil erosion is especially urgent. The gravity of this problem was stressed by the United Nations Conference on Desertification, held in Nairobi in August of last year.10
42.	These questions are, furthermore, very closely related to the food problem, which is one of the most distressing problems confronting the world today.
43.	Uruguay must express its special concern at the situation of the world economy, and especially the position of the developing countries, which are most seriously affected by this crisis. All the achievements of this institution would be seriously challenged if the increasing needs of the developing countries were not to be met.
44.	The industrialized countries must realize that world economic interdependence is not a one-way affair. If the needs of the developing countries are not met, the acquisition of wealth could easily be jeopardized. The prosperity of the industrialized countries depends on the efficient use of production factors. If that use is perverted by the adoption of protectionist measures against manufactures and similar measures against food products coming from the developing countries, the ones to suffer in the long run will be the industrialized countries, especially their consumers, who will have to pay unrealistic prices for products which their own countries cannot produce at comparable prices.
45.	' We should face courageously the problems of structure and circumstance that beset us: the increase of protectionist trends in the developed countries, the slowing down of the North-South dialogue and the existing world inflationary situation.
46.	My country is deeply preoccupied with the increase of protectionism on the part of the industrialized countries, since the prejudicial effects of this affect us directly. It is evident that this type of protectionist measure constitutes the greatest obstacle to a healthy development of international trade and a rational mobility of production factors, and is also a grave impediment to progress towards a new international economic order.
47.	For this reason we cannot but stress the serious repercussions in the international field of the barring of beef imports by the European Economic Community, a measure which, although applied in the middle of 1974, following the new rules adopted by the Community, has since 1 April 1977 had serious practical consequences.
48.	Furthermore, my country, which is not a producer of oil, was seriously affected by the oil crisis, not only directly because of the increase in price, but also indirectly because the nations more seriously affected, such as Uruguay, were also barred from exporting those commodities which traditionally carry the most weight with industrialized buyers, since the recession they were suffering served as a pretext to strengthen their protectionist barriers. All this was aggravated by competition from other markets because of the subsidies policies applied by the developed countries, which has led to a drop in price's and consequently affected our ability to compete.
49.	Attention should be especially drawn to the so-called "voluntary agreements" through which quantitative restrictions are placed on imports, disregarding the clear decisions contained in international trade agreements to benefit developing countries. This is why we look forward to the neutralization of these tendencies through the fruitful results of the multilateral trade negotiations, as well as UNCTAD's Integrated Programme of Commodities.
50.	The slowing down of the North-South dialogue discourages us, a feeling which is increased by the limited implementation of the resolutions of the sixth and seventh special sessions and the suspension of the work of the Committee of the Whole'2 oil economic questions.
51.	One of the fundamental tasks of this Assembly will be to define clearly the terms of reference of the Committee, so as to make it the central co-ordinating organ of the over-all United Nations system dealing with economic questions. Through this organ the North-South dialogue could be channelled and promoted within the United Nations.
52.	In order to function as it should, that Committee must negotiate guidelines on problems of general policy, as well as agreements on pending problems that have been fundamentally related to international economic co-operation. The results of these negotiations will take the form of action-oriented conclusions and will provide a framework for this to be initiated by the competent bodies.
53.	The inflation affecting the main international currency has a serious impact on the developing countries, and makes it essential to find solutions to this financial problem.
54.	The erratic fluctuation of exchange rates is one of the inhibiting factors in international trade. If we have to face factors limiting trade it will be difficult to recover from the present recession.
55.	The consequent uncertainty about export prices is something which discourages investment, and if any two things are closely connected they are the rate of investment and the rate of growth of the gross national product.
56.	Uncertainty about exchange rates is an inflationary factor in itself. The producers and exporters try to protect themselves against losses by marking up their stock of products.
57.	Monetary uncertainty also affects the long-term or slow-yield investments such as investments in major industrial plants.
58.	The developing countries are doubly affected by the drop in value of the dollar. In the first place they import inflation and in the second place the value of their exports in terms of a stable currency is also affected, increasing the cost of inputs they must import.
59.	My country views with satisfaction the constructive results of the United Nations Conference on Technical Co-operation among Developing Countries, recently concluded in Buenos Aires with the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action being submitted for consideration by this Assembly.
60.	We look forward to the approval and rapid implementation of this Plan of Action within the United Nations economic system. We also look forward to the prompt implementation by all States here of the undertakings entered into in Buenos Aires, which introduce into international economic relations the fruitful concept of cooperation among developing countries. We are convinced that these commitments constitute an important instrument for the establishment of a new international economic order and also open the door to better understanding among all the peoples on earth.
61.	We should not like to close this statement without making reference to the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization [A]33/1]. We must admit to being greatly impressed by its frankness, objectivity and outstanding precision in its treatment of the various topics it discusses. It likewise brings out clearly the enormous task faced by the services in charge of the functioning of this Organization. We therefore wish to congratulate the Secretary-General and, through him, the United Nations staff members.
In conclusion, we should like to express our faith, virtually religious faith, in the final advent of peace to the world, in the eradication of poverty and in the development of a solid and efficient United Nations system which enjoys the trust and support of its Member nations and wins respect for the wise and good principles of the Charter.


===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿I should like to begin by congratulating Mr. Salim on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly, in which office, we are sure, he will act with the same skill as in the high offices he has held in his own country in the past.
280.	We are pleased also to extend our congratulations and thanks for a job well done to the outgoing President, Mr. Indalecio Lievano.
281.	We welcome the admission of Saint Lucia to the United Nations family and wish it well as a new Member of the Organization.
282.	The major historical crises that mark stages of transition and announce world-wide change in the progress of humanity and wide ranging transformations in every sphere do not come about in a day. It is true that change and exchange of every kind are following more closely upon each other's heels today. But the processes involved none the less, of necessity, cover a long period. Hence, in coming together again in this world body, we are basically facing the same major difficulties as last year. Therefore, it is hard not to repeat the same or similar ideas. This does not bother us, because our job is not to be original but rather to be firm and constant in identifying and showing the consistency of the thinking and action of Uruguay in international affairs.
283.	My country feels that the tremendous acceleration in every kind of exchange and the greater interdependency of peoples which gives the concept of mankind its real, concrete meaning and unity, with most important legal and political consequences, is such that today it is practically impossible for any people to live outside the international community, much less to develop and make progress, in isolation from the difficulties and problems of others.
284.	'' Splendid isolation'' is no longer a shield or even a possibility. Interdependence has ceased to be a choice and, consequently, solidarity has become an imperative, as we said last year.  It is an idea which we wish to reaffirm and one which we shall not tire of repeating. We are deeply convinced that it is from this undeniable fact, seen as part of contemporary history, that is derived the fundamental role of peoples and nations which, while having no large economic or technical resources, no material potential for imposing decisions by force, are none the less rich in cultural and legal values.
285.	Isolation is no longer a shield, we said. It seems clear, with no need for further demonstration, that not even the great Powers can allow themselves that luxury. To a great extent the future and peace of all peoples depend on their rivalry and antagonism or on their agreement and co-operation. But not even they have the option of a selfish turning inward, in indifference to the fate of the world. There will be no peace and no recovery for the international community as a whole unless the pressing problems of all its members, even the lesser among them, are resolved; unless there is a fair share for all in the riches of the world,
286.	'In today's world, which has already become or. may become one single immense economic, technical, cultural circuit because of a system of communications which is more and more closely knit, no one—and the small countries least of all—can feel safe from political, social, economic or military hurricanes if they take the easy option of isolation. Only through constantly strengthening and consolidating the international legal order, following the guidelines traced by the great changes taking place throughout the world—changes that have promoted population growth and the amazing technological devolution of our time—can the problems, obstacles and challenges we are facing be met. Our era has been marked by particularly striking developments and has made an axiom of Terence's aphorism: "I am a man, I count nothing human alien from me." Nothing human can now be alien to us, whether we like it or not. Solidarity is no longer a choice but an imperative. It involves not only peace, but the survival of the human race for which, in the atomic era, peace is a necessary prerequisite.
287.	In proclaiming these principles, my country is merely expressing once again its historical line of thought, the logical development of which leads us to maintain that the radical changes in the modem world determine a need for legal developments and the preparation of humanistic international law, based on solidarity.
288.	The world crisis which we are witnessing calls for a supreme effort of the imagination and will in order to find world-wide solutions.
289.	At the root of all contemporary problems lie the haphazard development of technology, the chaotic expansion of industry and the economy, the unequal and unfair distribution of the benefits of civilization among peoples, oversized urban agglomerations with their attendant tensions, and problems deriving from the lack of adjustment of a regulatory system that is still inadequate to meet the situation to a material reality that is slipping out of our grasp.
290.	Among the critical aspects, one problem such as energy, because of its magnitude and its special characteristics, gives the clearest illustration of these ideas, since on the one hand it is highly representative of the exhaustion of natural resources while, on the other, it is typically an economic problem with deep- rooted social and political connotations. 
291.	We firmly believe that the key to overcoming the current crisis lies in successfully regulating our conduct through laws appropriate to the new requirements of the contemporary world, an adjustment that necessarily implies reconciliation between man and nature. That move can only be achieved through untiring efforts to establish a new international economic order, through dialogue and mutual respect, and the equitable participation of all peoples in the production and use of the earth's resources.
292.	As part of the world crisis we have mentioned, today habits of violence, hatred and cruelty are gradually gaining ground, becoming part of the political customs of all societies, both of those with a long tradition of institutional development and political maturity, and of those that recently emerged from the shadows of colonialism. This violence, this blind inhuman terrorism that usually prefers innocent victims, bears no relation to legitimate rebellion, which to some extent has promoted the institutional progress of peoples.
293.	Terrorism has emerged and prospered also in societies governed by democratic institutions, where there is respect for individual liberties, civil rights and civic guarantees. These societies are not without their defects, errors and limitations, but at the same time they do offer means and machinery for improvement. Meanwhile, in those societies where systematic terror has been used, where every trace of freedom and free will has been banished, where the totalitarian State has abolished every advance so hardly won over centuries of humanism, paradoxically and symptomatically this problem does not arise.
294.	In this tragedy, human rights are of necessity affected. It is very hard to defend institutions, the life and peace of citizens without violent situations arising which entail an incidental loss of law and abuses imputable to the more than natural failings of men and institutions.
295.	I am referring in general to our Western societies because it would be very easy to show that similar situations have arisen in all of them lasting varying lengths of time and proving serious to a greater or lesser degree. And I am referring more particularly to my own country, wickedly caught by subversive acts of aggression, while a most legal regime is in full force.
2%. My country cannot accept, because it would run counter to justice and law, that the defence of human rights should be systematically invoked against Governments of countries which have had to wage a hard and dearly-won battle against subversion and anarchy, while the trampling of those same rights or complete lack of them, as is the norm in other countries, is passed over in silence. These are calculated and censurable instances of discrimination which, in the final analysis, amount to active interference.
297.	At this thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly, as at previous ones, Uruguay reaffirms its respect for law, including human rights. My country wants to see these more genuinely enforced throughout the world until they are a fact of life, something which is an impossible dream for millions of people who are still held down by totalitarianism today.
298.	For this sentiment to be more than a mere expression of pious wishes, the international community will have to set up the proper legal machinery and impose concomitant attitudes in world public affairs so as to avoid the criminal practices which cast a shadow on the political struggle of our time, so that terrorism in all its pseudo-political forms can be fought. These are often confused with ordinary delinquency.
299.	Uruguay has been part of the Ad Hoc Committee on International Terrorism set up by the Assembly to find solutions by arbitration, and we are disappointed at that Committee's failure. My country will support all collective measures put forward to combat this modern scourge, since we trust that these will cover every aspect and modality, and will take into account its real criminal etiology and its international character. Similarly, I reiterate support for General Assembly resolution 31/103 and say yet again that we are ready to sign a convention against the taking of hostages in so far as this meets the basic principles underlying our international calling.
300.	We would like to see appropriate measures adopted to combat terrorism. We have submitted specific draft resolutions in this regard although we are aware of the difficulties of arriving at objective legal solutions. None the less it is to our satisfaction that two motions tabled by Uruguay have been adopted. One deals with the need for gathering sufficient statistical information about terrorist attacks at the world level, giving both the number and kind of victims and the material damage caused. The other is about the strengthening of measures to prevent access to various United Nations offices by terrorist elements. It is really regrettable that criminals should have the opportunity of hampering the process of drawing up international rules expressly designed to curb their crimes, with the tolerance of the very institution that seeks to condemn them and for which, in some instances, they serve as a source of information and advice.
301.	Another topic of particular interest to my country is disarmament, which is not only important in itself as a practical outcome of the fundamental purpose to maintain peace, but also because undeniably it has environmental and economic connotations. Paradoxically, of late, particularly in the years of the Disarmament Decade, the arms race has become more intense than ever before. Without stopping to count the cost of unconventional weapons, the mind-boggling total of the arms trade alone is sufficient to explain the growing lack of transfer of resources to the developing countries—a matter which we shall take up later.
302.	My country has neither the size, the pretensions or the resources of a great Power, but nevertheless feels rightfully concerned at this frenetic arms race. Not only because of the recurrence of local wars or of the threat to world peace involved in the arms race, but because of the anomalous fact that, while we are witnessing the growth of serious social problems in various parts of the world, and we see with regret that funds essential to protect the environment or to promote the harmonious development of peoples are not forthcoming, astronomical sums, a tiny part of which would be enough to resolve many of these problems, are wasted on stockpiling huge arsenals, the use of which would mean mass suicide for mankind.
303.	It is very saddening to see the great divide between reality and theory, between what is said and what is done. Disarmament is something which people have come apprehensively to regard as merely rhetorical. It is a game, a rarified dialectical diversion, and that is very serious.
304.	We should like to reaffirm here our desire, and our conviction of the need to approach this problem realistically and with serious intent, and that is what we should like to see done. Partial compromises can be tried, and there can be categorical denunciation of any form of biological warfare which destroys or poisons ecological systems or alters the climate.
305.	We are confident that those who have not already done so will soon accede to or ratify the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco). If the world cannot be rid of the atomic nightmare at a single stroke, at least regional agreements of this kind can help to achieve the same results through partial efforts and modest measures.
306.	With regard to the deterioration of the environment, and the need for conservation to ensure survival of life on this planet—something I have already mentioned in a general way—my country unreservedly endorses the report of the Governing Council of UNEP which will be examined in detail in the Second Committee. Particularly important are the resolutions on land policy of which the Uruguayan delegation was a sponsor in Nairobi at the seventh session of the Governing Council of UNEP—the resolution on tropical forest conservation and others directly relating to food production sources. My country, in any international gathering in which it has participated, has stressed the very highest priority and importance of a land policy which would ensure the conservation of existing land and the recovery, as far as possible, of land damaged by erosion due to bad farming methods and deforestation. The mere setting up of a World Food Council and a fund for the programme of action to eliminate hunger and malnutrition will have no substantial practical effect if the source of agricultural production deteriorates, as FAO has eloquently demonstrated.
307.	This year was proclaimed the International Year of the Child. Children are the most pure and most vulnerable part of humanity, more deserving of attention and concern because they are the future, the continuing link, our hope for the future. The physical and spiritual health of our children is the guarantee of salvation for mankind in the years to come. The world of today offers us little comfort if we look realistically at the situation of children. Of the great masses of people in the so-called developing world who live and eat badly, it is the children who will pay the highest price for the problems, the adults of tomorrow, who will bear the consequences of the shortages of today. It is all very well to proclaim this the International Year of the Child as a means of drawing attention to children's problems and the need to resolve them, but we would be sadly mistaken if we were to believe that we should thus have dealt with the matter and exhausted all possibility of action. The solutions found for the major problems of the contemporary world will determine the fate of children today and of the children of tomorrow. The building of a more just and equitable world economy, the legal regulation of a world of self-seeking individualism and violence, halting the race to destroy the environment—these are the things which will decide the fate of the children, to whom we have dedicated this year in a gesture which we should like to see as something more than the empty symbol of academic considerations. Children are not a different species whose problems have to be treated as a separate issue. By resolving the major problems of the day we will prepare a better world for them. In this spirit, Uruguay has acceded to the declaration of the International Year of the Child and is carrying out a broad-based campaign about it at the national level.
308.	Once again my delegation wishes to declare here its total rejection of apartheid as well as all forms of racism and racial discrimination, which we hold to be incompatible with the fundamental principles of our political and moral thinking. This position is not a new one, and it is not a stand we have taken suddenly. My country has forcefully maintained this view since the inception of the United Nations and the beginning of the process of decolonization.
309.	Faithful to its convictions, Uruguay is party to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and was the first country to accept the authority thereby created to receive individual communications and complaints. Despite the fact that there is no problem of discrimination in our country, the Government recently submitted to the Legislative Commission studying the new penal code, soon to be approved, designed to prevent and punish any incitement to racism or any act of racial discrimination. Thus Uruguay, as a State party to the Convention, is taking steps to carry out the aforementioned international agreement.
310.	Besides the broad general matters that have a bearing on international policy, there are several practical problems that are of great significance in the sphere of principles or a serious threat to peace.
311.	One of the most long-lasting and thorny problems is that of the Middle East, or the question of Palestine. The passage of time, instead of bringing calm and solutions, has seen the problem become more acute since no solution has been found to the plight of the Palestinian people who are guests of other Arab nations or refugees supported by international charity.
312.	Uruguay has always maintained that any conflict must be resolved by means of dialogue and negotiation in the light of the principles of justice and healthy inter-national coexistence. It considers that Israel is already an irreversible fact and that it has a right to exist and to the recognition of just and secure boundaries. But, consistent with the principles that have always underpinned its legal thinking and political philosophy, it also reels that the Palestinian people have a right to self- determination, to a national territory and to statehood. Therefore it views with satisfaction the steps taken along these lines and warmly supports the efforts being made in the international arena to bring the parties closer to an understanding that would put an end to the deadlock so fraught with danger for the peace of the world. While my country welcomes as a positive Step forward the agreements that have been reached, it must still say with deep concern that that does not mean that finally there is peace in the region, because that is inconceivable without a complete and open-hearted agreement that will reconcile the parties on the basis of equality, mutual respect and recognition.
313.	The long suffering of Lebanon, a nation dear to us for many reasons, is clear proof that peace is not possible in that thorny and difficult area of the world unless the principles of justice are applied, and those still seem far from being unanimously accepted.
314.	We once again issue our country's appeal— which has been so favourably received in the past—and reaffirm the responsibility of the international community to find, within the United Nations, definitive practical solutions that will ensure the integrity of this people, which has such wonderful traditions and culture, and guarantee its right to live in peace.
315.	With reference to the elimination of the vestiges of the colonial past, my country cannot fail to reaffirm its unswerving policy of support for the self- determination of peoples.
316.	In the case of Namibia, my delegation feels that the people of this former colony must have the opportunity to attain independence through the exercise of self-determination—in other words, without outside pressure of any kind, in a climate of peace, with the guarantee of temporary administration by the United Nations, which would enable its citizens to decide on the political form they want and to elect their authorities.
317.	The work of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea has now entered its final stage and is to end next year. We must prove those protracted and difficult negotiations worthwhile by adopting a convention that will give future generations a peaceful regime for the oceans based on equal legal protection of the legitimate interests of all States and the international community as a whole and on just and rational exploitation of the sea and its resources, on efficient and proper administration of the common heritage of mankind, and on an effective system for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
318.	Compromise formulas to resolve outstanding issues must be found in order to attain these fundamental goals.
319.	The recent eighth session of the Conference took a tremendously important step forward when it included in the first revision of the informal composite negotiating text a formula on the definition of the outer limit of the continental shelf that takes into account in a balanced way the various criteria advanced during the Conference. My delegation supported that formula in a spirit of compromise, and it will continue to make every effort to ensure that the other pending issues relating to the continental shelf may be resolved appropriately.
320.	However, we are concerned over certain attempts to weaken in practice the regime of consent by the coastal States for scientific research on the continental shelf. The delegation of Uruguay has declared its willingness to co-operate in negotiating formulas that would improve the text from a technical standpoint or offer better prospects for consensus. But that is not the aim of suggestions that mean breaking with the principle of consent for scientific research in areas under the jurisdiction of the coastal State or that destroy the logic of the system already included in the composite text after difficult negotiations.
321.	We naturally take a special interest in the work of the First Committee of the Conference concerning the sea-bed and ocean floor beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. In that Committee negotiations have come up against major obstacles at recent sessions when there has been a polarization of positions. However, we note with satisfaction the progress made with regard to the machinery of the Authority and the system for exploration and exploitation, and we hope that the progress that emerged at the last session on the transfer of technology and financial agreements—a matter of high priority—will be confirmed. We are also pleased by the effective steps taken in negotiations on the settlement of disputes concerning the sea-bed and on the final clauses.
322.	We once again reaffirm the continuing validity of the Declaration of Principles Governing the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor, and the Subsoil Thereof, beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction, contained in General Assembly resolution 2749 (XXV). All the States of the international community—the overwhelming majority explicitly, the others implicitly—have acceded to those principles, which now form part of international customary law.
323.	The principle that the sea-bed and ocean floor and the subsoil thereof beyond the limits of national jurisdiction and the resources therein constitute the common heritage of mankind is a binding rule of inter-national law. That principle, along with the complementary principles derived from that fundamental principle contained in General Assembly resolution 2749 (XXV), especially the international legal regime to govern the sea-bed, form an indivisible normative entity, one of the pillars of the new law of the sea and the basis of any rule or body of law governing the exploration of the area and the exploitation of its resources.
324.	Any legal regime, be it provisional or definitive, that applies to the area can therefore be established only with the consent of the international community, as it alone represents mankind. No State or small group of States can claim to replace the international community, because they would thus be taking upon themselves an authority they do not have. Therefore any unilateral legislation or measure or any kind of restricted treaty that had this as its purpose would be illegal because it would violate international law and make the State or States involved internationally liable.
325.	As we move towards the last stages of the negotiations, Uruguay wishes to reaffirm its intention to do all within its power to ensure a successful outcome so that we may fulfil the hopes of all the peoples and Governments of the world and open up horizons of fruitful and mutual co-operation regarding the sea that will decisively further the advance of civilization and the welfare of all mankind.
326.	Almost a year ago we noted in this Assembly Uruguay's special concern about the crisis in the inter-national economic situation during the last few years and its serious impact on the developing countries. One year has passed since then, and the hopes we had placed in the dialogue between the developing and developed countries, scheduled to be held in various bodies this year, have been disappointed once again. What meagre tangible results did emerge were due to the efforts of the developing countries themselves to lay the foundations for collective economic autonomy.
327.	Signs of recession, inflation and unemployment persist in the industrialized countries and these constitute the present economic crisis, which still shows indications of temporary shortages of certain raw materials, a growing shortage of energy resources, instability in exchange rates, serious imbalances in the balance of payments, a return to protectionism, and other phenomena, which reduce our hopes of overcoming the crisis and, in fact, aggravate it.
328.	We continue to see that a considerably larger proportion of available financial, scientific and technological resources is channelled into military and hostile activities, rather than into the quest for solutions to the basic problem facing mankind to ensure at least a minimum standard of living conditions for everyone.
329.	One cause of the present crisis is the refusal of many developed countries to carry out a logical process of industrial reorganization, which would make it possible to establish industries where they could enjoy comparative advantages and make efficient use of production facilities.
330.	In referring to this problem I cannot fail to mention the problem of energy—and to mention it indeed, with deep concern. This is the more so since, as I said one year ago in this Assembly, Uruguay has absolutely no oil and is one of the countries in Latin America whose oil imports account for a major share of its total imports. This distressing aspect of our economy prompted my country to take a realistic approach in dealing with this issue, and that is how we have dealt with it in all the international forums in which the issue has been considered directly or indirectly.
331.	We respect the inalienable right of all countries to defend their own products, particularly in the case of oil, which is a limited and non-renewable resource; but we are concerned about the oil supply. It is not difficult to see that the trade balance of those developing countries which have no oil always shows a constant and increasing deficit when the prices of their commodity exports are falling while the prices of all their imports, but mainly oil, are rising sharply, as has been happening again this year.
332.	That is why we feel that efforts to solve this serious aspect of the crisis should focus on the following points, which Uruguay has proposed in the relevant regional bodies. First, some machinery should be set up to ensure minimum supplies for developing countries that have no oil, so that they can meet their development targets. Secondly, balance sheets of energy deposits and reserves should be drawn up to provide us with full information about what energy is potentially available. And lastly, new alternative sources of energy should be investigated in a joint undertaking. This would require an increase in the flow of financial resources available for energy research.
333.	We hope that the forthcoming United Nations conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energy will help to find ways of enabling countries such as our own to emerge gradually from this deep crisis.
334.	Finally, we have been alarmed at the attempts of the developed countries to include new concepts in the new international economic order, such as "basic needs", "graduated approach", "access to supplies", ‘’selectivity'', and so on, which we see as an attempt to neutralize the impact of the proposed structural measures and changes.
335.	We cannot fail to say at this session of the General Assembly how greatly disappointed we were upon our return from Manila in the middle of this year, after the fifth session of UNCTAD. The Latin American countries had worked very hard and enthusiastically in the co-ordination meetings held in Caracas from 15 to 19 January before the session under the auspices of the Latin American Economic System, at the regional level, and later at the Fourth Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77 held in Arusha from 6 to 16 February. Through the Arusha programme for collective self- reliance, in which we placed so much hope, we wanted to start a genuine process of negotiation between developed and developing countries at the fifth session of UNCTAD. It proved almost impossible to achieve this desired and urgent focus of interest on the main issues facing the international community. Suffice it to recall that we came back from Manila with no resolution on the problem of interdependence despite all the attempts at the highest level to agree on such a resolution in the last few hours of the Conference, We also recall how weak a text was drafted, and with how much difficulty, on the short- and medium-term policy, and on action on protectionism. And there was no resolution on the conclusion of the multilateral trade negotiations of the GATT Tokyo round either. We were left with a feeling of frustration when we ended those negotiations by adopting rules and codes for international trade that basically met the interests of the developed countries and did not give due consideration to our own.
336.	I turn now to monetary and financial problems. Having started from the premise of the need for effective participation by developing countries in the organization and administration of a new international monetary system that would allocate to us sufficient resources to overcome the problems of imbalance in the balance of payments, we were finally compelled to settle for a text which was basically addressed to the countries in the Group of 77.
337.	As for the hopes placed in the work of the Integrated Programme for Commodities, which we adopted in resolution 93 (IV) at the fourth session of UNCTAD,  we are discouraged to see that the work is progressing so slowly, not only because of the complexity of the problems and uncertainty about the sources and means of financing, but also, unquestionably and primarily, of the lack of political will. The fact that no concrete results emerged from the negotiations is due to the stubborn refusal of the developed countries to take constructive positions on the basic objectives of the Programme. And so the negotiations to conclude stabilization agreements on commodities have made no significant progress. As for negotiations on the establishment of the Common Fund, although there has been some progress, people in our countries have been understandably alarmed by the modest contributions to the "second window", which is of particular importance in that it is intended to finance activities such as research and development, quantitative and qualitative improvement in production, sales promotion, marketing, distribution and diversification.
338.	This build-up of frustration in our dialogue with the developed countries has brought about in the Group of 77, as I said at the beginning of this section of my statement, a strategy of relying first and foremost on its own members in order to achieve development and establish a new economic order.
339.	This new form of co-operation among developing countries, which Uruguay has resolutely supported, does not, however, imply a move towards absolutism and in no way affects the need to introduce structural changes in the relations of interdependence between North and South. But it cannot be denied that our hopes are now set on the efforts we may make as developing countries to intensify co-operation within the third world and thus gain greater strength, while at the same time following up development in ways more suited to our needs. Hence our country followed very closely the work of the United Nations Conference on Technical Co-operation Among Developing Countries, held at Buenos Aires last year, and took an active part in the elaboration of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action together with the plan of action for economic cooperation among developing countries set forth at the Fourth Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77 in Arusha.
340.	As we pointed out last year, the Committee of the Whole Established under General Assembly Resolution 32/174 must be strengthened so that it can serve as a forum for a large-scale consideration of international economic problems and thus give an impetus to negotiations going on in other economic bodies within the United Nations family.
341.	In this connexion, my delegation fully supports the initiative taken by the Group of 77 in submitting to the third session of that Committee a proposal to be considered at this Assembly's session concerning the need to hold world-level negotiations on international economic co-operation for development.
342.	Uruguay attaches particular importance to the problems of science and technology, but development can be achieved on a solid basis only if endogenous capabilities are enhanced in this area. Therefore, we have with the greatest of interest taken part in the work of the recent United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development, at which the international community acknowledged the need to strengthen the scientific and technological capacity of the developing world.
343.	The agreements reached at that Conference, although they fall short of expectations, are a positive step forward in that they allow for greater co-ordination with regard to science and technology within the United Nations system, and thereby eliminate unnecessary duplication of effort. Countries also committed themselves to establishing a funding system with new resources.
344.	Before concluding, we should like to turn to the Secretary-General's report on the work of this Organization. In this report, an open-minded, punctilious and objective approach is taken with regard to the many subjects with which it deals. We appreciate that the arduous task that lies before the Secretariat, and we also appreciate the effective way it has given its attention to the difficult international issues falling within the purview of the Organization. We should therefore like to convey our thanks to the Secretary- General of the United Nations, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, and through him to the staff of the United Nations.
345.	In conclusion, I should like to express our un-swerving faith in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations that more than ever bind the efforts of the Organization to co-operate in achieving justice in the solution of international problems through law, in finally establishing peace as a consequence of justice and the triumph of freedom, without which, as one of our great jurists said, there can be no real law, no justice and no peace. These are spiritual values which, in the final analysis, condition the material and temporal world. That is why in the same line of thought we attach special significance to the address to be delivered by His Holiness Pope John Paul II, which will be inspired by a humanistic awareness, for it has an important part to play in the quest for just and peaceful solutions to the problems facing the world.
346.	We are therefore prepared to do our part as a Member of the United Nations to see that it is an effective instrument in the attainment of these lofty aims.


===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿Mr. President, allow me at the outset to extend to you my warm congratulations on your election to conduct the proceedings of the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly, a difficult task that you will undoubtedly perform with the skill and brilliance that have characterized your long diplomatic career. I should also like to express our gratitude and warm appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, for the splendid way in which he conducted the debates of the Assembly during his term of office.
41.	We cannot fail to point out with great satisfaction that this is the first session of the General Assembly in which the independent State of Zimbabwe, which we welcome most warmly, is participating. As the delegations of my country have stated in every forum, we hope that after so many sacrifices and expectations, that new Republic will build itself up in peace and progress by carrying out a true national integration that will exemplify the principles of racial tolerance and solidarity that inspire the United Nations.
42.	Similarly, we express our satisfaction at the admission of the new independent State of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, also a member of our regional group, to whom we extend a warm welcome.
43.	We come to this thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly in a spirit of peace and confidence yet fully aware of the seriousness of the problems that the world is facing and of the great sense of responsibility that these problems demand from ail peoples, those still on the road to development as well as those that have already achieved their full development, the latter perhaps bearing for that very reason a greater share of that responsibility.
44.	In the first place, I should like to point out that for my Government; a careful examination of current world problems allows us to perceive three fundamental points clearly.
45.	First, the world is facing a general crisis, in which all social, political, economic and cultural factors are involved. That is the case whether or not we wish it to be so.
46.	Secondly, embroiled in this overall crisis, the world has tried to correct some of its aspects piecemeal, by attacking them singly, as if they were unrelated and independent phenomena. That approach conceals and minimizes problems and leads to the failure of the solutions that are sought.
47.	Thirdly, today it is possible clearly to perceive the true character of the enemy that we must face and the means to combat it. If the crisis is a general one, a general strategy is required to overcome it. The measures to be adopted in the various sectors must be integrated and coordinated.
48.	As a logical consequence of this, we must admit that without an extensive imaginative effort in which the collective conscience of mankind finds the means sincerely and freely to motivate the constructive and collective political will of every State, contemporary problems will not be overcome without a cataclysm in which perhaps a great part of mankind will perish, but from which all the peoples of the earth will certainly suffer.
49.	We are encouraged in our optimism by an unyielding faith in God, in the first place, and, secondly, in the fate of mankind, and by the many voices that have been raised to say as much, and in the simple fact that we are assembled here to have a dialogue. That optimism, however, does not dispel our concern. We are worried by the lack of political decisions by the developed industrial powers to take the decisive steps required to implement the many projects and resolutions that have been drawn up in recent decades, in the knowledge that they were of vital importance, as well as to heed the outcry of weak peoples who knock at their doors.
50.	The recent report entitled The Global 2000 Report to the President in the preparation of which the entire scientific, technical, research and information potential of the United States has been tapped, contains in its 800 explosive pages enough material to make the world ponder, should other sources of inspiration be needed, on the urgent need to face those vital problems on a universal scale, once and for all, with seriousness and, above all, with responsibility. The report warns us bluntly and with many examples that unless nations take collectively and individually daring and imaginative steps the world must expect severe upheavals upon entering the twenty-first century—a prediction on which all the great minds of our time agree.
51.	We should like to single out among the various fields of action some of the main subjects concerning which it seems to us that the necessary measures and steps to implement them must be taken forthwith, or which are crucial points that deserve special attention.
52.	The political evolution of the world during the year that has elapsed since we first came to this rostrum at the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly6 has given us more than sufficient reason to reassert what we said then about the impossibility of isolating peoples, on the need to strengthen the necessary bonds that unite the international community and the role of universal solidarity as an imperative for world survival.
53.	Peace is more than ever the primary goal of international law, because we now know that it is also the basic condition for survival. And peace will not be attained or maintained unless the vital and pressing problems of all the members of the international community, even the humblest, are solved and unless the riches on our planet are distributed fairly, unhampered by boundaries. There can be no peace without justice. There can be no justice without law. And the supremacy of law is the result of a balance in which there is great respect for certain fundamental spiritual values of coexistence, as well as the adaptation of the legal system to contemporary world realities.
54.	On the long road to peace, general and complete disarmament is an ideal goal that is not only a means but also an end. The steps taken towards disarmament, however small, will make a powerful contribution to the strengthening of peace. That goal clearly presupposes an earlier spiritual disarmament, understanding and tolerance among all peoples, and the satisfaction of the legitimate aspirations of all. Whether an end or a means, the economic and environmental connotations of disarmament are such that my Government believes it to be incumbent on all peoples to fight tirelessly to achieve progress in that area. My country's meagre military potential does not inhibit it from placing all the moral weight that it possesses as a State and as a law-abiding nation at the service of that ideal, even denouncing the folly of squandering fantastic sums on death, while denying even minimal amounts for the environment and for development, which represent life.
.55. We know perfectly well that it will be very difficult to achieve spectacular overall solutions in matters related to the blindest and deepest passions of men. We are ready to agree realistically to a partial and gradual approach to positive solutions, but we emphatically reaffirm the need to condemn straightforwardly all forms of biological war, destruction or poisoning of ecosystems and all attempts to modify the climate as an instrument of aggression.
56.	In that sense, the extension of the achievements of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) through the creation of nuclear free zones in other parts of the world such as the Middle East, southern Asia and Africa seems to us an effective means by which to move further ahead in that area.
57.	Since the partition of Palestine, which the United Nations doubtless conceived as a means of bringing a Solomonic peace to that region, the Middle East has gradually become a powder keg charged with threats to world peace which increase as the years go by.
58.	The attitude of friendship towards the people of Israel that my Government has traditionally shown is well known. It has been manifested throughout the years, in constant support of what could be considered the legitimate aspirations of the Jewish people. We do not hesitate today to reaffirm that friendship and our conviction that the State of Israel must secure just and lasting peace with its neighbours and respect for its existence within secure and recognized borders.
59.	But the irreversible reality of Israel cannot blur another reality which is also irreversible and not incompatible with the first one—the existence of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, which was once asked to sacrifice its national identity, in open defiance of the principle of self-determination, which is one of the fundamental pillars of the United Nations system. Thus, faithful to the traditional principles of our international policy, we support unreservedly the recognition of the right of the Palestinian people to settle in its own land and establish a free and independent State according to the decision adopted in the exercise of its sovereign will.
60.	My country is convinced that the solution to this longstanding and painful problem can be found only by means of dialogue and negotiation, in which the Palestinian people have their own spokesmen. We therefore condemn violence and the adoption of unilateral measures which hinder the peaceful and lawful solution of the problem.
61.	With regard to Lebanon, last year we reiterated the appeal which we had made for concrete and definitive solutions which would guarantee to this people whose culture and tradition are admirable its integrity and its right to live in peace.  At that time we thought that that appeal, supported by all peace-loving peoples, would be answered during the course of that year. It is a matter of profound regret that the tragedy of the Middle East has engulfed as one of its victims that small and gracious nation, which is linked to our own in so many ways.
62.	Once again we make the same appeal, and we earnestly hope that Lebanon will recover its peace and stability.
63.	Uruguay, which is tenacious and firm in defending the right to self-determination of peoples, has consistently supported the right of the people of Namibia to attain its independence, freely to determine the political system which it may wish to adopt and to choose its leaders without foreign pressures and within a climate of peace, under the guarantee of the temporary administration of the United Nations.
64.	With respect to human rights, it is inevitable that, in view of the strong influence of law in my country, in the history of which regard for law is a constant which has brought us through every difficult phase and juncture, we consider real and deep respect for what are called human rights as a worldwide political phenomenon and a substantial step towards the implementation of a new international law, in which mankind is recognized as a valid subject of law. We believe, however, that, if we wish human rights to pass beyond the state of rhetoric and become tangible and active values in international life, they must not be used as an instrument for political struggle among States or groups with different social and economic philosophies.
65.	It is very difficult for the supremacy of law to be safeguarded and to see the possibility of the consistent implementation of human rights as long as we continue to witness the paradox of countries and doctrines that in practice deny freedom, ignore the most elementary rights inherent in the dignity of man and violate all the principles that constitute the achievements of the modern world, and that also attempt to judge the behaviour of other States and social groups which have had to defend themselves from insidious and criminal subversive movements, very often inspired and financed by those same countries. Whether we like it or not, in the struggle against anarchy and organized crime there are, as a consequence of human fallibility, unfortunate but inevitable breaches of those sacred rights.
66.	My country is making every possible effort to ensure the maintenance of those rights, despite the resolute internal struggle which it has been forced to undertake, and we are advancing daily towards the full normalization of democratic institutions. Unfortunately, in the domestic sphere of many States contempt for human rights has become normal practice, officially imposed by totalitarian systems, which condemn millions of men to live in spiritual and material conditions which are profoundly harmful to their natural dignity.
67.	While this is taking place on the domestic level, at the international level we witness with profound concern the notorious increase of terrorism. Violence and crime have taken the place of dialogue and discussion as a means of political expression and seem to have become one of the characteristics of our time. Once again I wish to state on behalf of my Government that we shall support every collective measure which is submitted and adopted to fight the scourge of terrorism, which is not only in itself disgusting and shameful but also liable to encourage violence and the inevitable hardening of the attitude of institutional machinery and the social groups attacked, with inevitable damage to the respect for human rights which we all wish to secure.
68.	My Government wishes to reiterate its fundamental opposition to the policy of apartheid and all forms of racism. This position is based on political and moral considerations which are part of a clear philosophy derived from our deepest cultural traditions. In that regard, our country will cast its vote for all instruments which condemn apartheid.
69.	My Government believes that exchange of information is an essential part of modern life and that modern technical means must be fully utilized to facilitate not only the exchange of information but also communication among men and peoples and the dissemination of education and culture.
70.	Nevertheless, we must bear in mind the danger that certain aspects of that modern technique may entail for freedom, institutional stability and the cultural identity of peoples. The availability of powerful modern means of spreading culture must be secured for every country and the community of nations must prevent their use to interfere in the internal affairs of States. It must also try to preserve the wealth of national diversity.
71.	With regard to the law of the sea, the ninth session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, which was held this year, achieved meaningful progress in the unprecedented efforts on the part of the international community to work out a new legal order for the sea based on recognition of the sovereign rights and the jurisdiction of coastal States in seas adjacent to their coasts up to a limit of 200 miles and on the Continental Shelf, respect for jus communications, the orderly and peaceful use of maritime spaces, the rational exploitation of its resources, the protection and preservation of the marine environment, cooperation in the development of scientific research and the administration of the seabed and ocean floor beyond national jurisdiction by an international authority endowed with the appropriate power to organize and control all activities in the exploration and exploitation of the resources and to establish a production policy in that area, which is the common heritage of mankind, the resources of which can only be used under the protection of an international system, that is, a system established with the consent of the international community as representative of mankind.
72.	The present stage of the negotiations enables us to predict that once generally accepted formulas on some still pending matters have been found and final adjustments to the texts have been made, the work of the Conference is to culminate in the adoption of a convention at Caracas in 1981. The peoples' expectations can no longer be delayed. The last stretch demands a final effort of good will, especially on the part of the industrialized Powers, in order to reach the goal whose attainment will be, without any doubt, a most important factor for the stability of international relations and the consolidation of world peace.
73.	The Government of Uruguay cannot but point out once again that the principle of the common heritage of mankind is an imperative rule of international law which does not admit, consequently, of limited agreements or unilateral decisions that contravene it, such as the laws which some States have passed or intend to pass to authorize their nationals to carry out the exploitation of the resources of the international area. Such laws violate that principle and have no validity in the international community. Uruguay deplores such conduct and rejects any attempt to exert pressure on the Conference that such conduct might entail.
74.	The new law of the sea, including both the customary law that has arisen from the generalized practice of States and the law that will be embodied in the convention, offers a great challenge, especially to the developing countries, in terms of their full assumption of responsibilities directly related to the wellbeing and advancement of their peoples, with the opening of new horizons for employment, study and research for youth and with the most active participation and cooperation for the establishment of a new international economic order. The United Nations and the specialized agencies concerned must be prepared as of now to offer developing countries the invaluable service of helping them fully to assume those responsibilities within the framework established by them in the pursuit of their national objectives.
75.	Very soon we will compromise the tenth anniversary of the United Nations Conference on the Environment, held at Stockholm in 1972, which symbolized the awakening of the world's attention to this very serious problem of the accelerated destruction of the environment. The importance and seriousness of the problem, instead of decreasing during these eight years, has only grown. Just as in the economic sphere, the words of warning uttered by wise men and experts have not been heeded and the seeds they have sown have yielded only rhetorical fruit. The measures which have been recommended and even decided upon in many international forums are not being implemented and the expectations for the future, unless destructive trends are stopped and the process is reversed, cannot be favourable.
76.	Nevertheless, there are certain grounds for optimism because the problem is coming to its climax and the persistent and efficient efforts of specialized international organizations and of the thinking elite in the preparation of projects and plans to correct the deterioration in all its complex aspects are gradually convincing Governments and those responsible for the leadership of peoples of the need to take radical and imaginative measures. On the other hand, the environmental problem has had a positive influence by revealing the essential oneness among men and among all the elements of nature.
77.	The report of the Governing Council of UNEP on its eighth session shows that work has been done and is being done well. It is now up to the Governments to implement the recommendations.
78.	We should like to point out two of the subjects discussed in Nairobi which we find particularly important.
79.	The first one deals with the World Conservation Strategy, the result of three years of work by a select group of scientists of universal renown under the guidance of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources and with the endorsement of UNESCO, FAO and UNEP.
80.	This remarkable document effectively reconciles conservation and development, presents a clear and sensible definition of priorities and convincingly indicates the urgent need to preserve the living resources of the planet on which, ultimately, the survival of mankind depends. All this comes together with adequate and pragmatic machinery which places at the disposal of Governments the necessary technical and legal tools to carry out in a practical and efficient manner a good conservation policy. Now we must go from words to action and allocate the necessary funds, negotiate bilateral and multilateral financial aid and at the same time offer UNEP and the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources the sustained support that will permit the practical and progressive adoption of their plans.
81.	The second point we wish to emphasize is also related to the effective application of environmental policy, the need for which seems hot to have been fully grasped. We are referring to the world meeting on environmental law preparatory to the tenth session of the Governing Council of UNEP, which all States Members of the United Nations will attend. At this solemn meeting the tenth anniversary of the Stockholm Conference will be commemorated and an assessment will be made of all that has been achieved up to now and what remains to be done in such a delicate matter. With regard to those achievements, the elaboration and consolidation of an appropriate legal framework is fundamental for the effective finalization of a policy in which so far theoretical statements have not been lacking, but for which the adequate institutional and legal instruments to put it into practice do not yet exist. Uruguay is proud of the fact that it is planned to hold this important preparatory meeting in Montevideo, whose legal tradition is thus honoured by the holding of such a transcendental event in the field of law.
82.	We have no reason to feel free from the worries which have been expressed in this forum for several consecutive years concerning the world economic situation. On the contrary, it continues to deteriorate and that deterioration is accelerating and becoming more acute. This is dangerous because the peoples' frustration is a seedbed of violence. We emphatically stated the same concern a short time ago at the eleventh special session of the General Assembly. The persistence of recession and inflation, the increase in unemployment, exchange instability, maladjustments in the balance of payments in industrialized countries, protectionist pressures and, to sum up, the whole negative syndrome in which the inability of those countries to adopt political decisions in keeping with the magnitude of the global crisis hinders the economic progress of developing countries.
83.	The essential characteristic of the contemporary world economic system is the growing interdependence of all the peoples of the world, an interdependence which is in the process of accelerated intensification. It is obvious that we cannot find solutions in a policy of isolated blocs. Without the overall world economic approach that also calls for a long-term overall economic policy, it will be very difficult to overcome the serious problems of the present situation that overwhelm the peoples of the developing world, as well as those in developed countries. That collective and efficient approach requires an optimization of the allocation of productive resources. This also implies a redistribution and relocation of industries in accordance with the competitive capacity of each country, a general opening of the economies to secure an effective role for competition, and a strategy that will cover all the areas of development without excluding any key sector.
84.	My country, like many other developing countries, is trying to apply those same principles at home, in an attempt to achieve production in those sectors in which it has a comparative advantage. The opening of our economies to the outside world would thus contribute to the sound development of the world economy through a rational distribution of productive activity, while respecting the comparative advantage of the various participants in the system. These principles are usually enunciated and defended in theory by the industrialized countries. Unfortunately, they do not put into practice what they advocate in theory, and apply protectionist policies that militate against the weaker countries and which, in the end, damage the world economy as a whole.
85.	This situation has an adverse effect on countries which, like mine, face the typical problems of a small market economy. After many years of trying a development system based on a domestic market, which proved inadequate because it did not permit an optimum allocation of resources, we decided to base our development process on open economy principles as part of a more dynamic and competitive market, the international market.
86.	Another point we wish to make relates to development of food and agricultural production. Consideration of this question cannot be separated from that of trade, in view of the detrimental effects of protectionist barriers on efficient food production in the developing countries. The world situation, in this respect, is frankly alarming; hence we endorse all measures that the international community may adopt in favour of a new world food order, which, in our view, is a precondition for any new international economic order.
87.	In confronting this gigantic task, we feel legitimate concern over the growing trend towards protectionism on the part of the industrialized countries, which seriously limits and can cancel out the benefits of the option. The detrimental effects of this phenomenon cannot be underestimated. Where the developing countries prepare themselves to compete in international markets according to the laws of a market economy and their efforts are artificially rendered ineffective by protectionist measures—which often take the form of nontariff barriers imposed on specious grounds— the access of those countries to international markets is made impossible, and all the mechanisms which regulate those markets are largely distorted. All this is aggravated by the policies of subsidies and "dumping", which offset all comparative advantages enjoyed by the developing countries, especially in food production. Obviously, this policy runs counter to all the proposed incentives for food production in the world, and to recognition of the need to provide facilities to those countries so that they can achieve sustained development and thus alleviate dangerous international tensions.
88.	Developing countries are still suffering acutely from the problems derived from the energy crisis ever since the marked increase in oil prices in 1973. Uruguay, which totally lacks this resource, is one of the Latin American countries that have suffered the most as a result of the serious impact of the oil price increase on its overall imports and on its industrialization process. Our deepest concern relates to the need to create machinery to ensure minimum supplies at reasonable prices, efficient use of this resource, the search for alternative sources and coordination of acceptable special financing. The overriding need to develop a coherent world energy policy based on a concept of inexorable solidarity among all countries and on their right to have an equitable share of the world's natural resources is one of the most urgent imperatives of this decade—an imperative which must be supplemented by intensive research efforts in this field by those countries able to do so. Such efforts must be geared to finding alternative solutions for the day, all too near, when oil is exhausted. It is to be hoped that these concerns will be reflected at the United Nations Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energy, to be held in August 1981 at Nairobi. Should that Conference fail to face this crucial subject realistically and pragmatically, a rude blow will be dealt to the expectations of mankind, which views this energy problem as one of the most serious and immediate threats to its present and future wellbeing.
89.	We have observed with satisfaction the favourable attitude among developing countries towards energy cooperation that is being carried out at various levels. The members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries [OPEC] have established an ambitious programme to guarantee oil supplies to the developing world and have come up with a preferential system of prices and financing indexed to each country's degree of development. The same trend has been noticed at the regional level, too, a result of which is the historic agreement between Venezuela and Mexico to cooperate in this field with the Central American and Caribbean countries, as well as the proposal of the President of Mexico at the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly—a proposal warmly supported by my country.
90.	It is vital to ensure the transition of the present-day economy, which is based on hydrocarbons, to an economy based essentially on new and renewable energy sources.
91.	Uruguay attaches particular importance to the problems of science and technology, because the attainment of development on a sound basis is impossible without the establishment of an endogenous capacity in this Held. To that end, we hope that the resolutions of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development, held at Vienna last year, will be implemented.
92.	My country has participated actively in discussions of the subject of economic and technical cooperation among developing countries, a fundamental component of the new international economic order inspired by the principles enshrined in the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States. We note with satisfaction the various efforts being made to implement the Arusha Programme for Collective Self-reliance, adopted by the Group of 77,  and especially the first short-term and medium-term plan of action on global priorities for economic cooperation among developing countries. It has, already been decided to negotiate a global system of trade preferences in the Group of 77, as well as to identify practical agreements on marketing and operations that Governments may oversee directly. It is of great importance that the Group of 77 has this year, for the first time, included on its agenda the question of energy within the framework of economic cooperation among developing countries. It has been agreed that trade, various sources and forms of energy, raw materials, foodstuffs, technology and other related matters should be considered by the Group of 77 in a consistent and integrated way.
93.	There is no doubt that the developing countries have ample means to establish new and valuable forms of horizontal cooperation, and when their vast resources begin to be mobilized there will ensue great transformations for the wellbeing of our countries and the world economy as a whole.
94.	All of the measures relating to the various subjects we are considering must, we repeat, be included within the framework of a vigorous policy of international redistribution of labour, ensuring the transfer of technology to developing countries and consequently their industrialization. In that policy, attention to short-term problems that are immediately vital is as important and inescapable as complementary attention to long-term problems, because without solutions of that nature all the rest will be nothing but an ineffective palliative for permanent needs and will jeopardize the future of peoples.
95.	We do not wish to end this statement without expressing our discouragement at the inability to achieve during the eleventh special session of the General Assembly the consensus necessary to approve ail the proposals submitted for its consideration. Unfortunately for all the countries of the world, that session has passed into history as a setback on the long, hard road the developing countries have set out upon towards the establishment of a new international economic order. Once again we have missed an excellent opportunity to show our peoples the important results that can be achieved through international cooperation. Even so, it is an important historic duty for the General Assembly at this session to continue with decisiveness the efforts that have been begun to initiate global negotiations planned for 12 January next, and to adopt the International Development Strategy for the 1980s.
96.	Before closing I wish to express my Government's appreciation and recognition of the efforts of the Secretary General, assisted by his staff, in carrying out his important task by paying efficient and untiring attention to the many complex problems—some of them particularly delicate— that he has had to face within the area of competence of the Organization.
97.	I wish to reiterate our unwavering adherence to the purposes and principles of the Charter, with which the international policy of my country fully concurs, our faith in its permanent and ever contemporary applicability, and our hope that the serious threats to international peace and security which hover over the horizon like dark clouds and the various obstacles to the full development of harmonious and mutually respectful relations among all nations based on justice will be overcome through the joint efforts of all in this Organization and the tenacious and unceasing application of the means and instruments available to the Organization for the implementation of its lofty and noble objectives which are identical with those of civilization. Uruguay commits all its material resources and the rich patrimony of its spiritual forces to the confirmation of that faith and the realization of that hope.


===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
Mr. President, allow me at the outset to extend to you my congratulations on your election. We are sure that under, your able leadership this session of the General Assembly will achieve favorable results for the international community. I should also like to convey to your predecessor, Mr. Rudiger von Wechmar, our gratitude for the splendid way in which he carried out his duties during the last session of the General Assembly.
68.	I should like also to express the satisfaction and warmth with which we welcome to this Hall the delegation of the Republic of Vanuatu, which has recently joined the United Nations.
69.	Uruguay is participating in this session in the same spirit as has always inspired the international life of our Republic. We have come here to build and to consolidate, to discuss and to understand, to add our efforts to the work and the significance of the Organization, in which all members of the community of nations are. represented.
70.	We feel that this is an opportunity for us, the Member States, to renew our commitment to the Charter, so that the essential purposes for which it was created may once again be clearly before us and guide and direct our debates. We are here to promote international peace and security, to establish friendly relations among States based on equality of rights and the self-determination of peoples, to foster international cooperation and to coordinate the efforts of all nations in order to give priority attention to those most in need.
71.	Every day we are moving closer to becoming a worldwide community, and every day the possibility of isolated incidents opposing that end becomes more remote. We must understand that the community of nations will find increasingly intolerable actions that run counter to these principles which must ultimately inspire us all.
72.	Over and above the specific matters that are being debated, the nations represented here are by their very presence demonstrating their determination to live in peace under the rule of law. It is our hope that that determination will be translated without delay into practical and concrete action.
73.	My country here and now reaffirms that hope, which is a demonstration of faith as well as a restatement of commitment, and we appeal to all nations to unite in the faithful carrying out of those principles, which is an historical imperative demanded by international public opinion.
74.	I should like to refer to some of the aspects of international reality related to the work of the Assembly. This review of various matters will be carried out from the viewpoint of my country, which participates actively in world affairs within the group of medium-sized and small States, which constitutes the great majority of the nations of the world, upon whom mankind is placing its highest hopes for moderation, balance and sensibility in the service of international peace.
75.	As in previous years, we are today facing serious problems and political tension, which unfortunately have been impossible to overcome. The Middle East continues to be a cause for special concern and anguish. Several proposals have been submitted to resolve that situation of conflict and initiate a move towards peace. The complexity of the problems of the region does not lend itself to easy solutions, and everything points to the imperative need to try out all the options that promise any reasonable hope of success. With that understanding, and in order to prove factually the peaceful vocation and internationalist attitude that have always been typical of my country, we are now considering effective participation in a joint effort in the Sinai area, which could be the beginning of a greater understanding leading to the achievement of a broad and general peace for the benefit of the whole region.
76.	The position of Uruguay is in accordance with its tradition as a peace-loving nation and gives it the opportunity to play a leading role in one of the fundamental stages in the hard struggle waged by mankind in its search for unity among peoples.
77.	We must state our conviction that the State of Israel has the right to exist within safe and recognized borders, in the framework of a just and lasting peace with its neighbors, consistent with the legitimate rights of the people of Palestine to establish and settle in a free and sovereign State.
78.	We are similarly concerned about the situation in Lebanon, a model nation which was able to become an exemplary country, and which continues to suffer the consequences of a conflict which should have been largely concluded by now if passions had been cast aside so that the spirit of agreement could bear fruit. We are making a new appeal that Lebanon be allowed to live again in the peace that it deserves, as my country declared in its public statement issued last May, expressing our deep concern about the seriousness of the situation in Lebanon and demanding that the international community of the United Nations shoulder its responsibility in order to solve that crisis through just arrangements that respect Lebanon's territorial integrity and the right of its people to decide its own destiny.
79.	As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we have strongly condemned the invasion of its territory and emphasize that it creates a dangerous point of friction and conflict which must be solved as soon as possible. Within that context, we supported the proposal submitted by Lord Carrington [8th meeting] on behalf of the European Community, which deserves to be given the fullest consideration and to be implemented promptly, overcoming the obstacles which are basically due to the political interests directly involved in the situation.
80.	In the same context, we should stress the importance we attach to the achievement of a peaceful and independent solution to the reunification of Korea, by means of an interKorean dialog which should contribute to the creation of favorable conditions for a mutual understanding, as well as for general stability in that area. The role of intermediary played by the SecretaryGeneral and his good offices made available to South and North Korea deserve to be encouraged.
81.	In defense of the principle of self-determination of peoples, Uruguay supports the right of the people of Namibia to achieve its independence and its own political system, without external intervention and within the framework guaranteed by the United Nations. We reiterate our wish for a prompt solution with participation of the Organization. The events which have taken place in that area should be condemned and make more urgent the need for the solution we have just called for.
82.	In this connection, as we stress the importance of complying with the principles of the Charter, we should also mention the situation in our sister region of Central America. Here again, we must demand nonintervention in the internal affairs of States and the recognition of the right of self-determination of the nations involved.
83.	Our country, which has a clear and unmistakable tradition of respect for the principle of nonintervention in the internal affairs of other States, has felt deeply concerned, and has said so publicly, at the acts of unjustified intervention originating in a statement which has caused a well-grounded reaction from a large number of Latin American countries, among them our own.
84.	We similarly reject the continuous intervention in the internal affairs of States on the part of the authorities and the official media of other countries, which improperly express their support or understanding for persons and groups who are attacking or have attacked their own homelands.
85.	We have mentioned those situations first because those are problems that urgently need to be solved. Their solution is urgent because of the suffering of the peoples involved and because the world public refuses to remain indifferent to those sufferings and is becoming increasingly skeptical due to the apparent inability of the machinery of the United Nations system to solve those problems.
86.	In conjunction with the aforementioned situations, we have also to consider an ever increasing number of serious problems which involve and affect all mankind. We are refereeing to hunger and poverty, violence and terrorism, the existence Of large masses of displaced persons, the arms race and the trade in armaments and human rights, capriciously interpreted and systematically violated in large areas of the world.
87.	We may therefore ask which are the gravest violations of the principles of the Organization: the insolence of a merciless invader, or the lack of tolerance which leads to the cruelest forms of blind and indiscriminate destruction carried out by elements which attack society. Both are expressions of the same phenomenon: the insanity of man inspired by violence. The most dramatic example this year was the criminal attack on the Holy Father, who is perhaps the noblest symbol of the values of our contemporary culture.
88.	The insanity of entire peoples inspired by violence strikes at the conscience of mankind every time a group of persons arrogates the right to execute a human being, to displace a people or to attempt genocide. The large and ever increasing number of victims of those actions constitutes the most serious charge that can be made concerning the state of development and progress of the international community and compels us to consider how that community could most strongly and effectively express its outright rejection of situations that are distorting man's true nature. We wonder whether rivalry among nations is eradicating the basic need for unity which will prevent us from fighting each other. We ask ourselves what we should do in order to fight successfully against poverty and hunger and for health and education, to enhance the dignity of life and ennoble mankind.
89.	It is worthwhile at this stage to consider these matters in their full dimension. The international community must rearrange its bonds of interdependence or else face a catastrophe in which a large part of mankind may perish and the rest will surely experience great suffering. The dangers are enormous; paradoxically, they are as great as the greatest progress of mankind. We are going through a period in the history of the world when we can no longer be blinded by the unlimited power and technological skill of the dominant forces. Everything indicates that action for peace and the survival of man with dignity is a task for all of us, a daily task which cannot be postponed, and which is a challenge to the intelligence and perspicacity of mankind.
90.	The scourge of famine and poverty demands that the Assembly direct its attention to the report recently published by the World Bank on the desperate plight of some 800 million people living in conditions of absolute poverty. This report is fundamentally addressed to the industrialized countries and warns them that the health of their economies is directly linked to that of the developing countries, adding that it is an illusion for the industrialized countries to believe that they are immune from the problems faced by the developing world.
91.	That document, coming from such an impeccable source, presents with objectivity and candor a situation which affects all mankind and which we cannot ignore.
92.	Our country is deeply involved in this matter, as a developing nation that fortunately does not suffer from famine and has large resources to contribute to the world's food supply, but which, thanks to the action of third parties, is faced with serious trade problems with regard to our products. We shall consider these matters in a moment.
93.	In our opinion, these are the great problems of the organized international community. They call for our attention, put our system to the test and show decisively the primary responsibility of the great Powers and their leaders.
94.	As opposed to these problems, which are a source of shame, there are on the other hand new conquests and new frontiers in the continuous progress of man's adventures in the universe. Thus today we envisage with optimism and hope the exploitation of the resources of the sea and the seabed, the environment and the ecological balance, and outer space and its use for peaceful purposes.
95.	We wish to make a few brief observations on the work being done in the United Nations in these fields. With respect to international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space, our country has cooperated directly in the elaboration of the legal instruments which are being prepared on this matter and advocates the establishment of an international authority for the rational administration of the various aspects of such a complex matter.
96.	Concerning the environment and environmental protection, it should be recalled that the survival of man depends upon the preservation of the productive resources of the earth hence the fundamental importance of a sound environmental policy which will ensure its preservation, since the environment is the infrastructure for development as well as for life itself. These concepts, far from being in opposition, are complementary and reinforce each other.
97.	Our country has been deeply aware from the beginning of this drama of our century and has contributed to the development of an effective environmental policy in all the international forums in which it takes part. For example, Uruguay was not only a sponsor of a Swedish Canadian proposal to convene a high-level world meeting on environmental law, but has the honor of being the host country for that meeting. The essential idea underlying this international event is that, without suitable legal instruments both functional and institutional* all the recommendations and measures recommended by scientific research on the environment and approved by experts and diplomats will be of no avail. Uruguay is honored to be the host country of a meeting which will surely be one of the most important meetings of the decade following the
Conference on the Human Environment, held at Stockholm in 1972.
98.	With respect to the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the work done by the Third Conference, which after long and hard negotiations produced an official draft convention, should without fail end next year.
99.	During the second part of the tenth session some very effective measures were adopted to solve some of the few matters still outstanding, and the program of work which was adopted provides for the approval of the draft convention and its opening for signature in 1982. There can no longer be any alteration or postponement of this goal.
100.	Within the framework for the completion of the draft convention, the United States will have the opportunity to submit its points of view specifically and precisely, on the understanding that the bases that have already been negotiated in good faith and in a conciliatory spirit must be respected. The work carried out after so many sacrifices and so much effort may be adjusted but cannot be disregarded, and in any case we shall have a convention on the law of the sea.
101.	We are open to dialog, but in the sphere of principles there can be no hesitation. It is our firm hope that this will be understood by all, and that we shall all be ready to adopt a convention of universal scope, firmly undertaking the historic responsibility of establishing a balanced legal order which will lay the groundwork for a comprehensive system of international cooperation and organize the rational exploitation of the resources of the sea, the seabed and its subsoil in accordance with the principle of international justice, thus ensuring peace in the oceans.
102.	In the field of international economic affairs our country has been taking part in the various specialized forums, contributing actively to the establishment of the courses of action espoused by the developing countries. As part of that active participation, Uruguay had the honor to be the host country for the nineteenth session of the Economic Commission for Latin America [ECLA], held in Montevideo from 4 to 15 May 1981. At that meeting the Regional program of Action was adopted with the aim of complementing the national and regional efforts by international cooperation in the context of the International Development Strategy.
103.	A resolution on energy was adopted in Montevideo, by which it was decided that the Secretariat of ECLA should carry out studies so that the region could have timely and updated information on available energy resources and on regional and world supply and demand in the energy market.
104.	I would make some remarks of a general nature to emphasize the difficulties that confront nations with limited economic potential in a world that allegedly is interdependent but in fact is ruled by the concept of predominance, contrary to the solidarity that should prevail in relations among nations.
105.	With respect to international trade, we have in recent years been constantly concerned about all the forms of increasing and senseless protectionism applied by the industrialized countries, with total indifference to the fate of those countries that, depending as they do on their external trade, are continually finding closed their opportunities for access to the markets of the developed nations. it has repeatedly been pointed out, so far to no avail, that it is necessary to carry out a structural readjustment on the part of the developed countries so as to allow for the growth of industries, most often primary industries, in the developing countries.
106.	There is a particularly annoying situation which occurs when traditional exports from developing countries are displaced from new markets, opened up at a cost of immense sacrifices, by exports which enjoy large subsidies from industrialized countries. The incongruity of this situation is even greater when the products being exported on a subsidized basis are produced by the industrialized countries under policies directed towards the maintenance of totally anti-economic or even artificial activities.
107.	These examples are not theoretical cases, as far as my country is concerned. They reflect situations which regularly confront the basic exports of our national economic activity. Such conditions produce a most harmful effect on the domestic situation and since they are the result of decisions adopted elsewhere, beyond our reach, they impose an unfair burden on countries with limited potential.
108.	The developing countries are not prepared to resign themselves to this situation. They have unsuccessfully demanded that the decisions of international institutions be taken in a more open manner, and have demanded a larger participation in their adoption.
109.	The effects of the aforementioned subsidies on the development process are so serious that our country must advance new strong statements in the relevant organizations with a view to rectifying such unfair procedures once and for all.
110.	We consider that a specific comment should be made on the tasks now being carried out in the field of economic cooperation among developing countries. Since the beginning of this program there has been a lack of understanding and perspective on the part of the developed countries, who have not realized the importance of generous cooperation in this effort. This fact, on the one hand, and the difficulties in launching the global negotiations on the other, have driven the developing countries to begin a most significant attempt to establish a South South dialog through the implementation of a broad scheme of economic cooperation.
111.	Our country is participating with hope and enthusiasm in these initiatives, not only with a view to broadening the basis of its economy, but also in order to demonstrate our solidarity with the other developing countries. In order best to achieve the goals which inspire this effort of the developing countries, all the member countries of (he international community have pledged the support of the relevant organizations of the United Nations system. The time has come for this support to be made fully effective, thus proving the will stated by every nation to contribute in an effective manner to action directed towards the raising of the standards of living of our peoples by their own efforts, an attitude which nobody has ever opposed.
112.	It would be difficult for a country which is a net importer of oil not to take this opportunity to mention the matter of energy. We consider that it is our task today seriously and rapidly to contemplate the creation of m economy based on new and renewable sources of energy. In this respect we must realize that the future is today. We do not want proposals so ambitious that they exceed the possibilities of action, but .we do intend to stretch our imagination and the circumstances so that the United Nations can give a full response to the challenge implied in this situation. We therefore* welcome the work of the Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energy, held recently at Nairobi, and we hope that the program of Action adopted there may soon be implemented through technological and financial means that are in keeping with the establishment of the new international economic order, with a view to meeting as far as possible the future energy needs of the world, and in particular those of the developing countries.
113.	Until solutions based on new and renewable sources of energy are found, we shall have to continue to live with our dependence on oil imports, with its political, economic and financial consequences.
114.	We venture to hope that, without prejudice to the solutions proposed at the world level, those arising from the decisions taken by the Group of 77 will be fully implemented, thus endowing that Group with the solidarity which should prevail among nations at similar stages of development.
115.	A country with a structure fundamentally based on temperate zone agriculture and livestock cannot avoid mentioning in this debate the questions of food and agriculture. We wish to emphasize the importance of an effective system of world food security, together with adequate financial mechanisms for the promotion of efficient food production in the developing countries. The system to be set up should include food aid and emergency reserves. But none of this makes sense unless problems related to international food trade are resolved, with prohibition of the unfair and restrictive practices used by regional communities which sacrifice their own consumers and discourage our countries.
116.	Here we come to a new and dramatic paradox: developing countries, like Uruguay, where nature and human effort have created ideal conditions for increasing food production, and which strive to make the best use of that source of wealth to build up their prosperity, find to their consternation and annoyance that they are being displaced from their markets by exports that are heavily subsidized. And this is being done by those same countries that for many years have been telling us how desirable it was for us to benefit from our relative advantages by devoting ourselves to agro-industrial activities. To make matters worse, and what is a clear demonstration of the need to reach a new and equitable order in international economic relations, this is happening in a world where the artificial distortion of trade flows goes hand in hand with a vast increase in hunger and poverty, where profits are being reaped by those who are not entitled to them and where exports from the developing countries are facing obstacles of all kinds, including the denial to them of access to markets on the grounds of alleged subsidies, to the detriment of countries which are acting in accordance with agreed international rules governing free and fair competition. All of this should be reviewed in the relevant intergovernmental forums in order to restore on a solid basis the equity and balance that have been lost.
117.	In the field of natural resources, we regard as unquestionable the right of all States to share the natural resources of the planet to the extent of their needs and within a framework of a just balance, without discrimination, intervention or constraint of any kind. This implies a methodical and systematic evaluation of those resources, their best possible use and their exploitation according to suitable environmental policies.
118.	Lastly, we realize that these and other matters pertaining to the economic aspects of international relations are being considered with a view to reopening global negotiations. We firmly request that such discussions should be transferred as soon as possible to the Assembly, not only for reasons of equity but also because most of the developing countries urgently require adoption by the international community of a harmonious set of actions, duly negotiated in such a way that the injustices resulting from unilateral decisions may be overcome. The global negotiations must give security to international economic relations and, on the basis of interdependence, establish a balanced framework that will provide opportunities for all.
119.	The disappointment of the developing countries at the failure of the work of the committee of the whole on global negotiations is well known, as are their efforts to overcome that situation. The work being done to prepare for the early consideration of the essential elements of an international economic understanding is also well known. Our country cannot but reiterate that the discussions taking place on this matter are of interest to all the members of the international community on a fully equal footing, and that it will be most difficult in the present world to reach any agreement on energy and financing, international trade, protectionism and readjustment, raw materials and food, industrialization and technology, unless the voices and interests of all the countries of the world are represented. We therefore request that these matters be referred back as soon as possible to the United Nations, that formal global negotiations begin promptly on a sound basis, and that exceptions be ended once and for all.
120.	We also wish to mention briefly an aspect of our work that is of fundamental importance. We have examined with keen interest the report of the SecretaryGeneral on the work of the Organization, which realistically reflects the international panorama and the work done by the United Nations. Consideration of that report reinforces our belief that it is necessary to strengthen the system and to make more equitable the representation of Member States in the Security Council. As we see it, the time has come to take up the matter of the increase in the number of non-permanent members of the Security Council, with a view to achieving an equitable geographical distribution between the different areas and regions. The circumstances that prevailed when the Charter was drafted in San Francisco have changed substantially.
121.	In another field, we attach the greatest importance to the work being done to strengthen the United Nations in its task of maintaining and consolidating international peace and security, developing cooperation among nations and promoting the rules of international law in relations between States. Likewise, we consider that the work on procedures for the peaceful settlement of disputes and the revision of the unanimity rule laid down for the benefit of the permanent members at the Security Council are of particular significance. We believe that in these matters we should advance steadily and gradually, proceeding without political considerations to the adoption of rules aimed at securing the full participation in the United Nations system of all its members, as a direct and sure way to achieve the necessary strengthening of the Organization.
122.	Finally, I wish to express the unwavering faith of my country in harmonious relations among nations and in understanding among peoples.
123.	In recent years, Uruguay has been through a unique experience. We were, almost before any other country, subjected to the onslaught of international terrorism, which we confronted and defeated by our own means. Today we are marching forward along the path of progress towards the full implementation of the highest national ideals, fully aware of the meaning of our example for other nations.
124.	We were able to come through this difficult experience, which could have meant our destruction, and Uruguay emerged a strong nation, convinced that the best kind of help is self-help. When faced with our own problems we were able to respond with a vote of self-confidence, but to face international problems we all need one another.
125.	Consequently, our hope and our message is that in this decade we should all come closer to a comprehensive peace, in a spirit of solidarity and brotherhood, so that the development and stability of all nations may foster the ideal of the United Nations as we move towards the new phases awaiting mankind.


===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
Speaking for all members of the delegation of 
Uruguay, I wish to address to the President our 
warmest congratulations on his election to the 
presidency of the thirty-seventh session of the 
General Assembly. Similarly, I wish to convey to 
his predecessor, Mr. Kittani, our special 
appreciation for the efficiency with which he 
directed deliberations at the last session.
257.	Uruguay is taking part in this session of 
the Assembly with the express desire of 
reaffirming once again as an absolute priority 
its historical commitment to peace. This 
commitment has been made manifest ever since our 
independence, in our support for dialogue as an 
instrument for settling disputes, and in our 
unremitting defense of international law.
258.	In a world troubled by the most serious 
threats, where there is constant tension and 
confrontations are rife, even where peace and 
security have been firmly established, the 
international community must, without delay, 
demonstrate in a specific, practical and 
effective manner, that its attachment to the 
principles and purposes of the Charter of the 
United Nations is not merely a formal promise or 
a passive expression of hope.
259.	It is deplorable to note that in the 
interval since the last session of the Assembly 
new clashes, with their tragic toll of death and 
desolation, have taken place in many parts of the 
world. The sad reality of ongoing wars lends 
added urgency to the current negotiations and 
strongly underlines the unavoidable 
responsibility incumbent on each and every one of 
us, setting aside any dialectics.
260.	Given the vicious circle of mistrust, 
tension and the arms race, civilized and fruitful 
coexistence can be obtained only to the extent 
that the various States exert their influence in 
their respective spheres in conformity with the 
international legal order and in strict 
observance of the obligations set down in the 
Charter.
261.	It was this line of thinking that led 
Uruguay in a constructive spirit actively to 
participate in the work of the second special 
session of the General Assembly devoted to 
disarmament. When we take stock of the results 
achieved, it is frustrating to acknowledge the 
lack of substantial progress on a topic in which 
a great many hopes had been placed, namely the 
comprehensive program for disarmament. It is, 
however, important to mention that reaffirmation 
of the validity of the 1978 Final Document in 
resolution S-10/2, the commitment to abide by the 
priorities established in the disarmament 
negotiations, and the adoption of two resolutions 
on a World Disarmament Campaign and disarmament 
fellowships are concrete measures in the long and 
laborious process of building up universal 
understanding. My country welcomes them with 
satisfaction.
262.	With regard to disarmament, Uruguay 
enthusiastically agrees that resources not spent 
on armament should be reallocated to developing 
countries. It also warmly supports as a form of 
progress the idea of using these resources for 
the development of nuclear-free zones which, 
although geographically limited, contribute to 
the cause and objectives of disarmament. It is to 
be hoped that this example, to which Latin 
America made an outstanding contribution with the 
Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in 
Latin America (Treat of Tlatelolco), will be 
followed by other geographical areas, thus 
multiplying the number of zones to be gradually 
freed from the nuclear threat. However, the 
inalienable right of the developing countries to 
access to nuclear technology for peaceful 
purposes should be strongly reaffirmed.
263.	We should now like to offer some comments 
concerning the many conflicts now under way. 
Apart from constituting a threat to the basis of 
the harmonious coexistence of nations, these 
conflicts ignore the essential fact that we are 
all part and parcel of the same civilization, 
which is based on shared ideals. This deeply 
troubles the conscience of nations such as mine 
which regard any of their expectations as 
secondary to the cause of peace and place all 
their endeavors at its service.
264.	During the conflict in the South Atlantic 
Uruguay noted with concern and anguish how the 
use of forceóa procedure irreversibly proscribed 
by the Charter of the United Nationsóemerged in 
the American community of nations. Those 
responsible chose to disregard the inexorable 
tide of history.
265.	On various occasions and in various 
bodies my country has taken a position of 
solidarity with Argentina. This position is based 
on recognition of Argentina's right to claim 
sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands. Today 
Uruguay confirms that recognition in keeping 
with the best diplomatic traditions of my 
country, having been one of the first to put 
forward in this very body the unquestionable 
right of Argentina to the archipelago under 
dispute.
266.	Uruguay also reaffirms its strong desire 
to help in the search for a negotiated solution 
to the conflict. We are ready to participate in 
efforts to attain this purpose. To that end my 
Government would like to restate its willingness 
to offer the necessary facilities to the 
interested and concerned parties as well as to 
any possible mediators so that it may receive 
them in the traditional Uruguayan environment of 
peace and security.
267.	We have no doubt of the need for a 
peaceful solution to the crisis obtaining in the 
South Atlantic, but we should like to express our 
firm desire that the solution not contravene the 
course of history or breed future confrontations.
268.	Once again the situation in the Middle 
East is causing particular concern to my 
Government, which, faithful to the juridical and 
political principles that underlie our 
international conduct, is particularly alive to 
the anguish caused by the grave events that have 
come to pass in Lebanon
269 We appreciate the values that Lebanon 
represents. It is a nation that loves peace and 
culture. The close links of friendship and 
respect between our countries prompt us to call 
for the strictest respect for its sovereignty, 
territorial integrity, unity and political 
independence. In other words, we demand respect 
for its right freely to choose its own future 
without foreign intervention. This obviously 
implies the withdrawal from Lebanese territory 
of all occupying forces regardless of their 
origin.
270.	In the judgment of my Government a strong 
and independent Lebanon constitutes an essential 
factor for peace throughout the region. The 
international community must exert every effort 
to co-operate with the people and Government of 
Lebanon in the attainment of these goals. It is 
likewise imperative that the parties to the 
conflict adopt an unswerving policy to that end.
271.	Uruguay will firmly support any action 
designed to bring about peace in the Middle East. 
That is consistent with our position. It should 
be brought about through agreements negotiated 
among the parties involved without violence and 
with justice so as to guarantee all parties the 
possibility of living within safe and recognized 
boundaries in accordance with international law 
and the relevant resolutions of the Security 
Council.
272.	In that spirit we are participating in 
the Sinai multinational peace-keeping force, and 
we are ready to co-operate in various actions to 
be undertaken in order to consolidate and broaden 
the process leading to a just and lasting peace 
in the region, regardless of extraneous interests 
and destabilizing factors.
273.	Equally it bears repeating here that the 
objective of peace in the Middle East 
presupposes the existence and recognition of the 
State of Israel and its right and the right of 
other nations not to be attacked. Of course it is 
also necessary for the international community 
to understand the legitimate aspirations of the 
[people of Palestine to have a territory in 
which to settle and establish a free and 
sovereign State.
274.	My country's foreign policy has been 
based on unswerving respect for fundamental 
principles such as non-interference in the 
domestic jurisdiction of States and the right of 
all peoples to self-determination. The 
application of these principlesówhich all have 
the same source, the preservation of the right to 
exercise sovereigntyóhas been constantly and 
seriously hampered by the actions of countries 
and pressure groups which, because of their 
support for internal forces, internationalize 
conflicts that clearly fall within the domestic 
jurisdiction of States. This has led to a 
situation in which the inalienable right of 
States to decide their own future without foreign 
pressure or undue influence is disregarded. This 
is dramatically evident in regions such as 
Central America, where, furthermore, violence and 
terrorism daily infringe the political, economic 
and social stability of countries, which is an 
essential element of the full development of the 
peoples of the region.
275.	With regard to Afghanistan, the majority 
of the international community has expressed a 
strong desire for detente, an end to military 
clashes so as to avoid greater suffering and 
misery among the people, the immediate withdrawal 
of foreign troops, total respect for the rights 
of the civilian population and restoration of 
effective sovereign national authority. The 
persistence of the conflict creates a dangerous 
source of friction that must be resolved as soon 
as possible.
276.	In the context of these particular 
issues, I must state that my Government attaches 
great importance to the achievement of a peaceful 
independent solution to the question of the 
unification of Korea through inter-Korean 
dialogue. That would help create conditions 
favorable for mutual understanding and for the 
general stability of the region.
277.	It would be worth while to reactivate the 
good offices of the Secretary-General in this 
case for discus-sions between North and South 
Korea.
278.	In all the international bodies in which 
it participates, Uruguay has always defended the 
principle of the self-determination of peoples. 
Therefore, we reaffirm once again the Namibian 
people's right to independence and its right to 
choose, in a climate of peace and free from undue 
pressures and external influences, its own 
political constitution, within the framework 
guaranteed by the United Nations provisional 
administration. Uruguay's stand on this issue is 
not anomalous; it is consistent with, and a part 
ot', our unswerving commitment to peace and our 
emphatic rejection of any use of violence or 
terrorism.
279.	Uruguay is a party to the International 
Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of 
Racial Discrimination We were the first State to 
accept the machinery set forth in that Convention 
for receiving individual complaints and 
communications. That position is not one dictated 
by circumstances; it has been energetically and 
unswervingly held by my country's 
representatives ever since the inception of the 
United Nations, ever since the Organization first 
gave impetus to the process of decolonization.
280.	Although the great majority of the 
nations of the international community have 
ratified or acceded to that Convention, thus 
making it a universal instrument, discrimination 
on the basis of color, race, national or ethnic 
origin, or social class remains a tragic fact 
which shocks our conscience and is an affront to 
the spirit of progress of mankind.
281.	The forced displacement of indigenous 
populations; the marginal existence of national 
or ethnic minorities; the existence of 
discriminatory laws; the persistence of practices 
based on notions of superiority or on racial 
hater: all these things convince us that the 
Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat 
Racism and Racial Discrimination, which expires 
in December of next year, should be renewed and 
broadened.
282.	Unfortunately the examples I have given 
are not the only manifestations of 
discrimination. It has also been manifested in 
the most painful forms of religious intolerance, 
which, in various parts of the world, continue to 
provoke a great deal of violence, persecution, 
and even genocide. In this connection, my country 
reaffirms its full support for the Declaration on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and 
of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief, 
which the Assembly adopted fast year in 
resolution 36/55. At the same time we urge the 
prompt resumption of consideration of a draft 
international convention on this matter. That 
instrument would serve as the basis, together 
with other necessary efforts, to combat theories, 
systems and institutions based on discriminatory 
principles which disregard the fundamental 
equality of the family of man.
283.	Uruguay was also one of the first 
countries to ratify the Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination 
against Women, which was adopted by the Assembly 
three years ago in resolution 34/180, and we 
welcome the fact that the Convention has come 
into force. We express the hope that it will help 
to ensure the participation of women, on an equal 
footing and at every level of society.
284.	In that connection, we must mention a 
system that shocks the conscience of mankind and 
makes a doctrine of iniquity:	Uruguay is 
pleased to affirm with its usual conviction its 
radical opposition to that policy as well as to 
any other form of racism that openly and 
stubbornly contradicts the moral and 
philosophical premises that form the basis of our 
most deeply and dearly held cultural traditions.
285.	The world crisis facing mankind is 
manifested not only in the destruction caused by 
those who ignore the single origin and nature of 
human-beings. It is also clear in the inability 
of the international community to put a stop to 
the ongoing violence which has become an integral 
part of the political practice of nations, 
nations with a long tradition of institutional 
stability and those recently emancipated from 
colonialism. That violence has resulted in 
constant acts of terrorism, with their tragic 
toll in murder, kidnapping and extortion; this 
seems to flourish in societies where democratic 
institutions prevail and where an attempt is made 
to preserve fundamental freedoms and individual 
rights. On the other hand, symptomatically, the 
phenomenon of terrorism does not appear in any 
country where totalitarianism exists with its 
systematic violation of human rights.
286.	Acts of terrorism are grave offences 
against common law; they violate the most 
fundamental principles of persona! and 
collective security, whatever the political 
pretexts invoked for their commission.
287.	Uruguay is a party to all the conventions 
adopted within the United Nations system and the 
Organization of American States with the aim of 
preventing and punishing acts of terrorism. It 
has also participated very actively in the work 
of the Ad Hoc Committee on International 
Terrorism. Several of its proposals on the 
subject have been approved by that Committee.
288.	Notwithstanding our recognition of the 
efforts that have been made, we must firmly state 
our dis-appointment at the fact that the 
international community has not adopted 
practical, specific and comprehensive measures 
to deal effectively with the grave and complex 
problem of terrorism. Although the maintenance of 
internal security is the responsibility of each 
individual State, co-operation among countries is 
essential to prevent and punish, in a co-ordinate 
way, crimes with international implications.
289.	Although consideration of the underlying 
causes of acts of terrorism and violence deserve 
attention, it must not lead us to delay 
indefinitely the search for remedies to deal with 
what is an undeniable fact: that acts of 
terrorism are invariably repeated, deserving the 
repudiation of all civilized nations.
290.	The efforts to prevent and punish crimes 
committed against diplomatic agents and other 
persons enjoying immunities established in 
international law are based on the adoption in 
New York, m 1973, of the Convention on the 
Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against 
Internationally Protected Persons, including 
Diplomatic Agents. But we believe that a 
multilateral machinery must be established to 
deal with acts of terrorism affecting ordinary 
persons who do not enjoy the special protection 
of those immunities, but who are, none the less, 
entitled to international protection as human 
beings.
291.	This year we have witnessed a historic event of great importance: the 
approval by the great majority of the 
international community of the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea,- which 
establishes a new and comprehensive legal order 
applicable to the seas and based on the 
recognition of the sovereign rights and 
jurisdiction of the littoral States in the waters 
adjacent to their coasts, in an exclusive 
economic zone, and on the continental shelf, 
with due regard for the jus communication and the 
rational exploitation of the resources of the sea.
292.	It is also based on co-operation for the 
development of scientific research, the 
protection and pres-ervation of the marine 
environment, the administration by an 
international authority of that zone, of the 
sea-bed and the ocean floor beyond national 
jurisdiction with the necessary powers for 
organizing and controlling those activities 
related to the exploration and exploitation of 
resources and the establishment of a production 
policy for that zone and a comprehensive system 
for the settlement of disputes.
293.	However, we regret that some countries 
were not able to overcome their difficulties with 
respect to certain points and cast a favorable 
vote. Nevertheless, we trust and hope that they 
will be able to reconsider their position for the 
benefit of the common good. This would allow us 
to reach our objective, which would constitute an 
achievement of prime importance for the stability 
of international relations and the consolidation 
of world peace.
294.	With regard to the environment, 1982 has 
been a year rich in important events, to which 
our country contributed decisively and with 
conviction. The session of a special character 
that was convened by the Governing Council of 
UNEP last May in Nairobi commemorating the tenth 
anniversary of the United Nations Conference on 
the Human Environment, which was held in 1972 in 
Sweden, was followed by the tenth session of the 
Governing Council. A signal achievement of these 
two meetings was the renewal of the "spirit of 
Stockholm", the solemn ratification by more than 
100 nations of their commitment to preserve the 
environment, thus ensuring a vital framework for 
humanity and the common heritage of future 
generations. The Nairobi and the Action Plan for 
the Human Environment? that were adopted 
represent a new policy approach. It is a more 
systematic and technical approach which includes 
a considerable strengthening of international 
action on the subject and the implementation of 
the resolutions adopted at the /M Meeting of 
Senior Government Officials Expert in 
Environmental Law, which my country was pleased 
to host in October and November 1981.
295.	The Second United Nations Conference on 
the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space 
was held last August at Vienna. The objective of 
the Conference was to analyze at the world level 
those problems concerning the cosmos at a time 
when we are approaching a quarter century of the 
space age. Uruguay participated actively in the 
work of that Conference, firmly convinced that it 
was the appropriate time to take stock of the 
past and the present in order to make a realistic 
projection for the future with a view to genuine 
international co-operation on this question.
296.	The enormous increase in the field of 
communications and the interdependence of 
peoples that provide our civilization with a real 
sense of unity has made it imperative for the 
field of communications to become an essential 
element in the economic and social development of 
all countries.
297.	Faithful to this idea, we have adhered to 
the proclamation by the General Assembly of the 
World Communications Year and we are ready within 
our means to take part in the Plan of Action to 
be undertaken next year. To this end, we have 
already established a National Committee in our 
country in which all the relevant ministries and 
government services are represented.
298.	Uruguay is a party to the international 
Covenants on Human rights, including the 
Optional Protocol to the international Covenant 
on Civil and Political Rights. It has always 
fought in every forum against the death penalty. 
Hence we were pleased to note the significant 
progress made in the drafting of a second 
optional protocol to abolish capital punishment, 
a vestige of history that denies the first right 
of manóthe right to life.
299.	In the same spirit, Uruguay has taken 
part in the work of the Commission on Human 
Rights is preparing a convention against torture 
and other cruel, inhuman and degrading acts.
300.	We have also reaffirmed our interest in 
any measure contributing to the strengthening and 
expanding of the machinery of the Organization to 
improve the effective enjoyment of individual 
rights and fundamental freedoms.
301.	We also strongly support the planned 
international campaign against drug trafficking, 
within the context of the international Strategy 
for Drug Abuse Control. This campaign is designed 
to achieve the eradication of another human 
scourge.
302.	There are other initiatives aimed at 
consolidating the objectives adopted by the 
Assembly when pro-claiming international years, 
such as the Year of the Child in 1979 and the 
Year of Disabled Persons in 1981. We support 
these initiatives. Given my Government's prime 
interest in these matters, we noted with 
satisfaction the considerable progress made in 
the drafting of a convention on the rights of the 
child, as well as that concerning the 
implementation of the World Programme of Action 
concerning Disabled Persons, designed to prevent 
incapacitating disabilities and to promote 
rehabilitation and the full integration of the 
handicapped into society.
303.	None the less, it is our earnest hope 
that these aims will not become obscured by 
rhetoric, as has unfortunately happened 
frequently in the international community, which 
shows the international community's incapacity 
to go beyond the level of mere statements at a 
time when crucial and ongoing challenges facing 
mankind call for strong substantive action.
304.	We know that there are good intentions; 
we know that there is no lack of theoretical 
concepts; but the shaping of a more just and 
equitable world economy, as well as the 
establishment of a legal order in a world fraught 
with individualism and violence, is still mere 
aspirations and nothing more.
305.	A question affecting the whole of mankind 
on which we cannot remain silent is that of 
hunger and poverty which ruthlessly afflict more 
than 900 million people in the world.
306.	Uruguay, a developing country, cannot 
accept with criminal indifference the suffering 
of others as well as the passivity of the 
machinery of a system that in practice violates 
the basic tenets of the Organization.
307.	These situations, which deny the very 
minimum of human solidarity, demand the priority 
attention of the Assembly in order to restructure 
the links of interdependence and find solutions 
capable of alleviating the scourge of hunger and 
its cause, destitution. We must have the 
necessary political will to adopt appropriate 
measures allowing us to expect a certain measure 
of success in the struggle for better health and 
education in order to improve the lot of mankind 
and enhance the sanctity of life.
308.	In the field of health, it is fitting to 
mention specifically the fact that Uruguay has 
begun a massive vigorous campaign to vaccinate 
all our population. This is the culmination of 
the constant work of prophylaxis that has been an 
ongoing concern of the health services of my 
country.
309.	It is also worth noting that, in the Held 
of education, my Government is making every 
effort to implement an ambitious literacy program 
which will finally eliminate the already very low 
rate of illiteracy of no more than 5 per cent. 
The first stage of this campaign has successfully 
been completed recently this year.
310.	It is paradoxical to note that at this 
time when we have witnessed the greatest 
achievements and progress and when science and 
technology borders on science fiction there still 
remain groups of people living in abject poverty. 
This is a harsh reminder of our unavoidable 
responsibility.
311.	This question cannot be considered in 
isolation from the matter of trade, where we feel 
the effects of tariff barriers in our efforts to 
attain efficient food and agricultural 
production. That is especially true in those 
developing countries which have the good fortune 
of possessing great resources to contribute to 
the feeding of the world but which, because of 
actions {taken by industrialized nations, must 
face trade and marketing problems, to which I 
shall refer later.
312.	Concerning the world economic situation, 
we must express our. deep concern at the gradual 
and continuing deterioration within an acute 
process that seems to accelerate day by day. The 
persistence of recessionary and inflationary 
processes, the increase in unemployment, the 
instability of exchange rates, imbalances in the 
balance of payments of the industrialized 
countries, the consequent irritating 
protectionist reactions and, finally, why not 
say it?óthe indifference and the lack of the 
political will on the part of the industrialized 
countries to face the demands imposed by the 
overwhelming world crisisóinexorably delay the 
economic progress of the developing countries, 
which are the majority of those gathered in the 
Assembly.
313.	Within an economic framework such as that 
which exists today, which is marked by an intense 
and ever greater interdependence among the 
peoples of the world, it is imperative to find 
solutions based on a global economic approach, 
which makes it necessary to adopt a long-term 
global economic policy. This requires the optimum 
allocation of resources, which in turn signifies 
the redistribution and relocation of industries 
according to the competitive capacity of each 
country, the general  opening of economies in 
order to ensure an effective interplay of the 
laws of competition, and the adoption of a 
strategy capable of covering ail the developing 
areas without excluding key sectors.
314.	Within the same line of reasoning and 
with reference to international trade, we must 
note the grave damage done to economic 
development in general and to food production and 
agricultural and industrial development in 
particular by the discriminatory practices and 
tariff barriers applied in many parts of the 
world, particularly by the developed countries.
315.	We believe that the creation of an 
effective system of global security in the food 
sector must be accompanied by the parallel 
creation of an international financing system 
which will not be prejudicial to the 
food-producing developing countries. A new world 
food order is a prerequisite for any 
international economic order.
316.	Within the structural readjustment that 
we are proposing, the problem of energy is also a 
priority that must be dealt with as a whole. A 
new world energy order must assure access by all 
non-oil- producing countries with a limited 
economic potential to sources of supply at 
reasonable and predictable prices. We must also 
consider the development and international 
financing of new and alternative sources of 
energy. This must be a pre-condition of the 
establishment of any new international economic 
order.
317.	The developing countries are not resigned 
to this critical situation but insist upon a 
clear-cut position regarding the adoption of 
decisions by international bodies and greater 
participation in the acceptance of such 
instruments.
318.	Within this context, we fully support the 
aims of and the steps taken to ensure the 
relaunching of global negotiations, on the 
understanding that what will be discussed 
concerning this subject is of interest to 
everyone in the international community. These 
negotiations must be carried out in conditions of 
absolute equality.
319. It is difficult to understand how in the 
world of today we could reach agreements on 
energy and financing, international trade, 
protectionism and readjustment, raw materials and 
food, and industrialization and technology 
without the representation of all those 
interested and concerned. There must be an end to 
exclusion and selective participation and the 
question of the formal initiation of global 
negotiations must as soon as possible be brought 
to the Assembly.
320.	It is worth noting that the developing 
countries have initiated a very significant 
attempt to establish a South-South dialogue 
through the implementation of a wide range of 
activities involving economic cooperation. 
Uruguay has participated and is participating 
with enthusiasm and good faith in this process, 
which offers clear hope of widening the basis of 
the economies of the developing countries and of 
bettering the standard of living if their 
peoples. That common effort is an appropriate and 
suitable response to the needs and requirements 
of our time, always bearing in mind the 
solidarity that must prevail among countries that 
are going through similar stages of development.
321.	We firmly believe that development and 
security are intimately linked concepts and it 
could be said that there can be no integral 
development without the counterbalance of 
collective economic security through a 
multilateral juridical system that guarantees the 
full implementation of the rules and principles 
of co-operation for development. This is also 
applicable to the area of defense, in the case 
of economic measures or actions aimed at 
thwarting the sovereign will of States, the 
maintenance of the essential conditions of free 
and normal economic development and, in the last 
analysis, the effective practical application of 
international economic justice.
322.	Uruguay has voted in favor of the program 
budget for the biennium 1982-1983. This is a 
budget in which the concept of zero growth is 
used for the first time, after many years of 
sustained increases. The comprehensive nature of 
the budget appropriations does not entail an 
increase in the financial burden.
323.	The support of my country for this policy 
of austerity is based upon the unavoidable need 
to rationalize the hyperactivity of the United 
Nations and prevent the dispersal of effort. In 
this context, we should like the process of 
identifying and eliminating activities that are 
outdated, inefficient or of marginal usefulness 
to be intensified. This also applies to reduction 
of the very high percentage of costs absorbed by 
salaries and staff contributions. That percentage 
bears no reasonable relationship to the funds 
appropriated by the Organization for programmes 
of work of a substantial nature in the economic, 
social and humanitarian fields.
324.	Finally, we should like to make reference 
to something of special importanceónamely, the 
strengthening of the role of the Organization and 
equitable representation of its members of the 
Security Council.
325.	As I have already said, Uruguay fully 
understands and supports the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, 
which are those that have always guided our 
foreign policy. Support for the objectives of 
international peace and security are, in the end, 
identified with the aims of the civilization to 
which we all belong. We reaffirm our faith in the 
present and permanent relevance of this 
civilization and we express our steadfast support 
for all measures aimed at overcoming the 
obstacles in the path of the development of 
harmonious relations and mutual respect based on 
justice among all the peoples of the world.
326.	We place our greatest hope in the common 
effort of all those in the Organization and in 
the firm and unswerving application of the means 
and instruments available to the Organization. 
In this way we shall be able to make gradual but 
steady progress in maintaining and consolidating 
international peace and security, developing 
co-operation among nations, promoting the rules 
of international law and improving relations 
among States as well as on questions of the 
procedure for the peaceful settlement of disputes 
both regionally and internationally.
327.	Only two months ago, our President 
Alvarez, analyzing the Latin American scene 
during a recent meeting of the Latin American 
Integration Association, said:
"A world of super-Powers and mini-States, of 
groups of countries with enormous imbalances in 
their relative development, is their share in the 
fruits of progress and in their capacity to 
negotiate, calls for concerted action by those 
countries that are more excluded than weak, in 
order that it may become more just.
"With its demographic influence, its common 
cultural tradition, its enormous and unexploited 
riches and its dedication to peace and law, Latin 
America has a!! the conditions necessary to 
constitute an influential area, not only in 
economic alignment but in the political and 
cultural spheres as well, within an international 
order where im-balances of power give rise to 
voluntary or involuntary situations of 
domination.
"Setting aside questionable schemes used to group 
countries according to their level of 
development or relative power, I should like to 
see a Latin America that would be a totally new 
and independent force projected into the future 
as the continent of hope, of freedom and of 
justice, as the bridge and the link between the 
more developed and the most backward areas of the 
world."
328.	In this same line of thinking, I have no 
doubt that Uruguay will honor its commitment to 
America and to the world for the harmonious 
convergence of both currents, so that we can 
devote all our efforts to serving the aim of 
closer and more reciprocal constructive 
co-operation.
329.	With regard to matters relating to the 
functions of the Security Council, the 
distressing events that occurred during this year 
make it more than ever necessary to amend the 
rule of unanimity that was established for the 
benefit of the permanent members of the Security 
Council, a rule that tends to perpetuate an 
obvious situation of privilege the exercise of 
which paralyses the Council's mission for peace.
330. It is also necessary to say that with the 
passing of time and in the light of many painful 
and enlightening experiences it will become 
necessary to consider the possibility of giving 
thought to the most effective means of organizing 
the system of voting in the Security Council, 
above all in order to preserve intact its 
constitutional power to act for the preservation 
of peace, which is the very reason it was brought 
into being.
33!. It is then fittingóand in this regard we 
fully agree with the proposal made by the 
Secretary- Generalóto hold a special meeting of 
the Security Council. This would be a frank, 
determined action that would enable us 
realistically to face those problems in the 
solution of which we are all ineluctably engaged.
332.	In conclusion, my Government is prepared 
to support any effort designed to strengthen the 
Organization and to enable it fully to assume 
its responsibilities. Hence, we shall make a 
firm contribution to creating a climate favorable 
to dialogue and trust, to civilized and fruitful 
coexistence, starting along the road towards a 
community of nations without tutors or pupils, a 
community in which the legal equality of States 
will be expressed through a policy of full 
respect for the right of everyone freely to 
choose his own future without interference or 
aggression. This is the task we all face. It is 
an unavoidable and daily task that poses: a 
crucial challenge, one we must face and one we 
must overcome, guided by the same spirit of 
solidarity and brotherhood, as we continue along 
the path of peace and justice towards the new 
conditions the future holds in store for mankind.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿149.	 Mr. President, first of all I should like to express our satisfaction at seeing you preside over the work of the thirty-eighth session. We are quite certain that with your experience and vast knowledge of the Organization you will wisely and skilfully discharge your functions.
150.	We also wish to thank your predecessor, Mr. Imre Hollai, for his work in the last session.
151.	We also welcome Saint Christopher and Nevis as a new member of the Organization. It is a country also belonging to the family of Latin American nations.
152.	Before beginning my address, I should like to express our sympathy to the victims of the attack against government officials of the Republic of Korea. We extend our condolences to them. This deed demonstrates the state of violence in the world and deserves the most emphatic condemnation.
153.	Uruguay comes to this session of the General Assembly to renew its commitment to the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. The efforts made by the Organization and the activities of the various organs of the system to attain faithfully all their noble goals, therefore, merit our firm support.
154.	We must observe, unfortunately, that many centers of conflict and political tension persist and contribute, in one fashion or another, to keeping the world in an unstable and dangerous state of affairs. Given this uncertain situation in which the peace and security of mankind are at stake, we cannot permit procrastination or omissions, for the United Nations has a vital role to play to prevent conflicts and to contribute to the peaceful solution of disputes.
155.	Today, more than ever before, we must do our utmost to attain peace, through the full implementation of the principles of international law.
156.	Our country is deeply committed to this goal and has reiterated our steadfast confidence in the peaceful settlement of disputes, in moderation and in constructive dialogue, inspired by respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States.
157.	We have come to the Assembly deeply disturbed at the extremely difficult times that mankind is going through, a time of deep crisis in supreme spiritual values, a time of economic crisis, of distrust and lack of understanding between States, bringing in their train difficulties and confrontations which affect international relations more every day and endanger peaceful coexistence between nations—the supreme purpose of the Organization.
158.	It is vital, therefore, for each Government and each representative to help produce the political will necessary to resolve the serious questions with which we are concerned. I shall deal next with the main factors of those questions, for it is only through political will that we are able to meet the just aspirations of our peoples.
159.	In this connection, we must emphasize, in the first place, the grave situation of the international economy. This situation has a world-wide impact, but it has the most serious effect on the developing countries—not merely because of the temporary difficulties, however grave they may be, but because our countries seem to be immersed in a protracted crisis in which various factors work together to hamper our possibilities. I am referring in particular to external debt servicing, to the protectionism practiced by the industrialized countries, to the fall in the prices of export commodities and to the drastic reduction in development financing, both public and private, as well as to the high interest rates in the international financial market.
160.	In that context, it is hard to imagine how some countries can find the resources to finance new projects and to modernize our industries, when there is a reduction in the flow of investments and when our exports cannot be placed in the protected markets of the developed world, at the same time that our financial obligations are increasing.
161.	In describing the present situation—leaving aside exercises in economic abstractions or in the performance of variables in mathematical models—we must bear in mind the very serious social and human condition, inseparable from the crisis which affects us all.
162.	That is the harsh reality besetting us; it calls for solutions and answers. That is why the understandable frustration at sterile efforts must be replaced by a renewed impetus to seek solutions within the international community.
163.	The more than limited results of the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development should be grounds for deep reflection. There can be no doubt but that all countries, developed and developing, have a sovereign right to direct and administer their economies and to foster their progress as each sees fit. But it is also clear that the developed countries, given their weight and impact, have a primary responsibility in the present situation and in the possibilities to correct it.
164.	These circumstances should not lead, however, to confrontation or a dialectical showdown, since we know that in an interdependent world we all need each other, but it is essential that we test out together new paths in order to explore new prospects for real and effective cooperation.
165.	The search for new paths must be carried out urgently, with sharp imagination and full awareness of the responsibility of the present grave crisis, the solution of which, in terms of trade and in more dramatic terms of external debt financing, makes a real commitment absolutely vital.
166.	The industrialized countries can no longer ignore the evidence that their own well-being and prosperity as well as their prospects for progress and peaceful development are indissolubly linked to the purchasing power of the developing countries. Therefore, the international community, in particular the developed countries, must 
bear in mind that the progressive and accelerating financial and economic strangulation of the developing countries that we are now witnessing will without any doubt sweep along the industrialized countries, whose standards of living and, consequently, political and social stability will inevitably be affected, placing the world in a situation of generalized chaos. Should that happen, there will be no solution in time to prevent suffering by all the peoples of the world.
167.	The past 40 years have provided a wealth of evidence that armed conflicts have ceased to be the exclusive province of the nations with real might in terms of armaments. Development has ceased to be a guarantee of peace; it cannot be unless it is universalized. Hence, an enormous responsibility will be borne by those who, able to contribute to eliminating differences, instead increase them. Similarly, there will be inevitable consequences for all who take irresponsibly protectionist stands, believing that by generating greater wealth for themselves they will promote in others the meekness and resignation of poverty.
168.	In that connection, Uruguay wishes once again to emphasize two matters that are closely linked and that are of the greatest significance. I have in mind the production and marketing of foodstuffs, on the one hand, and malnutrition and hunger, on the other.
169.	It is clear that until restrictions and disparities in the marketing of agricultural products and foodstuffs are eliminated, the productive capacity of the developing countries will be limited, with tragic consequences in regard to food supply.
169 My country hopes that this crucial matter, affecting the larger part of mankind, will be tackled with determination. In this connection, we firmly call for the elimination of protectionist mechanisms and export subsidies used by the industrialized countries.
170.	It is obvious that it is the nations with the greatest possibilities and economic power that, using various means and mechanisms, are currently practicing the greatest protectionism and providing the largest subsidies for their exports. To the extent that this situation persists, there will be an ever-increasing gap between the rich and the poor countries, with the inevitable consequence of internal conflicts with international implications.
171.	Unless the developed world plays a real, positive role in this respect, prospects for the growth of the other countries will be non-existent in real terms and the world economy will continue to go through crisis and confrontation.
172.	The difficulties facing the developing countries in financing their external indebtedness are notorious. If in the final analysis the only real way to meet cur financial obligations is through exporting our products, the urgency of the present circumstances requires the adoption of special, imaginative solutions in keeping with the gravity of the situation. Among these could be an increase in special drawing rights, the renegotiation of external debt with favourable rates of interest and repayment terms and the necessary co-operation by financial organizations, public and private, operating in the international sphere.
173.	Progress in those areas could make possible new breakthroughs in other areas, within the context of a constructive global dialogue, in tune with the reality of a world economy that is becoming increasingly interdependent and integrated. In this connection, my country supports the efforts to launch the global negotiations in which the elimination of barriers to trade in foodstuffs will necessarily have to be faced.
174.	Multilateral co-operation for development within the framework of the United Nations is of course not immune to the difficulties besetting the international economy. Nevertheless, the agreement reached on the institutional aspects of science and technology for development shows that progress can be made if we work with good will to preserve and perfect the multilateral instruments for co-operation that have been created through so much effort.
175.	Against the background of the serious international economic situation the increase in nuclear and highly sophisticated conventional weapons looms menacingly. It is clear that this phenomenon, negative from the economic and security angle, cannot be disassociated from the existing international tensions and conflicts. It is wishful thinking to imagine really effective disarmament if that is not preceded and accompanied by measures to re-establish confidence and to create an atmosphere of dialogue and understanding.
T76. In this context, direct negotiations between the parties should lead to gradual, mutual and verifiable disarmament with the necessary guarantees.
177.	Uruguay firmly supports United Nations efforts for disarmament, especially the efforts directed towards a comprehensive programme.
178.	Likewise, the creation of denuclearized zones, following the example set for Latin America by the Treaty of Tlatelolco would be a positive and practical step worthy of our every encouragement.
179.	As I said at the beginning of the statement, Uruguay is completely at one with the need to mobilize the political will required to reach real solutions. If we believe we will attain such results by simply talking, if every period of tranquillity is interpreted as weakness that can be exploited to pursue a destabilizing armaments policy, we shall not be able to translate into reality the demands of our peoples. That can be attained only with the clear and uniform conviction that peace is the essential and supreme good. Inevitably, all efforts must be aimed at reaching this inescapable goal, leaving aside rhetoric and dialectics.
180.	The question of the Malvinas Islands occupies a significant place among the matters deserving the attention of the international community. My country has taken a clear and well-defined position on the substance of the question, the legitimate rights of the Argentine Republic to sovereignty over the islands.
181.	Twenty years ago, the Uruguayan delegation stated the need for a negotiated solution. Today we reiterate that position based on international law. It is therefore necessary, as we requested at the thirty-seventh session and as was approved by an overwhelming majority, that this dispute be placed firmly in the framework of negotiations within the United Nations and with the participation of the Secretary-General.
182.	It is necessary to avoid military preparations and to set aside all the factors which could provoke confrontation. Uruguay once again reiterates its fervent appeal for a search for peaceful and worthy solutions and again expresses its readiness to co-operate with other nations to this end. The United Nations can and must play a proper role in the creation of a legal and political framework that will make such solutions possible.
183.	My country, as a member of the family of Latin American nations,   particularly affected by the scale of suffering afflicting many human beings because of the persistence of violence in Central America. 

184.	Security Council resolution 530 (1983), which was adopted unanimously, traced a path for resolving the tragic crisis situation in that region. In that legal and political framework, Uruguay firmly supports the efforts of the Contadora Group to find satisfactory solutions. Of particular importance are the basic principles set forth by the Group to that effect, which are in keeping with international law. It is to be hoped that this work will continue, reaching a stage of practicalities in order to consolidate peace, which is the goal of our collective efforts.
185.	My country is always prepared to co-operate constructively at both the regional and international world levels to attain this goal, to rescue Central America from global tensions and conflicts and from outside interference.
186.	We should also note that, unfortunately, no progress has been made in the Middle East situation. The valuable peace initiatives taken in 1982 and the encouraging talks held in 1983 by various parties have not produced tangible results, and there now seems to be general uncertainty as to the future.
187.	However, it is useful to recall in this connection that was the United Nations which managed to produce a set of solution-oriented principles, and those principles are still fully valid.
188.	We therefore believe that any solution must take into account, inter alia the following considerations.
189.	A negotiated solution is needed which will provide for the right of all States in the region, including Israel, to exist within secure and internationally recognized frontiers, with justice and security for all peoples. It must at the same time ensure recognition and exercise of the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and to establish their own form of political organization. Also, the time factor is of essential importance in attaining a just and equitable solution.
190.	Hence, as  we stated at the thirty-seventh session, our country  will firmly support any action designed to bring about peace in the Middle East. ... It should be brought about through agreements negotiated among the parties involved without violence and with justice . . . in accordance e with international law and the relevant resolutions of the Security Council.  

191.. The situation in Lebanon is deeply disturbing. Uruguay, which has close ties with that country for so many reasons, would like to take this opportunity to reiterate its firm support for the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and self-determination of Lebanon. The authority of its Government must be consolidated and extended throughout the territory. Foreign armed forces, whether of a regular or irregular character, must be all withdrawn, except for those which the Lebanese Government freely requests to remain, and for the period specified. We trust that the United Nations, in co-operation with the Lebanese Government, will be able to play an active role in the vast political, social and humanitarian enterprise ahead.
192. The Security Council has dealt with the question of Namibia on many occasions. The General Assembly, for its part, has supplemented those decisions with solid support for Namibian independence. It is therefore very regrettable that there is still no sign of Teal progress in implementing the decisions of the United Nations. There can be no doubt that the occupation of Namibia should cease as soon as possible and that, under an interim United Nations administration, the people of Namibia must freely choose its own future and build up its own political organization.
193.	Similarly, United Nations bodies and the international community have repeatedly condemned
and called for an end to it.
194.	Uruguay most strongly opposes the apartheid regime and all forms of racism and discrimination.
is basically contrary to the philosophy and institutions of the Uruguayan people, in addition to being a violation of international norms.
195.	This unvarying position of my country is reflected in its being a party to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination  and in the fact that we were the first State to accept the competence of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination to receive individual complaints.
196.	The Uruguayan delegation is ready to co-operate with other like-minded delegations in the search for international means, in accordance with the Charter, of bringing about the speediest compliance with resolutions relating to these questions adopted by the Organization.
197.	In this context we should emphasize the importance we attach to the attainment of a peaceful solution to the question of the unification of Korea, arrived at independently through direct negotiations and dialogue between the two Koreas. This could help establish lasting peace in the area, based on mutual understanding.
198.	We sincerely hope that the international community will make a positive contribution to the resolution of this problem. In this connection, we support the activities of the Secretary-General, including the use of his good offices to bring about the resumption of the essential dialogue between South Korea and North Korea.
199.	The magnitude of the outstanding questions and the limited progress that has been made, not to mention the outright setbacks, undoubtedly give rise to feelings of frustration. However, we should not become discouraged.
200.	Despite the difficulties, the United Nations continues to provide an irreplaceable forum for world dialogue. It is the most important centre for organizing multilateral co-operation, and within its framework there are important contacts and negotiations that should be encouraged. The reasons that gave life to the Organization and the goals set for it continue to be essential for the peoples of the United Nations: namely, preserving peace and promoting economic and social progress.
201.	That is why Uruguay firmly supports the plan put forward by the Secretary-General in his report on the work of the Organization to the previous session and the new approaches in this year's report	We also welcome the valuable considerations and suggestions put forward by other countries.
202.	Uruguay has transmitted to the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization some comments intended essentially to suggest procedural means for more expeditious action by the Security Council in critical situations and to support the full development of the powers of the Secretary-General, whose role should be enhanced with the whole-hearted support of the Member States.
203.	I emphasize that my country fully shares the view that has evolved about the need to strengthen the Organization and to make it more effective. This trend should be continued and deepened. My delegation will co-operate at all times with the efforts to attain that goal. 

204.	The efforts to rationalize the Organization's budget and expenditures without at the same time paralyzing programmes of real benefit to our peoples are worth mentioning as a major practical consideration. They imply consideration of co-ordination with the other bodies and agencies within the system.
205.	Before concluding, I should like to make some brief comments about the situation in my country. These remarks are to give the international community some information and are not intended as any kind of justification. My country obviously could not escape the grave difficulties arising from the international recession.
206.	Faced with this crisis, the Government took the measures which it deemed the most appropriate to deal with the present situation with the means at our disposal, despite protectionist barriers and other adverse factors to which I referred when speaking about the international economy.
207.	We are convinced that we have been doing everything possible, and we have made progress during these very difficult times. We have had to make sacrifices and do without certain things, but we have done so with confidence and faith in the future.
208.	At the same time, now that the scourges that devastated our country in the past, with a violence incompatible with the naturally peaceful spirit of our people, have been neutralized, Uruguay is advancing firmly and with determination along the path back to true democracy, in keeping with the feelings of the Uruguayan
people and Government.
209.	Despite temporary procedural difficulties, the Government has prepared, and is keeping to, an institutional schedule, some important stages of which have already been completed, such as the reorganization of political parties and the election of their officers by popular vote. The schedule, recently reaffirmed, provides for the holding of general elections in November 1984 and the transfer of power in March 1985 to those elected.
210.	This is the path on which the Government has embarked with unswerving determination, a path that leads, with peace and moderation, towards the institutionalisation of full democracy, in keeping with our secular, civic traditions and with the consent and understanding of the Uruguayan people.
211.	The Government will maintain its firm determined and genuine commitment to institutionalize the country.
212.	In concluding by offering a summary of the international situation, I must recognize, realistically, the existence of divergences, divisions and even outright conflicts within the international community. This situation is often the reason for lack of action by United Nations organs.
213.	In this respect, as I said at the beginning of my statement, no real progress will be possible without the political will and collective determination of Member States to act in all matters in accordance with the Charter.
214.	We must make a renewed commitment to work together in common endeavours, acting with full respect for the sovereign right of each State to direct its own destiny without outside interference, without attempts by some to exercise hegemony over others and without patronizing lessons which would be as unacceptable as they would be inappropriate.
215.	It is necessary to speak frankly and sincerely. It is imperative to maintain an open dialogue and to work in a constructive spirit. It is essential to reaffirm our faith in law and in the United Nations. It is essential to make a supreme effort with courage and dedication to continue our progress, overcoming scepticism and current difficulties.
216.	Only thus shall we meet the crucial challenge of the hour and fulfil the mandate of our peoples, building a future of peace and happiness for all mankind.


===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿1.	I should like first to congratulate Mr. Paul Lusaka, of Zambia, on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly. I am confident that under his leadership the work of the thirty-ninth session will produce positive results. His election constitutes, to our great satisfaction, a further reflection of the outstanding role played by the Group of African States in the United Nations and its active contribution to the international community.
2.	At this session we have taken another step towards the universality of the United Nations with the admission of the 159th Member, Brunei Darussalam, to which Uruguay extends a most cordial and friendly welcome and offers its full co-operation.
3.	In the annual consideration of our agenda, we are faced with a full range of serious problems arising as a consequence of the world economic crisis and the continued existence of a large number of situations brought about by political tension and even by open conflict.
4.	In recent years, our world has not become safer, more peaceful or more just: quite the contrary.
151. I should like to refer specifically to some of the questions that are particularly important to my Government.
152. On the occasion of the opening of the twenty- fifth annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Inter-American Development Bank, at Punta del Este in March of this year, President Alvarez underlined the fact that the opening of the session coincided with "the most painful crisis of the world economic system". He said:
"Latin America is undergoing the deepest crisis of the last half century. Growth has stagnated. The standard of living of every citizen has worsened in the whole region, thus bringing about the inevitable social and political consequences. This situation of unforeseen regional and world-wide consequences is reflected in an unprecedented debt, the servicing and repayment of which constitutes a very high percentage of the export revenue, if not all of it.
"In these conditions—and we emphasize this— the problem cannot be solved. Even if we recognize that the work of reconstruction is a responsibility falling on all the members of the community who wish to make progress, it becomes essential that credit institutions and developed countries accept their responsibilities, taking into account their own capabilities and political and financial interests. Their own growth and stability depend in the end on the economic and social well-being of our countries."
He continued:
"The time has come to abandon sterile diagnoses and to undertake co-ordinated action. The terms of payment of our debt must be rescheduled; reducing interest rates in such a way that the debt may be serviced while we keep a level of revenue-producing exports that can safeguard the social conditions of our peoples. In order for Latin America to continue its development and generate wealth— and this seems to be everyone's goal—we should be able to draw on sufficient external financing while at the same time increasing our exports."
153.	Nevertheless, it must be said that, in assuming the responsibility of meeting our obligations and carrying out the relevant negotiations in a sovereign manner, the Latin American countries have found in their adverse situation a source of unity and co-operation.
154.	In meetings at Quito, Lima, Cartagena and Mar del Plata, we have produced important documents which clearly articulate our strong and responsible common position, on the basis of which we are ready for a constructive dialogue. We have firmly put forward just and realistic guidelines for the repayment of the debt, taking into account the unavoidable and equitable sacrifices that such adjustment entails for all parties concerned.
155.	In this context, we once again strongly support the provisions of paragraph 23 of the Cartagena Consensus, signed on 22 June 1984. On that occasion, the majority of the Latin American countries expressed their readiness "to hold a meeting with the Governments of industrialized countries in order to examine jointly the many aspects, and the economic, social and political implications, of the indebtedness of Latin America".
156.	The present situation, in all its gravity, confirms once more the wisdom of our long-standing position concerning the need to eliminate restrictions to trade which seriously affect the developing countries. As exemplified by the present situation, one can claim the validity of the equation encompassing external debt and trade, but one must also accept, as has always been the case, the relationship between trade and development.
157.	In this perspective, the protectionism of the industrialized countries and their intervention in international markets with subsidized products constitute a very serious development, which adversely affects the developing countries not only at the economic level but also in the social context.
158.	It must be clearly stated that those countries which practise such conduct in matters so vital for the life of peoples and the regulation of their relationships have no moral legitimacy in passing judgement on other aspects of relationships among men, nor do they have the authority to question the political, social and economic consequences brought about by their actions.
159.	The crisis produced by the external debt has also underlined the weaknesses of the international financial system, which are greatly increased by the relationship among all the factors.
160.	It is obvious that these problems affect not only Latin America in varying degrees, they affect all the developing countries and are added to the critical food situation, especially in Africa. We have not reached the goal of food security. We must continue our efforts to that end.
161.	It is sad to observe that the various multilateral mechanisms have not been able to deal with these issues—as they have not been able to deal with financial and monetary questions—in the depth that the situation requires or with the practical efficiency required. We have not made any progress in the global negotiations, in the revision of the development strategy or in the adoption of immediate remedies. We are facing an acute crisis in international co-operation to a degree which threatens not only the vitality of the multilateral mechanisms themselves but their very existence. We are witnessing an acute crisis in international co-operation to such an extent that we note that it has become impossible to discuss and implement overall long- term policies such as would encompass a comprehensive solution to global problems.
162.	We think it is necessary to initiate immediate and concerted practical action to find solutions to the most pressing basic problems, such as those of trade, finance and the establishment of appropriate conditions of food security. That would improve the standard of living of the developing countries in the immediate future.
163.	The delegation of Uruguay is ready to cooperate actively in the search for multilateral remedies which could help to solve these problems. We must, however, insist on our offer of honest cooperation, even though this might elicit a response only in terms of an echo of the words themselves. Beyond rhetoric, it is necessary to enter into a genuine dialogue, to embark upon practical negotiations to solve pressing questions, and we must show the necessary political will. The paralysis pervading the international scene on questions so vital and urgent for the daily life of peoples could become the factor triggering greater evils with unpredictable consequences.
164.	For 20 years, Uruguay has been advocating a legal and peaceful solution to the question of the Malvinas Islands, through dialogue and negotiation within the framework of the United Nations. That has become more necessary than ever in the light of the tragic events of 1982 and in view of the continued tension and risk which this unresolved question entails. Our Government welcomes the statements expressing the will to find a solution. They should be translated into the immediate resumption of negotiations. Uruguay's well-known solidarity with the aspirations of the Argentine Republic does not preclude us, together with other Latin American nations, from formulating the sincere desire for the reopening of negotiations.
165.	Our Government has been following with great concern the development of the crisis in Central America. Without wishing to enter into discussions or into ideological confrontations, I must say that it is very moving to see so many people who have suffered for such a long time. The human dimension of the conflict engulfs everything and everyone. This makes it imperative to have solidarity and effective action. The efforts of the countries members of the Contadora Group in this respect deserve our strong support. The Contadora Act on Peace and Co-operation in Central America is a document inspired by the rich juridical and political traditions of Latin America. The various instances of dialogue in the recent past are encouraging signs.
166.	We trust that the positive action of the Group will continue—Uruguay will offer its firm support to that end—in order that the remaining obstacles may be overcome. It is necessary for us to engage in joint efforts, within the framework of international law, to ensure that the peoples of Central America are guaranteed the free exercise of self-determination, as a viable means for achieving and consolidating peace.
167.	With an issue so momentous as the one before us, the contribution of all the countries of the region affected by the crisis is essential. We therefore appeal to them to exert their best efforts and to display the political will necessary to promote negotiation, and at the same time we appeal to them to refrain from any action contrary to that aim.
168.	The situation in the Middle East continues to be a source of serious tension, not only for the region but also for international security.
169.	Ever since the founding of the United Nations, our country has supported the adoption of solutions that equitably take into account the rights and interests of all the parties in the region. Consequently, Uruguay is in favour of the full implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and recognizes the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to the full exercise of self-determination and the right of all the States in the region, including Israel, to exist within secure and internationally recognized boundaries.
170.	The path leading to true and lasting peace requires solutions negotiated among all the parties concerned, with no one excluded, solutions that take the various elements of the question into account in a balanced and equitable manner and thus provide assurances to all the States in the region.
171.	The United Nations can, when the time comes, play r significant role in promoting negotiations, by pre ding an appropriate framework or supplementing their further development or implementation. We support in particular the efforts of the Secretary-General and we encourage him to continue them.
172.	With deep emotion we express our solidarity with Lebanon, and, at the same time, we make a very strong political statement of support for its sovereignty, integrity and independence. Our country hopes that the Lebanese Government, with the support and respect of the international community, will begin to exercise its functions and powers effectively throughout its territory and that, in a climate of national concord, peace will be consolidated with the withdrawal of foreign forces.
173.	The attention of the international community should also be focused on other serious issues which affect various areas and which, taken together, bear witness to the precarious state of peace in the world. I am referring to, among other things, the prolonged conflict between Iraq and Iran and to the situations in Afghanistan, Kampuchea and Cyprus, as well as to the division and tension in the Korean peninsula.
174.	It is appropriate for me to recall the importance my country attaches to the question of the unification of Korea by means of an independent, peaceful solution. This solution must be attained through dialogue and direct negotiation, without foreign interference, which would make possible the creation of conditions favourable to understanding between the parties as well as to the stability of the region. Within that context, the good offices of the Secretary-General, between North and South Korea, should be supported and encouraged. The United Nations must not and cannot be indifferent to, or allow itself to be kept on the sidelines of this problem. In addition, notwithstanding these efforts and in this spirit, membership of the two Koreas in the United Nations could constitute a very positive occurrence.
175.	The persistence of tension in southern Africa gives rise to particular concern. There can be no doubt that the independence of Namibia and the exercise by its people of the right to self-determination have been postponed for far too long. It is necessary to adopt collective measures designed to secure, in that area, the application of international law, as recognized by the International Court of Justice, the Security Council and the General Assembly. Our Government actively supports the Secretariat's efforts to ensure implementation of internationally agreed norms in this respect. The Security Council can make a decisive contribution, taking into account its own powers.
176.	The situation with respect to apartheid is one about which Uruguay has particularly strong feelings. We totally reject this policy as well as its doctrine, its constitutional enshrinement and its practical application. We fully endorse the recent Security Council resolution which declares that the new constitution of South Africa is contrary to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and that its implementation would aggravate an already explosive situation in regard to apartheid.
177. Within the framework of international law, our country firmly supports all actions aimed at putting an end to the policy of apartheid, the continued practice of which, moreover, is a danger to peace and security.
178. Our reference to these questions makes it imperative for us to reaffirm our commitment to the defence of the principles of self-determination and non-discrimination on the basis of sex or religion or on any other basis, as well as to the application of both principles everywhere. It is thus appropriate for us to express regret at the persistence of colonial situations, the continued implementation of discriminatory policies and the non-exercise of the right to self-determination.
179.	Uruguay, in accordance with a tradition by which it has always abided, considers that multilateral legal instruments are the most effective means for safeguarding and promoting human rights. That is why it is desirable for these instruments to be made universal and for existing machinery to be put into effect. It would be appropriate—always bearing in mind the sovereign decision of each State—to encourage, on the part of all Governments, greater accession to and ratification of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, as well as the International Covenants on Human Rights and the Optional Protocol. With regard to draft texts, we support the second optional protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, designed to abolish the death penalty, and the draft convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
180.	Since those instruments constitute a system for the protection of human rights, in keeping with the principles of impartiality and non-selectivity, and since they cover equally the weak and the powerful and every ideology and regime, their adoption would ensure genuine protection of fundamental rights. If they are not adopted, in many instances it will continue to be only those who are more powerful that will benefit and only their political and economic interests will be protected, to the detriment of the interests of those who are weaker and the interests of certain parts of the world. It will indeed run counter to the aims for which these instruments were drafted and, what is worse, they will benefit those who energetically uphold particular philosophical positions that claim to be universal and who will become apostles of discrimination.
181.	The strengthening, through the Secretariat, of the procedures of the Centre for Human Rights and the establishment of a post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights could contribute to ensuring the enjoyment of human rights without distortion and in a truly constructive manner.
182.	The increasing number of conflicts and the various areas of tension arising from great-Power confrontation explain why ground has been lost in the international efforts aimed at disarmament. That is why Uruguay considers that the most important factor for the attainment of real progress in this area would be the creation of an environment of greater confidence through systematic respect for international law, the foundation of coexistence among States.
183.	In particular, it is necessary that we abide strictly by the principles of non-intervention, self- determination and the peaceful settlement of disputes. We wish to emphasize most strongly the need for strict observance of the principle of non-intervention. In view of the present state of international relations, it is deplorable that intervention in the internal affairs of other States not only has assumed a variety of more or less sophisticated forms but also occurs with such frequency that it has become the hallmark of our times, to the detriment of those countries which are most vulnerable, with destabilizing consequences of serious proportions.
184.	It is more than ever necessary for us to heed the call for reflection and a responsible approach. The gravity and intensity of the economic, social and political crisis affecting the vast majority of the peoples of the world has encouraged those who are stepping up their acts of intervention. This generates unnecessary conflicts which enable them to disguise their own ineffectiveness or incompetence. This situation has a particularly adverse impact on the economically weak countries. Every country—with rare exceptions—knows that there are other countries that are more powerful, and this conditions what it does. Thus, the revitalization of the principles of international law would allow everyone to take its proper place in a context of mutual respect.
185.	With each instance of direct or indirect violation of these principles, there is not only an attack on international law but also a threat to international peace and security.
186.	It is necessary to strengthen the rule of law. We should address ourselves to the biggest problems of our age. I would mention here by way of example the adoption of a convention making it mandatory for all States to resolve disputes by peaceful means before such disputes become uncontrollable and the application of the provisions of Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations therefore a mere illusion.
187.	The powers of the International Court of Justice should be increased, making its intervention mandatory in certain cases.
188.	Uruguay, which was responsible for the earliest declaration under the terms of Article 36 of the Statute of the International Court of Justice, appeals to all those States which are not yet doing so to do everything they can to ensure that the Court is given mandatory power in all disputes covered by that Article.
189.	The Security Council can undertake preventive action, which can lead to early solutions, particularly in the more critical cases. Peace-keeping operations should be supported and strengthened.
190.	The international community must increase its support for the Secretary-General and for the development of the duties that are implicit in his office, and in the provisions of the Charter.
191.	Finally, the General Assembly should adopt precise decisions strengthening the role of the Organization in general and of the General Assembly in particular, taking into account the work in the relevant Committees and the views of Member States.
192.	The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization, as in previous years, provides us with an objective assessment of steps that could be undertaken to increase the effectiveness of the United Nations.
193.	The great Powers, particularly the nuclear Powers, have a responsibility to make a substantial contribution to disarmament and peace. Nevertheless, the magnitude of what is at stake—the principles of international law, the legal structure of the Organization and, in the final analysis, the indivisibility of peace—give each and every one of the Member States the right and the duty to act in this field.
194.	It is fitting that we reaffirm, first, the validity of the objective of general and complete disarmament under international control. However, this should not stand in the way of our trying to promote, wherever and whenever possible, all other efforts undertaken in this area. In our view, the following collateral measures are called for: in the nuclear field, political support for halting and reversing the arms race; the initiation of negotiations between the superpowers; the extension of the ban on nuclear testing to cover underground tests; the creation and expansion of denuclearized zones and zones of peace; the negotiation of instruments guaranteeing the non-use of nuclear weapons against States which do not possess them; and the universalization of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In the field of conventional weapons, we believe that agreements aimed at stopping the arms race and banning the production and use of especially destructive weapons, in particular chemical weapons, are also necessary.
195.	The political, institutional and legal measures necessary for the maintenance of international peace and security are closely linked to any process of disarmament, as well as with the indispensable confidence-building measures.
196.	The international community can and must use its political influence and call with one voice for new efforts to ensure peace and progress through negotiations specifically aimed at disarmament in all forums.
197.	The Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, which was devoted to disarmament and was held in 1978, was fully endorsed in the Concluding Document of the Assembly's Twelfth Special Session, which was also devoted to disarmament, and continues to provide a firm basis for serious efforts in this area. The comprehensive programme for disarmament, on which negotiations are now taking place, could become the necessary framework; it could mark the successful conclusion of the work undertaken and be a forerunner of the conclusion of that yet to be carried out steadily and without respite.
198.	When considering the present situation throughout the world it is easy to grow disheartened, but that situation makes it imperative for the Organization to overcome the crisis. For this there are precedents.
199.	The Charter of the United Nations enshrines a system of principles that constitute a new landmark in international law, allowing us to make significant strides in regulating important, areas of human endeavour. The Organization has promoted vast decolonization enterprises and has formulated the most modern concepts of economic, social and political development. The Organization, indeed, has become a forum for dialogue and discussion without precedent and with a unique universal character. It has become the forum where all States, large and small, participate in the search for solutions and policies. Increasingly, all opinions can be heard in an irreversible process of democratization.
200.	On the main issues of concern to the international community, the United Nations has made substantially correct decisions. One must admit this, even if one disagrees in certain instances or is not satisfied with the implementation in others.
201.	If we do not muster the necessary political will to find solutions through dialogue, if we cannot recover the sense of commitment to universal peace that created the Organization, we shall have nothing left but confrontation through which to solve our disputes. This in turn will breed intolerance and radicalism in those who claim to possess the truth— their truth.
202.	Here, among the Members of the United Nations, there is a binding political force that spurs negotiation forward, that demands peace and security that demands justice and fairness.
203.	It is a pleasure for me to express these thoughts on the eve of the fortieth anniversary of the signing of the Charter of the United Nations and at a moment of particularly historic importance for my country. In the course of a long and trying political process, we Uruguayans have faced terrorist attacks with a sense of sacrifice and dignity, and, as we stated at the thirty-eighth session, we are now ready for the culmination of this stage with the holding of general elections next month that will be carried out on the basis of all the traditional guarantees of my country.
204.	Allow me here to reaffirm Uruguay's support for the United Nations, support that has been unswerving from the time of the signing of the Charter to the present. This attitude is not based on any transitory political interest or the position of any given administration. It is a profound conviction held by my people, a people ready to contribute to peace with justice and under law, and thus to live in harmony with all the peoples of the world, in a united effort aimed at co-operation and development.
205.	We are still far from making a reality of the dreams and ideals of the founders, but time has confirmed the validity of those dreams and ideals.


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
I feel doubly pleased to be addressing this Assembly on behalf of the people of Uruguay. I am pleased in the first place to see you, Sir, the representative of a people linked to the Uruguayan people by a past of common roots and a present of shared ideals, presiding over this Assembly. Secondly, I. am pleased to be here for the celebration of an anniversary of singular significance: the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations.
If having existed for four decades is in the case of any human institution a reason for rejoicing, this is even more true in the case of the United Nations, the embodiment of the ideal of the brotherhood of all mankind. Its survival from one day to the next in a world fraught with danger and dominated by national selfishness should be a cause for celebration.
In spite of the grave difficulties that it has had to face and the continuous crises that have tested its mettle, this vulnerable ship, which provides a refuge for the hopes of the world, has remained afloat and continued its journey, despite all skepticism, and has succeeded in living twice as long as its predecessor, the League of Nations.
In spite of the criticism directed against- the system, the world has lived for almost two generations without conflicts of world-wide scope. That is no mean feat. Currents of solidarity and co-operation which had never before existed in the history of humanity have been generated. A splendid process of decolonization has been launched with the support of the Organization.
Having started with 51 countries signatories to the Charter, the Organization today includes 159 independent, sovereign nations.
These achievements cannot disguise the weaknesses arising, above all, from the Governments' lack of faith in the Organization and the non-observance of the precepts of the Charter. For this reason, this is a propitious opportunity both to reform and change what must be changed and to undertake a cool analysis to determine which faults are to be attributed to the system as such and which to the flaws and inconsistencies of countries.
The Organization, in the last resort, is a reflection of the countries themselves, their faults and their virtues. Its value, moreover, should be measured not only by what it has done but also by what it has prevented, what it has averted - a perspective that highlights the peace-making activities of the United Nations.
The San Francisco Charter, although not perfect, seemed at that time adequately to reconcile the transparency of principles with the opacity of reality. But the world has changed and the forces of violence, destruction and discord have renewed their assault. It is true to say that .the United Nations has struggled for peace and justice for 40 years. But does this test of endurance, this persistence in existing despite so much adversity; give us grounds for hope with regard to the future? Do the conditions necessary to allow us to expect that future generations will celebrate a new anniversary of the Organization 40 years hence exist at present?

The United Nations has become an indispensable element o£ contemporary international life. We, its Members, who are responsible for its continuing to exist, should insist that a collective effort be made to establish the mechanisms which will allow the Organization to be more effective without substantially altering its legal framework.
The United Nations arose out of a cataclysm to replace the League of Nations, which was also the outcome of a tragic world upheaval. Let us not wait for a third cataclysm to improve and strengthen it.
In this Assembly Uruguay renews its commitment to continue to support the Organization unconditionally. It is prepared to promote and share in any effort designed to revise the practices and systems of the United Nations to make it more flexible and effective in both the political and the economic spheres and to increase support for the political functions of the Secretary-General.
This commitment by Uruguay is, today, backed by the moral and political force that emanates from the existence of its own democratic institutions, recently regained in a peaceful process of institutional normalization firmly rooted in the vote of the people. As the fifth decade of the United Nations begins, the spirit that Uruguay brings to bear in this forum is different from that in the previous decade. We have begun a historic phase of restoration of democracy and democratic reaffirmation in keeping with the deepest convictions of the Uruguayan people. These convictions are rooted in the long-gone era of the struggle for independence, when Uruguayans, in an act of renunciation and loyalty almost without precedent .n history, abandoned their towns, homes and property to follow Artigas, their liberating hero, who never forgot that the only support of his political power lay in the will of the people. The profound symbiosis of the people and their leader, the governed and the governor, is admirably reflected in Artigasis own words: "My authority emanates from you and ceases in your sovereign presence."

This is the concept of democracy that has remained in the soul of the of the Uruguayan people throughout our history and that now blooms once more as a part of our inner being, as an element of our -identity as a people, as a natural vocation that we can deny only at the risk of losing our way, of going astray, of being other than whom we are. With the democracy which we have now recovered, we have ourselves recovered.
As it returns to democracy, Uruguay returns to its traditional position of scrupulous respect for human rights and for the promotion and development of mechanisms and institutions that will ensure the observance and protection of those rights.
Because we were a people caught in the middle, between Spain and Portugal, the two great empires, because our Iberian roots were strengthened by a flood of Italian immigrants and later by the migratory currents of French, Swiss, Armenian, Jewish and other peoples, pluralism, tolerance, a belief in freedom and respect for human rights lie deep within the very nature of our being.
On the domestic level, no sooner had the new Government assumed power than it declared a generous general amnesty for political prisoners and fully restored political freedoms and civil rights. We have now set ourselves the task of carrying out as soon as possible the process of restoring the. rights that were violated and normalizing the situations that were altered by the previous regime. Uruguayan democracy is once more on the march.

On the international level, one of the first acts of our Government was to ratify the Inter-American Convention on Human Rights. In keeping with our traditions, we have renewed our struggle for human rights everywhere, under all systems of government. We shall pursue that struggle without bringing ideological considerations to bear and without making choices on the basis of self-interest.
For this reason, our Government cannot but strongly condemn apartheid, that remnant of a blighted era, and withhold recognition of the interim government of Namibia illegally established by South Africa.
Within the context of human rights, the international community must direct its attention to the effective application of that most basic of rights, the right to life.
When one thinks of the tragic fact that millions of children die for lack of assistance it is impossible not to question the so-called progress of our human society. There could be no better way to celebrate the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations than by concentrating our efforts on supporting the worthy task of child immunization undertaken by the united Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), so that the target of universal immunization by 1990 may be achieved.
As a country that is emerging from a painful experience in this area, we urge Governments that are dedicated to peace to demonstrate their respect for basic human values by ratifying the conventions on human rights. We feel entitled to make such an appeal. Uruguay was one of the first countries to ratify the International Covenants on human rights and one of the few to accept the competence of the Committee to look into the complaints of individuals who have been victims of their violation. Moreover, Uruguay has not only ratified the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, but was the first State to accept the competence of the relevant Committee.


All of us who, in ate way or another, took part in the transition from authoritarianism to democracy know what sacrifices, patience and dedication were necessary to ensure that such a transition took place peacefully. But, great as the effort demanded by the restoration of democracy may have been, it was no greater than that which its maintenance is now requiring from us.
Democracy is a fragile flower; we have ample and all too frequent proof of its fragile nature. It only grows and survives in the right soil and the right climate. A genuine democracy based on respect for the individual and on the periodical, free advice of the people can be preserved only within an economic context that allows its citizens to provide for their basic material and spiritual needs. In other words, the close link between democracy and economic development must be recognized. When this condition is not fulfilled and poverty and unemployment prevail, violence emerges and is unleashed, the sowers of disorder take advantage of the fertile soil, the fabric of society disintegrates and, in the international sphere, political loyalties become erratic.
This does not mean that we in any way deny the formal operation of democracy, which is always a substantial guarantee that rights will be respected, but, inasmuch as the formal operation of democracy is a necessary condition of the existence of such rights, it is not sufficient to ensure its stability. It is our duty to ensure that our people can enjoy the basic conditions for growth and development, not only for reasons of honor - since it places its trust in us and we must comply with its will - or for humanitarian motives alone - considering, as we do, that the assurance of a full life is a fundamental right - but also because we must ensure peace, since we love life and cast in our lot with it. "A hungry people," said Seneca, "does not listen to reason, is not pacified by justice, does not yield to entreaties."
 The stability of democratic institutions is seriously threatened in many developing countries. The threat is real, grave and current. We who are responsible for steering the destiny of those countries are conscious of the gravity of the situation and of the fact that we have to make enormous efforts in terms of work and austerity.
We cannot ignore the fact that, in order to correct this alarming situation, we must rely on ourselves and use our own resources. Let us not deceive ourselves; the strength that will enable us to surmount the obstacles to our development is also to be found above all within ourselves. A vigorous and bold attitude on the part of both our public and our private sectors is necessary to drive and guide this strength and mobilize the available resources.
If Uruguay and Latin America as a whole wish to deal with the present situation speedily they must make an unprecedented effort in which the overall consensus on certain fundamental problems must take priority over domestic contradictions, divisive quarrels or sterile ideological disputes.
However, we fully realize that our efforts, although indispensable, are not enough. It is our fate to live in a world in which international relations are beset by unprecedented difficulties. Our economies are affected by external factors that are beyond our control. Interest rates, which are still high, together with falling prices for our export products create situations that put a stranglehold on our balance of payments. In addition, we carry the burden of our foreign debt, the servicing of which, in present circumstances holds back any dynamic trend in our economies. The countries of Latin America face an unprecedented situation arising from the astronomical dimensions of their debts. They are thus caught in a spiraling process, in which each turn makes the possibility of repayment more remote.
How have we reached such a situation? There is no need to repeat the history of the economic misadventures of the developing countries, but here in the General Assembly we must once again point out something which at this juncture is obvious, and that is that the creditor countries are also responsible for the disastrous situation afflicting the debtor countries and that a large part of the responsibility for its solution rests with them.
It is short sighted and insensitive to believe that the only factors that have placed the debtor developing countries in this vertiginous spiral of debt that generates further debt are lack of responsibility on the part of those countries, their poor administration and their lack of foresight. We are raced with a situation that is imbued with tragic contradictions, not the least of which is that the creditor institutions and countries that demand payment of the debt and its interest are the same ones that, with their protectionist policies, their discriminatory messages and their subsidies, close off all the possibilities that the debtors have of generating the necessary resources to repay their debt.
If the industrialized countries persist in denying the real origin and nature of these problems, if they do not shoulder their share of responsibility for the situation that prevails in the developing world, if they do not become less inflexible with regard to just demands for more equitable treatment, all our sacrifice will be a forlorn, wasted effort and there will be no reason for optimism regarding the survival of democracy.
We do not expect acts of charity; we do not encourage anachronistic moratoriums. We ask for better trade; we ask for more technology; we ask to be allowed to sell *'n order to be able to pay and fulfill our obligations. We wish to grow in order to be able to pay, because we reject the alternative of paying and renouncing growth, just as we know that to ignore debts only leads to irresponsibility.
These statements are made by Uruguay, a country which has just renegotiated its debt under the best conditions that can be expected in the present situation. We do not look at the problem, therefore, under the emotional influence of resentment. On the contrary, with the ease of mind provided by the long repayment periods obtained, we try to analyze it in historical perspective, over the long run and from the viewpoint of a legitimate mutuality of concerns.
We thus consider that the fact that the creditor countries have not understood or have not wished to understand the real essence of the foreign debt problem, together with the obstacles that they set up against trade with the developing countries, the lack of results in the North-South dialog, the reluctance with which the principles of the new international economic order are accepted and applied, can only lead to a deep sense of frustration on the part of the developing countries.
I do not believe that it is healthy for any of the sections into which the world is divided to continue this dialog of the deaf, where the only outcome has been to ease the guilty conscience of some and to offer only false and shallow remedies for the needs of others.
The proclamation of the principles of the new international economic order and the subsequent attempts to make some of those principles a reality raised great expectations in international forums. But let us not be deceived. The new international economic order is for the time being simply a rhetorical listing of good intentions.
The terms of trade of Latin America have deteriorated by 20 per cent during this decade, and in this very year, 1985, the continent is prey to a new decline in prices. It already seems quite probable that the drop in prices of raw materials in 1985 will mean a loss of export income for the region as a whole of close to 310 billion.
In the meantime, Latin America must continue to make new net transfers of resources abroad of nearly $30 billion, in addition to the $70 billion of the last > three years.
In terms of our small country, this has meant that so far during 1985, all the prices of our raw materials have dropped by about 10 per cent, in addition to the sharp drop suffered during the decade as a whole.

Traditional markets for our meats are being closed to us because of the ruinous competition from highly subsidized meat being exported by the European Economic Community (EEC) countries. Our exports of industrial products based on the agriculture and livestock sector are threatened or excluded by all kinds of protectionist barriers.
Does anybody believe that under these circumstances we can achieve a peaceful social climate and the conditions necessary to lay the foundations of economic development?
I trust that those countries whose level of economic, political and social evolution ensures that they obtain the greater share of the benefits of progress will understand that if they adopt an attitude based less on national short-term interests and more on common long-term interests, they themselves will benefit. Surely it is more to their advantage to coexist with nations that have prosperous economies and stable governments, that are active markets, sure sources of supply and friendly partners, rather than be surrounded, as they now are, by States that are plunging towards insolvency and that bear within them the seeds of misery and of its inescapable corollary, violence?
As Montesquieu said, "An injustice to one is a threat to all."
Any opportunity to negotiate is welcome. But it will also be useless if all that the developed countries seek in the negotiations is to consolidate their positions of power, or if we, the developing countries, only use them as a pulpit for spreading ideologies or for making Utopian claims, instead of putting forward realistic demands or exchanging concessions on an equitable basis.
We, the people of the developing world, must act more pragmatically and be aware that our solidarity has not yet developed sufficiently to be able to impose our conditions on those with whom we are dealing, we cannot expect gratuitous concessions. We must insist on our demands, but not expect too much from the generosity of others. We must be radical in our principles but moderate in applying them.
At the same time we should place greater stress on the possibilities that co-operation among equals can open up,, Wa are convinced that if we were to put more energy and more imagination into managing our relations with countries that are in a situation similar to ours, either within our region or even elsewhere, we might find new avenues of progress. By intensifying or expanding co-operation with other developing countries, we can reduce the contradictions in our own economies.
Latin America is, with a few exceptions, self-sufficient in terms of most of our commodities. However, despite the existence of areas and subregions with excess production, and others that cannot meet their own needs, there is not enough intraregional trade.
During the last few years, only a fifth of the total value of commodity imports - including oil - came from Latin America. The Latin American region, for example, exported $7,300 million worth of food in 15)82, of which only $730 million worth went to other countries in the region.
The value of its oil exports in 1982 amounted to $48 billion, of which only $5 billion were intraregional exports, while oil imports from the rest of the world amounted to $26 billion. In view of the severe external restrictions which our countries face, the fact that we are buying abroad the very same goods that we are producing within our own borders is a sign that we have failed to organize trade that it will provide us the greatest possible benefits.
Consequently, we must stimulate economic integration among our countries. There must be more trade, more technical assistance, more transfer of technology, more co-operation in the areas of education and scientific research, more projects to establish multinational corporations, greater policy co-ordination, at the subregional, regional, continental or intercontinental level, in all areas in which we have common interests. All these are channels which have not been sufficiently explored, that may open up new prospects for emerging from our economic stagnation.
In this regard, I would like to call to mind the exercise in co-ordination and consultation that we, the debtor countries of Latin America, are carrying out through the Cartagena group with the purpose of negotiating collectively with our creditors on such a problem as that of the foreign debt which, has taken on a predominantly political dimension that requires a political solution, and that can no longer be dealt with simply as a mere relationship of a legal-financial nature between debtors and creditors.
In this regard, we welcome and firmly support what the Secretary-General has stressed in his annual report to the General Assembly, to wit, that in recent years economic, financial, monetary and trade issues have become so interrelated and are of such profound political and social importance that they can only be dealt with effectively as part of a wider political process.
We shall insist on that aspect of this problem, which in the long run will have to be accepted by industrialized countries. On this problem Latin America must be regarded and listened to as a united group. This does not imply a club of insolvent debtors seeking to reduce the amount or extend the term of their debts. No, a political focus has two meanings: one, that the merits of acting as a hemisphere be recognized; the other, that it be understood that the debt will be paid by means of growth and exports. Growth only comes about with investment. This implies receiving investments, and recycling into productive activities some of our savings from reducing the servicing of these liabilities. The aim of this political focus is not to default on our obligations or confront the financial system, but rather to seek a solution to the problem which, in the existing situation and with our usual resources, our countries will be unable to cope with in the long run, except at the price of chaos.

Together with investment growth, however, we also need to increase our exports, in this regard we must be quite plain. The foreign debt problem is indissolubly linked to the trade problem.
If the prices of our raw materials continue to decline, if the present protectionist barriers remain unchanged, if the present new trends, which auguring the dangers of an undeclared trade war with outdated and suicidal protectionist policies, are confirmed, there will he no lasting solution to the debt problem and the whole edifice that we have tried to build with our post-war institutions may fall and pave the way to a world of stagnation or uncontrollable crises.

We also wish to be among the driving forces of world growth. Let us be allowed to produce; give us the resources with which to strengthen our capacity for investment and productive modernization; open up the doors to our export capacity, and the debt problem will be just one more financial problem on our agenda.
Those are the essential terms of the problem; if today we were to imagine for em instant that foreign debt had magically disappeared, we would still not have found the solution to the roots of the problem. We would only have found incidental relief: that of maintaining the present international conditions of trade and investment flows. Within a decade we would surely witness a renewal of the same critical problems of today.
To view foreign debt as a purely economic problem is as mistaken as to view the crisis in Central America as a purely political problem. Central America has lately become the stage of a tragedy where violence is manifest in all its forms: civil wars, conflicts across borders, terrorism, repression.
How can we stop this infernal process that destroys lives, well-being and wealth, and that continues to inflict indescribable suffering on the peoples of that region, who deserve a better fate?
Basically, the problem is deeply rooted, going way back beyond the time when the present Governments or political systems were established. The disease afflicting Central America is one that will not be cured if attention is not paid to its deeper causes - both political, economic and social. Within a context in which poverty and backwardness prevail in most sectors of the population that have traditionally been left on the sidelines by dynasties and elites, ideological aggression finds fertile ground.
But to persist in viewing the Central American crisis as a crisis of an exclusively political and ideological nature is a mistake fraught with tragic consequences. Likewise, it would be a mistake to ignore the way in which these tragedies are exploited politically, or to think that there must be some lasting solution that is not based on strict observance of the principles held in greatest regard by the political traditions of Latin America, namely, non-intervention, respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of States, non-use of force and non-use of the territory of one State to undermine the sovereignty and independence of another, wherever it may be, in Latin America or elsewhere, in America or in another continent.
We believe that, at this time, the Contadora Group offers the most appropriate path to resolve the crisis. For this reason we have fully supported it and we have decided to contribute to its consolidation together with other sister countries of the region, as a mechanism through which peace in the region may be restored. But the work of the Contadora Group will be completely sterile if there is no change in the attitude of the countries involved in the crisis.
We urge the latter to soften their attitudes based on preconceived ideas and prejudice, and to marshal their will to respond to what their respective peoples demand and need - that is to say, purely and simply, peace.
I wish to remind those Governments - every one of them - that when they seek to satisfy their national interests without consulting the interests of others and without applying the basic standards of ethics and international law, their victories are short-lived and, ultimately, will not offset the damages suffered. Anecdotal history, as presented by newspaper or newsreel reports, radio and television, can extol the apparent but incidental successes obtained through pressure, the use of force or demagogy. However, the history that endures is very unremitting and will not be deceived, and it records and extols only those who respect the will of the people and struggle to meet their needs and aspirations.
There are other disorders that afflict Latin America. Some are peculiar to itself and cannot be transferred, such as the many unresolved border disputes, fueled by immature and anachronistic visions of nationalism which eventually serve only to support arms races, with their devastating effects on our institutions.
Others must be viewed in a different context, such as that in the subregion of which my country is a part - the South Atlantic, which was ravaged by war more than three years ago. The problem of the Malvinas is not simply a bilateral problem between Argentina and Great Britain. It is a Latin American problem and, as such, we assume it in its full dimension. The permanent British presence in the Malvinas ignores one of the principles which were the basis of the political organization of the Ibero-American continent, the principle of utipossidetis, which was formulated and applied on the continent long before Great Britain's de facto occupation of the Malvinas which had the effect, precisely, of not allowing any American territory to remain unclaimed and open to occupation by extra-continental Powers.
We trust that Great Britain, which knew when the historical moment was ripe to abandon vast possessions all over the world, will succeed in reconciling the dictates of law with the rules of international coexistence. Hence we support Argentina's claims and we are prepared to do everything in our power to contribute to a rapprochement between those two parties at the negotiating table.
Uruguay, the product of the same genealogy as that of Argentina, is convinced of the justice of its position; it has maintained historical ties of co-operation with Great Britain, sealed in brotherhood during the Second world War; and it appeals in this forum to the two parties to find solutions to a situation which cannot remain unchanged without peril to us all.
We are all aware of the long list of situations and conflicts that endanger in world peace and security. Small States, such as Uruguay, are powerless witnesses to the tragedy of subjugated States, of nations torn apart and of peoples victimized by ideological wars and by expansionist ambitions, in the case of the Middle East conflict the worst has happened: it has become a routine problem; we have learned to live with it. In the meantime, millions of human beings are experiencing insecurity, fear and exile, we believe that it is time for all those directly affected by the situation in the Middle East to accept the notion that there will be no prospects for a lasting peace while there are parties who insist on not recognizing Israel's right to existence as a State, while the need to establish safe and recognized borders is not acknowledged, and while the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination is not recognized, without the constant coercion of forces that only raise their flags for their own advantage. Moreover, peace in the region will not be secured if the independence and territorial integrity of Lebanon is not reaffirmed and respected. Its territory must be freed from the presence of foreign armed forces, regardless of their origin.
Afghanistan, Kampuchea, the Iran-Iraq war, the situation of Namibia and of the majority of the people of South Africa - all are situations that are not consistent with what the Governments involved state in international forums. It is tragic to perceive the deep gap between the world of words and proclamations heard in this forum and the world of reality. This gap is illustrated by the appeals for peace and the declarations insisting on the need for disarmament and the need to create an international atmosphere conducive to confidence and security that are made by the very same States that have embarked upon an arms race of colossal dimensions.
Let us not be content with our actions. Our children, surely, will have much to reproach us for and may never be able to forgive the omissions which are so prevalent. I propose that we discard the assumption of self-satisfaction and apply# in its place, Albert Einstein's maxim, "The most grievous fault is not to be aware of any fault."
The arms craze, which is taking on interplanetary dimensions, is the worst threat that hovers over the collective aspirations of our peoples and the individual happiness of their members.
It is a threat that makes us feel that we are not the masters of our destiny, which remains entirely in the hands of the ruling elites of the great Powers. It is stupefying to think that there are 50,000 nuclear warheads ready to be detonated, while the use of a small fraction of such an arsenal is more than sufficient to cause disasters, loss of life and catastrophic damage to the environment.
Perhaps the most tragic contradiction of the world we live in is that if the budget that finances that lethal fraction were to be earmarked, not for the massive construction of artefacts for destruction and death, but rather for co-operation and aid, the lives of millions of human beings who are suffering and dying of hunger at this very moment in the desolate lands of Africa could be saved, and disease and ignorance could be eradicated in the American continent.
One is justified in hoping that those responsible for the warlike escalation will have a moment of supreme enlightenment.which will lead them to put a stop to this suicidal race and devote to life a part of the resources, talents and energy that they now devote to death.
The world is at present going through a period that is as disturbing as it is promising.
Never before, since the post-war period, have we been shaken by so much uncertainty regarding the future, by so many threats to peace, which is being violated systematically in many corners of the earth and exposed every day to the risk of a nuclear holocaust, by so much ambivalence regarding the economic situation, by the tragic persistence of irritating differences between the rich world of the North and the poor world of the South, by so much racial, religious and nationalist strife, by the widespread daily presence of insane terrorism of all types.
As we face this situation, so often denounced and so often ignored, we view with similar apprehension the breaking-up of a whole edifice of multilateral organizations established to defend solidarity among men and nations, organizations that today are weaker than they have ever been since the post-war period and, in some cases, under serious threat of extinction.
The present state of international relations is not a cause for optimism regarding the future of the human race. But optimism is not a rational sentiment: in these sombre times it is the nutrient the spirit needs to continue living. Thus it was for us, even during the most difficult hours of the long night that lay over our country for more than a decade, during which freedoms were lost and happiness disappeared from our land. But time justified those of us who waited with faith; reason, common sense and the instinct of coexistence finally prevailed. Power was returned to the people with not a drop of blood shed, and the democratic institutions recovered their status and their authority.
Our specific experience, very much our own, leads us to aver that if Uruguay was able to find its way peacefully back to democracy, it was because there were people who thought that peace would not come alone, that peace was not simply the result of abstaining from violence, that peace was a valuable political endeavor which required action, struggle and strategy.
In Latin America we have returned to democratic life. During this year both Uruguay and Brazil have done so, following the course taken earlier by Argentina.
We have seen the consolidation of the Peruvian and Bolivian processes, despite the threats that the wrathful unleashed against both sister countries.
We have hailed an exemplary peace agreement regarding the borders between Argentina and Chile. This is proof of a prospect for hope, which in turn makes co-operation in the region our duty: and we wish to state here and now that we are doing our duty, that we are already doing it in the political, cultural and commercial spheres and that we wish to continue to do it, with neither aggressive nor resentful feelings towards anyone. We know that a lasting peace will not be on a firm footing until democracy prevails in all our countries, because it is the only way to avoid the interference of alien dogmatisms and interests.
As Uruguayans we cast our lot with peace, as well as with change, the conferring of dignity on work and life, and the new approaches that the end of the century is already requiring of us. But, above all, we cast our lot with peace, which is nothing less than a means of achieving freedom and development. Revolutions," Bertold Brecht advised so correctly, "occur at dead ends." That will not happen in Uruguay where all the channels of understanding and comprehension are open, open within the country and open towards the rest of the world.
You may be sure that Uruguay will sow only seeds of harmony.
In closing, I wish to convey to this Assembly a deep feeling of shared pain and brotherly hope. Shared pain regarding the tragedy which has cast the people of Mexico, our noble brothers, into mourning. Its tragedy is the tragedy of America as a whole. I wish to reiterate that my country, within the context of its modest strength, wishes to be on the front line of solidarity and support for Mexico, which is so greatly admired and to which our people owe a debt of imperishable gratitude for the noble and generous way in which it remained at our side during the past years when so many Uruguayans found in Mexico a brotherly haven.
But I also wish to express a feeling of hope. Mexico always reaps growth from its adversities. That has been its history and that will be its present. It is for this reason that, faced with this pain, we oust pay tribute - and this is a final word here - to the cry of hope that has endured throughout the history of this nation: Long live Mexico!


===== Session 41 - 1986 =====
My delegation is especially pleased at the election of Mr. Choudhury to the presidency of the forty-first session of the General Assembly. His wisdom, objectivity and diplomatic skill are a sure guarantee of the effectiveness of our work. He may be assured that he will have our broadest co-operation.
I should also like to pay a tribute here to our dear friend. Ambassador Jaime de Pinies, for the work he accomplished during his presidency of the previous session, with which he brought to a climax a long and distinguished career in the United Nations.
X am also particularly pleased to extend my greetings to the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, and express our satisfaction on seeing him restored to health, and I wish to express my Government's* acknowledgment of the invaluable services he is rendering to the international community and to this Organization, giving evidence always of his selflessness and creative intelligence, inspired at all times by a genuine international feeling. It is our hope, and the desire of my Government, that for a long time to come the United Nations will continue to benefit from the competence, prudence and patience that characterize his performance in office, which are especially necessary in the difficult times that lie ahead.
One year ago, the General Assembly proclaimed 1986 to be the International Year of Peace and called upon all the peoples of the world to join with the United Nations in resolute efforts to safeguard peace and the future of mankind through continuous and positive action on the part of States and peoples, with the aim of preventing war through removal of various threats to peace, the resolution of conflicts by peaceful means and the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in the preamble to the Charter.
It was, therefore, a tragic irony that during the first weeks of the Year of Peace, Olaf Palme, without any doubt one of the most fervent and generous fighters for peace in this century, should fall victim to the darkest and most cowardly form of violence, in Sweden, his native land, a country which can be justly proud of a tradition of peace which few countries can match. The death of this admirable and exemplary worker for peace was an omen marking the beginning of a year which mankind was to have devoted to the preservation and realization of the right of peoples to peace.
In this Year of Peace, the chronic evils which beset the world seem to have reached a degree unknown in previous years. The more Utopian the final objectives, the greater the threat to the objectives of peace. Violence is manifest in all its dismal forms: from open wars to the most vicious acts of terrorism. The quantitative and qualitative development of the war industry continues at the fast pace imposed by an increasing and ever more diversified demand. In the meantime, vast sectors of mankind fall victim to the scourge of hunger, disease or ignorance, or continue to be subject to the rules of racist minorities.
Thus peace, understood not only as the absence of war, but as the "serenity in order" of which St. Augustine spoke and which is reflected in a state of affairs in which security, justice and prosperity prevail, has been conspicuously absent in this International Year of Peace.
We must therefore ask ourselves what is keeping us from victory in this struggle in which we all seem to be on the same side. Why is there such a gulf between what we all advocate and what happens outside the United Nations? It is commonplace to ascribe the responsibility to the lack of political will on the part of the major protagonists of power. But perhaps part of the answer must be south in the revolutionary impact which the development of modern technology is having on
society. The tide of technology in which we are submerged is causing profound changes in both our individual and collective way of living, in our way of thinking and feeling, and in the perception of our goals and hopes. It is this technology that confers on any armed conflict, no matter how localized it may be, the potential apocalyptic effects. The possibility of annihilating entire populations underlies any warlike confrontation: it is a possibility that can rapidly become a reality if a propitious time is provided by the escalation of a conflict, which is generally inevitable. Let us not forget that the death and suffering of innocent victims, who day after day are unwillingly trapped in the present conflicts, are a harsh fact of contemporary life, which we cannot be used to despite its almost daily occurrence in the cities and towns of Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, Afghanistan or Kampuchea.
It is the technological factor that gives a new dimension to an old phenomenon, terrorism, which has not ceased to manifest itself since the beginning of the nineteenth century, and which has become worse during the last few years, thanks to the increasing sophistication of the methods used, as well as the characteristics of modern life in open and democratic societies that increase the chances of attack, increase the exposure of the victims, and favor the cowardly anonymity of the attackers.
We have met here at this time to ask ourselves what is the proper way to respond with our international institutions to the challenges to our international relations posed by the formidable technological explosion which characterizes these last years of this twentieth century.
How can we face these challenges of today's reality? How can we overcome the obstacles that have prevented us, not just from achieving the ideal of peace, but from even costing most to it? what should we do to see that at future sessions of this Assembly, we do not just talk about the past but rather talk about positive achievements?
We sincerely believe that the present has come to undertake a serious consideration not only of the rules that govern our international conduct but also of the political, legal and institutional instruments that we can use to obtain our common aims.
Uruguay believes that, in view of the dangerous course of international relations in recent years, we must immediately undertake a process of thorough examination and unbiased assessment of the existing legal and institutional apparatus, in order to determine how it can be adapted to fit present conditions. To that aid, we think that good starting points for that examination have been recommended by the ' group of 18. My Government will participate in the examination with the utmost enthusiasm and dedication. It must start from two premises. The first is that the principles of the San Francisco Charter must be upheld, since they express absolute values which must continue to guide our international conduct. The second is that the United Nations must continue to be the main forum through which international co-operation is channeled.
My country reiterates its support for the Organization, and its conviction that the united Nations is a fundamental component in the present set of historical circumstances and must be a fundamental component of any other plan in the future.
Creativity and determination are required in the search for methods and procedures to deal with present problems, with new criteria and new organizational bases. Last year, the President of ray country, Mr. Sanguinetti, said that the United Nations had resulted from a cataclysm, the Second World War, that had killed the League of Nations* We think it would be suicidal if we had to create another organization at the price of a world war. Bather, we must improve the one we already have.
Uruguay has demonstrated by deeds its intention to use all available diplomatic and political machinery to deal with the international problems that are of concern to us. Hence, we have joined in all forms of direct diplomatic action available to the President of the Republic and his Foreign Ministry in order to give effect to our aims, through diplomatic actions designed to achieve peace. My country has neither the size nor the responsibility to be a leading player on the
international stage; all that we can do is aspire to harmonious and constructive relations with the sister republics of our continent and co-operate, to the limit of our possibilities, to ensure the achievement of peace in the world, and especially in our region.
That is why we whole-heartedly support the Contadora initiative; we believe that it is a response to our profound belief that peace in Central America is an objective which goes far beyond the problems of the subregion and involves all Latin Americans. We are convinced that the worsening crisis in that part of our Latin America could unleash very dangerous tensions and conflicts throughout the region. That is why we have joined in this initiative. We feel that the strengthening of peace, progress towards pluralistic democracy, and the economic and social development of the Central American region are goals of all Latin Americans.
We believe in the path of dialog rather than that of armed confrontation. We wish to show with concrete deeds that our Latin American peoples can achieve peace, development and justice without foreign interference, in accordance with their own decisions and their own historical experience. It is in order to join in those tasks - on which Latin America, the main protagonist, must take its own decisions - that we have participated and shall continue to participate in the work of Contadora, through the Support Group, of which we have the honor to be a member.
The problem of the Malvinas is of equal concern to us. Last year our President stated in this Assembly.
"The problem of the Malvinas is not simply a bilateral problem between Argentina and Great Britain. It is a Latin American problem, and, as such, we assume it in its full dimension. ...
"We trust that Great Britain, which knew when the historical moment was ripe to abandon vast possessions all over the world, will succeed in reconciling the dictates of law with the rules of international coexistence.
Hence we support Argentina's claims and we are prepared to do everything in our power to contribute to a rapprochement between those two parties at the negotiating table". (A/40/PV.6 p. 3)
All that we need add new to what was said by our President is that Uruguay is awaiting with increasing impatience the agreement of the parties to begin rapidly negotiations that can lead to a just and final solution to the problem.
There are other parts of the world that cause us concern. Certain conflicts, such as the one in the Middle Bast, seem to have gone beyond the control of their protagonists. President Sanguinetti also stated here last year that in the case of the Middle East conflict the worst had happened*, it had become a routine problem which we seemed to have learned to live with.
The developments in the Middle East conflict have made it difficult to conceive of any solution that would not require sacrifices on the part of everyone involved, as well as a supreme effort toward conciliation. Such a solution, as Uruguay has been saying for years now, must be based on recognition of Israel's right to continue to exist as a State within secure and recognized borders; on recognition of the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination; and on respect for the independence and territorial integrity of Lebanon, whose territory must be freed of the presence of foreign armed forces, of whatever origin. We are especially disturbed by the tragedy of the Lebanese people. They have deep ties with our people, who have for many years benefited from the contribution of their hard-working, intelligent immigrants.
Peace also requires the reunification of the two Koreas through dialog and negotiations.
It has been said that peace must be built one day at a time, and that it must come from the heart of every person and every people.
Violations of human rights continue to take place each day throughout the world. In many parts of the planet, persons and groups of persons are systematically persecuted and deprived of their basic rights? because of their race, religion or ideas. Many people continue to be subjected to various forms of political oppression or iniquitous situations in which they are deprived of their most elementary economic and social rights.
But within this range of daily violations of human rights, nothing is more repugnant to the conscience of mankind than the shameful practice of apartheid, institutionalized and applied by the racist South Africa regime. My Government vigorously condemns this affront to civilization and joins in the international community's clamor for its elimination. In particular, we associate ourselves with the demand for the immediate and unconditional liberation of Nelson Mandela and other imprisoned leaders, and for the lifting of the ban on the black political organizations.
In regard to the Pretoria Government's behavior, we have followed with interest the recent international trend towards the adoption of sanctions in conformity with the Charter. That would be a healthy reaction by the international community and a defense of the most sacred values of civilization and peace. My Government will associate itself with any sanctions that are adopted.
There can be no peace when territories are under foreign occupation or colonial situations exist. But there are still vestiges of colonialism which, by disregarding the right of peoples to self-determination, are sources of tension and threats to the peace. We have in mind particularly the case of Namibia, whose people are subjugated and whose territory has been .illegally occupied, in open defiance of decisions and resolutions of bodies of the United Nations, including the decision of the International Court of Justice. Uruguay repeats' that the relevant resolutions of the United Nations must be immediately and unconditionally implemented. Moreover, we condemn continuing armed incursions and acts of aggression against States that are South Africa's neighbors, which often are launched from Banibian territory* that is the case particularly of the aggression against Angola.
We reaffirm our solidarity with the front-line countries and we earnestly hope that in this International Year of Peace effective steps will be taken to ensure that the people of Namibia can exercise their right of self-determination and that peace and tranquility are restored to that' afflicted part of the world.
As serious as the persistence of conflict in the world is the fact, generally accepted here, chat it is commonly used as an excuse to justify the most iniquitous manifestation of violence in our times; terrorism. Terrorism is the common enemy of all the peoples and Governments represented here. Uruguay does not believe that any Member of the United Nations can invoke attenuating circumstances or in any way justify terrorism, irrespective of the motive, because that would be to deny the principles which all States have undertaken to respect and promote. And let us be candid - it would also mean an unjustified act of arrogance, because no Government represented here can be certain that in the future it will not be a victim of the blackmail of terrorism. Uruguay is convinced that the international community should intensify co-operation in eliminating, or at least reducing, the tragic consequences of this scourge. whose expansion, frequency and magnitude are turning it into a real war declared against civilization.
Yesterday mankind awoke to an item of news which introduces some ray of hope; I am referring to the news of the coming meeting in October between President Reagan and General Secretary Gorbachev to resume conversations with a view to an effective process of nuclear disarmament.
The question of nuclear disarmament is of the greatest importance for all the peoples of the world, and not only for the super-Powers. Mankind lives daily with the continuing concern and anxiety regarding what is called the danger of a nuclear holocaust, in which mankind as a whole would be the victim. As the two super-Powers have stated, "A nuclear war cannot be won and it cannot be waged".
No design for peace can overlook an important reality of today. She policies of the great Powers in the matter of armaments are decided, pursued, negotiated on, and brought into conflict every day largely in disregard of this Organization, which should be the institutional form representing the international community.
It is thus with the great Powers that both the political and moral responsibility for decisions on disarmament mainly lies. In view of this situation, which is outside our control, there is not a single State whose security and existence does not in the last resort depend cm the will of the nuclear Powers and, in particular, the two super-Powers; as the Secretary-General has already stated, we are living in a state of interdependence but on a footing of inequality.
In other areas there have been some promising developments, signs of progress in reducing international tensions. One of them, without any doubt is the security agreement arrived at a few days ago at the Stockholm Conference in which countries of Western and Eastern Europe, the United States and Canada participated.
We have followed with keen interest and firmly support the proposals made by the six Heads of State of Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden and Tanzania, formulated in the city of Ixtapa, Mexico, a few weeks ago, urging the super-Powers to establish a reciprocal moratorium on nuclear testing, and the six leading statesmen of those countries proposed specific procedures for verification; they stated their willingness to participate and offered to provide means of ensuring effective compliance. They must know that they have the full support of all the countries of our continent.
Uruguay also supports Brazil's proposal to associate the countries of both sides of the South Atlantic in a zone of peace and co-operation. Peace and security in this area requires that it must be used not for any threat or use of force, but instead in a way that will preserve it from any extension of the strategic-nuclear confrontation. The establishment of a zone of peace also
requires that the violence and coercion which prevent the peoples of South Africa and Namibia from freely exercising their sovereign rights must cease.
Peace, true peace, is based cm mutual trust, and the arms race is the ultimate expression of the lack of trust. We have developed considerably in terms of science and very little in terms of conscience. Will civilization be able to attain a sufficiently high ethical level to ensure that those who bear the responsibilities of government in the various countries will now take the decision to devote to the development of the peoples the resources that are now allocated to the production and purchase of weapons and instruments of destruction and death? Once we have overcome this tragic paradox of the modern world we shall have laid firm foundations for peace - of real peace, and not peace of the pax romana type imposed upon others. We must have the type of peace which can only prosper and flourish in a true community, an international society characterized by relations of equality among States, and not by the hegemony of some over others. We must have a peace which is one and indivisible, a peace of justice, one which is guaranteed by law. In this International Year of Peace we reaffirm our faith in such a peace, the only true peace, and our faith in the freedom of individuals and of peoples, without which, in the words of the eminent Uruguayan lawyer, Eduardo J Coutour, there can be no law, no justice, no peace.
Never before has it been so generally felt that mankind has learn from its harsh lessons that peace is one and indivisible. Now we must learn to understand that this truth also applies to economic affairs. At this stage, it is almost impossible to deny the fact that without a prosperous economy, without integrated economic development, there can be little peace anywhere in the world. As long as in most of the world living standards are below the levels compatible with human dignity, there can be no guarantee that the rest of the world, with their prosperous economies, can continue to enjoy their prosperity in peace. Want and
conspicuous consumption do not make good neighbors who can live together without friction and conflict in a world that is steadily shrinking and becoming more interdependent.
This philosophy was the inspiration of a life which has now ended. A distinguished Latin American, the noted Argentinian Dr. Raul Prebisch, for decades worked in the United Nations and in the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA) - to which he was so devoted - for an international co-operation founded on great moral principles, in a world based on standards of solidarity which unhappily seem to have been forgotten. In this year of his passing, the message of his life and of his moral ideals should be a further inspiration to us in building a more just international economic order, an essential requisite of any lasting peace. I wish to take this occasion to pay a heartfelt and grateful tribute to his memory.
There is still little sign of a system of international relations based on principles of equity and equal opportunity. Some problems that were touched on here by the President of Uruguay last year, such as the problem of indebtedness, have been remedied to some extent, but we are far from having fully achieved the hopes of the countries that joined in the Cartagena consensus. But some hopeful signs for change emerged from the recent conference of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) at Punta del Este in Uruguay. That was the beginning of the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations, which was undoubtedly one of the most significant developments of the year in economic affairs. The importance of that conference lies in the fact that agreement was reached on beginning a new round of trade negotiations in such unfavorable political and economic circumstances, a success hardly to be expected in view of the gloomy outlook before the meeting. However, even more important, in fact vital, is that the agreement, which will be tested over four years of difficult negotiations, must above all be regarded as a declaration of peace in the trade war.
Uruguay trusts that the spirit of conciliation that prevailed at that meeting will ensure that it will also become a basic instrument of the trade peace so essential for the fate of the world and particularly of the developing countries. Punta del Este produced a peace with neither victors nor vanquished. That is the basis of any serious and durable commitment.
As the International Year of Peace draws to a close, it seems fitting to devote a moment to introspection and to ask ourselves whether, as Members of the United Nations family, as representatives of our Governments, as individuals, we have done and are doing everything we can to move closer to achieving that goal. Peace can only be the outcome of the concerted will of all States, renewed and strengthened day after day.
Uruguay hopes that each one of us to whom a role has been entrusted in the international life of peoples will make peace his daily goal and each coming day an international day of peace.



===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿Year after year we come to the Assembly concerned about the direction of international events, which, with disheartening persistence, weaken our hopes of laying the foundations of lasting peace in this century.
It is not only a matter of our going through a period of crisis. In fact, the world, particularly in modern times, has been in permanent crisis. What makes today special in historical terms is the speed with which changes occur, their scope and mankind's manifest inability to manage them. It would seem that during these last few years, more than at any other time in history, ideas have been lagging behind events. That should not surprise us. The world has evolved so rapidly that we have had to give up our notion of life as order to think of it in terms of movement. May it not be that during recent years man's creative energy has developed mainly in the scientific and technological fields, leaving behind roan as a forger of ideas and institutions needed to bring order and leadership to the technological world that he has created? Today, more than ever, ideas are needed; ideas for regaining our mastery over a dynamic world that is going out of control and threatening to make us its prisoners.
Faced with the gulf between facts and ideas, with the persistence of factors that work against peace and security, and with the international community's inability to put an end to them, or at least to mitigate their effects, we believe the time has come to pause, so that we may all proceed on the one hand to examine the extent to which the international system set up after the Second World War adequately responds to the problems of the world of today, and, on the other, seriously to analyse our own individual attitudes, which, based solely on the satisfaction of special interests, threaten the most elementary forms of the international co-operation which we have so laboriously and hopefully built up over four post-war decades.
Uruguay has already stated in other forums that the poor performance of the international system, both in political and economic terms, is due largely to a turning away from the fundamental principles on which the post-war international order was built - international solidarity and multilateralism. By pointing here to the crisis involving these principles, we are not simply referring nostalgically to ethical and political values of the past. We are pointing out the validity of two pillars of international relations, which we cannot put aside in the interest of pragmatism or so-called realism. If we wish to build a more equitable world, we must keep in step with the realities, but not at the price of undermining the climate of understanding and dialogue which we have created during these last 40 years.
That is why it is necessary to view international problems in a global context- A world of peace and justice can be based only on the conviction that there are no national interests that are not of concern to the international community that what a country does or fails to do will have, in varying degree, repercussions on the international environment; that, if I may paraphrase, nothing that involves any State can be unimportant to the international community.
Precisely because interdependence is today a fact which no country can avoid, we ask of the multilateral system an open and co-operative attitude so that the approach to and discussion of problems shall not be limited to partial, short-sighted views.
Last year, on an occasion similar to this, when Uruguay reiterated its support for the United Nations, we stated our belief in the need for an in-depth, unprejudiced and comprehensive analysis of the instruments available to the international community to achieve its common objectives in order to determine their adequacy in present circumstances and the measures needed to correct their failings and limitations. We still believe that such an analysis is necessary and that we must not delay it, going beyond the recent studies and proposals on restructuring.
This exercise must be carried out within the ethical and legal framework of the principles of the San Francisco Charter, and the United Nations must continue to be the main channel for international co-operation and solving political disputes. Our confidence in the Organization as an instrument of peace was recently strengthened when it was resorted to in an attempt to put an end to the tragic conflict between Iran and Iraq, which has gone on for years.
Uruguay is grateful for the spirit of compromise and the will to co-operate shown by the permanent members of the Security Council on this occasion, as well as for the Secretary-General's bold efforts. We trust that the Organization's intervention and the aggressive diplomatic action by the Secretary-General will be instrumental in restoring peace to that troubled region.
Despite what I have said so far, there are encouraging signs that we must not ignore, signs that make us think that the world is today better prepared than ever to adopt this comprehensive and long-term view, which the solution of our common problems demands. That is what happens when we observe the democratisation process of the last 15 years, which, despite accidental set-backs and collapses, has continued to move forward and has become consolidated in all the regions of the world.
Moves towards democratisation, begun in the 1970s when there were important political changes in countries of southern Europe, later spread to all regions of the world and were substantially furthered by the recent democratic recovery of almost all the countries of Latin America. This process is, in the judgement of the Government of Uruguay, a decisive factor in the pursuit of peace and security. Democracy, understood as the political system which is based on free and periodic election of its authorities, is the system which by its very essence ensures respect for human rights, the political independence of States and the ethical and legal principles which must govern international relations. There is a close undeniable relationship between peace and the effective exercise of democracy. History teaches us that the most serious disputes and wars of the past were almost always caused by authoritarian, expansionist and colonialist regimes. This is illustrated at the present time by the persistence of the Government of South Africa in continuing its intolerable policy of apartheid and the illegal occupation of the Territory of Namibia, which is a clear threat to peace and an infringement of human rights, against which the formal repudiation of the international community seems not to be a sufficient reply.
On the other hand, the democracies are experiencing a natural rapprochement leading to solidarity and co-operation. What is happening at present in the Latin American regional environment is an example of how democratic Governments can coexist in peace and work for peace. For some time now, these Governments have decided to co-ordinate their efforts to find a solution to the great problems that afflict the hemisphere, initiating a process of active, direct and responsible diplomacy hitherto unprecedented in Latin America. In this search they have established informal procedures for consultation, co-ordination and negotiation in diverse areas including, inter alia, the peaceful settlement of regional conflicts, economic integration and policy co-ordination in areas such as external debt and financial and trade questions.
The forthcoming meeting of eight presidents of the region will be a significant step towards Latin American solidarity and towards the political presence of the region in the world. The Contadora Group and the Support Group, of which Uruguay is a member, continue to be, despite the enormous difficulties they have had to face, a vigorous expression of solidarity in the hemisphere. The Contadora Group has had a decisive Influence on the search for a formula for a satisfactory political solution to the already long and painful drama of Central America. The end of this drama is up to the protagonists themselves, but it is undeniable that Contadora and Its Support Group have played an essential role in bringing the parties together and in dissuading them from finding any but a political or diplomatic solution to the problem.
We hope that we are witnessing the last act of this drama and that its outcome will be a solution based on the principles of non-intervention, the free choice of peoples and genuine democratisation and pluralism. On this occasion I wish to pay a tribute to President Arias of Costa Rica, whose efforts towards the restoration of peace in Central America deserve the gratitude of all of Latin America. The recent Esquipulas II agreements, which have been mentioned today, are a bold, responsible and dispassionate step taken by the Central American countries themselves. They deserve our full support and call for solidarity and non-Interference on the part of all countries, especially those which have direct or indirect interests in the region. Let us, then, with our political solidarity and our co-operation, help the Central American peoples themselves to achieve a just and lasting peace in the region. 
The Latin American democracies are thus United in their search for peace in the region and the welfare of their peoples, but enormous efforts are necessary if democracy is to be maintained in the developing countries. By its very nature it is a vulnerable system and its vulnerability increases in an economic and political environment which is not propitious for it, especially the international environment which conditions and influences our destinies to such a degree. On the one hand, the democracies are threatened by a set of economic factors which seriously endanger their survival. This fact was stated by the President of our country. President Sanguinetti, in this Assembly in 1985 in these words:
"A genuine democracy ... can be preserved only within an economic context that allows its citizens to provide for their basic material and spiritual needs. ... when this condition is not fulfilled and poverty and unemployment prevail, violence emerges and is unleashed, the powers of disorder take advantage of the fertile soil, the fabric of society disintegrates and, in the international sphere, political loyalties become erratic." (A/40/PV.6, p. 12) Just as development without democracy inevitably leads to authoritarianism and totalitarianism, sacrificing freedom and human rights, democracy without economic development ends up being an empty form, which inexorably leads to political and social instability.
Much time has passed since the idea that political and social peace were not possible in an economically divided world became part of the basic tenets of international reality; none the less economic contrasts and contradictions have only increased and deepened. It is not germane at present to attribute responsibilities or identify those at fault; fortunately, awareness of our interdependence has developed sufficiently to make us understand that, just as we have all been Involved in the genesis of the present situation, we must all suffer  its consequences if no satisfactory solution is found. It is paradoxical that despite the fact that we are fully aware of our responsibilities we have not taken the necessary action to reverse the trends that are leading us to a dead end. Current economic indicators regarding trade, production, consumption, investment and financing do not allow for optimistic forecasts) the pace of world economic activity has lessened and in most of the developing countries the recessive trends that have characterized the development of their economies in the last few years still prevail.
When trying to face these problems the developing countries are at a great disadvantage and we stressed this in the recent meeting of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Several factors have contributed to the worsening of their situation: in the first place, the renewal of protectionist pressures by industrialized countries. Those countries have kept up costly programmes of domestic support to certain productive sectors, thus limiting international competition. Perhaps more serious yet has been the use of export incentives and subsidies, which are incompatible with the standards governing international trade and which affect how world markets work by artificially distorting supply, which, in turn, has served to depress even more the price levels of products of special concern to the developing countries.
On the other hand, prices of the main export commodities of developing countries have steadily declined, with some recent exceptions, but these exceptions seem to be linked rather to crises in exchange parities than to a true recovery in price levels.
To this we must add the external debt problem. Although there has been progress in acknowledging joint responsibility in the origins and solution of the debt problem, as well as in acknowledging that the subject must be faced within a positive context of growth and adjustment policies, the international economic situation has made the tremendous adjustments carried out by the debtor countries insufficient. For the vast majority of our countries it is impossible simultaneously to grow, Invest and service their external debt. The massive transfer of financial resources abroad has continued, reaching unbearable dimensions for our economies.
As was stated by our Presidents in the letter addressed recently by the Cartagena Consensus to the Venice Summit, "We consider it essential to insist that the external debt problem binds us all  due not only to its causes but also to its consequences." In the face of this dramatic situation, all that has been said and done so far is obviously not enough. It is not enough to acknowledge responsibilities and show understanding; nor are the partial measures which the most developed countries have adopted either individually or collectively enough. Efforts to understand the economic problems which afflict the developing countries today and the search for solutions must be but the starting-point from which the members of the international community should initiate effective co-operative action and support the transformation of developing countries.
It is from this starting-point that, within the framework of serious and responsible international co-operation, we must undertake the necessary structural adjustments in both the developed and the developing countries, whatever may be their political and economic organization and whatever the relationships that link the members of each group together and to other groups.
Indeed, the world cannot be based on principles of justice and equal opportunities in the economic field without adjustments in all economies, not just those of the developing countries.
What is particularly needed is a decisive change of attitude on the part of the most developed countries, especially regarding trade. They must allow the developing countries to cease to be the depositories where the developed countries dump their subsidized excess production and the suppliers of raw materials paid for at unfairly low prices to finance the welfare of other peoples. The developing countries wish to have access to the markets of the developed countries and to obtain fair prices for their products so that they may be able to repay their debts and devote new credits to investment rather than to financing high interest rates.
In making these statements our attitude is responsible and constructive: first, because the great adjustment required during the past few years, the worst since the great depression, was at the expense of the standards of living of the developing countries alone; and, secondly, because we have long abandoned the simplistic attitudes that cast the blame for all that happened in the developing countries on external forces or relationships.
We, too, the third-world countries, must make a great adjustment effort which will allow us to play the role we should play in the world economy. In this context, we continue to believe that, in addition to the adoption of serious and responsible policies outside our own economies, all possibilities of South-South co-operation should be explored and used. We are convinced that there is still much to be done along these lines and that we, the developing countries, must establish the direction of this co-operation and the ways in which it must take place. In this context, we welcome and have great hopes of the recently established South-South Commission under the chairmanship of the illustrious African Statesman, President Nyerere.
Not everything is dark in this field either. It would be unfair not to mention some of the facts which allow us to nurture modest hopes regarding future developments in economic matters.
First, I must mention the new round of negotiations started in Uruguay last year within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Fulfilling the resolutions of the Punta del Este meeting, several working groups have been established and plans for negotiations have been approved. The parties are acting with a fitting sense of urgency and responsibility, and this justifies out optimism regarding the results to be obtained. The Uruguay round continues to deserve the full support of all its participants. Furthermore, it was comforting to note that at the recent Venice summit conference the Heads of State of the seven Western industrialized countries supported the objectives of trade liberalization and the strengthening of the multilateral trade system through the Uruguay round, and undertook to submit concrete negotiation proposals in the near future. 

To this we must add the results of the last United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), which the Government of Uruguay considers to be very satisfactory. It is fitting to stress the fact that for the first time a text incorporating within a multilateral framework a series of important conceptual advances regarding external debt, basic commodities and international trade was accepted by consensus. UNCTAD was undoubtedly strengthened by this session, in which its role as a significant forum for the international debate on the development question was reaffirmed.
The need to adopt more imaginative viewpoints and concepts of renewal is urgent and essential when dealing seriously with the economic problems which afflict us, and the same need exists in the political sphere.
Here, too, the scene is one of light and shade. This year we began our tasks in this area encouraged by several events which we interpret as clear signs that we are on the path towards the solution of some serious problems. We have already mentioned the efforts made by our Central American brothers to put an end to the tragedy that afflicts them, as well as the Organization's efforts in the Iran-Iraq dispute.
The recent constructive dialogue between the leaders of the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic was a contribution to peace and the relaxation of tension in the world. Some disputes continue against all logic, however. One such is that which has afflicted the Middle East for years and already taken an enormous toll in lives and resources, without changing the obstinate stance of the Governments involved, which are determined not to acknowledge the rights of other States and peoples. We restate our conviction that a lasting peace in the region must be based on acknowledgement of the right of Israel to continue to exist as a State, with stable and secure borders, and the right of the Palestinian people freely to decide their destiny according to the resolutions of the world Organization.
Many situations which affect peace and security have been created through the influence of external factors which distort the will of peoples. Anything that tends to twist, misrepresent or suppress that will is a violation of the political independence of States, the free choice of peoples and democracy, and should therefore be condemned. That is why our country reiterates its deep concern at the continuance of situations such as those in Afghanistan, Kampuchea and Cyprus and of the intolerable forms of oppression practised in South Africa and Namibia. Similarly, the continuance of artificial political divisions, as in the case of the Korean people, does not contribute to peace.
These and other international situations feed the feeling of insecurity and serve as an excuse for large and small countries alike to persist in the absurd arms race, weakening the economies of many of them, to the benefit of the producer and middleman elite.
In no other sector is the chasm between technological creativity and political and institutional creativity so deep as in that of war industries. The degree of diversity, sophistication and power achieved by the weapons defies the imagination, while the production of and trade in these weapons continues to increase. Meanwhile, during the past few years disarmament and arms-control initiatives have made no significant progress. Having saturated the planet with enough arms to devastate it several times over, the aim is now to place those weapons in outer space, adding terror to terror and making more acute the collective feeling of impotence.
Recently, the great Powers have multiplied their efforts to achieve at least partial results in the negotiations on disarmament and arms control. Last weekend we read with relief and joy that the Governments of the United States and the Soviet Union were on the verge of reaching an agreement on the control of shorthand medium-range missiles. What was said this morning by the President of the United States is certainly encouraging and casts a ray of light in this long tunnel of frustration and failure. The super-Powers, on whose will the continuance of the world as a habitable place depends, must know that the attention and hopes of the entire international community are set on these initiatives and negotiations, and that they are morally and legally bound to intensify the efforts already begun before it is too late. They bear the major responsibility for rescuing the world from the obsession with arms, which has, unfortunately, contaminated the developing countries as well. It is especially in this area that the creativity and good faith of States can play their part.
We are not completely satisfied with the results of the Conference on disarmament and development. None the less, it cannot be denied that recognition by almost all the international community of the link between the two is, with the other conclusions, a promising starting-point for future action. 
A third special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament could be an opportunity to revitalize old ideas, propose new ones and adopt procedures to implement them. But such a special session must be called only when we are sure that positive and substantial results will be achieved. We must not let such an opportunity become a mere rhetorical exercise.
So long as initiatives regarding general and complete disarmament are not crystallizing, proposals to relieve specific geographic areas from the dangers arising from the use of force have a fundamental role to play in the maintenance of peace and security. Last year, Uruguay supported Brazil's initiative, which resulted in a General Assembly resolution declaring the South Atlantic a zone of peace and co-operation. There is no need to stress how important the South Atlantic region is to Uruguay, not only from a political and strategic point of view but also from an economic and environmental point of view. In Uruguay's judgement, that resolution is only a first step on the basis of which we must draw up a legal statute for the South Atlantic which, taking account in particular of the concerns of the coastal countries, would not only ensure the avoidance of non-peaceful activities in the region or of having it used as a pretext for confrontation and rivalry, but also become an encouraging basis for the development of new manifestations of solidarity and co-operation.
But the effective establishment of a zone of peace in the South Atlantic will not be possible while the problem of the Malvinas Islands remains unresolved. Once more, as on previous occasions, Uruguay urges the parties to this dispute to intensify their efforts to resume negotiations to put an end to a situation whose persistence affects the whole of Latin America, and whose final solution must restore the islands to Argentina, which holds legitimate sovereignty over them. 
Last year, in the same Latin American spirit, we received in our country the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Chile and Bolivia, determined to seek a fair and final solution to the question of Bolivia's outlet to the sea. We sincerely deplore the suspension of those discussions and, in a fraternal spirit, we urge our Chilean and Bolivian brothers to persist in their dialogue, for which purpose we shall always welcome them in our country. We are convinced that dialogue is the only way to put an end to a dispute which, in the interest of all, ought to be resolved.
It is our lot to live in a complex and challenging, but none the less fascinating, world.  While dangers and threats thus far unknown to mankind appear ahead of us as a result of intolerance of all kinds and the arms race, the future also offers mankind the hitherto unimagined benefits of modern technological civilization.
The task with which this Organization was charged by its Charter, 42 years ago, was to manage this world according to principles of equity and justice. To realize that lofty purpose we must all decide with sincere political will to face up to the great points of ambivalence of our world, which are the most disappointing features of our time: At a time when our civilization makes it possible for a minority to attain an unprecedented standard of living, hunger and poverty persist and are increasing for the vast majority.
At a time when we are approaching a half century of efforts to achieve international dialogue, we are incapable of overcoming in a spirit of mutual tolerance the violence of fundamentalism in all its forms - racial, religious and national - and of insane and bloody terrorism. At a time when we are adopting charters, treaties and declarations on respect for human rights, flagrant violations of those very rights persist in every corner of the planet, reflecting shamefully on the most precious ethical and political principles of our civilization.
At a time when we recognize economic interdependence to be as inescapable as
It is mutually beneficial, we are Incapable of facing together the great imbalance and injustices of international economic relations, and undertaking the adjustment which have so far been focused mainly on the developing countries.
At a time when we are advancing along the path of technological progress as brilliant as it is unbridled, we are attacking the environment, thus compromising future life on the planet, as reported so accurately by the World Commission on Environment and Development in its study entitled "Our Common Future", which is to be considered at this very Assembly session.
At a time when enormous resources are required for the great structural transformation of the developing countries, we continue to spend on weapons in a single year the total value of all third-world external debt.
Those are only some of the great points of ambivalence which trouble and challenge mankind. To face them, a commitment to the values of a democratic, pluralist, tolerant society is necessary on the domestic scene, and a commitment to a society based on the principles of dialogue, fairness and co-operation is required on the international scene.
Those are the principles by which my Government stands, along with all of Uruguayan society. In 1985 Uruguay recovered its traditional democratic life and made fully effective the operation of its republican institutions, along with all human, civil and political rights, thus achieving national reconciliation and initiating the dynamic activity necessary to bring about the economic and social progress of our .people. As a part of Latin America, Uruguay feels deep solidarity with all countries of the region. We reiterate our integrationist vocation, particularly via-a-vis our neighbours, with which we shall continue to build bridges of political and economic co-operation which, along with strengthening our national identity  further the purposes of democratic consolidation and progress in the entire sub-region.
On the international scene, Uruguay, which has always been true to its traditions of respect for and commitment to international law, will continue to do everything in its power to strengthen international dialogue and foster the fulfilment of the principles of the Charter of which it is a signatory. That is the message of my Government and of all of Uruguayan society.
That is our position as we come to this Assembly session. We are certain, Mr. President, that as they were under your predecessor, Mr. Humayun Rasheed Choudhury, the results of this session, under your wise and inspired guidance, will make a significant contribution to international harmony.


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿I should like to begin by extending our warmest and most heartfelt congratulations to the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Argentina, Mr. Dante Caputo, upon the occasion of his election to the post of President of the forty-third regular session of the United Nations General Assembly. We consider him to be a friend of our Government and of our people and we recognize his great experience and ability. We can therefore say that his presidency represents an assurance that the work of this Assembly will proceed in an orderly fashion.
It is also my pleasure to think Mr. Peter Florin of the German Democratic Republic for his brilliant and efficient work as President of the Assembly during the previous session. I should also like to express our admiration for the Secretary-General for the efforts that he has been making for peace. His activities, intelligent, prudent and, at the same time, bold, notwithstanding the institutional and financial constraints upon the Organization, have represented an invaluable contribution to the resolution of various regional conflicts and they sure eloquent testimony to the value of the United Nations as a forum and instrument for the maintenance of international peace and security. 
The lengthy agenda of this session of the General Assembly reflects all the major issues of concern to mankind today. Taken as a whole, it shows that in fulfilling the purposes and principles laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of the Charter 43 years ago, we are continuing resolutely to search for and to safeguard international peace and security, which continue to be the raison d'être of the Organization and which determine all its other activities and objectives.
Peace has been declared to be a human right. Consequently, all the efforts made to preserve and to restore it are simply the consequences of this right, and the attainment of its objectives becomes a duty for the Organization and all its Member States.
Today, as in the past, the efforts for peace call for direct action by the United Nations, which presupposes, in turn, that States must respect certain principles, such as non-intervention, renunciation of the use or threat of force, self-determination, and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Ever since the early years of the United Nations, Uruguay has complied strictly with those principles which underlie the Organization and has promoted respect for them. It has also done everything within its modest means to contribute to the success of the United Nations peace efforts. At this time, as we celebrate the well-deserved awarding of the 1988 Nobel Peace Prize to the United Nations peace-keeping forces, I cannot but recall with pride that Uruguayan officers have been present since 1948 in the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UMOGlP), and recently in the Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group (UNIIMOG). Our effective participation in these efforts reflects our unswerving faith in the Organization as an instrument for peace. 
The progress that the United Nations has made in the cases of Afghanistan, Angola and Namibia, in the Iran-Iraq conflict, and in the question of Western Sahara, must be hailed as a happy resurgence of the capacity for action and the negotiating ability of the organs and mechanisms operating within the framework of the United Nations. We earnestly hope and trust that the processes currently under way will culminate in a just and lasting peace for the nations currently embroiled in conflict.
Unfortunately, we cannot be so optimistic with respect to the present situation in Central America and that in the Middle East. In the case of Central America, Uruguay believes that only by full compliance with the Esquipulas II agreements and the Arias Plan, and by strict compliance with the principles of non-interference, self-determination and non-use of force, combined in a process of international democratization in the countries in conflict, will it be possible to achieve a stable peace in the region.
Our country has participated in the efforts of the Contadora Support Group with sincere enthusiasm, encouraging the parties to comply with the Esquipulas II agreements, and it is willing to continue to do so because it feels that the pacification and democratization of Central America are essential objectives for the harmonious development of all of Latin America, which is, in the end, an objective that is shared by all.
As for the Middle East, it is clear that there can be no lasting peace in the region without recognition of the right to exist of all the States in conflict, and without recognition of the full validity of the principle of self-determination of peoples. But at the same time, we must remember that the rights of those peoples are inexorably linked to the establishment of adequate safeguards, that the borders that have been set, or are to be set in the future, will be duly respected by all. Likewise, the continuation of artificial political divisions, such as those affecting the Korean people, do not contribute to the attainment of lasting peace in the region. 
At the special session devoted to disarmament, Uruguay confirmed its conviction that the arms race could lead to a world war, and that we must continue the efforts already under way to bring about general and complete disarmament. This is essential for the creation of a climate compatible with the search for peace, in the hope that when this is achieved the resources that today are spent on weapons may be put to constructive uses, such as the economic development of the non-industrialized countries and their technological modernization.
Latin America has given the world the example of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which proscribes the proliferation of nuclear weapons among developing countries, without affecting the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes and scientific and technological progress, in this respect, we emphasize our support for the Declaration of the South Atlantic as a Zone of Peace and Co-operation, and we hope that the zone of peace in the South Pacific will soon become ą reality as well. We think that the establishment of these zones of peace constitutes a promising attempt to preserve vast stretches of sea and ocean free from the tensions and conflicts that arise from the threat or use of force or from the dangers resulting from the deployment of nuclear weapons.
Among the conflicts that are still unresolved, we should like once again to emphasize our position with respect to the Malvinas Islands. Uruguay has supported Argentina's claim of sovereignty over the Islands. But we also are mindful of our historic ties with the United Kingdom, with which Uruguay has maintained relations of friendship and co-operation for over a century. We should like now to reaffirm our willingness to co-operate in the search for solutions to a conflict that, with its recent military events, opened a painful breach throughout Latin America. The wounds must as a matter of urgency be healed through negotiation and dialogue.
The world is currently undergoing an unprecedented process of rapid change. We have fully entered the information age and are witnessing the end of the so-called industrial age with no sense of loss. The United Nations must adapt to this process of change in order to be able to continue to fulfil its mission and to ensure the equitable distribution of technological resources and the enjoyment of their benefits by all States. The monopoly of advanced technologies in the hands of a few countries is turning a majority of nations into compulsory purchasers of imported technology. As a result of this, their political sovereignty is as much endangered as it would be by an act of war. Consequently, we need to universalise the availability of the new resources that are being produced through science and technology. This means an attitude of universal openness, on the part of all countries of the world, industrialized and developing, to the free circulation, not only of goods and services, but ultimately of ideas and knowledge.
If this objective is not faced with all its political implications, any attempts to overcome the world's current economic and financial crisis will be impossible.
Today, we cannot think of the work of the United Nations without thinking of the question of human rights. These never were - and certainly are not today - a matter within the jurisdiction of States. The international promotion and protection of human rights, on the basis of the Charter and of many international instruments is an objective to which mankind as a whole is committed. In this context, we once again repeat our condemnation of apartheid, a shameful doctrine based on inequality and racial discrimination, which is a clear, institutionalized violation of human rights. In this connection there are other scourges in the world today such as terrorism and drugs. Terrorism is not merely a factor that contributes to - international insecurity and a form of action that violates fundamental principles of civilized coexistence·, it is essentially a flagrant violation of human rights, an attack upon the freedom and dignity of man, and especially on his right to life. Ws consider that the action by the United Nations against terrorism must be firm and clear, based on the view that terrorism is a crime against humanity, one that calls for the co-operation of all States. 
As for the fight against the illegal use of drugs, international action roust be greatly expanded in order to confront this plague, which is particularly severe today. The United Nations is the appropriate setting for the adoption and promotion of economic, social, cultural and legal measures for its prevention and sanction. But such measures should not be considered as negating the responsibility of producer countries, nor of consumer countries since, if there were no large consumer market, there would not be any drug-producing market. We should also call attention to the responsibility of the countries that allow their territory to be used for drug trafficking. Our country confirms its determination to co-operate in the International fight against the narcotics trade and pledges its support to any co-ordinated effort at the regional or international levels.
Conservation of the environment is a matter of growing concern for the international community. The quality of man's life on Earth and his very existence are at stake.
We reaffirm our support for the recommendations in the report entitled "Our Common Culture", prepared by the World Commission on Environment and Development, and we agree with the basic principles of maintaining the steady productivity of the ecosystems and the biosphere as a whole. We are convinced of the need to increase efforts and to act in a co-ordinated fashion to avert the grave danger of altering the ecological balance and the progressive and rapid physical and chemical deterioration of the environment that is affecting the infrastructure of planetary life.
The achievement of full economic development has been the basic challenge of the last years of our century. Without balanced and global economic development, there can be no firm and lasting peace; the existence of both highly industrialized countries and countries hindered by underdevelopment is, over the medium- or long-term, a constant source of instability and tension and a threat to world peace.
Even if one recognizes that development is also the responsibility of the developing countries themselves, at this time in our century it seems clear that, even in those developing countries that are willing to absorb the social and political costs of painful adjustments in their economies, there eventually comes a time when national instruments of economic rationality are exhausted.
Hence there arises the indispensable need for greater international solidarity, which starts with clear and stable trade regulations - free from irritating protectionism - and greater flexibility and co-operation in solving the financial problems caused by the current foreign debt crisis, the weight of which is frustrating the efforts of the debtor countries to promote their economic growth and placing the stability of their democratic institutions at risk.
Nevertheless, it must be said that the overwhelming debt burden is monopolizing international attention, pushing into the background the urgent need to discuss new resources necessary to promote the scientific and technological modernization and development of the non-industrialized countries.
Naturally, the problem has transcended the mere economic nature of the issue. It is now time to recognize that the world's financial problems - the past debt and the future debt - are also political problems that must be faced from an international perspective based on a faithful and honest commitment by creditors and debtors alike, in which both recognize their due share of responsibility for the past and the future. To this end, I believe that it is constructive to highlight the recent commitment of the President of the Spanish Government at the close of the twenty-fifth meeting of Latin American Governors, Spain and the Philippines before the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. 
It is useful to recall this here because it shows that the sensitivity which we have been calling for is starting to emerge among the leaders of industrialized creditor countries as well.
President Felipe Gonzalez began by recognizing the failure of the strategy thus far pursued to resolve the debt crisis and recognized that from 1982 to date the situation of the banks and creditor countries has improved sufficiently for them to assume a more realistic and flexible attitude in this matter,. Consequently, he feels that the time has come for the creditors to redefine their debt strategy by specifically proposing the capitalization of interest and the reduction in outstanding debt, along the lines, I suppose, of explicitly recognizing the devaluation of the debt in the securities market.
I believe that this is the appropriate forum and time to welcome views such as the one expressed by the President of the Spanish Government, which tend to bring balance into international attention by recalling that, in spite of the progress in political terms observed at the international level, at this level there still persist serious problems - with no clear solutions - affecting not merely the quality of life of millions of inhabitants of the world but also the possibility of building a world at peace.
Soon, two international events will occur expressing our active commitment - Uruguay's - at the regional and international levels.
The first is the meeting of Latin American Presidents of the Group of Eight to be held at Punta del Este. This group, which was created in Rio de Janeiro, emerged out of the conviction of its democratic Governments that it is important for Latin America as a whole that there be a mechanism for co-ordination and consultation enabling it to harmonize its international activities, promote regional democratization and act in unity in analysing all the problems affecting the region. There can be no doubt that this group has acquired clear international standing and can now play its part in maintaining relations with other international organizations and countries outside the region. The forthcoming summit meeting at Punta del Estė will undoubtedly provide a timely opportunity to analyse what has been done since the Acapulco Declaration and to define a realistic plan of action to pursue in the future in the political, cultural, educational and technological fields.
The second is the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), a result of the Punta del Este conference, where discussions were held which, we hope, will serve as an example of international wisdom, promoting international trade free from discrimination and protectionism and capable of promoting international trade exchanges on the basis of which the shared objective for development of all States on Earth can be solidly established.
Within this broader picture, the importance of multilateralism and the transcendental role of the United Nations is clear. But for our Organization to be active and respected, it is necessary that it have the wherewithal necessary for the attainment of the goals assigned to it by the Charter and the resources efficiently to conduct the operations for which its machinery was established.
We recognize, therefore, that in order to revitalize the Organization once and for all, we need to start with honest self-criticism aimed at eliminating inefficiencies, lessening bureaucracy and improving existing systems.
In saying that, we also realize that the way to achieve this objective is surely not by suffocating it financially to the point of undermining not only its functioning but also its very existence. Hence it is the duty of all Member States particularly the large industrialized countries, to reconsider their position as contributions to the United Nations budget and to make the necessary efforts to keep the Organization going and functioning. 
In summary, my country reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations. Uruguay is today living in peace, free from conflicts with other States. It maintains relations of friendship and co-operation with States of all political and economic systems in the world> it has developed a strong democratic life that fully respects human rights and is governed by leaders elected through the free expression of the will of the people.
That is why we come before the Assembly today and express our views on foreign policy as the result of national consensus on the basis of which the country is participating at the regional and international levels in the search for the reaffirmation of the fundamental principles that gave birth to the Organization. In closing, while confirming my country's confidence in the results of this session, let us recall that the difficult challenges we are currently facing and will have to face in the future can only be overcome through decisive and clear international action without unrealistic rhetoric or expressions of one-sided intent.
This call for pragmatic and rational action includes strict observance by all Members of the Organization of the fundamental principles of the San Francisco Charter, because these principles are not merely rhetorical phrases but rather inescapable legal duties that all States must observe in order to ensure the credibility and efficiency of the United Nations in accomplishing its basic objectives.


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿
During the debate at the fortieth session of the General Assembly four years ago, President Sanguinetti announced to the world community from this very rostrum that Uruguay had resumed its traditional path of political democracy, and was determined to respect and to enforce respect domestically for all human rights as guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic, and further announced his firm resolve to resume active participation on the global stage of international relations in the pursuit of peace, universal respect for human rights and the equality of all nations, based on respect for national sovereignty and non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States.
Six months prior to the conclusion of President Sanguinetti's constitutional term, I have the honour to mount the same rostrum to announce to this international community that today those intentions have been fully realized.
Indeed, within a few weeks, elections will be held in Uruguay to elect all the authorities who will be responsible for the destiny of the country for the next five years. This fact, commonplace in the political tradition of a democratic country, is particularly significant in out case, since it represents the culmination of a period of democratic recovery during which full respect for the Constitution has been restored? all individual rights have been scrupulously observed, and national reconciliation has been achieved, inter alia by a general amnesty ratified by popular mandate. Law and justice have been restored, and the country has been rescued from a declining economic situation through the vigorous revitalization of the external sector and the application of stabilizing policies which have allowed reasonable product growth, a decrease in unemployment and an increase in real earnings.
On the international front, Uruguay has honoured all its commitments, including those of a financial nature which entailed - then and today - considerable sacrifices. It has actively contributed, at times beyond the power of its political weight and its material resources, to efforts aimed at reinforcing international peace, security and co-operation. It has embarked upon a firm policy of regional and sub regional integration and participates actively with other democracies in the hemisphere to co-ordinate positions in order to satisfy our common interests. In short, the Government of Uruguay is acting on the international scene, secure in the moral and political authority it derives from the right to represent a free, democratic, stable and peace-loving society. This task of democratic consolidation has been successful but also extremely difficult. As President Sanguinetti said to this Assembly in 1985:
"Democracy is a fragile flower; ... it only grows aid survives in the right soil and the right climate. A genuine democracy based on respect for the individual and an the periodical, free advice of the people can be preserved only within an economic context that allows its citizens to provide for their basic material and spiritual needs. ... When this condition is not fulfilled, and poverty and unemployment prevail, violence emerges and is unleashed, the powers of disorder take advantage of the fertile soil, the fabric of society disintegrates and, in the international sphere, political loyalties become erratic." (A/40/PV.6, p. 12)
Indeed, democracy is never limited to a purely political dimension, nor is it a sufficient condition to ensure freedom for all the people.
The economic and social component of a democratic society is what ultimately determines its feasibility aid stability. It is for this reason that the question posed by the foreign Ministers of the Group of 8 when considering the problem of foreign debt is a valid one today: How much poverty can freedom withstand?
Like democracy in other Latin American countries and other regions of the world, democracy in Uruguay has been constantly threatened by a severe economic crisis unprecedented in its history.
We are aware - and this is always worth repeating - of our share of responsibility in the task of overcoming the crisis and promoting development and economic growth. We know that that is possible only through our own efforts, through the formulation and application of our own policies and, particularly, through our own sacrifices. But we are also aware that, despite the social and political cost of these adjustment processes, the expected benefits will not be obtained without greater participation and commitment by the industrialized countries, particularly in the areas of international finance and trade.
The issue of underdevelopment, therefore, remains the major world problem faced by mankind. The growth achieved by a few Asian countries cannot hide the fact that there has been significant regression in the social indicators of many countries in Latin America and Africa. That bears eloquent testimony to the seriousness of the situation and the political risk to their governing institutions, and consequently to world peace.
The vast foreign debt which weighs so heavily on many of our countries has reversed the flow of financial resources, which now runs from South to North. The task of turning the tide cannot be delayed, since this debt is paralysing all our efforts to achieve economic development and democratic stability.
It is encouraging to note that creditor countries have new accepted the principle of shared responsibility in the foreign-debt problem, and have agreed that this problem is not simply financial but also political and social. It is also noteworthy and encouraging that creditor Governments appear willing to consider formulas to help the constrained economies of debtor nations.
In this respect, the agreement between Mexico and its international bank creditors has set a precedent regarding the feasibility of the Brady philosophy and has aroused legitimate hopes and expectations in the rest of the debtor nations.
Without a pragmatic approach to the debt problem there will be no development and no economic growth; without these prerequisites it will be very difficult to continue to believe in democracy, and without democracy world stability and peace will be very hard to maintain.
What we need today is a revolutionary change in our ideas and policies with respect to international economics, ultimately leading to the formulation of a new development strategy. The starting point of that strategy should be recognition of the interdependence of all States, whatever their size or economic or military power; and the objective should be to ensure that this interdependence is viewed as guaranteeing greater predictability and stability in world trade and economic relations and a more just distribution of the benefits.
This new international strategy for development should be dynamic, flexible and, above all, concrete and precise in the formulation of measures designed to fight poverty, to eliminate protectionism and discrimination in international trade, and to facilitate access by all developing countries to technology and to the financial and economic markets of industrialized nations.
The environmental dimension should be an essential ingredient in the new international development strategy. The deterioration of the environment has become a matter of concern to the entire international community and there is no doubt it will continue to be a matter of concern in the years to come.
There can be no doubt that the environment must, be protected and that each State must assume responsibility and take action in this respect for its own well-being and for that of other peoples of the world. But it is also true that
the correct solution to the problem requires sincere and broad international co-operation to ensure that the cost of protecting the environment is not borne by only a few countries which ate still struggling for full development of their un-exploited natural resources. In no case - and this is more important still - should protection of the environment become a new form of conditionality to which the sovereign decisions of countries still requiring international co-operation for their development would be subordinated.
In summary, Uruguay is conscious of the urgent need to protect the environment-, but we are also aware that this is a task requiring the participation and efforts of the entire international community and that it should be carried out in a way compatible with the national sovereignty of all nations.
However, the implementation of a development policy that guarantees both the protection of the environment and the rational use of natural resources requires the provision of financial resources and appropriate technologies not available to all the countries in the world.
As we stated last year and repeat today: the technological dependence of the developing countries is not only a factor inhibiting their economic development, but also as a serious threat to their political sovereignty as that posed by foreign aggression.
The cost of transferring financial and technological resources to developing countries represents barely a marginal fraction of the funds used by the super-Powers in the arms race, for which they invoke reasons of national security. They forget that reasons of national survival would make it mandatory for them to allocate more than a marginal fraction of that overall expenditure to the transfer of resources and technology to developing countries, thereby facilitating their
participation in the common task of protecting both world peace and the quality of the environment.
In dealing with the question of the environment, the international community must resort to the basic mechanism of co-operation between nations because we are faced with a common danger, affecting us all, and there is no political system or degree of development or military Power than can give any State the slightest immunity against it.
Unfortunately, it is not only dangers to the environment that indiscriminately affect all nations and peoples. There are other reasons forcing us to resort to and develop the mechanisms of global solidarity and co-operation. Terrorism and drug trafficking, which at times appear to be complementary phenomena, continue to wreak destruction and havoc, despite the universal revulsion they arouse.
Uruguay unequivocally condemns terrorism. For us, any terrorist act is inhuman and cruel, violates the most sacred human rights and reveals the basest and most destructive feelings of men. There is no purpose, no cause, no issue, however noble, that can justify the commission of a terrorist act. For that reason, Uruguay will contribute, without qualifications based on motives or purposes, to efforts directed at establishing new legal measures and at strengthening existing ones providing for the eradication of this scourge from the face of the earth.
With respect to drug trafficking, we are concerned at the rate at which it has expanded and at the vast power behind it, but at the same time we are encouraged to see that the governments of consumer nations have become aware of their responsibilities and that producer nations have shouldered the risks involved in an open war against drug traffickers. In this connection, it is my duty, and my pleasure, to express to the Government of President Virgilio Barco Vargas and to the people of Colombia the solidarity of the Government of Uruguay in respect of recent events in our sister Republic, and our admiration for the courage with which Colombians are tackling this problem.
The political climate that now prevails is perhaps the most propitious in four decades for the successful initiation and implementation of undertakings necessitating the willingness of Governments to co-operate with each other. Ideological dogmatism and political inflexibility appear to be losing ground in the face of realism and common sense. Over the last few months, we have embarked on a new era of dialogue and collaboration, which has translated into a cessation of hostilities, the reaching of agreements, and the establishment of contacts and channels of communication. All of this has led to the solution, or imminent solution, of several regional conflicts.
The cessation of hostilities between Iran and Iraq; the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan that has already taken place; the recent efforts to normalize the situation in Kampuchea; the December 1988 agreements on southern Africa and the beginning of the self-determination process in Namibia; the agreements on New Caledonia; the contacts concerning Western Sahara; the new surge in the Central American peace process following the regional presidential summit last August; and the promising resumption of dialogue between Argentina and the United Kingdom with a view to settling their differences directly - these are manifestations of this desire for peace, and proof of the sterility and futility of confrontation, intolerance and misguided nationalism.

This new spirit is evident also in the changes introduced by numerous countries in the principles and objectives of their domestic policies, which have led them to greater openness, both internally and externally, thereby strengthening the prospects for international peace and co-operation. 1 am referring to political evolution on the domestic front in the Soviet Union and other Eastern European countries, as well as to the steps taken towards democracy by the last authoritarian regimes in South America, which are evidence of a less dogmatic political vision that, fortunately, appears to be spreading in almost all regions of the world.
However, there remain areas in which the voices of peace go unheeded, First, the human-rights situation in the world is still far from satisfactory. The international community knows that the important progress made in the political field will remain precarious while vast sectors of the world's peoples are unable fully to enjoy their human rights.
There can be no doubt whatsoever that no progress - whether economic, social, political or moral — will have a firm foundation so long as any vestiges of racism and racial discrimination remain, and in particular while practices such as apartheid continue. South Africa's persistence in disregarding the resolutions of the United Nations will not stifle the persistence of the rest of the world in reclaiming for that country the full force of the equality and dignity of the human race.
The work of the United Nations in developing human rights and establishing the means of guaranteeing respect for them must continue, with the support of the international community. A very important step has been taken with the drafting of the convention on the rights of the child, which we trust will soon become, for every State, the appropriate ethical and legal framework for improving the status of children.
The Middle East conflict continues to threaten world peace and to cost the parties involved a high price in human life and in moral and material damage. Nevertheless, signals are beginning to come from both sides - signals that are helping to generate the climate necessary for a negotiated solution. For Israel, this would mean lasting peace within safe borders, and, for the Palestinians, the possibility of exercising freely their right to self-determination.
In this region, we are also particularly concerned about the tragic situation in Lebanon - a country with which we have many links, and whose long-suffering people are the victims of an unjust and senseless war, with the Resulting death and devastation with which we are all too familiar.
Uruguay has raised its voice in the past, and does so again, to call on all the parties involved to intensify their efforts to achieve a final solution to the conflict. This implies the withdrawal of foreign troops from Lebanese territory and the harmonization, by democratic means, of domestic differences. In this regard, we wish every success for the mediation undertaken by several heads of State of the League of Arab States. We trust that the pursuit of peace in Lebanon will succeed and that this country will once again be as prosperous and peaceful as it once was.
These problems, as well as other situations that threaten peace, are this year, as in previous years, difficult challenges to which the General Assembly should respond by trying to reconcile the specific interests of each nation with
the general interests of the international community. We are aware that this is a task fraught with difficulties, but at the same time we are encouraged because we know, Mr. President, that under your enlightened and expert direction, we shall achieve the desired results.
I should like to conclude by expressing our sincere congratulations to Mr. Dante Caputo on his intelligent and effective presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-third session, and also to the Secretary-General, whose dynamism, tact and commitment have strengthened the role of his office within the Organization and have been an essential factor in enhancing its prestige through his successful intervention in the peaceful solution of a number of regional conflicts.


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿Since 1945 - when the United Nations was created in response to the clamour of peoples to preserve future generations from the scourge of war, to strengthen faith in fundamental human rights and to create the proper conditions for international coexistence characterised by greater justice and solidarity, thus laying the foundations for lasting peace - the General Assembly, the principal representative organ of the United Nations, has met each year to carry out, within the scope of its competence, the task of promoting, building and keeping peace. That is the first purpose of the United Nations and our paramount mission.
For that reason, I must begin by referring to the situation that exists today in the Middle East. In these past few months the shadow of war has cast a tragic shadow over the international situation, which until then had seemed to be following a hopeful path. Iraq's invasion and occupation of Kuwait precipitated the crisis that had been developing, and they pushed the world to the verge of an armed conflict of unforeseeable consequences.
The response of the international community, through the Security Council, has been rapid and energetic. Uruguay condemns the grave violation of international law committed by Iraq and fully supports the decisions taken by the Council.
By adopting this attitude, Uruguay is demonstrating once again its unconditional respect for and adherence to international law for the sake of peace, whatever may be the negative consequences for its economy and its development process. We must be fully aware that the aggression committed has already created chaos in the world economy. 

Through the subsequent increase in oil prices, it has brought about a general crisis of extremely serious consequences for the whole of the international community, especially for non-oil-producing countries.
Moreover, we must bear in mind that war would only worsen this crisis and its consequences would be unforeseeable. Considering the characteristics of modern war and - unlike other examples from the past - no State would benefit from it. This is true, dramatically true, in the case of small developing countries with weak and vulnerable economies.
In the specific case of Uruguay its import and export trade has suffered precisely quantifiable damages as a direct consequence of the conflict and of the sanctions adopted. It has therefore sought consultations, as provided for in Article 50 of the Charter.
The Gulf crisis has tested the Organisation's ability to face situations that jeopardise peace and security. The United Nations has emerged from this test triumphant and stronger. It has ceased to be held hostage to the rivalries of the cold war, and this fact has allowed the Security Council to adopt resolutions which constitute the most extraordinary demonstration of political co-operation in its 45 years of history.
When Governments - and particularly those of Member States, which as such have greater responsibilities - decide to comply with and enforce the principles of the Charter, the United Nations becomes an appropriate and effective instrument ¿or restoring order, security and law.
The most important achievement of international law is the principle of the prohibition of the use of force by States in their international relations. Only this Organisation is entitled to make use of force - within the limits provided in the Charter - except with the exception of the provisional authorisation granted to States in case of self-defence. It is by the application of this system and by the observance of other fundamental principles of contemporary international law - and as the right of peoples to self-determination, the principle of non-intervention; and the sovereign equality of States - that the existence of all States and dele . against aggression are ensured.
The Gulf crisis has demonstrated two facts of particular significance the solidarity of the international community in responding to aggression end its confidence in the international security mechanisms of the United Nations. This reassessment of the current role of the Organisation at a time of profound and rapid change, gives us cause for optimism about its future, in spite of the undeniable gravity of the present situation in the Gulf.
The United Nations is by its nature universal. Hence there is need for a process by which all States of the world can become Members of the Organisation, in this regard Uruguay welcomes the solution of the question of Namibia and in full participation of Namibia as a member of the United Nations. We must now focus our attention on the few remaining exceptions to the principle of universality, such as Korea. We are eager to see South Korea, and if possible North Korea as well, admitted to the United Nations.
The admission of Liechtenstein to the Organisation is another notable step in the process towards full universality.
The reunification of lessen and the reunification of Germany - the latter of which took place yesterday - are praiseworthy events. Considering that it entails the reunification of Germany must be saluted as a triumph of end the enshrinement of the will of a people. 
The events in the Persian Gulf rewind us of the vulnerability of peace when it is not based on a sys ten of international arms limitation and control, with the ultimate goal of general and complete disarmament. Dividing walls may b· torn down; ideological confrontations may be mitigated; borders may be opened to communication and trade, the wings of democracy may fly over and destroy anachronistic authoritarian schemes, but no stable security or lasting peace will be attained as long as gigantic arsenals exist all over the world, ready to be used by any arbitrary and aggressive government.
An armed world, one in which the great and the small furnish themselves with powerful and inhuman instruments of destruction and death, does not provide the proper framework for peace The events of the Gulf were possible because the States involved thought they were ensuring the effectiveness of their reckless acts through the support of excessive military power, resulting from an uncontrolled arms race.
The international community must avoid the occurrence of similar dangerous situations in the future. That will be possible only if we accelerate the disarmament process. Uruguay understands that the immediate task in to concentrate on further advancing the regulation and limitation of armaments, whether conventional, nuclear, chemical, bacteriological, radiological or space weapons.
The task must be carried out through the launching of new negotiations or acceleration of the current ones, the preparation of new conventions on the subject, the ratification of existing treaties by those States that have not yet done so; the creation of more nuclear-weapon free zones, and the improvement and strengthening of the misting ones, and the full establishment of zones of peace.
The United Nations is the natural forum for the discussion of problems of disarmament and arms control. Naturally, the super-Powers have the major responsibilities in this regard. But there is no doubt that disarmament is a multilateral issue because the actions and the decisions of the super-Powers have an inevitable impact on the rest of the world.
In this contest Uruguay attaches great importance to the declaration of the South Atlantic as a zone of peace and co-operation. It is a first basic step and it must be complemented with a sound legal statute for that region.
At the same time we must undertake the promotion and diversification of procedures for the peaceful settlement of international conflicts. The history of international relations clearly shows that only political and jurisdictional solutions to international problems provide fair and lasting results that are respected by the parties. 
In the last few years many disputes have been settled - or are being settled - by political or diplomatic procedures, with the participation of the United Nations or other intergovernmental organisations. Conflicts such as those in southern Africa, Afghanistan, Central America, Iran-Iraq, Cambodia and Western Sahara have been or are being settled by negotiations based on the application of peaceful procedures.
Together with political and diplomatic procedures, jurisdictional procedures for the settlement of disputes play a very important role. The increase in the number of cases submitted to the International Court of Justice is a very encouraging trend. However, of the 159 States that make up the international community, only 46 have accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. In this Decade of International Law, Uruguay calls upon all States that have not yet done so to consider the possibility of subscribing to the optional clause in paragraph 2 of Article 36 of the Statute of the Court. It is true that the request made by the General Assembly in its resolution 3232 (3QCIX) has not had the positive effect expected. Uruguay considers that it has the right to make this appeal since it was the first country in the world to accept unreservedly the compulsory jurisdiction of, first, the Permanent Court of International Justice and, then, the International Court of Justice.
The current political and military ¡conflicts cannot overshadow the fact that, even without them, there are menacing prospects in the present international situation. There are global threats that are not related to political or military issues, but are the result, on the one hand, of the persistence of underdevelopment in vast areas of the world and, on the other, of the fast pace of technological progress that have introduced revolutionary changes in our ways of life and methods of production and have had lethal consequences such as the depletion of natural resources, the degradation of the environment, drug trafficking and terrorism. 
The co-operation of all States is required to combat these new dangers of universal scope.
One of the major challenges is the environmental issue. The international community has increased its awareness of this issue and is ready to react strongly against the ecological dangers to the planet. Uruguay is hopefully awaiting the Conference on Environment and Development, to be held in Brazil in 1992, and is committed to participating actively in the work of its preparatory commission as well as in the related actions under way at the international level. We trust that at the 1992 Conference agreements will be reached on strategies and measures to halt and reverse the effects of environmental degradation. Uruguay believes that these strategies, which must be applied immediately and with the firm political resolve required by the gravity of the dangers, must meet the following basic criteria: first, the principle of the inseparability of environmental and development material secondly, the principle of fairness in the distribution of responsibilities and burdens, which means that the expenses entailed in the protection of the environment and the restoration of the ecological balance must be borne by each State in accordance with the extent of its participation in the ecological deterioration and with its financial and technological capacities; thirdly, the principle of respect for national sovereignty as understood in international law in a world of interdependence and solidarity; fourthly, the principle of co-operation, which requires a special effort by the industrialised countries since they must provide the developing States with the financial resources and non-polluting technologies which they lack and which are indispensable if they are to face the environmental problems. Without the co-operation of the industrialised countries, the developing countries will be unable to shoulder their responsibilities in regard to protecting the environment, however strong their will to do so. 
Drug trafficking and terrorism, which are closely interrelated, are still taking a tragic toll in destruction and death, violating fundamental human rights, altering the basic principles of civilised coexistence and creating centres of disturbance of international security. To combat these two scourges we must use all possible forces of international co-operation.
While there is deep concern over increasing drug abuse and the immense power of drug traffickers, it is encouraging to see that through international co-operation effective Measures are being adopted based on the acceptance of responsibilities by both consumer and producer countries. The latter have launched an open war that has earned deepest admiration and solidarity.
These serious problems cannot be understood nor con a solution to then be found outside the framework of the enormous task the international community must undertake during the last decade of this century, namely, to bridge the immense gap dividing the human family and separating the world of affluence from the world of scarcity and under-development.
It cannot be denied that true peace is not possible in a world that is economically divided. The General Assembly has recognised the priority that must be accorded to reactivating economic growth in the developing countries in order to ensure the right of every human being to live free from hunger, poverty, ignorance, disease and fear. Naturally, each State is responsible for finding its own path to economic prosperity and social progress.
Uruguay is fully aware that the responsibility for its development rests fundamentally on its own efforts. In spite of the obstacles it faces, it has complied with its international obligations in a timely fashion it has implemented painful adjustment policies and the new government of President Luis Alberto Lacalle is devoting itself to the task of State reform, with the purpose of reducing bureaucracy and public expenditure and improving the efficiency of State-run services while simultaneously stipulating productive structures. As President Lacalle said when he took office on 1 March last, after as electoral victory that was an example of the traditional and currently sound and stable Uruguayan democracy:
"The government and the state must be the first to change in order not to become a hindrance and burden to society. The government, administration and State must rescue their condition of being a means to an end and not ends in themselves. They must readjust their powers so that they are not oppressive; reform their dimensions so that they are not a burden; redefine their functions so that they do not invade the individual's own sphere. 
Uruguay is making efforts to attain a more beneficial position in the world economy through its participation in new programmes of subregional economic integration. It is thus working with the governments of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Chile in order to arrive at an efficient and significant integration with the aimed at the extension and opening of our markets and the improvement of our competitiveness.
The political context of the region could not be ,ore appropriate for this type of undertaking. The complete democratisation of the South American subcontinent - an extraordinary process which have not been clearly appreciated from the outside because of similar processes in other regions - was complemented by the establishment of governments with reform agendas and a modern and dynamic vision of international affairs. The Bush initiative for the Americas proposes a positive road for co-operation between the United States and Latin America. Uruguay is prepared to take that path in the certainty that ,ore equitable relations can be established in the hemisphere through the dialogue that the initiative proposes.
But the efforts of one country would be sterile if the world economic contest were to remain unfavourable. The General Assembly recognised the impact of external factors on the developing efforts of each individual country when it stated that the international community is responsible for supporting the efforts of developing countries towards the solution of their economic and social problems by creating a favourable international environment. Undoubtedly, no economic environment is favourable when the participation of developing countries in world trade is hindered by subsidies, restrictions and protectionism, when a large number of Latin American and African countries face an overwhelming foreign debt, when foreign investment has retreated and when the fluctuating, and usually decreasing, price of commodities is unpredictable. Perhaps the clearest example of the contradictious in today's international panorama is the massive transfer of resources from the countries that most need capital towards the industrialised countries. This fact stifles all possibilities of growth.
None the less, some encouraging signs can be seen in this hazy panorama. Creditor countries, for instance, have accepted shared responsibility and have recognised that the debt is not merely a financial problem, but also a political one. The issue of foreign debt weighs heavily on many developing countries. Uruguay, in spite of having unfailingly paid its obligations, is no exception.
The world requires a change of attitude on the part of the industrialised countries towards the prevailing international economic order. They hold the key to trade, technology and investments, and consequently it is they who are in a position to facilitate a more equitable incorporation of the developing countries into the world economic system. We are not asking for favours. Developing countries are not a group of beggars; nor do we ask for charity. What we do request is the opening of markets to our products, fair prices, technological co-operation and investment on fair terms.
Pour years ago the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) launched the Uruguay Bound to face the critical problems that affect international trade. Two years later, the objectives of the Bound were ratified in Montreal during a mid-term evaluation.
Last July, however, at the meeting of the Trade Negotiations Committee, the highest body of the Bound, over which I had the honour to preside, the results were not encouraging. The present status of the negotiations is marked by slow progress and stagnation in highly sensitive areas. If this situation remains unchanged, we shall go to the final meeting of the Bound, which is to be held in Brussels nest December, with partial and insufficient results. 
This is deemed unacceptable by the developing countries which stated that the principal industrialised countries did not facilitate negotiations by maintaining their inflexibility on many topics, among which ray delegation wishes to place particular emphasis on access to markets and agriculture.
This sector is crucially important for Uruguay. The Cairns Group - of which we are members - has already expressed its conviction that the Round will not succeed unless satisfactory agreements are reached on agricultural matters. This is the position of Uruguay as well. If agricultural negotiations do not succeed, the whole Round will fail. We have no choice. The results of the Round must be consistent with the Declaration of Punta del Seste by which it was launched and through which its objectives were established.
This process must be clear and based on a multilateral consensus that allows for a more equitable commercial system. Uruguay will continue to work towards the ultimate achievement of these goals.
Peace is built day by day. It is built from deep in the hearts of men to become a reality in the life of nations. How could it be built then without first promoting the human being his essential rights his dignity and values? How can we expect to build peace if human rights and the rights of people are not respected? Therein resides the very origin of every upheaval and of any lack of peace. Respect for and promotion of human rights is therefore the inevitable foundation for peace.
As long as somewhere in the world there is no full respect for the dignity of men and women, flesh and blood, body and soul - the main protagonists of the world and its history - as long as apartheid persists as long as racism persists in its true and accurate sense without misleadingly stretching its meaning either historically or politically as long as persecution and discrimination exist as long as political rights are not recognised and enforced and as long as free and periodic elections are not held, it will be impossible to promote the development of man, and economic, social and cultural development will be inconsistent.
I should like to pay a tribute to the work done by the Secretary-General, an eminent Latin American citizen with whom I recently had the honour of co-operating as his Special Representative for the question of Western Sahara. His work during this last year - brilliantly set forth in his report to the General Assembly - has made a remarkable contribution to international peace and security. His work has already obtained successful results in some cases. In others, it has cleared the way by pointing out the applicable principles and criteria for the just and peaceful settlement of conflicts. 
In his inaugural address President Lacalle defined today's world in the following words.
"The world we face today is a world in ferment, a world of change and renewal. Its main characteristic, its motive force, lies in the freedom of the individual and the independence of nations, two terns of the eternal equation of history."
This changing world presents challenges of great historic significance to the United Nations.
The General Assembly held a successful session last year under the presidency of the Ambassador of Nigeria, Joseph Garba, whom it is now my pleasure to congratulate on the performance of his task. This year we must take decisions on many subjects that are as complex as they are important, at a time of serious challenges that call for immediate solutions. The fact that you, Mr. President, have been elected to guide our debates lets us anticipate another successful session. We know your intellectual capacity, your awareness of the international situation, which, together with your sense of justice and your skills in conciliation, will I am sure, enable you to guide our work to a successful conclusion.
In the name of my Government, I congratulate you and wish you every success. 


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿The events of recent years, and particularly events since the last session of the General Assembly, have categorically disproved the assertions of certain modern prophets who stated that we have reached the end of history. On the contrary, history continues to move forward, always with openness and constant renewal. Today's realities are the greatest proof of the irrepressible impetus of freedom and of the fact that men and peoples always succeed in breaking the chains of oppression.The world is now crossing the threshold of a new era which is marked by an expanding democracy in the framework of an open, changing and endless process. The century which is coming to an end will be known as the century of renewal end the re-conquest of democracy. The fight for the ideals of democracy continues to be the great driving force of history. It is two world wars which radically transformed political forms and international structures which exist today were essentially, though not solely, confrontations between democracy and the forces of totalitarianism.We are now witnessing events which may well lead to a new international order - an order related to the triumph of democracy. We may still not be able to talk about that new order, except in so far as it represents a verification of existing realities. If whatever lies ahead is to be a real order and not simply a manifestation of power, it will have to be characterised by scrupulous respect for the fundamental principles of the United Nations Charter. There is no order outside the law and, at the same time, law is essential to preserve peace. These essential concepts of legal philosophy cannot be forgotten as we reflect on the present international situation.The end of the cold war, the growing understanding among the great Powers, the political changes in Eastern Europe, the end of communism as a doctrine and its universal collapse as a political system, the consolidation of democracy in practically all of Latin America, the virtual end of the decolonisation process and the irreversible movement towards the elimination of apartheid - these are events heralding the possible birth of the new international order that we all desire, which will have to take root and be further developed over the next few decades.The bipolar concept of the world is no longer valid as a basis for interpreting international political realities. The new international situation is being shaped through changes and events occurring with the kind of unpredictability that is characteristic of critical moments in human history and with the speed that is typical of the accelerating pace of history in our times.However, that process, which has positive elements, also has elements that could negatively affect the international balance, peace and security. Therefore, we see a strange juxtaposition of promise and danger, light and darkness.Mankind must be given firm prospects of living in peace and prosperity. The present generation has the historic responsibility of laying down the ethical, legal and political foundations for the future. The first step is fully to recognise that responsibility.When we think about building a new international order we cannot think merely about new forms of the status quo or of a new distribution of power in the world. What we want is to ensure free coexistence among States on the basis of full observance of the principles of the Charter by all members of the international community.The ban on the use of force, which entails respect for the key principle of non-intervention, will have to be regularly strengthened, as the cornerstone of international peace.The peaceful settlement of disputes between States is a rule that must always be followed, it being understood that solving or containing conflicts requires proper coordination of the actions of the United Nations and of regional bodies.The principle of good faith in the fulfilment of international obligations must be not only an ethical precept and a legal commitment, but also an element of wisdom in the conduct of international relations.We must jointly undertake to bring about the necessary universal respect for the principle of the self-determination of peoples, in harmony with other principles of international law, in such a way that it does not become an excuse for ethnic confrontation and divisive xenophobia. But the international community cannot, remain aloof if nothing succeeds in preventing confrontation between peoples who do not wish to live under a common State system and if hatred, violence and fighting become the main features of their relations. The international community must face up to such a situation and, in order to prevent its becoming a threat to international peace and security, take action to guarantee peaceful exercise of the right to self-determination.With regard to the right to self-determination, I wish to express Uruguay's support for the peace plan for Western Sahara and to express our earnest hope that the referendum will take place and that its results will be accepted.The heart-rending experience of the years preceding the Gulf crisis is clear proof that States must conduct themselves strictly in accord with the obligations deriving from the purposes and principles of the Charter.The new international situation offers possibility of progress in International relations. I wish to address three issues of the greatest importance.The first is the strengthening of the collective security system. The end of the cold war does not necessarily imply the end of reel possibilities of armed conflict. Though the danger of a global conflagration has diminished, there remain situations threatening peace and security.The collective security system established by the Charter was not applied for more than 45 years, despite the fact that it was conceived as a key element in the organisation of the post-war world. It seems that only now are the assumptions on which the system of collective security was based becoming reality. The system assumes a political understanding between the permanent members of the Security Council. The absence of such an understanding paralysed the United Nations and made it impossible for the system to work.Experience in the Gulf crisis obliges us to maximise our efforts to ensure that the system operates with full respect for the Charter. The system must be organized in such a way that the competent organs of the Organization have effective control.In this context, we cannot fail to refer to recent events in the Soviet Union. The interruption of the democratic process in the system there by the attempted unconstitutional coup d'etat would have had negative consequences internationally. The re-establishment of constitutional legality and the re-establishment of that process, which my country hails as the fruit of the people's courage and resolve, is at the root of the Soviet Union's contribution to peace and to the development of the collective security system. Uruguay supported the vigorous actions taken by the Security Council, beginning in August 1990, when it decided to take collective measures against Iraq's aggression, with a view to restoring rights that had been breached and re establishing international peace and security.That support was given unhesitatingly, despite the material sacrifices it entailed for our economy, and it continues today, with Uruguay's decision to second members of its military forces to serve in the peace keeping operations in the region. Uruguay, which sustained economic damage as a result of the measures taken, invoked Article SO of the Charter to request the compensatory assistance to which it had. and has, a right. The implementation of Article 50 is essential for the future of collective security. It is necessary to adopt agreements regulating the obligation to grant assistance to third-party States that are affected.Today, after our experience, we have come to the General Assembly with the feeling that we have an exceptional opportunity to make the collective security system work, in accordance with the Charter. If there is one thing that makes this moment stand out in history, it is that this belief is universal, which compels us to think together and openly about the future use of the powers conferred on the Security Council in Chapter VII of the Charter.Proportionality in the lawful use of force on the basis of Security Council decisions and strict application of International humanitarian law are examples of situations in which it is essential to avoid overstepping the limits of the measures provided in Chapter VII. Future world stability and its peace and security do not necessarily depend upon the proper functioning of the mechanisms for dealing with extreme circumstances, which inevitably require recourse to collective measures. Hence, there is need for multilateral preventive diplomacy, particularly on the part of the Secretary-General, which will enable the United Nations to supervise and contain situations of potential conflict.Regional conflicts, some of which are extremely serious, deserve special attention. Uruguay wishes to refer specifically to one of them, namely, that in the Middle East. It is necessary, through the holding of a peace conference, to move forward towards the establishment of peace and security in that critical region, ensuring the right of its peoples to live and organize themselves according to their own free will and the right of all States to exist and live side by side in an environment based on law, justice and cooperation.The second key issue is the development of international law. During the United Nations Decade of International Law, it is appropriate to recall that the fundamental obligation of every State, and the only one that can ensure peaceful coexistence, is submission to the rule of law. We must avail ourselves of the new international situation to encourage the development of international law in every field. Disarmament law will benefit particularly from this favourable situation, Uruguay is hopeful that the new political climate will lead to general acceptance of existing treaties on arms control and arms reduction as well as to the adoption of and, more important, compliance in good faith with new treaties that will represent progress in this field.The concentration of weaponry far beyond defence needs at both the world and regional levels contributes to an increase in mutual distrust. Measures related to disarmament, on the other hand, represent a contribution to pacification, reducing tensions and generating a climate of security.Last year significant progress was achieved in the limitation of strategic weapons as a result of agreements reached between the United States and the Soviet Union. A few days ago President Bush announced the unilateral destruction of all tactical nuclear weapons and made an offer of negotiations with the Soviet Union for the continued reduction of intercontinental strategic weapons. This process of reduction and limitation of tactical and strategic nuclear weapons, which is obviously of interest and concern to the whole of the international community, must continue.Latin America has taken decisions aimed at consolidating the process of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in the region. On 18 July of this year Argentina and Brazil signed a bilateral agreement in Guadalajara to use nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes. For the fulfilment of that agreement both countries anticipate the application of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards. They also reaffirmed their will to adopt measures to bring the Treaty of Tlatelolco into force. Uruguay applauds and supports that attitude.We must also move forward resolutely in the field of the destruction of chemical, biological and other weapons of mass destruction. The Mendoza Declaration issued by Argentina, Brazil and Chile on 4 September 1991, to which Uruguay has also adhered, is of major importance.The development of International law in accordance with present-day reality and the new order we want to establish covers many areas other than disarmament. The environment, drug trafficking, terrorism and international trade are some of the priorities. The development calls for a strengthening of the main legal organ of the United Nations, namely, the International Court of Justice. Among the many measures that might be undertaken in that regard, I would emphasise the importance of making greater use of the Court as a consultative body. That could be achieved if the General Assembly granted the Secretary-General the authority to request such opinions.We turn now to the third key issues: international cooperation for development. The international economic scene, with its unequal and unfair distribution of wealth and opportunities, has shown itself impervious to the dynamics of change that have shaken the political order. International peace and security will never be assured as long as economic insecurity persists. Peace is not merely the absence of war. In a small and interdependent world the coexistence of two opposite worlds, that of abundance and waste on the one hand, and that of poverty and hunger on the other, will inevitably generate violence.Growing wealth and growing poverty are the paradox of today's world. Poverty weakens the cohesiveness of societies; it destroys the foundation of human right s and perverts the environment. Hence the importance of social issues in development. It is necessary, therefore, to begin to prepare for the social summit that will be held within the next few years.The absence of scientific and technological progress is one of the reasons for the winning of the gulf that separates the developed and the developing worlds. Technological progress is a key factor in the solution ofNorth-South tensions and would be of benefit for the developed and industrialised countries. That is why Uruguay proposed the creation of a common market of knowledge, a project that is already under way at the regional level in the framework of the Organisation of American States. It should also be considered at the universal level.The necessarily universal character of the United Nations means that all States of the world should be Members of the Organisation. The admission of both Koreas not only reaffirms that trend but reveals the possibilities that exist for solving a problem that constituted one negative aspect of international relations. Uruguay hopes that this dual admission will stand as a symbol of the will to strengthen the universality of the United Nations as an indispensable element in ensuring peace and security on a global level.The admission of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, heartily supported by Uruguay, is the expression of the international recognition of the correct example of the right to self-determination and the ratification by history of the fact that the secret protocols of 1939 and the annexation of those Republics by force are null and void.The entry of the Marshall Islands and Micronesia into the United Nations is a historic event that exemplifies the present stage of the historic process of decolonization undertaken by the United Nations.The fundamental importance of the environment issue at a time when the Conference on Environment and Development: scheduled for Rio de Janeiro in 1992 la being prepared compels us to specify Uruguay's position on the matter. The question of the preservation of the environment and its relationship with development is a global issue which must be faced in all its aspects ethical, cultural, political, economic, social, technical and legal. The issue is global not only in itself, but also because of the need to face up to it with universal measures which go beyond national or sectoral outlooks. The progress of developing countries and the preservation of the environment are intimately and necessarily related issues. It would therefore be a mistake to try to solve the environmental crisis without paying due attention to economic and social problems, and the Rio Conference must reflect this relationship.Uruguay joined the countries of the area in preparing the Tlatelolco platform - adopted last March - and the Guadalajara declaration, adopted by the Heads of State and Government of Ibero-America, Spain and Portugal; those are statements of positions, both political and technical, for the negotiations which will culminate in 1992. We are now at a critical stage, only 10 months away from Rio 1992. Uruguay believes that it is vital to prevent Rio from becoming just another Stockholm.The general principles that will apply to environmental protection must be set out in the form of a convention. Apart from the conventions now being prepared we must have another, and not just a simple statement, which spells out the fundamental principles and criteria in this matter. The convention must set out criteria for setting up a legal system to resolve environmental disputes and judge offences or crimes by means of a specialised Judicial body or chamber. The bases on which responsibility for violating the duties inherent in environmental protection in to be implemented and the ways in which this may be done must be set out. Polluting emissions come mainly from developed countries, and they must bear the main responsibility for them. This responsibility may be common or shared, but we must not forget the consequences which a policy of uncontrolled industrialisation which wan totally foreign to the developing world has had, and for which the developing world cannot be held solely responsible. This implies that there must inevitably be a process of codification of International environmental law. The future charter of the Earth, to be adopted at the Rio Conference, must be a mandatory, legally binding document, with the goal of creating the necessary conditions for sustainable development and ensuring the right of future generations to life and well-being.Drug trafficking and terrorism, which are being shown to be closely linked, are continuing to exact a tragic toll in destruction and death, violating fundamental human rights and debasing the basic principles of civilized coexistence. To combat these two scourges effectively, every means international cooperation car provide must be used. Alongside the concern generated by the alarming expansion of the illicit use of drugs and the power of the drug dealers, it is encouraging to see how, through international cooperation, effective measures are being taken on the basis of shared responsibility between consuming and producing countries.Five years have passed since the launching of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Punta del Este aimed at ending the waves of protectionism which are chipping away at trade. Last December, we believed we were at the end of the road towards an equitable agreement which would satisfy the legitimate aspirations of over 100 participating countries. Unfortunately, the meeting in Brussels, which I presided over as Chairman of the trade negotiating committee at the ministerial level, was a failure because it was not possible to conclude the Round. Fundamental differences on vital issues arose and, when the session was adjourned, the Director-General of GATT was entrusted with the task of carrying out consultations aimed at restarting negotiations as soon as possible.The first half of 1991 has been devoted to getting the negotiations back on track. When the trade negotiating committee met, at the end of July, there was a renewed will to continue working from September on, with a view to finishing work by the end of this year. In this context, the commitment by the Heads of State or Government of the Seven at their London summit was very encouraging.The Cairns group, of which Uruguay is a member, has already stated that the Round will not and successfully if a satisfactory solution concerning the liberalization of agricultural trade is not reached.We are starting resolutely upon the last leg of the most important trade negotiations ever undertaken. We shall support anything that contributes to success. The Round must end in December with a positive outcome, with reasonable, globally balanced achievements. If it fails, we shall have to admit our shameful inability to achieve, in today's world, formulas that encourage free and non-discriminatory international trade, that banish protectionism and that become factors for vigorous development. Respect for and promotion of human rights is the basis for peace. So long as there is any place in the world where the dignity of human beings is not respected, so long as persecution and discrimination persist, so long as political rights are not recognised and guaranteed and so long as periodic, free elections are not held, the advancement of mankind will be impossible and the degree of economic, social and cultural development of individuals will be uneven. Human rights must be protected without discrimination, free of any element of political selectivity and on the basis of the strict application of international law.We must banish from the United Nations all inaccurate descriptions based on hatred, such as the one which in 1975 mistakenly equated Zionism with racism, in General Assembly resolution 3379 (XXX). Uruguay, which has always been against this infamous resolution and voted against its adoption, is now in favour of its repeal. The mistake of 1975 must be emended. By so doing, we shall pay a tribute to the truth, rectify an unfair and offensive judgement and contribute to the peace process in the Middle East.International democratisation has been translated into a global improvement of the world human rights situation. But the general picture is far from satisfactory. We are still faced with some atrocious realities. Very serious violations persist and armed conflicts, both domestic and international, continue to be a source of attacks on human rights and international humanitarian law.The human rights situation must remain a priority issue for the United Nations. The principle of non-intervention cannot be a protective shield behind which human rights can be violated. But stating that plain truth does not mean repudiating the principle of non-intervention nor does it imply accepting a right of intervention based on a political and self-interested assessment by one or several States. This must not be confused with the collective duty, decided upon by legal means, to provide help and relief when serious emergencies arise in the field of human rights.Uruguay is particularly interested in the World Conference on Human Rights scheduled for 1993, which must make a major contribution to the full, general and universal application of human rights.Two recent events in Central America deserve to be highlighted. Uruguay hails the agreements between Guatemala and Belize, as well as the agreement which paves the way towards peace in El Salvador, as truly major achievements.In conclusion, I should like to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, for the work he has done. His activities over the last year, brilliantly described in his report to the General Assembly, have made an exceptional contribution to peace, security and the future of the United Nations. He has earned the thanks of the international community.Last year the General Assembly had a productive session under the expert presidency of Foreign Minister Guido de Marco, whom I am pleased to congratulate on his work. This year we have momentous decisions to take at a difficult time, when we are faced with challenges requiring immediate solutions. The election of Ambassador Shihabi, with the experience ha has gained as the representative of Saudi Arabia to the United Nations, to guide our debates allows us to forecast another successful session. I am convinced that his skills and knowledge of international affairs, along with his keen sense of justice, will enable him to lead our work to a successful conclusion.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
Allow me 
to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General 
Assembly at this session. In your election can be seen an unequivocal 
indication of rejoicing at the establishment of democracy in your country. 
It is also fitting today for us to welcome the States of Armenia, 
Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and 

Uzbekistan to our community of nations. Their participation as Member States 
guarantees observance of the principle of universality, an essential element 
of the very life and existence of the Organization. 
We congratulate Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to whom my people and country 
have had numerous occasions to express their esteem and their hopes, as he 
undertakes his difficult and very important mission as the new 
Secretary-General, continuing the brilliant work of 
Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar. 
Last year, taking note of the dizzying acceleration of world events, we 
put forward our views on the consequences of the collapse of what was called 
the old order that was born during the cold war, and our view regarding the 
attitude that the international community should assume in the face of the new 
and emerging international situation. We said and today we have even more 
reason to reiterate that the spectacular changes in the former distribution 
of power would not necessarily lead us to the heralded new international 
order, although such changes opened up the possibility of our being able to 
achieve strict, rigorous observance of the fundamental principles of the 
Charter. That prospect gave us a sense of realistic optimism with regard to 
the future, though we never lost sight of all the negative elements in 
existence today that stand in the way of the full acknowledgement of the 
existence of a true "order". 
The success of the effective functioning of the mechanisms of collective 
security that were put into operation during the Gulf crisis is not enough. 
The important point is, essentially, that each and every one of the States of 
the international community should, in accordance with its capability for 
action and hence with its responsibilities, adapt its conduct to the 

principles of the Charter, which are the basic principles of law and ethics; 
and those principles should be strictly complied with, making of that form of 
conduct a consistent practice. 
This year we find ourselves facing a new and grave quaking of 
international security as a result of the outbreak in Europe of the most 
brutal conflict to take place on the old continent since the Second World 
War. In our view, it is the responsibility of the international community, in 
the face of that situation, to ensure the finding of a solution that goes 
beyond the national interests involved and beyond consideration of our 
geographical distance from or proximity to the conflict. 

We view with grave concern the atrocities that have been committed, the 
reports of the concentration of civilians in detention camps, as well as the 
horrendous violations of human rights and the persistent disregard for 
international humanitarian law that are taking place in that region. 
We see how cardinal principles of international law are being violated, 
such as territorial integrity and sovereignty, which leads to disregard for 
the true and genuine meaning of self-determination. Furthermore, we view with 
alarm the extraordinary introduction of the racial factor into international 
relations and the emergence of the invocation of doctrines such as that of 
"ethnic cleansing" to justify serious violations of international law and of 
human rights. 
We therefore once again most forcefully reiterate our condemnation of 
those practices and our exhortation to implement steps collectively worked 
out, in the context of international law, that enhance the effectiveness of 
United Nations mechanisms across the board. 
The decision adopted by the General Assembly on 19 September as to the 
status of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) in the 
United Nations was supported by Uruguay. It was the only position that could 
indeed be taken in the light of the circumstances. This did not involve a 
case of exclusion, nor a situation such as those envisaged under Articles 5 
and 6 in the Charter, but rather involved the finding that it was impossible, 
on the basis of incontrovertible facts, that that State could automatically 
take over the seat of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. 
This means that the new State will have to apply for admission as a Member of 
the United Nations, pursuant to the provisions of Article 4 of the Charter. 

The situation in that region, along with the tragedy being endured in 
Somalia and elsewhere, compels us to reaffirm the duty, based on the 
principles of solidarity and cooperation, to provide humanitarian aid. That 
duty, which implies an acknowledgement of the corresponding right, must be 
conceived of and implemented within the context of international law, without 
doing violence to other essential principles. Humanitarian aid must be 
decided upon by competent international bodies, by implementation of law, and 
must not serve as a cover for disguised or veiled forms of unlawful 
intervention, whether on an individual or a collective basis. 
We welcome the encouraging turn that in recent weeks has been taking 
place in the talks aimed at bringing the peace process in the Middle East back 
on track. The traditional and unswerving friendship of the Uruguayan people 
with the Arab and Jewish peoples, along with the excellent diplomatic 
relations our Government maintains with the Arab countries and with the State 
of Israel, are all factors that induce us to lend our vigorous support to the 
common guest for peace in that region, a peace that must be based on 
guaranteed security for all the States in the region, on respect for 
territorial integrity, on the right to self-determination of all peoples and 
on the full applicability of human rights. 
The Government of Uruguay here reaffirms its determination to contribute 
to peaceful and harmonious fellowship between Arabs and Jews, both essential 
protagonists of civilization, and reaffirms as well its commitment to 
deepening its ties with the States of the Middle East. 
We have before us an invaluable working document prepared by the 
Secretary-General. That document, with whose principles and approach we fully 
agree, gives rise to thoughts that we cannot fail to voice here. 

In this day and age, faced as we are with the global dimensions of the 
problems of peace and security, and confronted with situations that demand 
universal answers situations that it is impossible to cope with through 
partial or territorially limited approaches, such as issues relating to the 
environment, drug trafficking and terrorism we must rethink the question of 
sovereignty: not so as to weaken its essence, which continues to represent 
the underpinning of our international Organization, but rather to adapt it to 
current requirements, which are necessary for us to build a world based on 
peace and solidarity, and to act on the basis of the defence and protection of 
the interests of the global community as a whole, a precept that, according to 
Francisco de Vitoria, lies at the roots of the rights of peoples. This 
concept of humanitarianist universalism precludes the recognition of any 
legitimacy in the exercise of power by any individual Power outside the 
framework of international law. 
The report entitled "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/227) presents in an 
organic and intelligent fashion a set of proposals to implement, within the 
new international context, a systematic process of preventive diplomacy. We 
fundamentally share its goals and the essential aspects of the global view 
upon which it draws. 
We must give the Secretary-General the political backing he needs for him 
to act with the necessary flexibility and effectiveness, in line with the 
concepts that he has set forth. 
We agree with the need to seek a greater balance between the Security 
Council and the General Assembly. Moreover, we welcome the fact that this 
report incorporates a proposal that Uruguay has always advocated, namely the 
wish that all our Member States unreservedly accept the competency of the 
International Court of Justice. 

We do not doubt the need to strengthen peace-keeping operations. In that 
connection, our country intends to preach by example. Uruguay has now 
increased to unprecedented levels the number of members of its armed forces 
and police forces made available to the United Nations, as measured against 
the size of our military forces and our population. By way of example, more 
than 900 members of our armed forces are currently participating in the 
peace-keeping operations in Cambodia, and a general from our Republic is 
commanding the United Nations contingent in Kashmir. 
To consolidate and guarantee international security, there can be no 
delay in moving ahead with the process of disarmament that is currently under 
way. It must be expanded integrally in breadth and in depth. 
We must halt any new spiralling of the arms race, whether this be on the 
global, regional or local level. Along those lines, Latin America and the 
Caribbean have been marking this particular phase in the evolution of 
international relations with a noteworthy effort to complete what in and of 
itself already constitutes a vast zone of peace. 

I should like to highlight the notable effort undertaken by Latin 
America, in which Uruguay has participated actively from the very outset, to 
amend the Tlatelolco Treaty in such a way as to enable Cuba to sign it, 
Argentina to ratify it and Brazil and Chile to submit their reservations to 
it. These amendments, which have already been adopted and have also resulted 
in France's ratification of Additional Protocol I, have ensured that the first 
nuclear-weapon-free zone, covering all of Latin America and the Caribbean, has 
come into real, total and full existence. 
Uruguay firmly supports the adoption of the Convention on chemical 
weapons developed by the Disarmament Conference. 
The mushrooming of regional armed conflicts compels us to give thought to 
new or renewed forms of cooperation in and coordination of world-wide and 
regional efforts to resolve differences and to enable us to act in the face of 
threats to and aggression against peace and security. Latin America, which 
today is a continent of peace and is resolving territorial or border disputes 
by legal and peaceful means, where there are no morbid outbreaks of xenophobia 
and racial hatred, and which is fighting, as never before in its history, to 
solve the problems of its indigenous peoples and of human rights, has a 
particular talent for setting up this necessary world-wide and regional 
coordination. The recent judgment handed down by the International Court of 
Justice concerning a territorial dispute between Honduras and El Salvador, and 
accepted by both parties; the submission to an arbitration tribunal of a 
border dispute between Argentina and Chile; and the new and positive spirit 
reigning in the dialogue between Ecuador and Peru aimed at solving the 
long-standing conflict that has pitted these two fraternal countries against 
each other bear witness to the example Latin America is setting. 

The duty all the States that make up the international community have to 
guarantee and protect human rights does not flow only from the international 
obligations that result from treaties in force; respect for human rights is 
born of the United Nations Charter and of the Universal Declaration. 
Furthermore, it is a principle of jus cogens which, if violated, entails 
international answerability and renders null all legal instruments contrary to 
this imperative law which originates in the will of the international 
community as a whole. The protection of human rights at world and regional 
levels has made signal progress in the law of nations of today, and the 
process of improvement must continue. 
It is not, however, solely by developing international instruments for 
the protection of human rights that we shall achieve generalized respect for 
human rights. We must work hard to universalize a culture of human rights 
that would uproot from people's minds and behaviour intolerance, violence, 
hatred, and contempt for the dignity that each and every individual on the 
planet naturally has. The affirmation and dissemination of that culture of 
human rights is the great challenge that mankind must meet in the decades 
ahead. 
The resurgence amongst us, in what for us is the cradle of Western 
civilization, of racism, racial intolerance and animosity rooted in ethnic, 
religious and cultural differences is cause for great alarm. These 
manifestations are compounded by episodes, not that far distant 
geographically, of forced population transfers, the appearance of detention 
camps and the commission of atrocities and practices that once again amount to 
a shameful blot on our contemporary civilization. The international community 
cannot close its eyes to these things, nor fail to act in the face of this 
terrible and unacceptable situation. 

Uruguay hopes that the holding of the forthcoming World Conference on 
Human Rights will be a historic landmark for the future in terms of respect 
for fundamental human rights and freedoms. 
Global stability is generally and permanently threatened by the vast 
amount and extent of grinding poverty. Apart from the fundamental, ethical 
reasons that inspire us all, there are security considerations that should 
make us tackle this widespread situation as a whole. This is why the 
countries of Latin America and the Caribbean have decided to support the 
initiative put forward by our sister republic of Chile that a world summit on 
social development should be held in 1995. We welcome the fact that this 
concern caused this initiative to be included in the "Agenda for Peace" 
(A/47/277) put before us by the Secretary-General, and that it has been 
approved by the Economic and Social Council. 
Because of its modi operandi that pay no attention to frontiers and 
because of the way it is organized, drug trafficking has become one of the 
most serious types of international crime. Uruguay insists that this form of 
modern-day aggression must be combated in all its various phases and 
manifestations. The capacity of the United Nations to act must be 
strengthened in such a way as to complement and assist the concerted action 
which our own countries must take by means of regional as much as global 
bilateral and multilateral instruments. 
The need to achieve economic development on terms compatible with 
conserving the environment is a priority objective for our country. We are 
concerned at the fact that the Rio Conference did not result in the adoption 
of more specific and effective commitments. What concerns us far more, 
however, is the risk that the principles enshrined in the Rio Declaration and 

in the programme of action agreed upon in Agenda 21 might remain a kind of 
catalogue of good intentions without any practical and effective application. 
The solemn adoption of those documents, and even the signing of the 
Conventions on biodiversity and climatic change, which Uruguay will shortly 
ratify, are not going to halt the progressive deterioration in the 
environment. Although those documents are major contributions, the polluting' 
activities that threaten our present and jeopardize our future have not 
stopped with their signing and will not stop once their hopefully rapid entry 
into force has occurred. 

We are all aware that the success or the failure of the process of the 
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) hinges on the 
total and effective implementation of those commitments. 
The road to Rio was difficult. However, more arduous still will be the 
road to be travelled from Rio on. States will have to shoulder their legal 
responsibilities and to implement the actual measures laid down in Agenda 21. 
Governments will have to agree to transform into legally binding obligations 
the principles of conduct, liability and compensation emanating from the 
Stockholm Declaration and later endorsed and developed in the Rio Declaration, 
which are considerably more than moral obligations. While today they are 
obligations stemming from international ordinary law, they are, moreover, 
authentic criteria embodied in jus cogens, and are valid eroa omnes. 
However, notwithstanding the foregoing, it is time to avoid ambiguous 
interpretations as to the real juridical value of these obligations. The 
President of Uruguay, in his address delivered at the Rio Conference, stated 
the determination of my country to propose the codification of those 
principles in a binding legal instrument. We will consider the most opportune 
time and place for giving practical effect to our initiative, even 
contributing a draft convention. 
At the same time, this approach will have to be complemented by 
implementation of the plan of action agreed upon in Agenda 21. We know this 
objective implies collecting huge financial resources and adopting large-scale 
measures of technology transfers. We trust that the developed countries that 
have accepted the principle of shared but differentiated responsibility will 
find the political will needed for taking the lead in this effort. While 
appearing to be a great sacrifice, this action is an investment that brooks no 
delay for preserving the present and ensuring the future. 

Specific proof of Uruguay's priority interest in environmental problems 
is that we have agreed that the next meeting of the Contracting Parties to the 
Basel Convention on Toxic and Hazardous Wastes should be held in our country. 
The changes that have been progressively noted in the political arena 
stand in dramatic contrast to the adverse trends that are ever more 
exacerbating international economic relations. We view with concern the fact 
that the crucial issue of development would appear to have been relegated to 
the back-burner amongst issues on the international economic agenda. 
Just as early in the 1980s the problem was the external debt situation in 
the developing countries, at the beginning of the 1990s one can say that it is 
the inconsistencies in the macroeconomic and trade policies that jeopardize 
world economic growth and international monetary stability. 
While the developing countries are redoubling their efforts at achieving 
adjustment, liberalization, deregulation and adaptation to new world 
realities, recessionary trends and low rates of growth in the industrialized 
countries, their bloated budgetary deficits, their increasing levels of 
indebtedness, the resurgence of their protectionist policies and the lack of 
coordination among their monetary and parity policies are factors creating 
major counterweights to any revitalization of the world economy, to any 
increase in trade and change in trade policy and to world-wide capital flows. 
All this highlights the need for a better analysis and greater 
coordination of economic policies the world over. 
In recent years we have witnessed a major process of reorganization in 
world trade, owing to two major trends unfolding side by side. On the one 
hand, efforts have been made in the context of the Uruguay Round aimed at 
guaranteeing an open international marketplace through a process of 

liberalizing and expanding trade, while strengthening multilateral rules and 
discipline within the context of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 
(GATT). On the other hand, great economic blocs have emerged, in whose hands 
are concentrated most of the world's wealth, major trade flows, investment 
flows and flows of technological know-how. If these blocs wish to move 
towards development and general progress, they will have to evolve as open 
markets. 
I am convinced this evolution will depend on what happens or fails to 
happen in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations of GATT, which 
today have become all but paralysed and are seriously jeopardized. 
Failure in the Uruguay Round would be very serious and would trigger 
serious adverse repercussions for the world economy as a whole. It would send 
an extremely negative signal to economic operators, would open the doors to 
unilateralism and to relations based upon power, and would lead to an 
escalation of protectionism and an intensification of trade conflicts. 
Thus, we must urgently call upon all participants in the Uruguay Round 
and, in particular, to those countries responsible for the main disagreements 
pending, to join their efforts and to make their positions more flexible so as 
to conclude the negotiations quickly and satisfactorily, with equitable 
results that would promote the liberalization of trade and avoid protectionist 
discrimination. 
Within the United Nations, the current process of revitalization and 
restructuring the Organization in the economic and social fields must be seen 
as constructive. In this regard, we welcome the results of the eighth session 
of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and those 
of the first meeting of the revamped Economic and Social Council, held in 
New York last July. 

This process of revitalization must be pursued and intensified. The 
United Nations cannot stay on the sidelines of policy formulation with regard 
to the most important economic, financial and trade issues. What is urgently 
needed is a determined effort aimed at institutional and operational 
revitalization and the restoration of the indispensable credibility of the 
United Nations so that the Organization can fill the great institutional void 
that currently exists in the field of international economic relations and can 
successfully discharge its responsibilities. 
Only thus will we manage to lay the groundwork for the more constructive 
and effective international cooperation that would make it possible to halt 
and reverse the adverse trends that prevail in the economic field. In this 
regard, my country gives particular importance to the role UNCTAD is called 
upon to play as the forum to further international economic relations that are 
conducive to development. 

I cannot fail to mention the major effort my country has been making, 
together with Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, to establish a common market of 
the South in 1995. The various processes laid down in the Treaty of Asuncion 
and in the timetable adopted by the Presidents of the four States parties at 
the meeting in Las LeSas, Argentina, are being fully implemented. Thus, the 
process of subregional integration has already become the axis round which 
revolve our policies of development, renewal, openness and modernization, 
prompting us to look to the future with renewed optimism and conviction. 
Uruguay, a State that cherishes peace, a founding Member of the United 
Nations, respectful of a democratic and pluralist law based on solidarity, is 
today taking part in this Assembly in the same spirit as always determined 
to cooperate in building a world governed by the law of nations, just and 
peace-loving, with a universal international Organization capable of ensuring 
development and human rights while effectively and actively guaranteeing peace 
and security. 


===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
Mr. President, Uruguay wishes to express its satisfaction,
and its trust in you, upon your election as President of the
General Assembly and as a representative of our region.
Your capabilities are recognized by all, and your sense of
impartiality and justice are the best guarantee of success in
the important work entrusted to us.
We also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General on
his work over the last year, which was clearly described in
his report to the General Assembly. His personal leadership
and decisiveness certainly contribute to international peace
and security.
Finally, we are happy to welcome the Czech Republic,
the Slovak Republic, the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Monaco, Eritrea and Andorra as new Member
States. We are pleased to see this confirmation of the
Organization’s dedication to universality and openness, as
Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 13
given form in Article 4 of the Charter, to which Uruguay has
always adhered.
Ideological concepts are today lagging behind a reality
that persists in reaffirming the validity of freedom as a point
of reference in every effort to regain and preserve human
dignity. The great challenge of our time is to find a
collective answer to the dizzying changes that are occurring
as this century comes to its close. The technological
revolution and the spread of democracy are the two factors
that will empower humankind in its most genuine flowering.
In the political field, the new international order that we
are seeing emerge is nourished by the fall of political and
military blocs, the collapse of ideological borders and a
deepening of disarmament. Cooperation is replacing
confrontation. The elements of power are being reallocated
in the light of the new variables that offer a renewed
challenge to the multilateral organizations in the international
arena.
In the economic field, technological development has
replaced traditional comparative advantages with
competitiveness and excellence. Quality is the basis for the
production of goods and services. These trends, if stripped
of their human element, would be little more than a
materialistic expression lacking the necessary sense of
solidarity. A new order cannot be summed up simply as a
reallocation of the outward expressions of power. The
global nature and the interdependence that characterize
international relations today find their ethical content and
legal expression in the continuing validity of the fundamental
principles of international law.
In this context, we are facing today new horizons and
better prospects for understanding between nations. In this
respect, we hail with particular satisfaction the peace reached
in the Middle East between the State of Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization, and we welcome it as an
example and symbol of the new era of cooperation which
nations must carry forward on the threshold of the new
century.
Also, within the Latin American region, Uruguay is
pleased to point to the consolidation of the peace processes
in El Salvador and Guatemala. This has been achieved
through the efforts made by their peoples and Governments,
with the constant support of the international community.
The practice of direct diplomacy, with mechanisms for
political consultation and coordination, has been successful.
In this context, Uruguay wishes to stress the role played by
the Organization of American States in the grave crises
suffered by Peru, Guatemala and Haiti.
We can add little to a diagnosis on which we all agree.
Our responsibility lies in our capacity to propose solutions,
both in our own domestic spheres and internationally; this is
a challenge that every generation faces, taking national
feelings as the basis for a leap forward towards prosperity
and the expression of the international community as a basis
for the credibility that nurtures the hopes of the great
dispossessed majorities.
Uruguay wishes here to emphasize three particularly
important issues: the relationship between international
trade, development and political stability; the new
articulation of the concept of collective security; and, lastly,
the problems of human rights and the environment as part of
broadening the concept of integral development.
The dissoluble interdependence between development
and political stability is obvious. Freedom in its most
complete expression admits of no ambiguous interpretation.
And, just as human rights cannot be subject to the whims of
Governments, neither can free trade be limited by the
pressures of national or sectoral interests. Political freedom
and free trade are two sides of the same coin.
The opening of markets between developed and
developing countries cannot therefore be seen as a zero-sum
exercise; rather, it is an undertaking of benefit to all.
Greater competitiveness powers the process that begins with
growth, is strengthened by a better distribution of wealth and
is consolidated by the credibility of democracy and its
institutions. This shared responsibility makes no allowance
for double-talk from any side.
In our capacity as Chairman of the Negotiating
Committee of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) at the ministerial level, we
wish to express our concern over the obstacles in the way of
14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
concluding the Round. After seven long years of
negotiations, certain trends continue to obstruct the
multilateralization process. Bilateral negotiations are
curtailing opportunities for reaching a comprehensive,
balanced result that takes into account all the interests at
stake, and particularly those of the developing countries, in
accordance with GATT’s own norms.
For several years now Uruguay has been working hard
to make structural adjustments in its economy. Policies to
make trade more open, both domestically and internationally,
have been put in place with the aim of modernizing the
industrial sector, facilitating technological innovation and
increasing competitiveness so as to achieve, in the final
analysis, a more efficient integration into the world economy
and world trade.
Deregulation of production, reform and modernization
of the public sector as well as strict fiscal adjustments aimed
at balancing the use of the country’s financial and monetary
resources have supplemented external liberalization policies
which have placed us among those who have reduced tariff
and non-tariff barriers at the fastest rate.
This great effort of adjustment carried out by Uruguay
- in a similar fashion to many other developing countries -
has been achieved not only in the framework of deep social,
economic and political difficulties, but has also been
undertaken unilaterally without any compensation at all from
its partners in the international system, especially the more
developed countries.
Thus Uruguay emphasizes once again its firmest
rejection of all protectionist policies which continue to be
applied by some highly industrialized countries. These are
clearly incompatible with the rules of GATT and with the
status quo commitments agreed at the beginning of the
Uruguay Round. At the same time, they are a disincentive
for the efforts made in the framework of democracy to
strengthen institutions and to have an appropriate social
dialogue.
It is disquieting to witness the behaviour of many
countries which preach the virtues and benefits of the free
market and economic liberalism but at the same time close
their borders to trade from countries whose well-being
depends to a significant degree on access to such markets.
Therefore, Uruguay calls once again and most
emphatically on all nations, especially the major trading
partners, to make possible a successful conclusion of the
Uruguay Round negotiations, in which comprehensiveness
and balance are values to be preserved in a strengthened
multilateral framework.
In this context, Uruguay also believes that regional
integration is the best path towards international
participation. Today nothing can be done individually.
Interrelationships exist between large economic blocs; no
country can escape that reality.
The creation of economic blocs must be interpreted as
a consequence of a process of integration and liberalization
of world markets. Blocs are a tangible approximation, an
intermediate step, to the goal of free trade, the ultimate goal
of GATT. Furthermore, this is the thrust of Uruguay’s
resolute participation in the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR) and of the integration efforts of the North
American Free Trade Agreement, the Group of Three, the
Andean Pact and the bilateral agreements within the Latin
American Integration Association.
Uruguay recognizes that the new concept of
international security includes institutional, legal and political
aspects. From an institutional standpoint, we must avoid
extensive use of the powers of the Security Council based on
a sense of pragmatism that might undermine the criteria
governing the delicate balance between the main organs of
the United Nations. The disappearance of bipolarity enables
a new political reality to pervade the Council’s decisions. If,
on the one hand, the traditional situations caused by the cold
war have been unblocked, on the other hand, there must be
careful control of the trend towards possible excesses of
power by those nations enjoying a privileged situation.
Uruguay shares the thoughts of the Secretary-General
expressed in paragraph 80 of his document "An Agenda for
Peace" (A/47/277):
"The powerful must resist the dual but opposite calls of
unilateralism and isolationism if the United Nations is
to succeed."
The General Assembly must reassert its authority on the
basis of the Articles of the Charter which define its functions
and powers. In the area of peace and security, the General
Assembly’s constitutional limitations are set out in Articles
12, 24 and 36 of the Charter. These we abide by.
Nevertheless, its primacy is clear in the economic and social
areas.
To revitalize the General Assembly is to identify its
original mandate, reaffirming its areas of authority and
giving this organ, in which we are all permanently
represented, stronger involvement in the Organization’s
Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 15
activities. This is the way to contribute to equity and the
balance of power established by the Charter. We also
believe in strengthening the International Court of Justice,
both in its administrative and consultative functions.
What I have said does not weaken our support for
adapting the Security Council to the new international reality
by reforming its composition and working methods. This
process must gain general consensus and respect the
principle of the sovereign equality of States. Only in this
way can we ensure greater representation, transparency and
efficiency.
We also believe that all this energy for renewal must be
injected appropriately into the Organization’s bureaucracy.
The United Nations is the sum of its organs, including its
specialized agencies. An improvement in efficiency must go
hand in hand with possible global transformations. We must
strive to rationalize our operational systems in order to
streamline administrative procedures, which often amass
through inertia hundreds of initiatives which wander
aimlessly, at great cost, through the machinery of an
insatiable bureaucracy.
International security also finds its most genuine
expression in strict compliance with international law. In
this context, which is fraught with uncertainty and
unpredictable events, the principles of self-determination,
non-intervention, the peaceful settlement of disputes and the
observance of good faith in the fulfilment of international
obligations must be interpreted not as concepts that are
vague or not properly drawn up by a naive legal system, but
as the pillars of international relations.
It is also out of political realism and pragmatism that
Uruguay turns to the law as the main shield for its defence.
Our former Ambassador to the United Nations,
Dr. Carlos María Velázquez, has said that the small
countries
"need to know, for reasons of our true national interest,
how far we can go and - most important - where we
can be taken. Respect for the law and international
behaviour that follows legal rules are the only path
towards a consolidation of the values of culture,
freedom and dignity."
Uruguay, true to its tradition, continues to interpret
Article 51 of the Charter strictly and continues to claim the
compensation to which it is entitled under Article 50 as a
consequence of the losses caused by the Gulf War. It does
so not only for material reasons, but because it believes that
collective security is based on the credibility of the rules that
regulate it.
Just as Uruguay is a jealous guardian of the principles
of international law, it is genuinely open to all those
undertakings which, in fulfilment of an international
mandate, constitute an indispensable contribution to world
peace and security. Thus, we believe that peace-keeping
operations are an essential part of the multilateral policy of
the United Nations, without prejudice to the necessary efforts
being made in the field of preventive diplomacy.

Uruguay has increased the number of armed forces
personnel placed at the disposal of the United Nations. The
numbers are highly significant in relation to the country’s
population and the size of its military. It has also expressed
to the Secretary-General its readiness to host regional
training centres for United Nations peace-keeping forces.
Our armed forces adopt a professional approach to
peace-keeping missions, in which they are representatives of
the international community. It gives them satisfaction to
see their efforts contributing to establishing peace between
States and to regional and national reconciliation, as in
Cambodia, where, at last, democratic values and respect for
human rights prevail.
We are concerned, however, over the risk of these
operations’ being discontinued because of delays in the
payment of countries’ contributions. It would be contrary to
the principle of universality if, owing to these difficulties,
only countries with vast financial resources could participate
in such operations.
We believe that this policy of collective security must
be supplemented by a policy of disarmament and a universal
ban on nuclear weapons. The signing of international
non-proliferation agreements and the adoption of the
Convention banning chemical weapons, which was signed in
Paris last January, constitute progress in this field - progress
that we endorse. We are also pleased to highlight the
contribution of our neighbours Argentina, Brazil and the
Republic of Chile through their implementation of regional
agreements aimed at ensuring the peaceful use of nuclear
energy and the non-proliferation of all types of weapons of
mass destruction.
Stability and balance are threatened by poverty on a
vast scale - widespread and critical poverty. Social
16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
development implies giving priority to social expenditure,
but only where this is made possible by real growth,
allowing for a reduction of the voluntary sector that is
developing in many of our societies. Collective security, as
well as ethics, must be taken into account in our approach to
this entire problem. Uruguay therefore attaches great
importance to Chile’s welcome initiative in the convening of
the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in
1995. This will provide a great opportunity for serious study
of the scope of the concept of social development.
The ultimate beneficiaries of the integral development
of the nations of the international community must be man
and his environment. We therefore wish to highlight here
the importance of action on issues related to human rights
and preservation of the environment.
At present, technology and international peace and
security are based on a narrow interpretation of the concept
of human rights. Words and speeches are useless if, as
President Clinton suggested, while we are gathered at this
General Assembly thousands of children in the world are
dying of hunger. What of the essence of democracy can we
rescue if, as in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in many other
places, we look on helplessly as people indulge in behaviour
that we thought had been eradicated for ever?
The concept of human rights - their intrinsic worth and
nature - is not affected by political, religious, sectional or
even State interests or considerations. The ethical heritage
of contemporary international society cannot allow
concessions in the defence of these rights and principles.
Any concession would affect the credibility of the
institutions and values of freedom and human dignity as the
bases of democracy.
During the Vienna World Conference on Human
Rights, the States parties solemnly reaffirmed their
commitment to promoting respect for and protection of those
rights. In this context, our country supports the
establishment of a high commissioner for human rights, in
the framework of the international system.
Moreover, Uruguay repeats President Lacalle’s
statement to the Secretary-General of our country’s
willingness to help in the evacuation of children who are
innocent victims of hatred and intolerance. We hope that
inertia will not prevail over political decisions or human
sensitivity. Those who suffer and die in the midst of
collective insanity must not be held hostage to bureaucratic
structures. If this happens, the documents approved at the
World Summit for Children in September 1990 will have
been relegated to the rhetorical scrapheap of its meetings.
Integral development implies careful consideration of
the problems of the environment. The concept of sustainable
development requires a link between environmental issues
and economic and social issues. In this context, States must
undertake bilateral and multilateral commitments, by means
of conventions, going beyond mere statements. This is also
an aspect of the North-South dialogue and of action to deal
with the conflicts of interests that it entails. Uruguay has
incorporated in a cross-border agreement with Brazil the
concept of responsibility for environmental degradation. It
wishes to reiterate the need to establish a legal system to
resolve environmental disputes through codification of
international environmental law, in the spirit of the
resolution adopted at the Rio Summit in 1992.
Finding a way to force States to accept responsibility
for non-compliance with the rules for protection of the
environment continues to be the basis for a fair relationship
between the industrialized countries and the developing
countries.
Such are the main issues of concern to Uruguay. In the
framework of all the ambivalence, all the areas of light and
shadow in the international arena, we are taking part in this
session of the General Assembly - as we have done since the
foundation of the United Nations - in the hope that deeds
will be shown to be more eloquent than words.


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====
I
wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly. I feel sure that with
5


your experience you will guide this session to a successful
conclusion.
In my capacity as President of the Eastern Republic of
Uruguay, elected by the free vote of our citizens, I have the
great honour of addressing the General Assembly.
My country has been linked to the United Nations
since the very moment of its creation. It not only has kept
a legal and formal link with the Organization but has
become an active participant in its political and social
activities.
As the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the
United Nations approaches, this is an appropriate
opportunity to undertake a critical analysis of the
Organization itself and to analyse the world situation
following the crucial events of the last few years.
The consequences of the end of the bipolar are and the
cold war still affect the life of all nations. Although it has
been stated that there is now a new world order, this is
contradicted daily by events that occur in all parts of the
world. We can say that the old order no longer exists and
we can also say that the world is currently undergoing a
process of complete reordering.
We cannot yet see the end of that process, but there
are a number of different actors, of various origins. Super-
Powers and nations are no longer the only influences at
play in the international arena. Today, we can discern new
centres of power that have an unquestionable influence on
international life. I would refer - and the list is far from complete -
to the mass-communications media that standardize and
transmit opinions throughout the planet, thereby becoming
guidelines that form opinion and actions and exert an
undeniable influence.
Similarly, we could mention the re-emergence of
politically militant religious movements, both domestic and
international, which use philosophical currents to create
genuine political leverage. Although economic interests
have, since the beginning of mankind’s history, always been
factors in the power equation, market regionalization has
today strengthened the power of economic and financial
elements which, in America, Europe and Asia, are emerging
as the main protagonists of national life.
Of course, in this analysis we cannot fail to mention
the crucial and significant role played by international
organizations, particularly our own Organization, the United
Nations.
Painful experience has taught us how far mankind
still is from successfully expanding international law in
relations among countries. We are currently living in the
aftermath of the reordering process I have mentioned, and
the redistribution and relocation of the world’s centres of
power.
As part of this process, collective security
mechanisms must be thoroughly analysed. Several States
have called for review of United Nations institutions, but
we must approach that task very carefully, for our
progress will be meagre indeed if we confine ourselves to
agreeing that the new role of the United Nations should
be simply to reflect the new distribution of power that
results from the new world order. We believe, pursuant
to the Charter, that the main issue of international
peace-keeping and security is to be found in the extent to
which international society is able to guarantee full and
comprehensive observance of all of the Charter principles.
Here, emphasis should be placed on distinguishing
between reforms of the institutional mechanisms designed
to implement collective security and the integrity of the
principles of international conduct, observance of which
is the very foundation of this society.
It is indeed appropriate to enunciate these principles:
prohibition of the use of force against the territorial
integrity and the independence of States; equality of rights
and free self-determination; the duty of non-intervention
in internal affairs - a principle that is clearly of Latin
American origin; the sovereign equality of States; the
peaceful settlement of disputes and good-faith cooperation
among nations. This is not a set of abstract measures or
postulates that are overtaken by the present global
context. These principles form the essence of
international conduct for all States, the practical, direct
and unavoidable end product of international relations.
Full, comprehensive and continuing respect for these
principles will determine whether or not the international
security and stability the world so needs is achieved and
can be maintained, particularly in this era of such great
change. Speaking realistically, they could be rated as
possibilities that could, were they realized, lead to hoped-
for, feasible and compelling results. Thus, the creation,
establishment and maintenance of a climate and
atmosphere of international security are responsibilities
that are incumbent mainly on those States with the
greatest power and the greatest decision-making capacity
in the international order, although other States bear equal
responsibilities in this respect.
6


These principles are part of a whole, and they must
not yield to possible distortions, one of which calls for
change on the grounds that the world context has changed,
leading to the justification of intervention on humanitarian
grounds, and another of which is embodied in the
temptation to exaggerate some of these principles to the
detriment of others, for example invoking self-determination
as a pretext for violating the territorial integrity or national
borders of other States.
Speaking in the Security Council on 4 May 1965, my
compatriot, Ambassador Carlos Maria Velasquez, stated
with perfect clarity:
"As I said only a short time ago in this very
chamber on assuming the office of representative of
Uruguay on the Security Council, my country has long
realized from its own historical experience, which has
been no less unhappy than that of other Latin
American countries, that the world must be governed
by real respect for the rules of international law and
morality. Without this, harsh reasons of state will
continue to be the predominant factor in international
relations and the fate of small countries will remain
precarious and uncertain.
"Our attitude is not what some realistic minds
might describe as one of sanctimonious legality.
There are very real grounds - and the case we are now
considering is an example - for the small countries’
belief that strict and faithful application of juridical
provisions governing what is termed security under
law represents one of the corner-stones of our own
security."
"If I may say so, the great Powers can give such
interpretation to texts as they see fit because if, in
fact, political decisions are to be based on will rather
than on reason, it is they who have the power to
dictate them. We smaller nations need to adhere
unswervingly to the rule of law. In our own national
interest, we need to know how far we can go and,
perhaps more important still, the extent to which we
can be compelled." (Official Records of the Security
Council, Twentieth Year, 1198th meeting, paras. 33
and 34)
In this ever-changing world, diverse threats and
tensions are multiplying, even in those regions where peace
and security would seem to be firmly established.
It therefore seems urgent that the international
community effectively show that its commitment to the
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter is
not a mere formal commitment or a passive expression of
hope.
It is indeed deplorable to see that from one session
of the Assembly to the next new confrontations continue
to occur in various parts of the world, leaving their tragic
aftermaths of death and grief. This sad reality means, as
noted in the document submitted by the Secretary-
General, "An Agenda for Peace", which clearly
emphasizes the unavoidable responsibility of each and
every one of us in this area, priority must be given to the
work of the United Nations.
Caught up as we are in a vicious circle of distrust,
civilized and fruitful coexistence will be possible only to
the extent that States carry out their actions in their
particular areas of interest in accordance with the
international legal order and in strict accordance with the
obligations incumbent upon them under the United
Nations Charter.
Accordingly, Uruguay, in a constructive spirit, has
participated actively in various peace-keeping operations
in response to the needs of the international community.
Our participation has been based on a number of
fundamental principles that govern our foreign policy,
namely, non-intervention in internal affairs, peaceful
settlement of disputes, self-determination of peoples, and
non-use of force to achieve peace.
Our assessment is that, in general, peace-keeping
operations have shown positive progress in the settlement
of conflicts, although several operational matters still have
to be improved and resolved.
First, we believe that peace-keeping operations must
be carried out in full compliance with the principles of
international law as enshrined in the Charter of the United
Nations. In this sense, and on the basis of our
experience, we believe that actions under Chapter VII of
the Charter or operations with a broad mandate should be
undertaken only as a last resort, after the political means
described in Chapter VI of the Charter have been
exhausted.
Furthermore, we believe that action of this type can
be undertaken only when there are, clearly, emergency
situations that pose a real threat to international peace and
security. In addition, we have to bear in mind the views
7


of regional organizations and those of neighbouring
countries in the areas of conflict.
On the other hand, peace-keeping operations must
have a feasible and precise mandate, as well as a realistic
schedule. Security Council decisions to send a mission
should not take account of the strategic or political
importance of the different regions and, thereby, simply
highlight differences that should not affect this type of
decision.
Uruguay has participated, and will continue to
participate actively, in activities of this kind. We are
currently taking part in seven operations - in India/Pakistan,
Mozambique, Iraq/Kuwait, Western Sahara, Liberia,
Rwanda and Georgia. Overall, more than 950 persons are
involved. Given the relatively small number of people in
our armed forces, these figures represent a high degree of
commitment, hardly matched in the international
community.
Our country provides contingents for peace-keeping
operations in the belief that we are contributing in a spirit
of solidarity to the attainment of a collective goal that
transcends exclusively national interests. We believe that
we have a right to declare that such solidarity must also be
manifested by other members of the international
community in support of this effort.
Despite its effort and the degree of its commitment,
however, Uruguay does not see a similar return from the
international community. It has not received compensation
deriving from the depreciation of equipment and materials
and from the contribution of contingents, which often pay
with their lives for their commitment to the international
cause.
We support the various efforts with a view to
adjusting the Charter of the United Nations to the changes
in the international situation - in particular, those referred
to in General Assembly resolution 47/60.
Reform of the Charter must be effected within the
framework of the need to attain greater democratization and
transparency in decision-making, and to strike a balance
between the existing Powers of the different bodies.
Uruguay favours an increase in the number of
members of the Security Council to make it more
representative and to facilitate the fulfilment of its tasks.
Here, the main challenge is to prevent an increase in the
membership of the Security Council from compromising its
efficiency. Uruguay favours a minimum of 20 members
and a maximum of 25. Uruguay does not oppose the
inclusion of new categories of members -
semi-permanent, for example - under the principle of
equitable geographical distribution, so long as this would
provide for more appropriate representativeness and equal
operational opportunity. Nevertheless, we understand that
such an innovation must be based on the idea that "more
privileges entail more obligations", including financial
obligations.
New members should be elected for fixed terms to
represent the various regions, and they should have a
mandate encompassing regional interests. We would
accept their re-election provided that the members in
question had the support of the States in their own
regions.
There are certain legal matters affecting the
Organization that deserve our attention. In this
connection, I should like to refer first to the situation
provided for in Article 50 of the Charter, which affects us
directly. Reality has shown the need for a mechanism to
ensure reparation for third States that are economically
affected by the application of sanctions imposed under
Chapter VII of the Charter. In our opinion, such a
mechanism should be permanent and should operate
automatically.
Secondly, we must pay more attention to the
question of responsibility for attacks on United Nations
and associated personnel, given the ominous increase in
the number of such attacks. This is a situation with
which our country is very familiar.
The problems facing the international community
today include issues of a global nature affecting all
Members of the United Nations, as well as other
temporary issues which concern one or more individual
States but which may have implications for the rest of the
international community.
We shall refer to both, beginning with those of a
global nature: international terrorism, international
cooperation against crime, and human rights.
Acts of international terrorism are serious
common-law crimes, which violate the most elemental
principles of individual and collective security,
irrespective of the political excuses invoked for their
perpetration. They are a flagrant violation of human
8


rights and must be fought, domestically and internationally,
with efficient and energetic measures.
Uruguay is aware of the various efforts in different
international forums, but we are concerned about the lack
of practical, concrete and global action to deal effectively
with this serious and complex problem. Although the
maintenance of internal order and security is the
responsibility of each State, cooperation between countries
is essential to coordinated prevention and punishment of
crimes that have international implications.
These mechanisms could include full respect for the
norms of extradition in accordance with the law, which are
the tangible expression of the political will of States to
cooperate in the preservation of the legal rights protected by
international agreements and by domestic legislation.
Among the many rights for the protection of which we
are directly responsible are the human rights of the child.
In this very building, in 1990, we held what was described
as the World Summit for Children. On that occasion we
adopted an extensive document intended to set the
guidelines for highly ethical action, through which nations
undertook to protect the future of mankind - our children.
This document included pragmatic issues such as the
protection of children in situations of armed conflict and the
adoption of appropriate measures to protect them.
The conflict afflicting the Balkans has given rise to
episodes that disturb the conscience of mankind. The
consequences have been particularly atrocious for the
children in the region - innocent victims of an immoral
conflict. We have brought this case to the attention of the
relevant agencies. We considered that under the
Convention on the Rights of the Child there was a case for
seeking a truce to allow for the evacuation of children from
battlefront areas. Unfortunately, nobody got beyond written
words, and our Organization was not able to prevent even
this aspect of the barbarism prevailing in that area.
In the same spirit, it is necessary that our Organization
fully enforce this Assembly’s resolution establishing the
need for effective action against the sexual exploitation of
children in order to prevent and eliminate such abuse.
Uruguay is aware of the need to preserve the quality
of the physical and human environment and of the dangers
arising from the degradation of natural resources. This is
why it has adopted the programmes in Agenda 21 of the
United Nations. Our National Parliament enacted a law
granting priority to the protection of the environment
against any form of depredation, destruction or pollution
and making environmental impact assessments mandatory.
As a State located in the Southern Cone of the
American continent, our country has a particular interest
in all issues relating to climate changes that affect us. At
the tenth session of the Intergovernmental Committee, as
a contribution to the research on this topic, Uruguay
offered to host the permanent headquarters of the
secretariat of the Convention on Climate Change.
All these actions and initiatives have been taken in
the framework of the strategy - which my country
shares - to promote lasting economic and social
development without prejudice to the environment or to
non-renewable resources, thus achieving solid and
sustained growth for both the present and future
generations.
The work of the United Nations and the specialized
agencies in the social field has earned a well-deserved
recognition. The present times call for a more crucial
role by the United Nations system and for the broadening
of activities to meet the new challenges, for example, the
growing imbalance between the wealthy countries and the
two thirds of mankind who live in poverty.
It is urgent that we check deteriorating social
conditions in the developing world, so as to prevent these
situations from becoming threats to international peace
and security. Accordingly, Uruguay enthusiastically
supports the convening of the World Summit for Social
Development, to be held in Copenhagen in March 1995.
This event will provide an opportunity to discuss global
strategies for strengthening international cooperation for
both wealthy and developing countries.
Our country is deeply concerned about the
continuing deterioration of the world economy, which
seems to be accelerating day by day. The persistence of
recession and inflation, the rise in unemployment, the
instability in foreign exchange markets, the disorder in the
balances of payments in industrialized regions, the
recurring protectionist currents that continuously depart
from GATT rules - all this inevitably delays economic
progress in the developing countries, the majority of the
States gathered here.
Free trade is still one of the bases on which to
achieve and to strengthen development processes; it is
therefore important that we have been able to conclude
the so-called Uruguay Round of GATT - but this can only
9


be seen as the end of one stage. Although in principle the
results can be described as encouraging, they will be
meaningless unless free trade is broadened in the future.
That is why the various agreements reached must be
complemented by further reducing support and subsidy
levels and by eliminating non-tariff obstacles to trade.
There is no doubt that the tasks to be undertaken by
the World Trade Organization will be of critical importance
in strengthening the process of free trade. Therefore,
prompt ratification of the Marrakech Agreements by all
countries is necessary in order to allow this new
organization to begin operations on 1 January next year.
In the context of reorganizing current international
trade relations, Uruguay firmly supports the Secretary-
General’s initiative in his report, "Agenda for
Development", which is a positive contribution in the
search for a revitalized approach to the concept of
development, as it includes the objectives of peace,
freedom, justice and progress.
Before I turn to items on particular situations, let me
take up one last global topic, that relating to progress in
international law, an area dear to my country, which is a
fervent advocate and a jealous guardian of its application.
We are convinced of the need to promote the
evolution of international law as the most effective tool to
govern relations among States. We wish to affirm our
support for the implementation of General Assembly
resolution 44/23, the objective of which is to promote the
peaceful settlement of disputes and to achieve compliance
with the decisions of the International Court of Justice,
while encouraging the codification of international law, a
goal our country has long desired.
In addition, we are pleased to see the entry into force
of the Convention of the Law of the Sea - which was
ratified by our country - and we are hopeful that some
States will be able to overcome their difficulties with
certain points and accede to the Convention, thus achieving
its full acceptance.
In conclusion, I would like to refer to three
international situations in which my country has a particular
interest, as their outcome may have consequences at the
international level and affect the credibility so necessary to
our Organization at this time of restructuring and
revitalization.
First of all, my country wishes expressly to mention
the situation in the Middle East, given our traditional
bonds with many of the States of the region. We have
always been concerned with the various approaches to
achieving peace in the Middle East. In this connection
we recall Uruguay’s co-sponsorship of the repeal of
resolution 3379 (XXX), which illogically and unjustly
determined that Zionism was a form of racism.
Uruguay has always supported all actions, in
accordance with international law and with the resolutions
of the Security Council, aimed at achieving peace through
the negotiation of agreements among the parties involved,
as the only valid alternative allowing the parties the
possibility of living within safe and recognized borders.
We have recently witnessed an acceleration of these
negotiations, with considerable progress in the
achievement of border agreements, the opening of air
communications and the recognition of the State of Israel.
At the same time, however, we note with concern the
recurrence of terrorist attacks aimed at crippling this
process - the final goal of which is desired by the
overwhelming majority of the international community:
the achievement of permanent peace in that region.
We understand that this session of the Assembly can
be instrumental in furthering progress in the peace
process, by the Organization’s adoption of a realistic and
up-to-date position on the current negotiations, modifying
the contents and style of General Assembly resolutions in
keeping with this new stage.
We in the American hemisphere believe that the
Cuban situation must be seen in the light of two
considerations: on the one hand, the view - shared by our
country - that pluralist and representative democracy and
the protection of human rights must be fully consolidated
in our continent without any exceptions; and, on the
other, the perspective of respect for the principles of the
United Nations Charter regarding non-intervention and the
self-determination of peoples.
Observance of these precepts and of general
international law implies the adoption of unambiguous
criteria regarding the economic, commercial and financial
blockade of Cuba. In this sense, our country, true to its
consistent policy, will support the resolution that
establishes the need to eliminate the unilateral application
for political purposes of economic and commercial
measures against another State - without, however, any
10


implications of recognition or acceptance of the type of
regime prevailing in that country.
Lastly, the position of Uruguay on the crisis in Haiti
is well known. Our country has invariably opposed any
kind of military intervention lacking the necessary legal
support. Under the Charter of the Organization, the use of
force is limited to cases in which the community is
confronted with a clear threat to international peace and
security.
Regardless of the dynamics of events, we still believe
that political instances and dialogue are the best instrument
for preserving the principles of international law and
settling situations of this nature.
International, and particularly hemispheric, relations
must take place against a backdrop of realism and legal
security: realism to adjust to ongoing change in the internal
and external aspects of each country; and legal security to
find in law the criteria of equity and justice that make the
principle of the sovereign equality of States feasible and
credible.
May the upcoming commemoration of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations be an opportunity to
reflect on what has been achieved and - as was so well said
by the Secretary-General - to learn the lessons of the past
as a challenge for the achievement of future goals.


===== Session 50 - 1995 =====
In this changed world that came out of the
Second World War — more global and interdependent —
Uruguay wishes to reaffirm its confidence in the vital role
played by the United Nations in the preservation of peace
and in solving the main problems affecting the world, and
it wishes to confirm the validity of the enlightened
principles of the Charter, as sound today as they were 50
years ago.
During this period of time, Uruguay has brought the
message of its people and its Government to this
Assembly and to the peoples and the Governments of
brotherly countries throughout the world. The content of
that message has never varied: our conviction that
international peace can be achieved only through strict
observance of international law and resort to peaceful
means of resolving conflicts; our certainty that only a
democratic system and scrupulous respect for human
rights can ensure the full spiritual and material fulfilment
of the individual; and our unfailing trust in this
Organization, to whose creation Uruguay contributed half
5


a century ago and to which we have given, and will
continue to give, its broadest support.
Through all these years Uruguay has consistently held
to those principles, contributing with its initiatives and its
votes to consolidating peace and ensuring that law and
justice take precedence over all else. We were the first to
accept without any conditions whatsoever the mandatory
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. We are a
party to most instruments for the protection of human
rights. We have contributed to peace-keeping operations
since they first began, and Uruguay is the United Nations
Member contributing the greatest number of contingents
relative to its population and the size of its armed forces.
New realities and new international circumstances
mark the post-cold-war world, and the United Nations has
had to adapt its functions to the new demands, responding
to external circumstances through an imaginative
application of the Charter, which has kept the Organization
alive and valid throughout its history and has saved it from
obsolescence.
The international community today faces
unprecedented situations. Ethnic and religious
fundamentalism, international terrorism and drug trafficking
may not be new phenomena, but they have taken on fearful
dimensions by virtue of their access to powerful sources of
financing and the use of weapons of mass destruction. This
makes it necessary for the international community to
organize itself efficiently to combat them, even on the
battlefield of modern technology. In addition, these factors
are combined with new political phenomena, such as the
dismembering of multinational States, which has unleashed
age-old ethnic and religious rivalries. These facts, together
with the increase in the number of members of the
Organization, most of them developing countries, and the
lead roles played by certain States and regions, justify a
reform of certain institutional aspects of the Organization.
All Charter reform or constitutional development
resulting from established practice should tend to increase
the effectiveness of the Organization, avoiding at all costs
resorting to formulas which limit its response capacity or
which enshrine new inequalities among its Members.
On previous occasions, Uruguay has spoken in favour
of an expansion of the Security Council, seeking greater
democratization in that organ, which is vital for the
maintenance of balance and world peace. But the changes
made must ensure that while achieving greater transparency
and representativeness in that body, that do not have a
negative impact on its functioning and efficiency.
In any event, the need to carry out institutional
reforms should not lead us to blame the frustrations and
failures of the Organization on the fact that the
instruments for carrying out its tasks are not appropriate.
Whenever the political will of States was used to resolve
problems, the Organization was able to achieve its
objectives without there being any need to change its
structure or operation. Our efforts at reform,
consequently, should not lead us away from our
immediate duty, which is to face with our current means,
imperfect though they may be, the serious conflicts which
are affecting international peace.
We cannot but refer in the first instance to that
which affects the countries that emerged from the former
Yugoslavia. It has been hard for some of the parties to
understand that while a negotiated solution is difficult, a
military solution is impossible.
In the meantime, the civilian population continues to
suffer through the years — a population which has
become a permanent target of military action and the
victim of brutal manifestations of racial intolerance.
Behind this tragedy, and to a certain extent explaining it,
lies the sad realization that United Nations resolutions are
not being complied with by some of the parties. We
believe that the Organization should step up its action,
making maximum use of the political and legal
mechanisms available to it under the Charter, to prevail
upon Governments and authorities, directly or indirectly
involved in the conflict, to respect and abide by decisions
adopted.
There is no doubt that the road to peace may present
extraordinary difficulties but it is never blocked entirely,
as may be seen from the negotiations to put an end to the
long and exhausting crisis in the Middle East. We must
warmly congratulate those who have decided to replace
weapons with constructive dialogue, and express our
admiration for the intelligence with which these
negotiations are being conducted, especially the
persistence and inspiration with which the parties attempt
to overcome, not only the extreme complexity of the
problem, but also, above all, the violent opposition which
has tried to sabotage the peace process, resorting to the
most cowardly and inhumane of means. The results are
still far from satisfactory but they are also far from being
negligible. The international community is also duty-
bound to encourage these efforts. This General Assembly
6


can contribute to this by avoiding including in its
resolutions on this item language which may have been
appropriate in the past, but which may be irritating at a
time when a genuine spirit of peace prevails among all the
authorities concerned.
The instruments for the second phase of the interim
agreement on Palestinian self-rule has been another
landmark in the peace process, which the parties in question
have been promoting with great resolve. With the signing
of this historic agreement in Washington, we can say that
we are closer to lasting peace in that tormented region.
There is a common thread which runs throughout these
conflict situations. It is an element which makes those
situations possible and which worsens them, and that is the
availability and sophistication of weapons. The international
community will not be able to prevent breaches of the
peace or avoid their far-reaching implications in terms of
the loss of human lives and destruction, unless concrete
measures are adopted with regard to regulation of the
manufacture and traffic in weapons. It is our duty to
revitalize the mechanisms which have been established to
this end, and to create new negotiating bodies, were that to
be necessary, to achieve concrete results.
Many developing countries, including Uruguay, a few
months ago decided on the indefinite extension of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as a
way of consolidating the process of progressive
disarmament in this field. We did so in the conviction of
the good faith of the nuclear Powers, which argued in
favour of the extension. Unfortunately, after that,
underground nuclear tests have continued by some Powers,
which has led our countries to lose confidence in the
instruments we signed, and has left us with a feeling of
frustration and perplexity.
A few days ago in New York, concerned over the
seriousness of the situation with regard to those tests, the
countries signatories of the Treaty of Tlateloco in Latin
America and the Caribbean and the countries signatories of
the Treaty of Rarotonga in the South Pacific, which
established nuclear-weapon-free zones, condemned this
situation and reiterated the need to put an end to all types
of nuclear tests so as to create a favourable climate for the
conclusion of the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty,
which is being negotiated at the Conference on
Disarmament in Geneva.
While the end of the cold war has reduced political
tension and the risk of global confrontation, there are other
developments today that are more insidious but no less
threatening to the peace and well-being of nations, such
as drug-trafficking and terrorism, and a lethal combination
of the two. Uruguay, where fortunately we have not seen
the worst manifestations of this problem, has taken part
and intends to continue to participate intensively in the
cooperative efforts to prevent and punish such acts and
related crimes, in order to remedy their adverse effects
and to attack their social consequences. We support the
convening of an international conference on narcotic
drugs to focus on a comprehensive approach to the
problem, including the consumption, the production and
the trafficking of drugs, related crimes and the social and
economic aspects of the problem.
We are also undertaking maximum efforts to
promote concrete national actions to counteract and fight
against this problem, which could threaten our peaceful
existence and the stability of our institutions.
On another subject, for some time now the factors
which adversely affect the economic growth of
developing countries have been identified and decried.
Their nature and causes and effect have been examined,
and formulas have been discussed and proposed to solve
those problems, or at least to reduce the intolerable gaps
which exist in today’s economic world. After so many
years of discussion, the overall picture remains
unchanged, although mention could be made of some
isolated cases where dynamic centres of development
have emerged. The situation of the less advanced sectors
of mankind, where poverty and resulting hunger prevail,
where there is illness and illiteracy, this continues to be
an unacceptable idea.
The process of globalization of the world economy
and the economic opening that has been developing at the
global level in recent years have helped us to modernize
some of our production structures. Nevertheless, the
instability of the world’s financial markets poses a
permanent threat to our economies. The transfer of major
financial resources to and from our markets causes great
instability in capital flows in the world, leading to
concern and uncertainty, and threatens the accumulated
efforts of our peoples to establish a more just, more
orderly and more stable economic system.
Given this situation, we need to find new
mechanisms to create a more stable international financial
system and a way to predict potential financial crises that
do not impose regulations that hinder the capital flows
needed for growth and investment.
7


The Group of Seven has pointed to the need to update
the way in which the Bretton Woods Institutions operate in
the financial sphere. Our countries are willing and entitled
to participate in alternative strategies to reform these
institutions that are vital to a world economy as globalized
as it is today.
The establishment of the World Trade Organization
marked the end of the longest and most complex
negotiations of recent years and a new stage of international
trade. If this new stage is going to lead to a more equitable
distribution of international trade, all States, particularly
those with the largest share in trade, must abide by the new
rules of the game. Uruguay hopes that these rules will be
respected, that protectionist policies and subsidies will
disappear and that barriers impeding international trade
liberalization and growth, especially trade in agricultural
products, will be broken down, as agreed in Marrakesh at
the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
We recognize that as the international situation stands
our development will largely depend on our own efforts.
We attach great importance to international cooperation for
development, but are aware that our problems will not
disappear merely through external assistance. Today, the
major challenge before us is the need to increase know-how
and to apply it to development. Today, the only
comparative advantages are those derived from scientific
and technological progress, and a country’s relative
competitiveness will be directly linked to its ability to
generate, adapt and apply its know-how and to provide
permanent training for the population.
In this context, the countries of the Common Market
of the South, known as MERCOSUR, are aware that
according to the new world scheme integration processes
are a fundamental aspect of an ability to compete efficiently
with other economic blocs. We are promoting integration in
the context of a philosophy of open regionalism. We are
not trying to turn MERCOSUR into an ivory tower — quite
the contrary, because as we strengthen and expand it we are
trying to promote links with other countries of the region
and looking for common ground while respecting the
particular nature and modalities of each country.
We are also trying to strengthen ties with other areas
of the developing world, in particular with our fellow
countries of the South Atlantic region. In this context,
Uruguay reaffirms the importance of the Zone of Peace and
Cooperation of the South Atlantic that was solemnly
declared pursuant to resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986.
In this framework, we fully share the aims of this
declaration and see the zone as an important instrument
for promoting cooperation in scientific, political, technical
and cultural areas.
We are convinced that security and development are
inseparable and interrelated, and that any progress in
terms of meeting the objectives of the zone will
strengthen cooperation between the States of Africa and
of the Southern Cone of America. This commitment is all
the more evident in the support given by the States of the
zone for the peace processes in Angola and Liberia and
the Bicesse and Abuja agreements respectively.
Unsolved global problems continue to weigh heavily
on our agendas. There is general solidarity with regard to
environmental protection, because we have clearly seen
what is at stake, namely our common destiny, and have
recognized that this is a task we must work at together.
Unfortunately, this solidarity has still not been translated
into concrete and effective action with a real ecological
impact. The physical deterioration of the planet continues
unabated.
Showing its concern for environmental matters and
its willingness to cooperate effectively and tangibly with
the joint efforts of the international community, the
Government of Uruguay has offered to host the second
meeting of the contracting parties of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held
during the second half of 1996.
As a coastal country in the southern part of the
planet, Uruguay is particularly sensitive to certain forms
of environmental degradation such as the depletion of the
ozone layer, climate change and the contamination and
improper exploitation of the resources of the South
Atlantic.
Uruguay views the results of the Conference on
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks
as highly auspicious. We hope that the draft convention
adopted will be approved in the near future and obtain the
ratifications needed to secure its entry into force, in
particular by the countries most heavily involved in
catching the fish covered by the convention. In this
context, Uruguay expresses the hope that the 1982 United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which our
country is a party, will be ratified as soon as possible by
the countries that have not yet done so. The general
application of the new law of the sea embodied in the
Convention can only be of benefit to all States. The
8


system of protection and preservation of the marine
environment and conservation and exploitation of its
resources are just two of the many benefits to be expected
from its universal application.
In conclusion, Uruguay reiterates its opposition to the
unilateral application by one State of economic or trading
measures against another State and therefore urges that an
end be put to the economic, trade and financial blockade of
Cuba.
I wish to end by conveying the Government of
Uruguay’s pleasure to the President at his election to
preside over the work of the General Assembly in the
fiftieth anniversary year. We congratulate him on his
eloquent address on the assumption of his post and share
the views expressed therein. We are aware of the
Organization’s financial situation, but let us not make the
mistake of thinking that savings should be made by cutting
assistance and cooperation in the sphere of development,
taking development in the broadest sense of the word. For
every dollar we take away from this field, we shall have to
spend two on peace-keeping operations.
If we wish to speak in economic terms, it is cheaper
to prevent conflict than to have to resolve it later. Clearly,
the primary responsibility of the United Nations is to
resolve conflicts, but it is much more important to prevent
and avoid them. Can a price be put on human life?
I wish to reiterate that Uruguay, faithful to its peace-
loving and democratic tradition, will continue to participate
in the task of building a world free from violence, poverty
and intolerance — the world envisioned 50 years ago by
the founders of this Organization.


===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
﻿Perhaps the term “globalization”, which occurs so
frequently in so many decisions nowadays, best describes
the international system which prevails in the present
decade and which, under the influence of a growing and
close interdependence, will extend into the twenty-first
century. Admittedly, the term is not a precise one that
sums up the broad and complex range of supranational
phenomena that have been emerging since 1989, the year
that symbolizes the end of the cold war.
It is undoubtedly a term that is indicative of the fact
that today the cause-and-effect relationship in the
economic, political and even the cultural sphere
transcends traditional national borders more than ever.
Interdependence is today more pronounced than ever
before in history: markets, capital flows, research and
production do not coincide with the political map. The
industrial assembly lines of advanced technology ignore
national borders, often making it difficult to determine the
origin of a finished product, since its components come
from such diverse sources. The political boundaries of
States are no longer boundaries of economic production
and processes. The network of multinational corporations
has expanded to the extent that transactions between their
subsidiaries account for one quarter of world trade. In the
face of the fluctuation and volatility of international
electronic transactions, the central banks of the most
developed countries already have difficulty controlling the
exchange rates of their currencies or the level of interest
rates. The recent establishment of the World Trade
Organization (WTO) is seen as the institutional
culmination of this global trend towards liberalization of
trade in goods and services and as a force conducive to
interdependence.
Accordingly, globalization, despite the various rates
at which it operates in different parts of the world —
from the slow, deliberate pace at which it proceeds in
countries with agrarian economies to the dizzying rapidity
of its progress in those possessing advanced
technologies — appears to be the distinguishing mark of
4


the post-cold-war era. This phenomenon increasingly lends
itself to the dominance of a system of echoes and
reflections between nations, of all manner of
interrelationships, which in theory should contribute to
international stability, since according to classical doctrine,
the risks of military confrontation are reduced when nations
become more interdependent economically and financially.
Nevertheless, recent events have revealed the contrary: new
sources of tension and conflict have emerged on the
international scene, as well as new unconventional forms of
violence and crime that affect world peace and destabilize
coexistence within and between democratic societies.
In this setting of globalization and interdependence,
the United Nations — with its universal composition, its
agglutinative structure that brings together countries at the
most varied levels of human development and ethnic or
religious composition, its institutional capacity to act as a
point of articulation or a sounding board for all concerns or
aspirations that extend beyond the local, national or
regional level — would be in an ideal position to play a
leading and decisive role. In other words, this Organization
is the forum that, by the nature and magnitude of its
missions, should embody or interpret more faithfully than
any other institution these compelling, topical phenomena
of globalization and interdependence.
Yet, this distinctive role of the United Nations remains
an unrealized vision. It must be asked, then, whether the
United Nations, an organic manifestation of the global
system that has taken shape in this decade, is capable of
effective, systematic action in preventive diplomacy. We
would take it one step further and ask what our own
national responsibility is, as a democratic State and a
founding Member of the United Nations, in strengthening
its role in the face of new challenges.
Although this may appear simplistic, it is possible to
conceive of war as a consequence of poverty, injustice,
overpopulation or poverty. But if these conditions have to
be eliminated before peace is feasible, then preventing or
restricting hostile tensions becomes a Utopian exercise. For
this reason, we believe that there is an urgent need to take
an up-to-date, modern look at how the United Nations
should react and act in response to the new threats to peace,
and at what its capacity should be to respond to the
phenomena inherent in the recent or current forms of
globalization.
On considering these questions, we shall certainly
come up against an unavoidable obstacle: that of the nation
in its traditional form and as the basic unit on which the
structure of the United Nations was built. This nation no
longer exercises a monopoly over international decisions,
and consequently is not the exclusive determinant of their
legitimacy. To some extent, this phenomenon may be
similar to that described as the emergence of the
imprecise State, found in a wide variety of non-State
political bodies or agents that have an international impact
through the intricate network of non-governmental
organizations and multinational political movements
whose proliferation is another sign of the new
interdependence, and which play an increasingly active
role in the management of the world system.
Undoubtedly, Governments, as the executives of the
political decisions of States, retain their essential powers
in matters of diplomacy, security, defence,
macroeconomics and currency. Obviously, the United
Nations, sustained by the will of Governments, has acted
and continues to act as a summarizer or synthesizer of
those various wills, without prejudice to the greater or
lesser influence of the military or financial powers of its
Member States. For this reason, quite naturally, the
activity or inactivity of the Organization depends on the
concerns or indifference of national Governments, or on
the way in which those Governments articulate their
consensus or disagreement. But other actors have also
taken the international stage, and they are not always a
part of the multiplicity of non-governmental organizations.
There are also ethnic groups not assimilated into an
externally imposed nationality, so-called region-States,
with growing links to the world economy and decreasing
links to national authorities, as well as religious
movements that transcend frontiers and inflame fanaticism
which, in some cases, has terrorist effects.
We therefore see a dual and contradictory process:
globalization and fragmentation. On the one hand,
interdependence has given rise to an increasingly
interlinked world in which entities influence each other
mutually, and this in theory would be conducive to the
strengthening of political units and the formation of
mega-States or large regional blocs. On the other hand,
and as a consequence of the progressive impact of these
new actors on the international scene, fragmentation has
also emerged. Since its establishment, the United Nations
has seen the number of Member States increase almost
fivefold, and at present, approximately one third of these
countries has been significantly affected by insurgent or
dissident movements or Governments in exile.
For all of these reasons, which are associated with
this dialectical process of globalization and fragmentation,
5


with the growing international importance of a
heterogeneous collection of new actors and with the
emergence of non-conventional threats to peace that cannot
be reconciled through traditional mechanisms of collective
security, we need to rethink our Organization and to act in
consequence.
The restructuring of the United Nations is certainly not
a new issue. On its thirtieth, fortieth and fiftieth
anniversaries, efforts at revision, or rather at reform,
emerged, aimed at achieving greater efficiency in the
pursuit of its purposes. Unfortunately, however, the effort
currently under way, like its predecessors, does not go to
the root of the problem, which lies far deeper than the
pursuit of administrative efficiency or the rationalization of
functions. If we evaluate the current efforts to restructure
the United Nations, we see clearly that in practice virtually
all of the reforms being studied have no more than a
procedural or formal impact, and do not make a decisive
contribution to strengthening the system, or at least its
substance, especially if we bear in mind that this
Organization exists at a period in history characterized most
distinctly by an accelerated pace of change.
Uruguay fully and spontaneously agrees with the
widespread aspiration for change. Like the vast majority of
States represented here, our country feels a deep-seated,
natural inclination in favour of any means or instrument
that, at the global or regional level, prompts or compels
nations to conduct themselves in accordance with law. For
countries such as ours, which are founded on the rule of
international law, it is essential to support any effort to
guarantee the legal order, the principles of law, and the rule
of law in relations among States. This is not simply a
rhetorical reaffirmation of our desire for peace or our
conviction that international law must prevail.
Uruguay truly takes the principles of the Charter and
the purposes of this Organization as its own, from the
maintenance of peace and security — reflected in the fact
that our country contributes the largest number of troops
per capita to international peacekeeping operations — to the
recognition of the primacy of international law — reflected
in our being the first country to unconditionally accept the
compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of
Justice. Our position with regard to the United Nations is
thus consistent with our historical definition of ourselves as
a nation, a definition anchored in respect for international
commitments and strict compliance with the principles of
international law in all areas in which States bear
responsibility.
With reference to the agenda for the present session,
and without prejudice to the statements the delegation of
Uruguay will be making in the various bodies of the
Assembly, we believe it appropriate to make a few brief
comments on some items of particular interest.
It is clear that the reform of the Security Council has
captured the attention of the international community,
precisely because of the post-cold-war changes I have
mentioned. The potential impact of the Council on the
evaluation, prevention or easing of international conflicts,
and the effective application of the principle of legal
equality among States make it necessary to have greater
democratization or transparency in the decision-making
process and more equitable geographical distribution in
the composition of the Council.
Uruguay has already expressed its support for
increasing the number of permanent members on the
Council in the light of present-day world realities, but the
number of non-permanent members should also be
increased, precisely because of the need for greater
transparency and greater representativeness. While many
proposals for change have been put forward, we should at
the very least all agree that the Council’s future
composition should be designed so that the quest for more
representativeness does not adversely affect the Council’s
operational efficiency.
With regard to the question of Palestine and the
situation in the Middle East, and despite the various
obstacles that continue to hamper the consolidation of a
broad and stable peace, it is essential that the international
community maintain its support for the peace process
initiated in Madrid in 1991. In the same spirit, it should
continue to encourage direct talks between Israel, the
Palestinian Authority and the Arab countries — as is
occurring even today in the United States — with a view
to achieving mutual recognition and the ultimate objective
of a lasting peace throughout the Middle East. We are
confident that the talks taking place in Washington will
culminate in the success to which we all aspire, and to
which they seem to be leading.
In another context, integration processes are
indispensable for fair competition in a world of
subregional blocks. In this regard, the countries of the
Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) are
convinced that our integration process contributes to a
true liberalization of trade. MERCOSUR constitutes an
integrated, open process that has created economic zones
both inside and outside the subregion. Thus, impetus has
6


been given to association with other States of the
hemisphere, with other regional blocs and with countries
outside the region. But above all, MERCOSUR has
generated trade, both inside and outside the organization.
MERCOSUR is today a demonstration of open regionalism,
which affirms the commitments and, above all, the
teachings of the World Trade Organization.
There is no question that free trade has been and
remains one of the cornerstones of world economic
development, as was repeatedly recognized during the
Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT). For this very reason, we cannot endorse
unilateral efforts to effect the extraterritorial application of
domestic legislation and as a consequence of which,
whether by virtue of their letter or their spirit, a country
would be able to extend the applicability of its laws beyond
its own national borders, undermining not only the principle
of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States but
also freedom of trade, which is the very essence of the
World Trade Organization, recently established by the
international community.
While our hopes for the establishment of
representative democracy throughout our continent remain
as strong as ever, we continue to oppose the unilateral
application of economic, trade or financial measures against
a State for political purposes. The usefulness of such
measures for the rapid and peaceful transition of a country
towards democracy has not yet been demonstrated.
With regard to cooperation for development, we recall
that the countries with greater capacities to contribute
undertook to allocate at least 0.7 per cent of their gross
domestic product for that purpose. Yet there has been a
significant downward trend in contributions stemming from
that commitment in recent years, and this trend cannot be
linked to the financial crisis the Organization is
experiencing. These are resources intended to fight poverty
and underdevelopment and to create more dignified living
conditions for our peoples. Nor should we confine
cooperation to a vertical, one-way process; rather, we must
also view it in terms of South-South cooperation, availing
ourselves of our mutual experience to create our own
competitive advantages.
A few days ago, Uruguay became one of the first
signatories to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
Together with other developments, such as the Advisory
Opinion of the International Court of Justice regarding the
legality of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, this
Treaty constitutes a basic instrument for the reaffirmation
of the principles of international peace and security.
Still in the field of disarmament, we have repeatedly
voiced our opposition to the transfer, stockpiling, export
and production of anti-personnel landmines. Accordingly,
we shall continue to support keenly all initiatives aimed
at eliminating them, as well as at securing the immediate
entry into force of the Protocol adopted in Vienna last
May. Uruguayan contingents assigned to peacekeeping
Missions in Angola, Mozambique and Western Sahara
have been among the many victims of these weapons, and
it is the moral obligation of humankind to eradicate them.
Finally, we should like to close by referring to one
of the clearest and most tangible manifestations of the
phenomenon of globalization we have sought to describe:
the production, trafficking and consumption of illegal
drugs. This is one of the most tragic forms of
international organized crime, and its growing seriousness
is demonstrated by statistics from the most varied sources.
Its transnational nature makes it essential that the
principle of shared responsibility should be systematically
applied — without exception or unilateralism — to the
entire cycle of production, trafficking and consumption.
This is a tightly wound chain whose links include all
countries without exception.
Please accept, Mr. President, our sincerest
congratulations on your election to guide the work of the
Assembly and the firmest commitment of the Government
of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay to support you in
your activities.







===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿Allow me first of all, Mr. President, to congratulate you
on your election to preside over this new session of the
General Assembly. We are sure that the experience you
have gained in your years of activity in the Organization,
together with your personal qualities and technical skills,
will, under your mandate, contribute to the strengthening
of this most important body of the Organization.
Allow me also to express our congratulations to the
outgoing President, Ambassador Razali, for the work he
performed, which certainly contributed to the
strengthening both of the presidency and of the role the
General Assembly is called on to play in the United
Nations.
Undoubtedly, the central focus of our attention will
continue to be the issue of the reform of the Organization,
the essence of which is now contained in the document
submitted by the Secretary-General.
My country fully supports and has every confidence
in the appointment and endeavours of the Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan. We have thus paid the greatest
attention to the package of reforms he has submitted, and
we are prepared to promote deliberations on them so that
they can be concluded as soon as possible.
4


We understand that the document is aimed at the
objective of equipping the Organization with an
administrative structure that will permit more flexible
management, prevent duplication of functions and secure
coordination among its organs and programmes, all of
which will result in an improvement in terms of both
economy and management.
Within the overall issue of reform, the specific topic
of the Security Council is one of the most important
because of the political significance that organ has had and
will continue to have within the structure of the United
Nations. Uruguay endorses an enlargement of the Council
because it believes that its structure should be adapted to
the new realities in the world, which differ substantially
from those that existed when the Organization was
established, since at that time account was taken of the
power structure resulting from the Second World War.
In this regard, we support an increase in the number
of both permanent and non-permanent Members of the
Council, to a total of not more than 25, so that efficiency
is not impaired. Our country particularly supports an
increased presence of developing countries to ensure a
better balance in the membership of this singular organ of
our Organization. We believe that the newly created seats
should be occupied on the basis of real equality of
opportunity for all States.
However, my country believes that the reform of the
Council should not be confined to the topic of its
membership. Equally important is ensuring that its activities
are transparent and that information provided to and
communication with the States that are not members of the
Council flow freely and are up to date.
The Eastern Republic of Uruguay has expressed strong
support for progressively limiting the right of veto, and to
that end we have submitted a proposal to the effect that on
certain subjects, the right of veto could be suspended by the
General Assembly by a majority to be determined. That
mechanism, essentially democratic in nature, would thus
help reduce the absolute power of the right of veto as
currently provided for in the Charter, while at the same
time it would strengthen the competence of the General
Assembly.
Nonetheless, our country will be ready to analyse any
other proposal that might be submitted aimed at limiting the
absolute individual veto.
While the reform of the Security Council and the
possible revision of the scale of assessments have recently
been, and continue to be, the focus of political attention,
we should also study the question of strengthening the
General Assembly. A calm and dispassionate analysis of
the organizational structure and respective areas of
responsibility of our Organization shows that the forum
where the principle of juridical equality of States reigns
supreme is undoubtedly the General Assembly.
There has been and still is much discussion
regarding the composition of the Security Council and the
exercise of the right of veto, in the context of the new
parameters of international realities. That is all well and
good, but at the same time, we need to find practical
ways of revitalizing and invigorating the activity of the
Assembly.
The General Assembly is a unique body in
international institutional machinery. In it, representativity
is practically universal. States participate on an equal
footing without regard for their size or power, and the
ideal of international democracy attains its clearest
expression, at least in formal terms. The decisions of this
body have great moral and political force and accordingly,
it is essential to formulate them better and make them
more timely.
For these reasons, the General Assembly not only
needs to function more flexibly and utilize its resources
more rationally, but also, and essentially, requires greater
substance. Only thus will we be able to give its
resolutions greater operative force.
Consequently, we should take a new approach and
open a new chapter in the reform process, not confining
our reflections and aspirations to reforms of the Security
Council or to reforms of a financial nature, but extending
them to the organ that brings together the international
community as a whole, namely, the General Assembly.
After 52 years of the Organization's existence, the
maintenance of international peace and security continues
to be one of its essential functions. Peacekeeping
operations, to which my country is proud to have been a
contributor from the outset, must be fully maintained
while adapting to new kinds of conflicts.
Uruguay is prepared for this, and, accordingly, we
reaffirm here once again our commitment not only to
continue to make our traditional contribution but also to
5


diversify it in order to adapt it fundamentally to peace-
building.
In this connection, we welcome the signing, with the
Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations, of
a memorandum of understanding regarding our
contributions to the United Nations standby arrangements
system. This will contribute to facilitating the planning of
future peacekeeping missions in the shortest possible time.
The General Assembly's recent adoption of the
resolution putting an end to the use of “gratis personnel
provided by Governments and other entities” fulfils one of
my country's long-standing aspirations and does justice to
the principles of equitable geographical representation and
the equality of Member States, both enshrined in the
Charter.
Similarly, the recent General Assembly resolution
adopting uniform and standardized rates for payment of
awards in cases of death or disability sustained by troops in
the service of the United Nations peacekeeping operations
seems to us an important step that puts an end to an unjust
situation.
We fully support the Middle East peace process
initiated at Madrid in October 1991 and continued at
Washington, and the Government of the Eastern Republic
of Uruguay continues to encourage the necessary holding of
direct talks between Israel and the Palestinian National
Authority. It is essential for both parties to respect in good
faith the commitments entered into in the Madrid and
Washington declarations.
Our Latin American continent does not want an arms
race; it wants, on the contrary, to be free of nuclear
weapons and of other sophisticated weapons of mass
destruction that can create instability. We want to work in
peace, allocating the largest possible amount of resources
to our economic and social development.
However, this should not be an obstacle to limited
purchases of arms by our armed forces solely for the
purpose of replacing their obsolete equipment, thereby fully
discharging their constitutional mandates.
We must work to ensure a continuation of the mutual
confidence and security that prevails in the region today,
without third countries weakening and taking advantage of
our continent through the sale of sophisticated weapons.
Uruguay will continue to support with firm
conviction all disarmament processes, and, accordingly,
we recently signed in Oslo the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and
Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines, those lethal weapons
that have caused not only death and serious injury to
soldiers but also the loss of thousands of innocent lives.
Protection of human rights has been and will
continue to be one of the priority objectives of both our
domestic and international policies. Without full exercise
of human rights, there can be neither peace nor security,
neither economic prosperity nor social equity, and the
existence of a democratic system of government will
therefore also be impossible.
In addition, there can be no full exercise of human
rights without a minimum economic, social and
educational base, and my country will be prepared to
contribute to ensuring the existence of such a base.
In this connection, we fully support the restructuring
proposed by the Secretary-General while at the same time
endorsing the philosophy on which it is based, embodied
in his idea that the question of human rights should be
part of all the substantive spheres of the Secretariat's
programme of work: peace and security, economic and
social affairs, development cooperation and humanitarian
affairs.
The financial crisis the Organization is experiencing,
which has no counterpart in its history, stems primarily
from the failure to pay assessed contributions. While not
intending to justify any delay in payment, Uruguay
believes that the current scale of assessments requires
adjustments to make it fairer, more transparent and better
based on the capacity of States to pay. That should not,
however, mean that developing countries would assume
new and additional commitments today; that would, in our
view, be unjust and unacceptable. The system of
contributions should be based on objective criteria of
financial responsibility. We agree that there is a need to
correct and manage the budgets of the Organization in
order to reduce expenditures and increase efficiency, thus
striking a balance between expenditure on peace and
security and expenditure on development, each of which
is a cornerstone of the other, without weakening operating
and information activities.
We cannot but express our public satisfaction at
seeing the importance the Secretary-General attaches to
development, which he regards as one of the priorities
6


and essential functions of the Organization. There can be no
peace without development.
On the threshold of a century that is already taking
shape and that, unfortunately, seems to be marked by
growth without equity, uncertainty in employment and a
proliferation of crises and conflicts, good management of
development assistance is today more necessary than ever
before. At a time when human concerns seem to be alien to
us, it is essential, in Uruguay's view, to support an
Organization that holds that people must be placed at the
very heart of the development process if we want growth to
be compatible with the human condition and development
to be conducted by and for people.
In this context, we consider it very important to
maintain unconditionally the principle of universality and
the right of all developing countries, without exception, to
benefit from international cooperation and to receive
technical assistance with a view to achieving sustainable
human development.
Uruguay considers international technical cooperation
essential for consolidating the processes of development and
integration in the various regions. It is a fundamental tool
for attaining greater economic growth.
We support the development of South-South
cooperation as an important tool for promoting the
improved development of nations. We believe that a new
concept of technical cooperation will have to respond to
traditional demands, such as humanitarian affairs, as well
as others associated directly with the process of integration
into the international economy, such as, for example, the
redefinition of the role of the State, its modernization and
its decentralization.
We believe that a positive contribution to political and
democratic stability and to economic growth is made by
processes of regional and subregional integration. In our
case, the Southern Cone Common Market — composed of
Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and our country — is a clear
example of democratic stability and expansion of trade,
within and outside the region, compatible with the rules of
the World Trade Organization.
Uruguay continues to assign to international law a
primordial role as a regulator of relations among States.
Respect for and compliance with international law are
essential for peaceful coexistence. For this reason, we
support the holding of an international conference to discuss
a draft convention establishing an international criminal
court for autonomous and independent hearings on certain
crimes, such as genocide and others which, because of
their seriousness, are roundly condemned by the
international community. We also support the work of the
Ad Hoc Committee on the elaboration of a convention for
the suppression of terrorist bombings.
In times of change, which we all see as appropriate
and inevitable in order to revitalize the Organization, we
nevertheless identify more than ever before with the
essential purposes and principles established 52 years ago.
These bind the Organization together and, despite the time
that has elapsed and the important changes that have since
taken place in the world, continue to constitute and must
continue to constitute, today as yesterday, the goal and
objective of all the changes the United Nations will have
to face at the dawn of the twenty-first century.
People, simple people, call for us to be effective and
efficient in our activities and bold in our decisions in
preventing conflicts, and to act on their behalf in
rebuilding civil societies. The citizens of every nation, of
every country of the world, call on us today to be firm in
our commitment to the Charter and to adapt our new
activities to the changing times.








===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
Uruguay comes to the Assembly today with happiness,
pride and even excitement at seeing you, Sir, a
countryman of ours, representing Uruguay, as President
of the Assembly. Uruguay was a founding Member of the
United Nations and has been one of the its most active
participants ever since, in all its endeavours. It has even
contributed its best soldiers, who put their lives on the
line every day in the difficult peacekeeping operations of
the United Nations.
Our country came to this Organization at the time of
its founding with the hopes and dreams of a world that
was being rebuilt in order to usher in a time of peace,
19


prosperity and stability. It certainly did not come here with
any dreams of power, which could have had no place in our
country given its small land area and relatively small
economy. But we did harbour the dream that has inspired
all our great statesmen — that of being a small, model
country which in the past century made secular education
universal, free and compulsory and built a State of well-
being with a solid middle class as the foundation of its
political democracy. Thus did our country feel that it was
a fundamental part of the democratic development of
nations.
Unfortunately, we were not exempt from the upheavals
and consequences of the cold war. As the Assembly knows,
the cold war was bloody and fierce in Latin America. The
hemispheres were locked in a state of conflict over
positions: here guerrilla wars and there coups d’état, both
manifestations themselves as part of a hellish dialectic in
which democracies were wounded and sometimes fell.
The last few years have shown Uruguay to be a
country which is making strides in its economy and
prosperity and which, as the recently published United
Nations Human Development Index states, is once again
making progress. It ranks third among developing countries,
and we can say that we have attained the best improvement
in the hemisphere with regard to poverty indicators.
However, we come to this session not only with the
concerns about its institutions and peace which always
permeate the spirit of the Assembly; we come here also
having seen the spectre of a crisis which began as an Asian
financial crisis and which today is a global economic crisis
that touches all of us. This undoubtedly deserves particular
concern. When we see stock markets carried away by a
microclimate of psychosis, and when we see so many
irrational phenomena spread, we feel like Anatole France,
who saw life as a struggle among various forces, of which
we are not always able to know which is the strongest. At
times it seems that science and intelligence predominate. At
other times it seems that lunacy and fear prevail. This is
also part of this phenomenon that started as a financial
crisis and then became a very peculiar psychological
phenomenon. The point is that, both as Latin Americans
and as a member State of the international community, we
must once again face this situation.
Shakespeare, who is often quoted in connection with
major tragedies, said that fate dealt the cards but we were
the players. That is our challenge today: how to play our
cards in this crisis which could even affect not just finances
and economies but also the democratic stability of our
countries, our social peace and the fundamental values
which inspire us.
In the 1980s Latin America went through very
difficult economic years. This is referred to — mistakenly
in my judgement — as the lost decade, for those were
also the years in which we consolidated the strongest
process of democratization in our continent, which today
allows it to have more democracies and freedoms than
ever before. Countries which had never before known
democracy are now building republics and institutions and
developing their societies.
The fact is that after that crisis our countries made
enormous efforts at transformation. They lowered their
rates of inflation, opened up their economies and began
strong processes of integration — in the Andean area, in
Mexico to the north and with us in the south, Argentina,
Brazil and Uruguay, and now with Bolivia and Chile as
associate partners, to the south. All of this meant that we
had a Latin America which was growing again and which
would once again be a place for investments; a Latin
America which was able to harmonize the return of
democracy and peace with economic growth.
We now find ourselves faced with the new crisis.
What should we do? In our view, the first thing to do is
to consolidate and support the Organization and the
international community. We should do that here, in this
institution, which is a hymn to internationalism, as well
as in the economic area. The International Monetary Fund
(IMF), the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank — which is the main source of
financing for our hemisphere — are the tools we rely on
today. We must strengthen them.
Indeed, this crisis will leave behind consequences
once it is over. Somehow the debate that took place
between Lord Keynes and Harry White, at the time of the
establishment of the International Monetary Fund at
Bretton Woods, hangs over the world today. The British
economist held the view that it was necessary to have a
central bank of central banks. I shall not bring in that
debate here today, but I think that it will nevertheless
have to take place once the crucial moments of this crisis
are over, because of the need for prevention and for a
market economy which actually works.
We must all feel and know that the origins of this
crisis have been identified. First, there has been excessive
speculation, which has been clearly reflected in stock
markets. It also stems from macroeconomic imbalances in
20


many States, which have not been able to correct those
imbalances, mainly their fiscal gaps, that have been
fundamental causes of this situation.
Fortunately, the North American economy and the
European economy still appear to be solid. Japan is the
country of which we are all hoping for a recovery so that
the measures under way today will allow us to view much
more calmly the future of this situation, which could very
well continue for a long time. As the Brazilian Foreign
Minister said today, the magnitude and the duration of this
crisis are unpredictable, but what should not be
unpredictable is the behaviour of States.
Therefore, it is essential that we act to bring to an end
those financial imbalances and avoid the mistakes and
temptations related to such crises. First, we should not
believe that by isolating ourselves in neo-protectionism we
will find a way out of the crisis.
In Latin America in the 1980s we had an external debt
crisis. There were those who advocated not repaying the
debt and returning in some way to more protected
economies. There were those of us, on the other hand, who
thought that the debt should be refinanced and that we
should join the international community more actively and
in that way grow again. Only by growing our economies
could the external debt be made manageable in the future.
The former, unfortunately, were not lucky and the latter,
fortunately, were. In that way, we were able to refinance
the external debt and return to investment, and growth
enabled us to pay off the debt effectively and thus achieve
better living conditions for our peoples.
Turmoil and speculation are not what are most needed
for the prosperity of needy peoples. To the contrary, profit-
making opportunities for speculators come at the expense
of the majority.
That is the path that we see clearly defined today for
this situation, and we must all redouble our efforts in that
direction. We will also have to strengthen anew the
international financial community so that there can exist a
real international safety net that will allow us to work in
peace.
Of course, the leading economic countries have a great
responsibility. President Clinton said last week that this was
the most important economic and financial crisis of the
second half of the century, and no doubt it is. That is all
the more reason for the major economies to assume their
responsibilities and for smaller economies, such as ours,
which basically seeks more and more equitable living
conditions, to try not to bring bad news to the world,
even while lacking the capacity and opportunity to be
those who can offer the world good news.
We should thus protect ourselves from a dangerous
neo-protectionism and continue to fight for increasingly
open and transparent markets, from which the persistent
subsidies in the large States disappear — subsidies in the
United States and the European Community, agricultural
subsidies which undoubtedly are a troublesome factor in
international economic activities and must be left behind.
If the crisis teaches us anything, it is that we must find
balance, and balance will not be found on the basis of
subsidies which continue to promote opportunity for
artificial economic sectors.
We must also protect ourselves from messianic
demagoguery, which is the political dimension of this
crisis. For that reason, warding off and resolving the crisis
through international cooperation and concrete measures
are also very important in a democratic context. When
such instabilities occur, messianic demagogues appear, all
those pyrotechnists of prosperity who have always led
peoples to misfortune and to whom we should not offer,
through instability, another opportunity.
This is therefore a financial and economic crisis, and
ultimately a crisis in political democracy. It is the
fundamental chapter through which we must continue to
work here.
Our world is living in disconcerting times. In 1989,
it seemed, with the market economy triumphant over the
socialist economy and liberal democracy triumphant over
the Communist world, that we were entering an era of
peace and stability in which the old Hegelian dialectics
would yield to a world of synthesis — what was termed
the end of history, what others called the pensée unique.
Undoubtedly, that was an oversimplification.
Today it would also be an oversimplification to
believe that we have once again entered the crisis of
capitalism. In my long political career, I have been
invited many times to the funeral of capitalism. Times
have definitely shown that the market economy, with its
dynamics and its spirit of initiative, once again recovered,
and this will happen again now because no one is
pointing to a better alternative.
Therefore, we must not fall into another
oversimplification. At one point we believed that the
21


simple freeing of markets would bring about the miraculous
result of achieving growth and equity; we cannot now
return to the past and believe that through closed
economies, through stronger protectionist measures or even
through authoritarianism we will be able to resolve a
situation that, now more than ever, must be addressed with
the guidance of democratic principles.
No one has a clear road map. Thus, there is all the
more reason to reaffirm the basic principles, the first one
being political democracy, which calls on us, as President
Clinton said earlier, to fight against terrorism, which
through violence attacks democracy, in all its forms, from
the outside; and to fight against the enemies which
democracy generates from within. At times we have
suffered from excessive political passion, which sometimes
leads to divisions within countries, intolerance, racial
hatred, abuse of economic power and abuse of the media;
all of these factors are part of a democracy, but when used
without ethical limits they may weaken it.
We also have a right to ask the citizen to participate.
It is not through an alienated or indifferent citizenry that
democracy will be strengthened. Democracy will be closely
related to an efficient State, for only an efficient State can
stand united if the objective is to improve the lives of our
people, only a State which is not a mechanism for waste,
but rather a strong instrument to promote the forces of
society; to a market economy and increasingly open trade
based on standards that protect us from unfair competition;
and to a process of integration such as those being carried
out in the Latin American countries to enable us to join the
world with suitable economies to improve our production.
We must also think of the basic values of our
societies, such as the family, which is the historic nucleus
of our civilization. The weakening of the family has come
at a high price. Today, the drug trade reflects the spiritual
scourge of societies which, in their economic development,
have lost sight of spiritual values. Such societies have
weakened the family in a world where images, emptiness
and passing trends have caused a vacuum that in turn
causes the phenomenon of the search for artificial paradises
that aim to replace a meaningful life. We must enhance
spiritual factors to give democracies genuine content.
We must, of course, be pragmatical in economic
matters, but pragmatism alone will not keep alive the hopes
of peoples. We must strengthen family values, human
dignity and the universality of human rights, as our friend
President Mandela has said. We must all respect ethnic
individuality; in the final analysis we are all the same. We
must all fight against racial discrimination; we must all
respect and be very mindful of cultural diversity. But no
ethnic or cultural diversity can sanction the enslavement
of women or the killing of men: we are speaking here of
universal values that are essential to the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and that we must not only
proclaim but must also practice.
As Toynbee said, “Civilization is a movement and
not a condition, a voyage and not a harbour” (Readers
Digest, October 1958). We must therefore clearly identify
the stars that will guide us on that voyage. It is in those
stars that Uruguay believes.










===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
﻿Allow me
first, on behalf of my Government and myself, to
congratulate Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Namibia, on his well-deserved election as
President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth
session. We wish him every success and assure him of my
delegation's sincere cooperation in carrying out his work.
I also wish to express a warm welcome to the new
Members: the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the
Kingdom of Tonga.
A little more than a week ago, we had the opportunity
to address this same body at the close the fifty-third session
of the General Assembly. On that occasion, we expressed
a general view of the Organization as a whole, as well as
of some of the items or questions of greater relevance. That
view cannot differ basically from the one I am now
expressing as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay.
In order to contribute to the debate of ideas, we did
not silence then, nor will we now, certain views on the
international community, on the changes it is experiencing
and on the response capability of the United Nations to
face the new situations or expectations of the Member
States, especially the demands of regions or areas of the
world experiencing diverse types of suffering.
This suffering is at times basically economic in
origin — call it underdevelopment or more simply,
poverty and even extreme destitution — with all the
attending consequences of marginalization and exclusion.
In other cases, suffering stems from problems of
civilization that tend to show alarming signs of
deterioration. We must also emphasize that the turmoil
and instability experienced by peoples are not in every
case due to one and the same cause, whether of a material
or economic nature or because of the lack of resources.
We observe phenomena such as violence,
dramatically present at the individual or collective level;
terrorism of all kinds, blind and relentless; and, of course,
the drug problem in its diverse stages, including the
entrepreneurial business of its traffic and its perverse
destabilizing effect, and drug consumption, which is
destructive to the individual and is also related to family
dissolution. There is also the absence of or weakness in
educational standards that adequately prioritize the ethical
dimension and human values as a great pedagogical goal.
Perhaps none of us yet possesses the key to explain
the real origin of these pathological phenomena, but what
is very clear is that we cannot affect ignorance about
them, as if they were foreign to us — Governments,
States, peoples and organizations.
Without prejudice to what was just said, we
recognize first the central role the Organization must play
in terms of international peacekeeping and security. On
the other hand, it is necessary to give special attention to
the dreadful consequences of nationalist excesses, to
confront the exclusive and unfair fundamentalism of
religions, to fight discrimination, whatever the basic
claims or pretexts are, and to make tolerance a basic
principle of relations among individuals and peoples. All
are unavoidable duties of the United Nations.
We must now establish and reaffirm our position as
a Member State on those main items — some of which
are planned, others under way and others still to come —
regarding what is to be done.
I refer first to the reform of the Organization and of
the Charter, and in particular to the reform of the Security
22


Council. These are priorities that must continue at a pace
imposed by the complexity of the matter, by the current
state of international relations and, above all, by the
expectation of world public opinion that moves
momentarily from hope to anxiety. If it is true, as it is said,
that time takes revenge on things done without prior
consultation, it is just as true that medicine refined for a
long time, as the Italian master Carnelutti reminds us, could
arrive too late, when the patient is already dead.
Reform requires a balance, a balance between sudden
need and efficiency, between rigidity and flexibility and
between unavoidable principles and the just appreciation of
new realities. In favour of this balance, the General
Assembly approved in November 1998 resolution 53/30,
requiring at least a two-thirds majority for the approval of
any reform relating to the membership of the Security
Council. This dispelled concern about a reform being
approved by non-representative majorities, opening up a
new phase. This is contained in the report of the Open-
ended Working Group on reform of the Security Council,
established by consensus by the General Assembly by
resolution 48/26, in the chapter entitled “Observations”.
It will be your task, Mr. President, to give renewed
momentum to this process on the basis of its progress and
of other steps which, however modest and far from
resolving the matter, advance in denoting certain basic
points concerning which there is at least a common
diagnosis. Although distant from final solutions, these
points are always adjustable to the changes of the
international community.
The Government of Uruguay, my country — an active
Member State of this Organization and of other world and
regional organizations, both political and integration
ones — has observed and continues to see well-constituted
international institutions as the main guarantee for the
observance a more just, foreseeable and fair international
order. Therefore, when distinguishing the vital from the
superficial and rhetorical speech from the true search for
agreements, which can involve reciprocal concessions, the
delegation of Uruguay will be in favour of change and
against stagnation — but not just any change. It will favour
change that restores to the United Nations a level of
international recognition which, without sacrificing efficacy,
would make the Member States and their regions feel that
they are a tangible and active reality, that those subregions
cannot be under-represented.
There is no longer a place for an elitist international
society that freezes obsolete historical periods in time,
typical of a dialectic of confrontation measured in terms
of the cold war. We must propose new formulas to avoid
the effect of blockage that in many cases produces the
conspicuous right to veto, granting the Security Council
the procedural means to break it and even entrusting the
General Assembly, under certain conditions, as proposed
by my delegation, with new competencies so that it could
be formally informed and its decision be required in
situations which demand it, particularly when it concerns
cases that could involve the legitimate use of force.
The recent problem in Kosovo, which continues,
could serve as a typical example of the aforementioned
paralysing effect of the veto in the Security Council,
without forgetting the disturbing consequences that effect
would have in producing the marginalization of the
United Nations system of peace and security, with the
resulting questioning of the Organization itself and its real
possibilities.
This, naturally, requires the foresight of international
law as the sole source of legitimacy, without ignoring the
authentic and grave humanitarian situations that are
imposed on us by the drama of the real facts at a time
when they require a formal framework of timely,
legitimate and efficient international action.
We also attach special meaning to the improvement
of the rules of procedure and the working methods of the
Security Council, and we therefore trust that the proposals
elaborated by the Open-ended Working Group will be
adopted.
An optimistic initiative of the Organization,
encouraged by the Secretariat and the Member States, is
undoubtedly the so-called millennium summit, which will
take place at the fifty-fifth session of the General
Assembly. Regarding its agenda, there will be a certain
tendency in favour of approving a main topic of common
interest, capable of stirring the attention and participation
of heads of State and Government.
As this is the most important point now under debate
here, and since I wished to contribute when I was
President of the General Assembly, I now say quite
simply that in our view the main theme should be “The
United Nations: its future viability”. This would generate,
like the organs of a single body, related fundamental
issues, perhaps formulated as important questions, such
as: Towards a new system of international security? Does
globalization demand new strategies of the world
Organization? What more concrete strategies can there be
23


for the elimination of poverty and underdevelopment? How
can we review the system for the protection of human
rights, with a view to strengthening and improving them,
particularly in the fields of the family, children, education
and international cooperation?
Naturally, we are aware that for the millennium
summit to be successful and give hope for the next century,
its agenda must reflect the expectations of Member States,
which still show marked differences. My Government will
continue to participate in the preparation of the summit with
interest and in a responsible manner.
The initiative for dialogue between civilizations —
2001 is to be the United Nations Year of Dialogue among
Civilizations — proposed by Iran and approved by
consensus by the General Assembly at its fifty-third
session — is the kind of topic that is at the heart of the
United Nations role and should be studied in depth. We are
convinced of the great importance of examining with
extreme care the cultural diversity of Member States in
order to know each other better, but at the same time
understand the profound reasons why, despite our diversity,
we are all Member States of a unique universal
Organization: the United Nations.
Support and respect for the San Francisco Charter is
undoubtedly the starting point of any responsible dialogue.
The Government of Uruguay will contribute its ideas and
initiatives, joining in the efforts of all delegations to
improve the international habitat through understanding and
tolerance of peoples and ideas.
Without prejudice to the important progress made
towards the establishment of a normative system against the
proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons,
Uruguay considers it essential to take new steps in this
direction through the universalization of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), whose
norms must be recognized and accepted by all States.
The abusive use of light weapons or small arms — a
subject of great debate — whose uncontrolled proliferation
is reaching unacceptable levels, with devastating effects, in
some cases worse than those caused by weapons of massive
destruction, is a field in which the United Nations must
play a fundamental role, as already reflected in the
convening of an international conference to deal with the
illicit traffic in small arms, a conference which Uruguay
firmly supports.
My country strongly believes in the need to replace
the “culture of conflict” with a “culture of peace”, so that,
as wisely stated by the Under-Secretary-General for
Disarmament Affairs, Mr. Jayantha Dhanapala, “As the
twentieth century witnessed the creation of nuclear
weapons, the twenty-first century will see their
destruction”. The entry into force last March of the
Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling,
Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on
Their Destruction is an auspicious sign.
A most significant milestone in the endless search
for effective international ways to protect human rights
was the signing of the Statute of the International
Criminal Court in Rome in July 1998, during the same
year in which the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights was celebrated. Uruguay is
participating and will continue to participate seriously in
the elaboration of complementary rules and procedural
provisions to give the Court the basic elements to
guarantee that it can work properly. When that process is
completed the matter will come before our legislative
bodies for consideration, in accordance with our
Constitution.
In conclusion, the topics that concern and will
continue to concern the United Nations are multiple and
diverse. At this very moment, for example, an instrument
that has shown its effectiveness on various occasions is
being employed again: the peacekeeping operation. I refer
here to the one taking place in East Timor, with the prime
goal of ensuring that the mandate of the Timorese people
is implemented, and of preserving the lives and physical
integrity of that people.
Naturally, the environment, which is under attack,
paradoxically as much by unregulated over-development
as by poverty, will continue to be on the Organization's
agenda, as well as the topic of population and
development.
But perhaps the essential need is to make the
maximum effort to make the United Nations the point of
reference for all States, the most powerful and the
weakest — the former so that they yield to the
international order and the latter so that they adjust to it,
and find in the Organization their best shield. For all
States it means access to a modernity that will develop
them and make them part of the current technical
innovation, which is supported by the information
revolution through which all of us, in one way or another,
will be introduced to the coming century.
24






===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
Allow
me to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his
work as President of the fifty-fourth session of the
General Assembly, during which he continued and
concluded the preparation process of the recent
Millennium Summit, initiated during the preceding
session.
Likewise, I extend to the President of the
Assembly at the fifty-fifth session, Mr. Harri Holkeri,
former Prime Minister of Finland, our congratulations
and best wishes for the success of his tenure.
We also extend a fraternal welcome to Tuvalu as
a new Member of the United Nations.
30

A little over a week ago the United Nations held
its Millennium Summit. To be more precise, we held
our Millennium Summit. The work of the Secretary-
General and of the Member States deserves our praise,
for the result of their efforts was wholly positive. We
should all congratulate ourselves on that very
successful work, but the task assigned to us by the
Summit is now in our hands. It should begin with an
assessment and careful evaluation of agreements,
disagreements and priorities.
Above all, we should pay special attention to the
statements made by our heads of State and
Government, as well as to the oral summary reports by
each of the Presidents of the four round tables. Taken
as a whole, this constitutes rich background material on
which we could, and should, work. One could say that
the General Assembly, as a universal and independent
body, has been entrusted with a mandate by the highest
political leaders of the Member States. Interpreting and
carrying out that mandate is now the main objective of
our work in the General Assembly.
Of course, the Secretary-General's report
(A/54/2000), known by the opening words of its title,
“We the peoples”, is an essential contribution, widely
appreciated at this time of putting the Organization in
perspective. For that reason, the Secretary-General
deserves our sincere acknowledgement.
We can therefore say that never before have we
had more authoritative or exact guidelines. As the
Secretary-General said in his opening statement, the
responsibility for putting those directives into practice
is in our hands; in other words, in the non-exclusive
framework of the General Assembly.
From the very start of our renewed task we must
try to identify some central ideas that reflect a general
consensus on our point of departure, while
acknowledging that neither the Summit nor any similar
United Nations meetings will be able to make any
arbitrary changes to the items on the world's agenda or
alone bring about the alterations that practically all of
us view as necessary and inevitable.
It is therefore a matter of using the Millennium
Summit as a launching platform for the achievement of
the common objectives of the international community,
whose main quality should be to reflect the basic rights
and interests of all its members. We should, then, be as
careful in identifying those goals as we are in selecting
the procedures and determining the time required to
achieve them. In any case, there are some realities that
we cannot, and should not, evade.
The first is the acknowledgement that the so-
called globalization or universalization phenomenon
constitutes the inescapable environment to which the
human family should adapt, not from a stance of
confrontation or resigned acceptance, but in order to be
an active part of it. By living within the framework of
globalization we will be in a position to direct and
channel it, accepting its intrinsic values in its scientific
and technological dimension, while conferring upon it
the necessary inspiration and political will to control its
negative effects on societies that lack the necessary
resources to be part of globalization and to benefit
from it.
It has been said here at the Assembly that we
should attempt to make it possible for all States to
climb aboard the globalization train. That goal should
motivate our individual actions and our cooperation
efforts in the immediate future.
As was repeatedly emphasized during the
Summit, United Nations action of the kind I have
described would have an encouraging and positive
effect, especially since no other international institution
has undertaken that task. Given the universal and all-
inclusive nature of globalization, it is appropriate to
consider what action the United Nations could take
from the perspective of evolution and change of the
international system in its three principal areas: first,
the institutional political system — the Organization
itself and its powers; secondly, the global financial
system established by the Bretton Woods Agreements;
and, finally, the organization of international trade
within the framework of the World Trade Organization
(WTO).
With regard to the first, it must be admitted that
in the process of reform of the Security Council, to
which we have devoted so much effort, no significant
progress has been registered recently. It would appear
that the international community has not yet
sufficiently assimilated its will to change at the
institutional level. That admission does not take away
from the fact that the reform of the Council is a
pending matter and one which, as the round table
reports indicated, received particular attention from the
heads of State and Government at the Millennium
Summit.
31

It seems to us that on this matter we have reached
a paradoxical situation. On the one hand, there is
practically a consensus on the need to reform the
Council so that it can — on the basis of certain
principles held very dear by the international
community — more adequately reflect current reality,
being made more democratic in its spirit, more
representative in its structure and more transparent in
its functioning. On the other hand, however, some
believe that the formula proposed to achieve the goal
of expanding the Council — an increase in both
permanent and non-permanent members — disregards
the very principles that we seek to implement. We have
thus responded to the need felt by all for reform of the
Council, in order to make it more representative and
democratic, with formulas that do not yet appear to
reflect the requisite universal spirit of reform.
That is why we believe that, while we continue
our efforts to reorganize the Security Council, we must
also explore alternative solutions avoiding the
approaches — perhaps too simplistic — adopted so far,
which have not made progress possible, even after
eight years of intensive negotiations. New approaches
and ideas are needed in the reform of the Council more
than in any other problem.
Peacekeeping and international security continues
to be a core issue giving the United Nations its specific
character and, to a certain degree, its reason for being.
The Organization's peacekeeping and international
security mechanisms, the limits within which they can
operate and their modalities have been on our agenda
since the founding of the United Nations. They
continue to require our attention, because problems of
peace and international security manifest themselves in
varying and sometimes unexpected ways as the world
political situation evolves.
The United Nations is now confronted with the
worrisome problem of how to achieve its peacekeeping
goals with limited resources and inadequate
mechanisms. The report on peace operations prepared
by a group of experts, known as the Brahimi report and
drafted at the request of the Secretary-General, will
undoubtedly help us find a way to overcome the
difficulties now facing the Organization in this area.
Uruguay, since 1952 a traditional contributor to
peacekeeping operations, is carefully considering the
recommendations contained in the Brahimi report,
many of which we deem worthy of our support.
In any event, we warmly welcome the initiatives
aimed at a more in-depth consideration of what has
been termed “humanitarian intervention”. We hope that
a detailed and objective examination of this concept by
the Organization will enable us to grasp its true scope
and implications and to find ways of integrating it
harmoniously into the international legal order, without
any kind of distortion.
The financing of peacekeeping operations
requires the prudent management of existing resources
and, as with the regular budget, that all Member States
fulfil their financial obligations to the Organization,
without conditions. Likewise, the institutionalization of
the current scale of assessments is vital, perhaps with a
few small changes that would not create problems for
developing or least developed countries and that would
ensure that States shoulder their responsibility
according to their real capacity to pay.
This is also our position on the regular budget.
We cannot accept that, in determining the scale of
assessments, simplistic formulas should be used that
are based only on isolated economic indicators such as
per capita income, which do not reflect the real
economic situation of the country and of its population.
We cannot overemphasize the link between the
question of disarmament and that of development
financing. The fact that the majority of violent conflicts
occur in the developing sector of the world, in which
there are often too many weapons and too few schools,
remains a shameful paradox. We must continue to work
towards disarmament. That is why my country,
Uruguay, supports the convening of the United Nations
Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and
Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, set to take place next
year.
Uruguay also supports the efforts of the “New
Agenda” countries towards the elimination of nuclear
weapons and encourages the ratification of the
Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty.
As concerns the international financial system —
the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank — and its handling of the recent, recurrent crisis
situations in the world, shortcomings were noted in its
methods of operation. In particular, its failure to
anticipate those crises has made clear the need to
update and reform the system directly responsible for
ensuring global economic governance. In this effort to
reorganize the financial institutions and to coordinate
32

their activities with those of the United Nations and its
agencies, we should also consider the common
aspiration of the majority of the members of the
international community to democratize the decision-
making processes in those organizations. The close
connection between the decisions by the World Bank
and the International Monetary Fund, and the social
and economic realities of countries, more than justifies
this aspiration.
Inequality, poverty and debt in the developing
world are problems that have been, and continue to be,
emphasized in the debates of the Millennium
Assembly. These problems require not only ongoing
programmes and actions but, above all, a basic sense of
solidarity, which does not always characterize our
cooperation efforts.
In the same vein, two noteworthy ideas were put
forward during the Summit that we believe should be
considered, because they could offer some guidance in
efficiently addressing economic issues. The first is the
idea of creating a development council that is neither
dependent nor subordinate and that has the authority to
take the decisions necessary to adjust and direct
complex international financial flows, since the trends
and developments in that respect affect the economies
of all States.
The second is related to international trade. In
this regard, the international community is firmly
convinced that international trade must be made
increasingly open and free. The President of Uruguay,
Mr. Jorge Batlle Ibáñez, in his address to the Summit
and in the relevant round table, emphasized the
indivisible nature of freedom, as a whole that cannot be
separated from free trade.
As trade is a natural and traditional method of
communication among peoples, Member States must
not impose protectionist barriers to its free flow, which
would delay development and therefore affect the well-
being of peoples. This could also lead to serious social
problems, which in many cases could spiral out of
control. In this way, obstacles to trade, discriminatory
trade policies and protectionism could become factors
of political instability at the domestic and international
levels. This is the position of Uruguay within the
Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), in the
relationship between MERCOSUR and the Andean
Community, in the Free Trade Area of the Americas
and in the World Trade Organization (WTO).
The strong argument to that effect put forward at
the Summit must not be disregarded by those Member
States that singly or together selectively raise
protectionist barriers in order selfishly to defend their
own production and participation in the market,
denying others what President Batlle has called
“our right to create and produce and our right to
offer and sell what is produced”.
In this regard, I cannot but welcome the initiative
of the Government of Italy, announced by its Prime
Minister during the Summit, to insist, within
international organisms — including within the Group
of 8 — on the need for the developed countries to open
their markets to the least developed countries by
abolishing quotas and tariffs.
Nor can the WTO cannot turn a deaf ear to this
call. Although it does not play a major role in global
financial governance, its regulations affect trade in its
broadest sense, and it still counts among its
responsibilities, set out at the Uruguay Round and in
the Marrakesh agreements, the regulation of trade in
agricultural products, which affects many of our
countries, particularly those of Latin America and
Africa.
Today no one could doubt the role of the United
Nations in the gradual process of achieving equality in
the world. But the United Nations does not bear sole
responsibility in this respect; the Member States and
Governments do as well.
A solid and hopeful future for the international
community will depend on our good judgement and
integrity. Also at stake is the trust of our peoples and of
public opinion. Fortunately, for those of us who
practise the democratic creed, that trust is always time-
bound and subject to public opinion.
Our ability to work within the Organization will
determine whether the Millennium Summit that just
took place will breathe new life into the United
Nations. The world needs to see itself reflected in the
institutions it established, with hope and participation,
with responsibility and a will to build a fairer, more
predictable, more peaceful and more humane society.
I therefore believe — and this is merely a
suggestion — that it is essential for all of us to ensure
that the Assembly is accorded the important role
assigned to it in the Charter, even though reality
sometimes does not allow for this. We must ensure that
33

the Assembly and the Secretariat establish as soon as
possible a working group or a similar mechanism that
would follow up on the Millennium Summit and would
examine the wealth of ideas put forward by our heads
of State to ensure that they can be implemented and put
into practice. Only in that way will the Millennium
Summit be remembered.













===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿I
want first of all to stress that, under the current
circumstances, our presence — everybody’s
presence — at this general debate unquestionably takes
on special significance.
Every year, the United Nations prepares and
submits to Member States for their consideration a
comprehensive agenda containing many items of varied
scope and nature. This session is no exception: the
United Nations will not stop.
Yet, many things now appear completely
different. The city of New York, the United States and
every country, and the people of the United States and
every people — all of humankind — have been cruelly
attacked by terrorism, and its threat hangs over every
one of us and over natural and peaceful relations
among the peoples of the world. In short, this is a
global phenomenon that demands of us a global answer
and that has marked the start of the new millennium.
The nations of my continent believe that to be so. The
statements made by the Presidents of Brazil and of
Mexico, which I endorse, made that perfectly clear.
The Millennium Summit, which brought us
together here last year, provided an opportunity for us
to identify the issues that affect us all and that we must
face as part of a challenge that no one can avoid. It
19

defined an agenda of peace and hope for a world
affected by common problems, although, it must be
said, in different ways.
Today, we face a new scenario. Perhaps as never
before, all of us, and hence the United Nations, have a
common goal: to respond to terrorism, irrespective of
boundaries, ideologies, religions, races and cultures.
That commitment, undertaken with responsibility,
involves taking every possible action without ever
forgetting the higher goal: peace, whose supreme
guarantee must continue to be international law and the
conventions and treaties to which we are parties.
But there is no doubt that such a commitment is
not enough. We must fight every form of terrorism at
every level, domestic and international, and on every
front — legal, military, security and intelligence,
administrative and management. This demands of us
strong conviction, confidence in our shared values,
faith in humankind and the affirmation of life as the
highest value.
Terrorism is blind and wicked by definition.
Blind because it does not conceive or communicate
goals shared by the rest and so plunges into
irrationality. Wicked because it indiscriminately
destroys people and property and sows fear, anxiety
and sometimes panic.
Nevertheless, to fight it it will also be necessary
to move against other enemies of peace, such as
poverty and underdevelopment, to give every person
good reason to live and to make all of us guardians of
humankind, which is a common good from which no
one must feel excluded, and for which we must fight
unwaveringly.
There is no cause or banner that could justify this
violence. That is precisely why we must prevent
marginalization, helplessness and desperation from
taking root in people’s souls so that they look
approvingly and complacently on the criminal actions
of which we are victims.
Our task, then, is to galvanize everyone’s spirit in
the struggle against terrorism, because terrorism not
only fails to help solve the problems afflicting society
as a whole but also fills it with fear and plunges it into
paralysis and confusion.
We move with ever greater determination towards
a world and, consequently, towards a society that is
evidently more and more globalized. The events of 11
September demonstrate that very clearly. Every people
and every Government has been affected by those
events.
We are all involved in what happens, in a more
profound way than ever, because what happened not
only affects the security of the people; it raises
questions that are much simpler, but the answers to
which are complex: what are all of our lives going to
be like from now on? What is the life of my family
going to be like? Of my children? Of my parents? And
of the others, my neighbours, my friends? How will the
simple acts of my life change? Will I be able to travel,
receive letters, use transportation and cross bridges —
without second thoughts, as was natural to us before?
This world and, in particular, the United Nations
face a challenge for which they are not duly prepared.
We have created the technological and communication
means to unify the planet and globalize it. But we
neither know how nor have the proper instruments to
properly manage this process.
We are living through an amazing revolution, and
it must be guided — driving it forward if it stalls,
limiting it if it goes too far — in order to achieve the
goals enabling the structuring of a new, balanced
international system that takes into account the changes
that have occurred for humankind over the last 50
years.
The United Nations was born as a response to a
world that today no longer exists. The instruments and
institutions it created in the past were a response to
past realities — replaced today by new realities — in
the political, demographic, cultural, religious and
ecological spheres.
All the many countries that make up this global
society and that, together, navigate through space, have
the obligation of confronting this new reality, drawing
on our diversity.
Uruguay, a small country, but one with a long
international tradition — it was a participant in the
1907 Hague Conference to implement arbitration as the
method for resolving conflicts, a member of the League
of Nations and a founding Member of the United
Nations in San Francisco — feels that this is our
current situation, and we are ready to shoulder our due
share of responsibility.
In the past, we created international financial and
monetary institutions, and others for international
20

trade, such as the World Trade Organization, which is
meeting today in Doha. All these institutions govern
our activities and determine what we must do. But they
never act in concert. While the world is global, their
decisions are sectoral or singular.
While loans are granted to us or fiscal or
monetary adjustments are required of us, the doors to
markets do not at the same time open to our products
and our labour. This way, instead of participating in the
process of globalization, we are closed in nearly sealed
compartments. Those who have attained a certain level
of growth grow even more, while the rest, save a few
exceptions, suffer losses and fall further away from the
levels that would make it possible to enjoy the
necessary prosperity.
Today the planet has 6 billion inhabitants. Only
1.1 billion of them live in developed areas. In 2050, not
long from now — my grandchildren will not yet have
reached my age — the planet will have 9.3 billion
inhabitants, but still only 1.1 billion will live in
developed areas.
Poverty not only destroys democracy. What is
worse, it destroys societies and paves the way for
violence and, as we have often seen, even in our midst,
all forms of terrorism.
Finally, we consider it appropriate to repeat that
we are far from holding the answer necessary for the
world we have created.
We might not have spoken aloud these thoughts
that assuredly many of us have always had, had it not
been for the thousands of innocent women and men
that died on that ill-fated 11 September. We owe to
them — whom Americans will always remember with
love and grief, feelings we also share — our most
important responsibility: to see to it that they did not
die in vain.
Their tragic fate has shown us our duty. Now it is
time to do it.






===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
﻿The
profound and dizzying change that took place in the
world during the last decade, with the end of the cold
war and the acceleration of the process of
globalization, did not bring with it the ideal
international society for which we had hoped, and
world peace now seems as elusive as ever. That is the
great challenge the Organization must face as we begin
another session of the General Assembly, whose
relevance as a coordinating body for the international
community is again being put to the test.
The events of September 2001 radically changed
the perception of security in the world. The main threat
to international peace and stability now comes in the
form of organized multinational clandestine groups
which, having wide access to weapons and financial
resources, seek to sow terror with a total lack of basic
human feeling.
Despite its cultural and religious diversity and the
diversity of its political systems, and notwithstanding
the marked differences in levels of development, the
international community reacted to terrorism with a
deep and resolute sense of solidarity, which is reflected
in its decision to combat it vigorously within the
framework of international law, through the relevant
conventions and fulfilment of the obligations stemming
from the Security Council, based on the principles of
the Charter and on respect for human rights. In facing
that scourge, we must not forget what the President of
Uruguay, Jorge Batlle, said in his address to the
General Assembly last year in reference to terrorism:
to fight it, it will also be necessary to move
against other enemies of peace, such as poverty
and underdevelopment, to give to every person
good reason to live and to make all of us
guardians of humankind, which is a common
good from which no one must feel excluded, and
for which we must fight unwaveringly'.
(A/56/PV.44, p. 19)
It must also be borne in mind that that ubiquitous
and anonymous enemy  terrorism  invokes
political pretexts related to unresolved conflicts. In that
regard, Uruguay reiterates its confidence that the
Palestinian authorities will show proof of their peaceful
aspirations through their acts. At the same time, we call
on the Government of Israel to make all the efforts
necessary to return to the negotiating table, as the only
way to achieve lasting peace.
We retain our optimism in the face of all those
challenges. We wish to highlight two positive
developments that demonstrate that the international
community is moving in the right direction: the first is
the establishment of the International Criminal Court
(ICC), which will contribute to the maintenance of
peace by preventing, deterring and punishing the most
serious international crimes that individuals can
commit.
My country, Uruguay, by signing and ratifying
the Rome Statute, indicated its willingness to
contribute to the important process of the development
and strengthening of international law through the
establishment of permanent legal institutions.
Secondly, the world has this year laid the
groundwork for the management of the broad spectrum
of the positive and negative effects of globalization.
The recent Summit on Sustainable Development
represents the culmination of a process that
complements the results of the Monterrey Summit on
Financing for Development and the Ministerial
Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO),
held at Doha, which will enable the international
community to coordinate its efforts to eradicate poverty
and to promote global development by increasing
21

development assistance and liberalizing trade in a
sustainable manner.
The overall conclusion to be drawn from these
conferences is clear. If the developing countries are not
given equal opportunities and conditions, both with
respect to the elimination of subsidies and unfair trade
practices and with respect to market access, then those
countries  the particularly small and developing
countries  will continue to suffer the negative effects
of globalization without enjoying its benefits, thereby
aggravating the political, social and economic situation
in the vast majority of States in the international
community. This is the path to deadlock.
Uruguay, with its firm commitment to
multilateralism, belongs, at the regional level, to the
Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), together
with Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, as well as Bolivia
and Chile. MERCOSUR, which is now a decade old 
it has been in existence since the AsunciÛn Treaty of
1991  has established itself as an effective actor
within the international community, going beyond the
dimension of an economic project to play an active role
as a stabilizer of democracy in the region, thus
consolidating the rule of law and full respect for
fundamental freedoms and human rights.
It is therefore as a member of MERCOSUR that
Uruguay has opted for an ambitious policy of trade
liberalization characterized by the principle of
transparency. It hopes that the other trading blocs in the
developed world will apply the same principles and
avoid the duplicity inherent in advocating the need to
promote free trade on the one hand, while at the same
time protecting one's markets with discriminatory
practices. We therefore ask for reciprocity from our
trading partners.
We must not forget that this is the reason why we
are now facing increasing difficulty in achieving our
development goals. Uruguay, like many other countries
in other regions of the world, is experiencing an
economic and financial crisis that was completely
unavoidable as a result of the severe impact of
regional, extra-regional and external factors. This was
attributable to our increasing dependency on foreign
trade, to the fall in the international prices of our
products, to the implementation of subsidies and to
other protectionist measures by the developed
countries, and to the rapid spread of the crisis in the
financial systems of the main exporting markets.
To this we must add another tragic irony. Our
export products, which are mainly agricultural, cannot
compete with similar goods from other countries
because of their higher cost, which results from the fact
that Uruguay fulfils all of its international obligations
in the labour and social fields, particularly with regard
to child labour, the work of women, the minimum
wage, social benefits and working conditions.
Nevertheless, the developed countries preach respect
for human rights, the strengthening of social security
and the fulfilment of those obligations, while at the
same time purchasing products that are produced at
lower cost, in violation of international legal
obligations.
The phenomenon of globalization, which has
developed thus far without a proper cooperation
framework, appears to be the cause of many of these
problems. We continue to believe that it is within this
Organization that we must continue to explore ways
that will lead to a political solution to the principal
problems that we all face.
On the one hand the United Nations is the
obvious body to manage the impact of globalization. In
this process of constant change  which is accelerated,
no doubt, by the technological advances of the so-
called information society  we recognize the
potential that information technology innovations have
for the development of democracy and the economy as
well as social progress, and we note with great interest
that the World Summit on the Information Society will
be held next year.
Furthermore, we must bring to life once again the
true purpose and meaning of international economic
cooperation. True solidarity is reflected not only in the
undertaking of commitments at international summits
and conferences. It is expressed above all in the
faithful discharge of these commitments by each State,
in particular developed countries. This is the only way
in which developing countries can move beyond their
low levels of progress and achieve sustainable
development.
All of this requires the introduction of changes in
the organs and in the procedures of the United Nations
in order to ensure better representativity in its structure
and to enhance the efficiency of its functioning. The
reform of the Security Council and the revitalization of
the General Assembly are tasks that are still pending
and which we must continue to pursue.
22

Uruguay has confidence in multilateral
mechanisms for preserving and building international
peace and security. It is a signatory to the San
Francisco Charter and since 1952 has contributed
troops to 13 United Nations peacekeeping missions.
We take pride in the fact that the more than 1,500
members of our military and police forces currently
participating in peacekeeping operations represent this
firm commitment and our belief in this Organization.
Therefore Uruguay shares in its entirety the
eloquent and passionate advocacy of multilateralism
reflected in the Secretary-General's statement last week
in this very Hall. Like Mr. Kofi Annan, the people and
the Government of Uruguay reaffirm their genuine
commitment to multilateralism, deeply rooted in our
spirit and based on principle, on tradition and on
conviction.
The most recent political developments, in terms
of the crisis posed by Iraq, is in our view proof of the
need for balance which can be achieved only within the
framework of mutilateralism.
In conclusion, I should like to warmly and
sincerely congratulate you, Sir, on the manner in which
you have been accomplishing your work, which we
know will be successful. We also welcome the two new
Members who are joining the Organization  the
Swiss Confederation and Timor-Leste. We know that
under your leadership, this will be a fruitful and
successful session of the Assembly.







===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
﻿Uruguay believes in the United Nations, has faith in the
United Nations, will support the Organization and will
continue to contribute to it, as it has been doing since it
became one of its founding Members. It is comforting
to note that, at this time of crisis for the Organization,
virtually all the participants in this debate have
expressed this same sentiment.
Some six decades ago, the United Nations was
created to promote and regulate multilateral
cooperation, by which the international community
agreed to address and resolve common problems. The
structure of the Organization, the functioning of its
organs, and the rights and obligations of its Members,
as formulated in the San Francisco Charter, all
reflected the international political reality of that time.
But, over the course of more than half a century,
there have been profound changes in the structure of
international society. Its actors have multiplied and
become more diverse and there have been new and
more dangerous manifestations of violence. New
threats to peace that were not foreseen by the drafters
of the Charter occur with increasing frequency. At the
same time, there has been an intensification of certain
growing trends that seriously affect the well-being of
humanity, such as the degradation of the environment,
18

the depletion of natural resources, epidemics and the
contrast between consumer societies and societies that
live in extreme poverty.
In recent years, and in particular during this
general debate, special emphasis has been placed on
the need to reform and revitalize the United Nations in
order to adapt it to current realities. Uruguay shares
this position, not only because it considers that this
Organization has not been completely effective in its
handling of some recent crises, but because it
understands that the scale of the changes in the world
today justifies the search for ways of adapting the
institution.
Although it is true that the system of collective
security established by the San Francisco Charter has
not always been able to respond to crises effectively, in
numerous cases multilateral action by the United
Nations has succeeded in restoring peace in many
regions and countries, contributed to the consolidation
of democracy, and accelerated the reconstruction of
affected countries. There are many more cases in which
the Organization, through its various organs, has
exercised positive and decisive control over crises and
conflicts, thus preventing the situation from becoming
worse and ensuring a peaceful solution.
The process of reform, which is indispensable
and cannot be delayed, should in our view be based on
the following premises.
The first is to preserve intact the purposes and
principles of the Organization, as enshrined in the
Charter of San Francisco. After all, if we all gather
here every year as the United Nations, it is because our
nations are united around the values and ideals
enshrined in the Charter and shared by all mankind,
whose permanent and universal validity transcends the
vicissitudes and accidents of history.
The second premise is that the reform process
should be aimed principally at strengthening
multilateral action, because never before has the need
to cooperate and act together to deal with international
problems been so great. Common global responses are
needed to the proliferation and diversification of
international actors; the fact that the world is getting
smaller and more and more interdependent, due to the
increase in trade and the extraordinary development of
information and communication technologies; and
above all the globalization of threats to peace, security
and the well-being of our peoples. To use the words
employed by the Secretary-General in this Assembly
two weeks ago, Uruguay believes in “collective
answers to our common problems and challenges”
(A/58/PV.7).
Two years ago, the international community,
through the United Nations organs, offered a fine
example of solidarity by taking effective multilateral
action in reaction to international terrorism, which
threatens Governments, peoples, ideologies, religions
and above all human reason, imbued with such
elementary values as tolerance, compassion, solidarity
and respect for human rights.
The attack on the headquarters of the United
Nations in Baghdad — for which we wish again to
express our most sincere condolences to the Secretary-
General — is but another example of the barbarity and
fanaticism that we can successfully fight only if we
work together. With this attack, terrorism has given us
a raw example of its destructive universality. The
deaths of Special Representative Sergio Vieira de
Mello and of other colleagues is emblematic of the
tragedy suffered.
Just as in the fight against poverty, terrorism
cannot be defeated as a conventional enemy would be
with a victorious battle. The eradication of terrorism is
an ongoing objective whose achievement requires time,
patience and perseverance. Only through a joint
approach and multilateral action directed above all at
the roots of terrorism — not only at its atrocious
manifestations — will it be possible to reduce and
hopefully to eliminate this perverse and ubiquitous
enemy and at the very least ensure its total rejection.
Uruguay, which is party to most international
anti-terrorism instruments, attaches priority to the
conclusion of a general convention against
international terrorism. In this respect, we wish to
express our satisfaction to the Secretary-General for
having chosen transnational organized crime and
terrorism as an item in the signing and accession
ceremony for treaties promoted by the Organization on
the occasion of this general debate.
The third premise to which my country subscribes
is that we must not forget that the United Nations has
for years now been engaged in a process of self-
criticism and self-reform based on the idea that
strengthening an institution means strengthening its
organs. Reforms are being implemented in three of the
main organs of the Organization. The modalities of
19

each one of the respective processes differ. In the
Security Council, we are pursuing reform of its
membership to make it more representative and to
strengthen its democratic character. In the General
Assembly, we are pursuing its revitalization so that its
decisions can regain the authority they had in the past.
In the Secretariat, the purpose of change is to enhance
its effectiveness, an objective towards which the
Secretary-General is working strenuously. These three
processes are closely linked to each other but, despite
this close link, we believe that they must continue to be
pursued, as is now being done, separately, each one in
its respective forum.
For Uruguay, one of the most important aspects
of these reforms is the strengthening of the General
Assembly, over which you, Sir, are presiding with such
dignity and whose decisions are the most genuine
manifestations of the will of the international
community. Recent reforms are aimed at making this
organ more effective, but more profound changes are
required in order to restore the authority which the
Charter grants it and which the Assembly has exerted
in the past. We believe that there is still a great deal of
room for reform. Obsolete structures and procedures
remain. We also need to re-examine and evaluate the
organization, conduct and outcome of the annual
session that brings us all here together every year,
including the idea of concentrating the negotiation of
dozens of resolutions into a few weeks. Uruguay will
support far-reaching measures to revitalize the
Assembly. A better relationship between the different
organs is no doubt another of the necessary areas for
reform.
The fourth and final premise is that the efforts to
reform our institutions must be complemented by
equally vigorous efforts to change our own conduct as
Members of the United Nations. When we agreed to
become Members of this Organization, we freely
agreed to fulfil in good faith the international
obligations arising from the numerous treaties,
conventions and other instruments that have resulted
from the comprehensive legislative work accomplished
by this Assembly, United Nations agencies and other
international organizations and conferences.
However, the provisions of many of these
instruments are not being implemented. At times, in a
misguided defence of sovereignty, common
expectations are thwarted in order to satisfy national
interests that frequently are not of decisive importance.
Protection of the environment and the law of the sea
are good, but not the only examples of areas in which a
sharp contrast can be seen between the extensive
legislation that exists and the degree of
implementation. Consequently, year after year, the
competent international agencies and organizations and
scientific authorities report the ongoing deterioration of
the general environment, the abusive exploitation of
natural resources, pollution of the seas and reduction or
extinction of marine species.
The question of the fulfilment of obligations
assumed is the weak link in the chain of
multilateralism. We must seek ways of ensuring respect
for international obligations. Over the long term, the
satisfaction of common interests is the best way of
satisfying the national interest.
Without prejudice to this profession of faith in the
United Nations, Uruguay, a country of Latin America,
is actively participating in the Organization of
American States and in the inter-American system in
general. Uruguay is also fully committed to regional
integration processes, in particular to the Common
Market of the South. We see in these mechanisms a
promising avenue to help overcome the difficulties that
result from our status as a developing country emerging
from the most serious economic crisis of its history and
trying to overcome the obstacles preventing it from
achieving insertion into the global economy, such as,
for example, the huge subsidies that the industrialized
countries grant to their agricultural producers.
In this connection, finally, we cannot but mention
the recent ministerial conference of the World Trade
Organization, held in Cancún, whose lack of progress,
in our opinion, is a negative signal to a world that is
demanding fairer and more balanced rules, especially
for countries such as Uruguay, whose economies rely
primarily on the production of agricultural goods. We
are hopeful that renewed impetus in the negotiations
will permit us to achieve positive results in the coming
weeks and months in Geneva, to the benefit of the less
developed countries and the very future of international
trade.
I close my statement conveying my country’s
satisfaction and pride in seeing you, Sir, the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, a friendly country of
our region, presiding over this Assembly. I wish you
every success in your work.









===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
Today no one denies that globalization is here and that
it is here to stay. Not only has it changed the world of
communications so that now everything happens at the
same time throughout the world, but more importantly,
it has made historical borders irrelevant. The young
generation has more contact with other young people
living thousands of miles away than they have with
their own neighbours or family.
It is absolutely true that a global culture is
emerging in this world. While this is happening,
countries are still living on their nationalisms, their
secular habits, their own interests and their parochial
projects that are often alien to the new realities. The
question that we leaders ask ourselves ó especially
9

those of us who represent small nations - is whether
this inexorable change can be handled by the
organizations that we have created, or whether those
organizations still have a long way to go in terms of
adapting to the new reality. When we look at the
impressive success achieved by the United Nations
since San Francisco in 1944, two things seem clear.
First, the institutions that we have created
represent the greatest and most successful effort ever
made by mankind to organize peaceful coexistence and
to endow the planet with the best possible instruments
for dealing with the important aspects of human lives
within human society.
Secondly, it is equally clear that the world has
changed so much that the current reality now far
exceeds the capacity of the institutions that were
created to address and resolve past issues, issues that
today have taken on totally different characteristics.
Suffice it to recall that the founding Members of the
United Nations numbered 51 and that today there are
191 Member States. More important, the worldís
population at that time was only half what it is today.
And the total is inexorably rising towards 9 billion.
Furthermore, over the past 40 years, scientific
advances and the ensuing technological applications have
increased the resources of a very small group of nations,
leaving far behind many other countries, some of which
only recently gained their independence and most of
which are rich in natural resources but lack the basic
structures needed to achieve sustainable growth -
countries, moreover, where, no doubt as a consequence
of this, the population is increasing at very high rates
and where the resulting emigration to other continents
will soon create serious problems of coexistence.
Uruguay has been a Member of the United
Nations since its foundation and believes in the
Organization and in the varied multilateral agencies
that support its efforts; we understand the need to
consider Charter revision so that nations that did not
then carry the weight they carry today can assume
greater obligations in the inescapable tasks that the
situation of mankind now imposes on us. It is time for
them to share the responsibility with the five nations
that assumed it nearly 60 years ago.
Uruguay has also been participating in
peacekeeping operations for many years. Uruguay is one
of the largest troop contributors, and is the very largest
if the ratio of its small population - 3.4 million - to
peacekeepers is taken into consideration. We have
participated in operations in Asia and in Africa, and we
are currently deployed in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Haiti, Eritrea and elsewhere.
Uruguay acknowledges and welcomes the wise
European Union effort to bring equality at the highest
level to European nations with marked differences in
income compared with the richest countries. The
examples of Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Greece,
which will surely be emulated for new European Union
members, indicate what we in the United Nations must
do for the Congo and Haiti.
There is no point in achieving peace if the United
Nations lacks funds that can immediately be spent for the
practical benefit of peoples in extreme economic
difficulties. We must create global and largely
autonomous financial instruments to achieve those goals.
That is the only way for the United Nations to succeed.
A tiny nation like Haiti ó of 27,000 square
kilometres and 9 million inhabitants, where the average
number of children per mother is 4.7 and which lacks
the institutional and material infrastructure it needs -
cannot and will not resolve its problems merely
because a contingent of military forces from countries
of the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR) is
keeping the peace.
Travelling in the Congo with the troops we
recently dispatched, we see exactly the same thing
happening: a nation of 2.2 million square kilometres
and a population of 50 million does not have a road
going from one end of the country to the other. Without
autonomous, ready and independent means of coping
with and transforming that state of affairs, the United
Nations will not have solved anything at all even five,
10, 15 or 20 years from now. Yet only the United
Nations can handle such tasks.
Just more than three years since the fateful day of
11 September 2001 and just over six months since the
tragedy in Madrid, new and terrible forms of violence
continue assailing other parts of the world, claiming
hundreds of innocent victims ó as we have recently seen
in Russia and as we see in the Middle East. This reveals
the destructive power that poses a permanent threat to the
world as a whole, a source of inescapable sadness and
a cause for despair about the human condition itself.
Terrorism - and a genuine commitment to
combat and defeat it - must therefore be the first item
10

on our international agenda. Each State, each nation, each
community and each human being must contribute to
this endeavour; that is how we can help the United
Nations to fulfil its role as universal guarantor.
Combating this and other evils - hunger, poverty,
underdevelopment, marginalization, exclusion - requires
a United Nations that is more united, nimbler and more
effective. That is why the Organization must be more
representative, more balanced and more reliable: so
that it can continue to be a reference point for the weak
and a restraining influence on the strong.
Here, our country has recently adopted legislation
strengthening the system of prevention and control of
money laundering and the financing of terrorism. We
are in compliance with nearly all current treaties in this
area, and our legislation improves our mechanisms for
international cooperation against money laundering
and the financing of terrorism.
At the Millennium Summit and in the Doha
Declaration and Monterrey Consensus we agreed on
principles, goals and priorities, and we made
commitments which we reaffirmed a few days ago at
the summit of world leaders for the Action Against
Hunger and Poverty. If we are to attain those goals, we
need more just and equitable rules of international
trade. That is how to ensure that this becomes a key
stage in the march towards the social and political
stability that is today in serious jeopardy.
This is particularly important since it is well
known that States that vociferously preach free trade
and demand open markets ó which in our case are
already entirely open ó themselves impose and institute
obstacles to trade, subsidize their production in distorting
ways and compete with countries such as mine and many
others, which have nothing to offer the world except the
labour of their people in the commodity and industrial
sectors, which further enriches the rich countries.
Uruguay attaches fundamental importance to
financial and trade issues. In all international forums,
Uruguay calls for freer, more open markets. We favour
a single market from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego; we
support the Doha Agreement; we support the opening
of markets. We believe in freedom, but we believe also
that freedom is indivisible: there can be no political
freedom without economic freedom, and we think there
can be no economic freedom that does not go hand in
hand with political freedom.
We believe, therefore, that peoples can be strong
only if they can create their future in freedom. We
cannot build and stabilize democracies if women and
men cannot find an honest job to which to devote their
energies. That goal cannot be achieved with economic
assistance alone or with loans that, in the poorest
countries, are paid back only with great difficulty. It
can be brought about only with free trade ó something
that the world experienced in the nineteenth century.
In conclusion, Uruguay will continue to be
committed to the international system and to the
progressive development of international law, the most
recent expression of which was the establishment of
the International Criminal Court, whose Statute we
have ratified. We reaffirm our conviction that
multilateralism is the main principle on which the
conduct of international affairs must be based. We
express the hope that our region and the world as a
whole will pool their efforts and work together in a
realistic and committed manner. We continue to believe
in the United Nations as the collective instrument best
suited to our search for peace.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
I would
like to extend the sincerest condolences of the people
and Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay to
the victims of Hurricane Katrina, as well as to all the
citizens of the world, men and women, old and young,
who are victims of natural disasters, of the fury of
nature, which is showing us that it will no longer be
abused by mankind.
I come from Uruguay, a small South American
country, whose main wealth is its vocation for peace,
its drive for freedom and the democratic commitment
that its people have been forging for generations.
I convey the greetings of the people and
Government of Uruguay to this forum, which is the
broadest, most representative and most important
forum in the world today. It is a greeting that is
demanding, committed and hopeful.
The greeting is demanding because we are living
at a very particular time in the history of mankind. In
fact, at very few moments in history have we seen
circumstances so rich in paradoxes and so poor in
paradigms as the present one. Never before has
mankind had at its disposal such scientific and
technological progress and such a significant cultural
heritage to guarantee a life in dignity. However, never
before has mankind suffered so much inequality,
intolerance and uncertainty.
We know that we have reached this point, but we
are uncertain about where we are heading. We cannot
be passive witnesses to the situation; no one can wash
his hands of his own problems nor of problems that
seem remote. We cannot resign ourselves to a future
that is an unchanging extension of the present. There is
no reason whatsoever to give up the hope of a utopia,
without which darkness could be our fate.
Our greeting is committed because we all bear the
responsibility, which we cannot abdicate, of being the
masters of our own lives and the architects of our own
futures. This task is a road on which neither privileges
nor condemnations are allowed; we are all travelling
on an equal footing. Nor does this road permit
shortcuts. History is neither a gallery of national heroes
nor a calendar of outstanding events: history is made
by people day by day.
In this context, we upon whom our peoples have
conferred the task of governing have a very demanding
responsibility ahead of us. And that is because
governing means managing with efficiency and
transparency: it means articulating in a democratic
fashion this rich and complex network that is society.
But to govern means also to envisage the future and to
call upon people to build that future among all and for
all.
Our greeting is hopeful as well. Although we do
not overlook the risks, the difficulties and the limits
within the national, regional and global contexts, we
believe in human beings, we believe in society. We
believe in democracy as a means to govern but also as
a human impulse and as a state of society.
Although I said this during our statement at the
High-level Plenary Meeting which took place in this
same Hall a few hours ago, I wish to reiterate before
the Assembly that the Eastern Republic of Uruguay
reaffirms the principles that have characterized its
foreign policy.
First is the firm commitment to peace,
sovereignty, democracy and solidarity. When I speak
about peace, democracy, solidarity and freedom I
would like to recall that six days ago marked the thirty-
second anniversary of the occasion when a man gave
his life defending peace, democracy and freedom. I
would like thus to pay tribute to Salvador Allende.
The second principle is the firm rejection of any
kind of terrorism, violence and discrimination. The
third is the inalienable right of every State to safe and
stable borders and to be completely free to exercise its
sovereignty and self-determination, and fourth is
respect for international law as the best guarantee of
the sovereignty of peoples and their peaceful
coexistence.
28

The fifth principle is non-alignment and non-
intervention in affairs that come under the domestic
jurisdiction of States. Sixthly, we reaffirm
multilateralism as a means to strengthen international
law, enhancing the role of the United Nations. Seventh,
we acknowledge the indivisibility of all human rights,
be they political, social, economic, civil or cultural,
including those of a collective nature such as the right
to development and to a safe environment.
In conformity with these principles, Uruguay first
of all deems it necessary to move forward with the
reforms that will allow the United Nations to fully
fulfil its commitments. Because such reforms are of a
complex nature, they should be undertaken with a
sense of history and with political will, and without
hegemonic intentions.
Secondly, Uruguay renews its commitment to the
Millennium Goals, which in our country means the
design and implementation of a system of integrated
and global social policies that address the poverty and
destitution suffered by almost one million Uruguayans
and that, at the same time, are part of a strategy of
change and development.
Thirdly, Uruguay reiterates its will to continue
participating in United Nations peacekeeping
operations and will contribute its efforts to improving
the security and the conditions of service of those
missions.
We also express our support for the Secretary-
Generalís initiative to create a Peace Commission, to
which, we believe, Uruguay could contribute,
continuing its support for peacekeeping missions and
the expertise acquired in rebuilding devastated
countries.
There is no peace in intolerance and terrorism, no
freedom in poverty, and no democracy in inequality. It
is crucial to reject every expression of violence, but
before rejecting it, it must be avoided by attacking its
roots.
This is quite simply because every human being,
simply by being human, has the right to live in dignity.
Societies where there is a contrast between an opulent
few and a neglected majority are not prosperous.
Societies where to be born is a problem, to be young is
suspect, to get an education and a job is a privilege and
to grow old is a curse have no future. This is the way
we see it in Uruguay. We have learned this from those
generations that preceded us in building a country that,
though it has its own unique features, is not atypical of
nor alien to the Latin American context.
While it is true that the first half of the last
century was a favourable period for Uruguay, it is also
true that - due to a combination of external
circumstances and domestic structural weaknesses -
the last fifty years were a period of economic
deterioration, impoverishment and even an institutional
breakdown in 1973.
We Uruguayans regained democracy in 1985, and
the current Government, which took office exactly 200
days ago, is working hard to heal the wounds
dictatorship caused through human rights violations.
We are not hostages to the past, but Uruguayan society
needs to know the truth about what happened to ensure
that never again will it happen - never again.
Nevertheless, with the commitments that we have
assumed to Uruguayan society - whose will is our
mandate ó the Government of which I am head is
promoting changes: changes which are necessary,
possible, responsible and gradual, changes with
political and social support, changes that do not
overlook reality but do not give up on the dream of a
Uruguay with human development, with productive
economic growth and with a safe environment, a
Uruguay fully integrated into its own region and into
the international arena. We are not starting from
scratch, but we have a lot to do to achieve this utopia,
the dream of which motivates us as a nation.
In conclusion, this is exactly what I wished to
convey to members on behalf of the Government and
the people of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay: far
away, in the forgotten southern part of South America,
there is a country that does not resign itself to
difficulties, that is building its own destiny and that,
faithful to its tradition, wishes to join in building a
better world, working alongside all our dear brethren,
the citizens of the world.

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
Madam President, I bring to you the greeting of the 
people and Government of the Eastern Republic of 
Uruguay to this Assembly. This Assembly is the 
broadest and most representative and important forum 
in the world today. 
 Madam President, may I express my personal 
satisfaction at seeing you exercise such an important 
function and I am sure that as a woman you will be 
able to add to the office an additional share of 
moderation and restraint. 
 In Uruguay, like the United Nations, we feel that 
it is very important to preach by example. That is why 
the Government I represent has also assumed, among 
its many tasks, that of elevating the status of women 
and increasing their participation in various areas.  
 Likewise, I am very happy to bring to you a 
special message from the President of Uruguay, 
Mr. Tabaré Vásquez, for the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Kofi Annan, to thank him for his unrelenting 
efforts to drive the immense process of reforming the 
Organization. My country and the other Members of 
this house are fully committed to this reform. 
 On the occasion of the sixteenth Ibero-American 
Summit that will take place in Uruguay, the countries 
of the conference will express to the Secretary-General 
their thanks for his outstanding work. I would also like 
to say that the main subject of the Summit will be 
migration and development. Recently, we had a very 
constructive high-level dialogue on this subject in this 
house. 
 A year ago, during the sixtieth session of this 
forum, the President of our country said that the 
commitment of Uruguay to the United Nations 
Organization is both demanding and hopeful. 
 Our commitment is demanding because of the 
challenges that the current world faces and because of 
the opportunities implicit in the present, upon the 
management of which our future depends.  
 Our commitment is hopeful. Although we realize 
that there are difficulties and limitations on the 
international scene and at the regional and national 
levels, we believe in human beings, we believe in 
society, we believe in democracy as a common house 
and in freedom as the mother tongue of humanity. 
 The Eastern Republic of Uruguay reaffirms the 
principles that characterize our foreign policy, namely, 
our commitment to peace, sovereignty, democracy and 
solidarity; a firm rejection of all types of terrorism, 
violence and discrimination; the inalienable right of 
countries to have stable and secure borders and to fully 
exercise their sovereignty and self-determination; the 
respect for international law as a guarantee of 
sovereignty of peoples and their peaceful cohabitation; 
non-intervention in the internal affairs of States; 
multilateralism as a way of strengthening international 
law and as a way to organize the role of the United 
Nations; and the recognition of the indivisibility of all 
human rights, be they political, social, economic, civil 
or cultural, including collective rights, such as the right 
to development and the environment. Consequently, 
our country feels that progress in reforming the 
Organization must be achieved and we are making our 
contribution to that process, which will enable the 
 
 
35 06-53341 
 
United Nations to fulfil its tasks with greater 
effectiveness. 
 Greater effectiveness should also be sought by 
the important recently created bodies, the Human 
Rights Council and the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Uruguay is already actively participating in the Human 
Rights Council and we hope to join the organizing 
committee of the Peacebuilding Commission.  
 As a country that is a major contributor of troops 
and in support of the goal of peacekeeping, we have 
participated in peacekeeping missions since the 
creation of this Organization. The most recent example 
of this our active undertaking and participation in the 
United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti 
(MINUSTAH), which is an essential mechanism for 
securing a lasting peace and for restoring the social 
fabric of a dear Latin American nation. 
 Likewise, Uruguay would like to renew its active 
commitment to the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) as agreed to by the Heads of State and 
Government. When I say “active”, I say this as a 
reflection of how much progress has been made 
towards the goals set forth in the agreement signed in 
September 2005.  
 I cannot refer now to each of these goals at this 
time, but one of the main goals is “the eradication of 
extreme poverty and hunger”. In Uruguay, by means of 
the interaction of various governmental programmes, 
we have implemented an emergency social plan that 
deals with the most basic needs of those in extreme 
poverty.  
 Poverty has begun to decrease, dropping from 
32.6 per cent of the recorded population in 2004 to 
29.8 per cent at the end of 2005. We feel that this is 
still not sufficient, but it is progress, not only in terms 
of social protection, but also in terms of social 
integration. 
 This is so because the great problems that have 
produced poverty in our country, as in other countries, 
are not just hunger, the lack of housing, illiteracy, 
academic failure or teenage pregnancies, but also 
discrimination, stigmatization, insecurity and despair, 
indeed, situations that indicate being integrated in 
society is much more than subsisting. 
 Social integration is essential, too, because the 
right to participate in social life also involves 
recognizing individuals as active citizens and not just 
as people who need to be helped. 
 And social integration is key, because the right 
that our citizens are asking for — all of them, even the 
poorest — is not just the right to live, but also the right 
to be recognized as individuals and the right to live 
together in society. This is called democracy and 
citizenship. 
 Allow me from this important podium and on 
behalf of the Government I represent to refer to three 
matters of particular importance for our country. One 
of them has to do with the facts of the recent past. 
There can be no future without memory, no freedom 
without justice. That is why, within the framework of 
legislation in force, Uruguay is taking concrete steps to 
heal the wounds caused by the violation of human 
rights during the dictatorship that ruled the country 
between 1973 and 1985. It has been difficult work and 
it is also very difficult to learn and accept the truth, but 
it does strengthen democracy as a form of Government 
and condition in society. Moreover, truth and justice 
help to ensure that the horrors of the past are never 
repeated. 
 I am very happy to inform this General Assembly 
that my country has taken one further step in the 
promotion and defence of human rights. The 
Uruguayan parliament has just unanimously approved a 
bill on genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes 
and cooperation with the International Criminal Court. 
 Another subject that relates to the current 
situation and the future is climate change and the 
degradation of the environment. Uruguay is a party to 
the main international conventions in this area and, 
while stressing the indispensable international 
cooperation on this subject, we do particularly stress, 
once again, the individual responsibility of each State 
to actively protect the environment in its territory and 
waters and to make the vigilant participation of civil 
society a high priority. 
 It is not enough to simply protest pernicious 
transfers of polluting industrial processes. It is 
incumbent upon the State to act firmly to be vigilant 
and monitor and to impose high environmental 
standards on foreign and domestic companies.  
 Uruguay receives significant investment for 
industrial development on its territory, but we have 
very strict controls on the environmental aspects of 
  
 
06-53341 36 
 
those investments and we apply an internationally 
recognized standard that reflects our motto “Natural 
Uruguay”. We require the use of the most modern 
technologies available, and we monitor effectively, on 
the ground, the environmental effects of such ventures. 
 The Government of Uruguay reiterates its 
commitment to the protection of the environment in all 
parts of the world as a human right and as the 
cornerstone for achieving true sustainable 
development. In this sense, Uruguay calls upon the 
international community, and particularly the donor 
countries, to increase their cooperation in the area of 
the environment for developing countries and assume 
in a responsible manner global environmental goals 
that involve shared but differentiated responsibilities 
for everyone. 
 Finally, I would like to address our commitment 
to the strengthening of the multilateral trading system 
and the need to bring the Doha Development Round to 
a successful conclusion, in order to ensure that the 
development dimension is reflected in specific results 
and not just programmatic measures. For that, it is 
important to resume, as soon as possible, the 
negotiations in Geneva, always bearing in mind that we 
will not achieve satisfactory results without the 
elimination of agricultural subsidies, in the form of 
exports that receive internal support and the significant 
opening up of access to markets, particularly in the 
developed countries. 
 Everyone here in this Hall knows that there is no 
peace in intolerance and terrorism, and there is no 
freedom in poverty, nor democracy in inequality. We 
reaffirm our conviction that these threats can only be 
overcome if we join our efforts together and fully 
appreciate the wealth of our own cultural diversity, 
both among nations as well as within our respective 
nations. 
 Among nations, we must rely on the respect of 
our traditions and cultures and a broad-based dialogue 
among them in order to find useful synergies. And 
within each of our countries, we must rely on active 
policies promoting social cohesion that embrace our 
very cultural, ethnic and religious diversities. We have 
to move from words to acts, from declarations to 
action. This is not easy, but it is essential. 
 We are not starting from zero. The brief history of 
this Organization is testament to that. 
 But we still have a lot of work to do. It is a large 
task which, honestly, will never end and the results will 
never be perfect. 
 But these zones of continuity and imperfection 
establish the ideals that call on us to act and the 
commitments that drive us forward.  
 If this sixty-first session of the General Assembly 
of the United Nations is able to help us in this task, it 
will have fulfilled its mission. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
I  wish to congratulate Mr. Srgjan Kerim on his election 
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
second session.  
 On behalf of my country, Uruguay, I would like 
to pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and to all of those 
who today are paying their respects and are celebrating 
this International Day of Non-Violence.  
 The Eastern Republic of Uruguay would like to 
begin by reiterating its ongoing commitment to the 
principles and guidelines which are and will continue 
to be at the very core of its international activity: the 
sovereign equality of States, the rejection of the use of 
force or the threat of the use of force, peaceful 
settlement of international disputes, attachment to and 
support for institutions of international law, support for 
international law itself, non-intervention in the internal 
affairs of other States, the self-determination of 
peoples, the promotion of human rights, international 
cooperation in economic and social matters, and 
support for multilateralism and for the quest for 
collective answers based on consensus and respect for 
law, and within the framework of the principles of the 
United Nations Charter   which means the rejection 
of any attempt to impose the will of one State over that 
of others. 
 Achieving these principles is sometimes impeded 
by the attitude of a few dominant States that impose 
illegitimate decisions, provoking conflicts that involve 
a large part of humankind and affect the weakest 
countries. But above all, they weaken the legal and 
political authority of the United Nations. It is clear 
today that lying behind those attitudes we can discern 
hegemonic economic interests.  
 In accordance with the suggestion of the 
President, we will address the proposed agenda, 
beginning with climate change. 
 At the High-level Dialogue here on 
24 September, Uruguay expressed its opinions and 
referred to various aspects of this problem that lead to 
a serious and paradoxical situation for less developed 
countries: even though they do not contribute 
significantly to global warming, they are the ones that 
suffer the most and are the most vulnerable to its 
affects.  
 Regrettably, as we all know, there are highly 
industrialized countries responsible for emitting 
millions of tons of gas that cause global warming and 
climate change, which, however, do not seem ready to 
reduce their emissions nor to cooperate with the 
international community to compensate for these 
effects. We must call upon those countries to sign the 
Kyoto Protocol and to contribute, in a way that is 
proportionate to their responsibility in generating this 
problem, so that this struggle can be carried forward by 
all the nations of our planet in solidarity.  
 For basically agricultural and fishing countries 
such as Uruguay and many other undeveloped 
countries, climate is a decisive factor for development. 
The dramatic climate variations that are increasingly 
notorious constitute a serious threat for their 
possibilities for progress and the well-being of their 
populations. This is why our countries have affirmed 
that temporary aid and depending on the goodwill of 
rich countries when faced with specific catastrophes 
does not accomplish much. Rather, we need effective 
measures to be adopted from now on to prevent these 
catastrophes and commitments that are to be made now 
in order to avoid continuing to create the conditions 
that produce these catastrophes. 
 In considering the topic of financing for 
development, we should begin with the following 
question. What have been the causes of 
underdevelopment, economic and political dependency 
and poverty for billions of people, most of whom live 
in the southern part of the planet?  
 Looking for such financing, we tend to 
immediately think of financial organizations like the 
World Bank, or those which, in order to maintain 
budgets   that is, economic and social programmes   
reflecting fiscal imbalances, have for decades 
prescribed economic formulas, such as those applied 
by the International Monetary Fund, which instead of 
leading to development have destroyed the productive 
apparatus of entire regions of the planet, thus 
generating unemployment, increasing poverty and 
concentrating wealth.  
 My country, along with other countries of the 
South American region, the Cairns Group and the 
Group of 22, has been saying for two decades that it is 
important to have just standards of trade rather than 
preaching about the unconditional opening of markets 
on the pretext of free trade while simultaneously 
practising the crudest and most ruthless protection of 
the world’s predominant systems of production and 
stubbornly refusing to comply with part V of the 
Agreement on Agriculture, annexed to the Marrakesh 
Agreement, whose objectives include the elimination 
of subsidies and the opening up of markets. 
Unfortunately, we have not managed to convince the 
United States and the European Union of this.  
 To put it briefly and concisely, developing 
countries do not need to be “helped”; they need 
guarantees of free access to markets and, in particular, 
the elimination of domestic production subsidies, 
which violate the competitiveness guarantees, which 
are so highly touted. It is in agriculture that the 
southern countries are highly competitive and produce 
consumer goods of high quality, generally free of 
genetic modification. Real free trade would not make 
them turn to international credit and would enable 
them to generate their own resources to finance their 
own development, integrate their economies, to expand 
their markets, create their own multilateral credit 
institutions and diversify their products and, as a result, 
their markets.  
 Uruguay is the Chairman pro tempore of the 
Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR) and we 
firmly believe in the regional integration of all of the 
countries of South America. That is their strategic 
option in foreign policy.  
 Our South America possesses all of the natural 
resources that we find in the world; we have energy 
reserves for more than 100 years; we have the potential 
to produce food for 4 billion people; we have the 
largest global freshwater reserves; we have major 
mineral resources. Hence, we can make decisive 
economic and social progress, with a view to 
eliminating poverty.  
 But despite all of that, we face an absurd and 
criminal situation: out of 400 million people in South 
America, 200 million live under the poverty threshold; 
there are areas of the continent where there are 
extremely high rates of infant mortality. Life 
expectancy for part of that population is practically 
half of what it is in developed countries.  
 We cannot forget that in today’s world South 
America is a factor of peace and political stability. All 
of the current Governments of South America have 
been democratically elected. Both in MERCOSUR and 
in its associated States, we have adopted the so-called 
democratic clause that says that a country can belong 
to these integration systems only if it respects 
democratic principles.  
 That is why, after 200 years of non-integration, 
we will tenaciously defend that achievement   so that 
anti-democratic and destabilizing interference will fail 
and so that the continent of hope, as we call it, can 
have an impact on the world to affirm peace and 
respect for international law, democratic stability, 
fundamental freedoms and human rights, which with 
great sacrifice these people have recovered after 
decades of a doctrine focusing on national security.  
 Uruguay reaffirms its commitment to the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In order to 
achieve them, we need greater social justice, a better 
distribution of wealth and the gradual establishment of 
new criteria that would place the economy at the 
service of humankind instead of being a factor of 
slavery and poverty for a large part of humankind   a 
tool that is used for the excessive enrichment of 
privileged groups.  
 Our country knows the difficulties that all 
developing nations face in working towards those 
objectives. The current Uruguayan Government 
inherited a country that had experienced the worst 
crisis in its history, with levels of poverty affecting 
1 million people out of a population of 3.5 million 
people; in tens of thousands of cases poverty reached 
the levels of abject poverty. All of this was the result of 
the application of a foreign economic model which was 
contrary to the interests of the region and its people.  
 Tackling this reality meant not only medium-term 
and long-term productive development measures, but 
also emergency social measures. Thus, in 2005 we 
implemented an emergency plan which in two years 
reduced the number of poor by 120,000, eliminated 
abject poverty and helped to socially reintegrate a large 
percentage of those who had been affected.  
 The Government is moving forward with a social 
equity plan, which involves the integration of more 
than 500,000 people   one seventh of the 
population   into the national health system, which is 
also being substantially modified. It also includes 
benefits of roughly $40 per month to all children who 
go to primary school and roughly $45 per month for 
those who attend secondary or technical school. All of 
this will help bring about a positive process of social 
inclusion.  
 Likewise, laws are being considered to transform 
the entire educational sector and which are also aimed 
at achieving the MDGs. At present, school is 
mandatory from the age of 4 and special attention is 
being paid to dealing with the problem of dropouts. 
 For Uruguay, no type of terrorism is acceptable or 
justifiable: neither State terrorism, which we 
experienced during the 1970s and 1980s and which 
became a national security doctrine, nor the terrorism 
that is practiced by some groups to further their social, 
political, religious or other demands, claiming victims 
who, in the end, are always innocent people.  
 In the United Nations context, Uruguay is a party 
to all United Nations-system counter-terrorism 
conventions. We have submitted the relevant reports to 
all United Nations committees in this area.  
 Uruguay is concerned both by acts of terrorism 
and by their underlying causes. These include the 
promotion of hate based on cultural, political, racial or 
religious differences; the talk of a so-called inevitable 
clash of civilizations; military invasions; and the 
persistence of difficult conditions for part of 
populations living in occupied territories. 
Interventionism and non-compliance with United 
Nations resolutions to resolve conflicts are causing an 
increase in extremism and religious fanaticism among 
such peoples and seem to be the factors that have 
contributed most to the worsening and proliferation of 
terrorist attacks.  
 Uruguay calls for all cultures and peoples to 
come together in a respectful dialogue so that what is 
different or foreign will not be a reason for aggression, 
discrimination, subjugation or hatred. We fully support 
the initiative of Spain and Turkey: the Alliance of 
Civilizations.  
 In the view of Uruguay, peacekeeping in conflict 
zones is an essential mission not only of the United 
Nations, but also of all countries wishing to cooperate 
in building a safer world where peace and cooperation 
are the norm. Our country currently takes part in 12 of 
the 15 peacekeeping missions of the Organization 
deployed in Africa, America, Asia and Europe. Despite 
the fact that we have only 3.5 million people, we are 
the seventh largest troop contributor to those 
operations and we are the greatest per-capita troop 
contributor in the world.  
 Uruguay has acquired experience in matters 
linked to peacebuilding and reconstruction in areas 
devastated by conflict, and offers electoral assistance 
to States as well. 
 With respect to United Nations reform, Uruguay 
believes it is a priority to strengthen mechanisms to 
eliminate the resort to preventive wars, interventionism 
and unilateral actions that are undertaken without 
taking into account the opinion of the international 
community. Uruguay also expresses its full support for 
the new Human Rights Council, in which we have been 
honoured to serve as one of the Vice-Presidents. With 
respect to Security Council reform, we hope that in the 
current session we will be able to move forward on the 
basis of a consensus. Uruguay supports the inclusion of 
Brazil as a permanent member, as well as that of India, 
Germany and Japan, and an increase in the number of 
non-permanent members.  
 The effectiveness of the United Nations is a topic 
that concerns us. Uruguay is one of the countries that 
have been chosen for the “One United Nations” pilot 
plan, within the framework of the recommendations of 
the High-level Panel on System-wide Coherence. The 
Government of Uruguay has committed itself to 
carrying out this pilot project in coordination with the 
United Nations agencies in Uruguay, defining three 
strategic areas as the basis of that coordination: State 
reform, especially in health, education and 
development strategies; decentralized development, 
with civic participation; and policies to eradicate 
poverty and structural inequities.  
 Lastly, Uruguay believes that all United Nations 
Member States must abandon patterns that date back to 
the Second World War and develop organizational 
standards for the General Assembly, the Security 
Council and the other principal organs of the United 
Nations. Member States should establish conditions 
that would bring the United Nations into the twenty-
first century, thus guaranteeing peace and providing a 
forum in which to promote a dignified life for peoples 
along the axis of freedom, which is the basis for 
justice. 


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
Uruguay, one of the founding States of the United 
Nations, sees the fundamental principles of its foreign 
policy fully reflected in the Charter of this 
Organization.  
 For that reason, we believe it important at the 
outset to reassert the validity of those principles in the 
present international context and to emphasize once 
again the traditional Uruguayan position of full respect 
for international law, support for multilateralism, 
peaceful settlement of disputes, sovereign equality of 
States, rejection of the use or threat of use of force, 
non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, 
the self-determination of peoples, the promotion and 
protection of human rights and international economic 
and social cooperation. 
 It is worth repeating that this list is not simply an 
inventory of good intentions, but of legal principles 
and fundamental values. Their enshrinement in the 
Charter of the United Nations gives them the status of 
international law, to whose validity and enforcement 
all States must conform. 
 Furthermore, those principles are crucial guiding 
tools in a world that presents us today with major 
challenges. We, nations gathered here, have the moral 
and legal duty to find suitable solutions that will make 
peace and development the rule of coexistence for our 
peoples. 
 As we all know, a severe food crisis is currently 
afflicting too many countries throughout the world. If a 
sustainable and lasting solution in to be found, we must 
address the structural factors influencing and causing 
the crisis. Correcting the distortions in the multilateral 
trade system, in particular in agricultural trade, is 
certainly a decisive element in ensuring a plentiful 
supply of food that will meet the needs of the entire 
population of the planet. 
 Uruguay believes that, in addition to tackling this 
serious crisis with urgent measures, we must make 
progress towards a long-term solution. That inevitably 
means redoubling our efforts to strengthen the 
multilateral trade system and swiftly resuming the 
negotiations in the World Trade Organization. It is 
essential that we do so, particularly in the area of 
agriculture, in order to guarantee world food security 
and to avoid a reversion to protectionist practices that 
would only further aggravate the situation.  
 The food crisis is not the only crisis affecting us, 
however; another major challenge facing the world 
economy is undoubtedly that of energy. Here, as with 
agriculture, Latin America requires the technological 
cooperation of developed countries. Likewise, when it 
comes to developing the production of alternative 
energy sources, such as bioenergy and biofuels, 
research and technical assistance are essential if we are 
to benefit from the opportunities provided by such 
production without affecting food security or the 
environment. The United Nations has a crucially 
important catalytic role in that regard.  
 In addition, we cannot overlook the current 
financial crisis of the major developed countries, which 
demonstrates the global interconnectedness and 
interdependence among States. Although developing 
countries are certainly not the cause of the crisis, its 
effects afflict and punish the economies of emerging 
countries. 
  
 
08-53129 30 
 
 With regard to the environment and sustainable 
development, Uruguay is a party to the major 
international conventions in that area. While we have 
emphasized the importance of international 
cooperation, we have also always emphasized the 
individual responsibility of every State to actively 
protect the environment in its own territory and waters, 
and have always valued the vigilant participation of 
civil society in that regard.  
 That is why, while we receive significant 
investments that contribute to our industrial 
development, my country also exerts rigorous control 
over the environmental practices of the entities 
involved, applying internationally recognized standards 
and requiring the use of the most modern technologies 
available, with effective control over the environmental 
impact of those undertakings. The Uruguayan 
Government thus reaffirms its unwavering commitment 
to protecting the environment as a human right and as a 
fundamental component in the achievement of true 
sustainable development. 
 Another major issue on the agenda of the General 
Assembly is the Millennium Development Goals 
agreed by Member States in September 2000, which 
Uruguay has fully endorsed. In that context, Uruguay 
has taken firm steps to achieve the Goals. We need 
only highlight, among other policies with a significant 
social content, the recent launching of our 
comprehensive national health system — aimed at 
transforming the health-care model by prioritizing 
primary health care and prevention in order to 
guarantee a basic right of all citizens — as part of the 
social inclusion policy that Uruguay is implementing.  
 Given its strict adherence to international law, 
Uruguay is also firmly committed to consolidating 
international peace and security, as demonstrated by its 
status as one of the 10 major contributors of troops to 
United Nations peacekeeping operations and as the 
world’s largest contributor per capita in terms of troop 
numbers. Our country is currently participating in 
16 United Nations peacekeeping missions deployed in 
Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. Since we began 
to participate in peacekeeping missions, Uruguay has 
gained experience in matters related to reconstruction 
and peacebuilding in areas devastated by conflict, 
making great efforts to put an end to hostilities so that 
various societies and communities can agree on peace 
and achieve national reconciliation. 
 However, as our international experience has 
taught us, peacekeeping, while essential, is not 
sufficient to return affected countries to institutional 
normalcy and an orderly and peaceful life. That is why 
the strong involvement of the international community 
is needed in peacekeeping efforts to effectively ensure 
the building of stable, democratic and prosperous 
societies through robust institutional mechanisms for 
resolving their conflicts. For that reason, Uruguay 
submitted its candidature to the Peacebuilding 
Commission in February 2007. We hope to be able to 
contribute to the attainment of those noble objectives 
in that forum.   
 The cause of peace requires, in institutional 
terms, a strengthened and effective Organization. That 
brings us to the topic of the United Nations reform 
process. The negotiations in that regard have not 
proceeded with the scope and speed originally 
envisaged. Although the two recently established 
bodies, the Human Rights Council and the 
Peacebuilding Commission, have been in existence for 
a few years, we have not yet been able to move on to 
Security Council reform — which is essential — and 
only a few timid steps have been taken in the process 
of reforming the Secretariat and the General Assembly.  
 Uruguay reaffirms its support for the process of 
Security Council reform in the permanent and 
non-permanent membership categories. However, we 
will not support the creation of new members with the 
right of the veto, since we believe that the issue of 
extending the veto must not be included in the package 
to be agreed upon in the intergovernmental 
negotiations. Moreover, in keeping with its traditional 
position since the founding of the United Nations, our 
country disapproves of the right of veto, which is a 
privilege that runs counter to the full democratization 
of our Organization.  
 In the area of reform, we also view the One 
United Nations pilot project in two ways. We see it 
first as an instrument through which reform of the 
operational activities of the United Nations system 
could be put into practice; and secondly, as a 
cooperative exercise in areas of priority identified by 
the Uruguayan Government in the context of a national 
development strategy based on sustained and 
sustainable economic growth with equity and social 
justice. However, we understand that the programme 
should adapt itself to specific national priorities and 
needs. That is why no single model is applicable to all 
 
 
31 08-53129 
 
pilot countries, given their inherent differences from 
one another. 
 I also wish to refer to a topic of particular 
relevance for Uruguay — the situation of so-called 
middle-income countries. Those countries find 
themselves in a paradoxical situation. Although there 
are certain indicators of economic growth, negative 
circumstances that hinder sustainable and sustained 
growth in the medium- and long-terms have not been 
taken into account, nor has it been possible to prevent 
dramatic erosion of some of the progress made. In 
particular and with dramatic effect, the well-known 
clear vulnerability of the economies of developing 
countries in a globalized world economy subjects them 
to the effects of external crises with clear, direct 
consequences, such as rising poverty and inequity in 
income distribution, as well as strengthened migratory 
trends, to mention just some effects that Uruguay has 
experienced directly.  
 Finally, in affirming its unwavering commitment 
to the fight against terrorism, Uruguay reiterates its 
rejection of all terrorist acts and vigorously condemns 
all attacks against civil populations and public 
infrastructure, the destruction of which adversely 
affects the civil population. Terrorism must be 
unequivocally condemned and cooperation between 
States must increase in order to ensure that such acts 
do not go unpunished. 
 We must be careful, however. The fight against 
terrorism must always be waged based on the rule of 
law, and consequently in the strictest respect for the 
standards of international humanitarian and human 
rights law. 
 The same applies to drug trafficking. Our country 
has continued its unrelenting fight against illegal drug 
trafficking. Our effort targets both supply and demand. 
Thanks to that policy and beyond our success in 
stamping out the illicit traffic in those substances, our 
country has been at the vanguard of our continent in 
terms of its policies to prevent consumption and treat 
those affected by drugs. 
 Both terrorism and drug trafficking severely 
compromise the full enjoyment of human rights, the 
safeguarding of which has been one of the strategic 
policies of the current Government. We want respect 
for human rights to be more than routine rhetoric; it 
should enjoy full expression in the daily life of its 
citizens. On that basis, our country has prioritized 
strengthening legislation and the competent national 
bodies, and has sought to extend international human 
rights and to consolidate institutions that effectively 
protect and secure the international enjoyment of 
human rights and prevent their violation. In short, the 
protection of human rights is one of the central axes of 
the Republic’s foreign policy and is without a doubt 
Uruguay’s basic political institutional asset. 
 As is evident, the effective protection of human 
rights calls for a strong jurisdictional body to guarantee 
its application. In that context, the creation of the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) was a fundamental 
contribution to the progressive development of 
international law and an event of tremendous legal and 
political importance. In 2006, Uruguay enacted a 
national law pledging full cooperation with the ICC. 
Respectfully, we urge the international community as a 
whole to do the same in order to prevent genocide, war 
crimes and crimes against humanity from going 
unpunished. 
 In conclusion, I would like to stress that, with 
conflicts threatening peace and international security 
and taking into account the growing interdependence 
of States as a result of globalization, it is now crucial 
to emphatically reaffirm the relevance of the United 
Nations as the lead body and ultimate multilateral 
forum for finding appropriate solutions to today’s 
major global challenges. 
 The pursuit of multilateralism therefore implies a 
search for collective responses to international 
conflicts and problems, in accordance with 
international law and in the framework of the 
principles of the United Nations Charter, which 
regulates peaceful coexistence between nations. 
Indeed, we must uphold the ideals that inspired the 
establishment of the Organization. That is a civilizing 
project that we cannot abandon as it represents 
unfinished business that we owe it to ourselves and to 
generations to come to complete. 

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====
As I did 
four years ago (see A/60/PV.6), I once again extend the 
greetings of the people and the Government of the 
Eastern Republic of Uruguay to this forum, which is 
the most broadly representative body of today’s world. 
 Those of us here are aware of the contrasting 
realities of the present world; we are conscious that 
never before has humanity simultaneously been offered 
so many possibilities and faced so many threats as is 
the case today. We know that we cannot be indifferent 
to or be paralysed by those possibilities and threats; 
nor are we disposed to be, but what are we doing to 
dissipate the threats and take advantage of the 
opportunities presented by this reality? Surely not 
everything we would like to or that we deem necessary, 
and perhaps not all that we are capable of. 
 Concerning this task, the Eastern Republic of 
Uruguay once again reaffirms its unwavering respect 
for international law, which is the greatest guarantee 
for the sovereignty of peoples and their peaceful 
coexistence. We also reiterate, first, our firm rejection 
of the threat of the use of force or of its use, of 
terrorism, drug trafficking and all types of violence and 
discrimination. Secondly, we repeat our determined 
support for a peaceful solution to conflicts, to the 
sovereign equality of States, to non-intervention in the 
internal affairs of States, to the self-determination of 
peoples, to international cooperation in economic and 
social matters, and to multilateralism that also includes 
free trade, because protectionism is to commerce as 
authoritarianism is to democracy. 
 Thirdly, we reiterate our steadfast commitment to 
the advancement and protection of human rights, 
because they constitute the ethics of liberty and 
democracy and are aspects of the dignity that we need, 
much as we need the air we breathe almost without 
being conscious of it. 
 Fourthly, we repeat our unwavering responsibility 
in the protection of the environment as a human right 
and as a fundamental aspect of achieving truly 
sustainable development. 
 As Americans, we feel it is our ethical duty and 
political responsibility to reiterate in this global forum 
that, first, we reject the institutional rupture in the 
fraternal Republic of Honduras, and we demand the 
immediate restoration of constitutional order and the 
restoring to their posts of the authorities democratically 
elected by the Honduran people. Secondly, we will 
persevere in the effort to achieve an American 
integration without exclusions or exceptions or 
embargoes, such the one imposed on Cuba, one without 
first, second or third class members. We are all 
Americans, and equals. 
 Without actions following, postulates are sterile. 
Uruguay is one of the main troop contributors to 
United Nations peacekeeping operations. The 
difficulties that this peacekeeping system is going 
through are due, among other factors, to the growing 
demand for missions, their equally growing complexity 
and the effects of the global economic crisis on the 
funding for these operations. Far from discouraging us, 
they stimulate us to bolster and coordinate efforts with 
other Member States and the United Nations 
Secretariat to collaborate in stabilizing the areas 
affected by conflicts, in the protection of the civilian 
population, institutional strengthening and the 
promotion of bases for economic and social 
development of affected countries. Similarly, our 
staunch rejection of terrorism is not incompatible with 
cooperation among States in the fight against it while 
maintaining absolute respect for international law and 
human rights. 
 Uruguay is among the countries that are 
signatories to the widest range of human rights 
conventions, and on the occasion of the treaty-signing 
ceremony for the present period, Uruguay will sign the 
Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, becoming one 
of the first signatories to that important international 
instrument. Uruguay is also party to the main 
international conventions in the sphere of the 
environment and sustainable development. 
 As is well known, Uruguay receives significant 
investments that contribute to its industrial 
development, but it also exercises rigorous control over 
their environmental quality, applying its internationally 
recognized regulations, demanding the use of the best 
 
 
39 09-52179 
 
available technologies, and practising effective control 
in the field over environmental impacts. Uruguay is 
also responsible, transparent and reliable as regards 
investment for sustainable development. 
 In the era of globalization, it is not only the 
economy that has to be globalized. Peace, freedom, 
democracy, justice, dignity and the welfare of the 
people must be globalized as well. The countries 
represented here, each according to its respective 
identity, are working towards that end, as is Uruguay. 
Faced with the impossibility of discussing the vast 
system of policies and actions that are involved in that 
task, I will mention just two that Uruguayans wish to 
share with the international community, because they 
concern the needs, hopes, rights and responsibilities of 
all humankind. 
 Our country has taken a firm commitment as 
regards tobacco control policies, both at the 
international level through its ratification of the World 
Health Organization Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control, and at the national level through the 
implementation of policies for the improvement of the 
well-being of the population. In 2006, Uruguay became 
the first smoke-free country in the Americas and the 
seventh in the world. 
 This is no insignificant matter when one takes 
into account that, according to the World Health 
Organization, smoking is the leading avoidable cause 
of death worldwide. It is an epidemic that annually 
causes more than 5 million deaths throughout the world 
and more than 1 million in the Americas. Five million 
deaths a year are far more than those caused by 
alcoholism, traffic accidents, AIDS, illegal drugs, 
murder, suicide and the H1N1 virus combined. When 
we add up all the deaths caused by these pathologies, 
we find that the number of tobacco-related deaths is 
greater still. If the current trend continues, over the 
next 20 years tobacco-related deaths will double in the 
world and triple in our region, and in particular in the 
poorest countries. 
 Given that tobacco smoke does not affect 
smokers alone, in a study published in 1985 the 
English epidemiologist Richard Doll maintained that 
being in a room with a smoker for one hour a day is 
100 times more likely to cause lung cancer in a 
non-smoker than spending 20 years in a building 
containing asbestos. 
 Our delegation at the United Nations sponsored 
and promoted resolution 63/8, whose implementation 
will allow us to have, at least in this environment, a 
smoke-free United Nations. It represents partial but 
auspicious progress in the fight against this epidemic. 
 In May 2007, a year after becoming a smoke-free 
country, Uruguay set out on the path to becoming a 
country with equal-opportunity access to information 
technologies. We are achieving this by means of the 
Ceibal project, also known as “one laptop per child”, 
which consists, precisely, in providing each student and 
teacher of our public primary school system with a free 
computer and access to the Internet. By the end of this 
year, we will have provided a prototype to each of the 
301,143 students and to 12,879 teachers in the 
country’s 2,064 public elementary schools. This may 
seem like a small number, but it should be recalled that 
Uruguay has only some 3 million inhabitants. 
 The project is open to students with learning, 
motor or visual disabilities, who receive computers 
especially designed for their needs. Private schools are 
not excluded from the programme and can take part by 
purchasing the prototype for a modest sum. The Ceibal 
project is completely funded by the Uruguayan State, 
which allocates funds not only for acquiring and 
preparing the prototypes, but also for their maintenance 
and the continuity of the programme. 
 The Ceibal project is much more than simply the 
provision of computers and is therefore worth much 
more than its price. Its true worth lies in developing 
intelligence, introducing deep changes in teaching and 
learning, offering equal opportunities in access to 
information from childhood on — because equality is 
not a right for adults alone — and providing the 
information and knowledge indispensable to becoming 
a member of society and thus ensuring its proper 
functioning. 
 At the beginning of this address, I stated that if 
the United Nations raison d’être is to improve what we 
are as human beings, the Organization must be capable 
of improving itself as a system. But the United Nations 
is those who comprise it — we ourselves. Uruguay 
reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations reform 
process. The process that began at the 2005 Summit, 
which saw the creation of two new structures within 
the Organization — the Human Rights Council and the 
Peacebuilding Commission — should be completed 
with consideration for those issues whose practical 
  
 
09-52179 40 
 
implementation is pending or behind schedule with 
respect to the goals we have set. 
 Michel de Montaigne taught us that there is no 
greater destiny for human beings than seeing to the 
business of being human. Almost five centuries later, it 
is fitting to remember the teachings of that great 
Renaissance humanist. It should not, however, be 
remembered solely as something of the past; we should 
embrace it as a task of the present and put it into 
practice, or at least try. I believe that there is no other 
option if we really wish to survive as a species and to 
improve as human beings. I also believe that, if we all 
make a responsible attempt, we shall achieve it. In that 
conviction, intention and confidence, I greet the United 
Nations on behalf of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay.

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====
Our 
goals at the national level are goals we also want to see 
achieved in the international community. They are 
goals that the international community must tackle as 
priorities. They include eradicating indigence and 
reducing and eliminating poverty and its root causes, as 
well as ensuring a dignified life and favourable 
working conditions for all. We also want an 
international system that is more democratic and 
efficient. We want the issues that I have mentioned to 
be resolved through cross-cutting policies. We can 
work to promote democracy in every country of the 
system, but we are badly off indeed if the law of the 
strongest prevails in the overall system.  
 Uruguay will always take a moral and ethical 
approach to every issue, whether with regard to the 
environment, human rights or international security. In 
every instance, the ultimate guide is the human person. 
We must in the end, therefore, always rely on our 
conscience. However, the functioning of the system is 
crucial, for that is what generates social, territorial and 
gender inequality. 
 At the outset, we welcome the election of the 
Argentine Republic as Chair of the Group of 77 and 
China. Argentina is a brotherly country that shares 
common principles and values with us. 
 Uruguay, in keeping with its historical path and 
traditions, reaffirms its commitment to the principles of 
international law. I would like to underscore in 
particular our firm support for the peaceful solution of 
conflicts; the sovereign equality of States; the 
principles of non-intervention and of the self-
determination of peoples; respect for human rights; 
international socio-economic cooperation; and 
multilateralism. The maximum expression of those 
principles is to be found in this Organization. 
 I would also like to express our rejection of the 
use or the threat of use of force, of terrorism and of all 
types of violence, and of the application of coercive 
measures in contravention of the Charter of the United 
Nations, such as the economic, financial and trade 
embargo against Cuba by the United States, which we 
firmly reject. That unilateral measure is contrary, not 
only to the Charter but also to international law and to 
one of the most dearly held principles of my country’s 
foreign policy, namely, the peaceful settlements of 
disputes. 
 Uruguay is party to the principal international 
conventions relating to the environment and 
sustainable development. Thus, we have reaffirmed our 
responsibility for the protection of the environment as 
a human right and a fundamental component for 
achieving truly sustainable development. 
 Uruguay has a long history of defending, 
promoting and protecting human rights and 
international humanitarian law. Those principles are a 
central priority of the State, enshrined in the traditional 
pillars of the Republic’s foreign policy, which 
constitute the political and institutional foundations of 
the country. We welcome the progress made this year 
in Kampala, Uganda, which has led to the 
strengthening of the regime established under the 
Statute of the International Criminal Court. Uruguay is 
among the countries that have subscribed to the widest 
range of conventions in the area of human rights and 
international humanitarian law. 
 Uruguay’s long-standing tradition of defending 
those principles has allowed us to take a leading role 
in, among other areas, the protection and promotion of 
the rights of children. We believe it is vitally important 
that we continue to focus our efforts to promote the 
defence and protection of children and to ensure their 
well-being. 
 We also reaffirm our full support for the 
integration of a gender perspective into all policies and 
programmes of the United Nations system. In that 
respect, we welcome the adoption of the resolution 
(resolution 64/289) on the coherence of the United 
Nations system, which, in particular, created the new 
United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the 
Empowerment of Women. We would also like to 
express our satisfaction with the appointment of  
  
 
10-55396 6 
 
Ms. Michelle Bachelet, former President of Chile, as 
Under-Secretary-General for UN Women. We are 
confident that her experience will serve as a vital asset 
for the new Entity. 
 Uruguay has a steadfast commitment to the cause 
of peace and our country’s foreign policy bears 
testimony to that fact. We have given decisive support 
to all measures aimed at the elimination of nuclear 
arms and other weapons of mass destruction. We have 
also advocated the control and reduction of 
conventional weapons. We underscore, once again, the 
importance of the swift universal implementation of 
these agreements. 
 Likewise, and without prejudice to the 
reaffirmation of our hope to see a Nuclear Weapons 
Convention, we believe that the entry into force of the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and a fissile 
material cut-off treaty during the present year, would 
constitute decisive steps in the consolidation and 
deepening of the progress made in the area of 
disarmament. We must not stop, because to stop is to 
go backwards, and to go backwards is to expose 
humanity to the horrendous and unacceptable risk of 
nuclear holocaust. 
 It is our hope that, in 2012, a conference will be 
held, without further delay or conditions, in which all 
of the States of the Middle East will participate, with 
the aim of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone, 
free of all other weapons of mass destruction as well, 
through freely agreed arrangements between the States 
of the region, with the full support and commitment of 
those States that possess nuclear weapons. Similarly, 
Uruguay supports the Secretary-General’s five-point 
initiative for a world free of nuclear weapons. 
 Uruguay actively participates in the United 
Nations multilateral system of peacekeeping and 
maintenance of international security, as well as in 
efforts to defend human rights and uphold international 
humanitarian law through peacekeeping operations, 
based on our conviction that these are a solid testimony 
to the collective commitment of the international 
community as a whole. That commitment on the part of 
my country can be seen both on the ground, through 
our deployment of more than 2,500 Blue Helmets, 
deployed principally in Haiti and the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, and in its work on the political 
level here at Headquarters. 
 We recognize that the Security Council holds the 
primary responsibility for the maintenance of 
international peace and security. But we believe it is 
extremely important to promote a closer relationship 
between the Council and the General Assembly. The 
greater the distance between them, the more difficult it 
is for peacekeeping operations to achieve their 
objectives and for their complex mandates to be 
effectively implemented. 
 In this respect, the existing gap between the 
complexity of the mandates and the resources available 
poses a challenge that we must confront every day. We 
are convinced that is of fundamental importance for us 
to ensure that adequate consideration is given to the 
allocation of the resources needed for the proper 
functioning of those operations. The conditions offered 
by the system also need to be updated, so that the 
United Nations has at its disposal the equipment and 
human resources that it needs. That subject affects 
developing countries in particular, since it is they 
which provide the large majority of the troops and thus 
the viability of their participation in missions is at 
stake. 
 The case of Haiti probably provides one of the 
best illustrations of the need for a cross-cutting 
political effort to lift a country out of a situation of 
crisis and institutional and social stagnation. 
 Uruguay has never been indifferent to the 
challenges that this brotherly country has had to 
confront and continues to confront today. From 2004 to 
date, we have deployed more than 10,000 military 
personnel to the United Nations Stabilization Mission 
in Haiti, who have faithfully carried out the mandate 
approved by the Security Council for the stabilization 
process in that country. 
 In its role as coordinator of the Group of Friends 
of Haiti, Uruguay has for some years been advocating 
for a mandate that, without neglecting the urgent 
security needs, permits at the same time the 
establishment of the conditions necessary for 
strengthening the productive capacity of the country, 
which was seriously affected by the earthquake of  
12 January 2010. 
 In our view, greater emphasis should be placed on 
providing teachers, doctors, engineers, agronomists, 
experts in information technologies and volunteer 
workers, who could contribute effectively to solving 
the problems of the Haitian population. Investing in 
 
 
7 10-55396 
 
human resources in Haiti is of fundamental importance 
for the future development of the country. 
 Over the past two years, there has been an open 
process of restructuring the peacekeeping system, 
which was necessary given the new reality that we are 
facing. That process must be viewed as part of a larger 
project of reform of the Organization, which, through 
various initiatives, seeks to be more effective, to work 
in a more coordinated manner and to enjoy greater 
legitimacy. 
 Uruguay reiterates its adherence to that process 
of reform of the United Nations. The process, begun 
during the 2005 Summit, which gave rise to the creation 
of two new structures within the Organization — the 
Human Rights Council and the Peacebuilding 
Commission — should be brought to completion 
through the consideration of various outstanding 
topics, including the reform of the Security Council. 
The current international reality is such that that body 
needs to be more representative and democratic. We 
must therefore take steps to effect its expansion, while 
guarding against an extension of the historical 
obstacles that run contrary to the principle of the 
sovereign equality of States, such as the right of veto. 
 A very clear example of Uruguay’s commitment 
to the United Nations reform process, which seeks to 
establish greater effectiveness and coordination within 
the system, is its direct participation in the “Delivering 
as One” programme. Three years after the pilot 
programme was launched in Uruguay, we have recently 
completed the country evaluation and can affirm that 
the design, implementation, follow-up and evaluation 
of the process have contributed to the national 
Government’s efforts to strengthen the coordination 
among the various State bodies through a joint 
programming exercise, which made possible greater 
interaction between agencies, the Government and the 
United Nations system. 
 Uruguay has formally expressed its aspiration to 
occupy a seat as a non-permanent member of the 
Security Council for the period 2016-2017. We are the 
only candidate country in the region at the present 
time. Since its accession to the United Nations as a 
founding Member and despite having pursued a foreign 
policy inspired by the same purposes, principles and 
ideals enshrined in the United Nations Charter, 
Uruguay has occupied a seat in the Security Council 
only once, which was during the period 1965-1966. 
 Presenting one’s candidacy to the body in which 
the international community has entrusted the current 
global collective security system constitutes the most 
demanding test of a State’s foreign policy. In the 
present context, which is profoundly marked by 
multiple global crises, it is imperative that we work 
jointly towards building long-term strategies and 
solutions that will lead us to more just and equitable 
societies. 
 In that regard, the role of the United Nations in 
international economic and financial governance is 
fundamental in terms of democratizing decision-
making and ensuring equal participation in global 
decisions that affect us all and directly impact strategic 
planning in the short, medium and long term. 
Coordinated, transparent and harmonious decision-
making is essential for achieving tangible results that 
improve the living conditions and situation of the 
world’s citizens. Our country deems it important to 
promote dialogue in order to foster bridge-building 
among the various decision-making forums.  
 We must be aware that without a healthy natural 
environment, all other development efforts will have a 
limited effect. In that context, the global phenomenon 
of climate change is perhaps the most urgent and 
dramatic challenge currently facing humanity. It poses 
additional challenges to development and forces us to 
urgently consider the need to implement measures to 
adapt to and mitigate its adverse effects. Such 
measures require changes in production methods and 
seriously compromise the distribution of domestic 
resources. 
 Achieving sustainable development that takes 
into account the economic, social and environmental 
dimensions is fundamental to ensuring long-term 
results and a healthy environment for present and 
future generations as well as sustained economic 
growth. That goal is also a necessary precondition for 
reducing disparities between the developed world and 
the developing world, particularly in the quality of life, 
income distribution and human development 
indicators. 
 In closing, Uruguay would like to reaffirm the 
imperative necessity of renewed political commitment 
aimed at achieving an open and equitable multilateral 
trade system based on clear rules that would permit all 
countries to benefit from the potential provided by 
international trade as the engine of development. 
  
 
10-55396 8 
 
Hunger eradication, food production and agricultural 
trade are closely related and must be strengthened 
through a predictable multilateral system that provides 
guarantees to producers and ensures food availability 
to the most vulnerable sectors. In that context, the 
elimination of subsidies and other non-tariff barriers 
that hinder access to markets is essential, as is a 
successful conclusion of the Doha Round based on a 
development perspective.

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====
I come 
to speak before the Assembly representing a country 
that is celebrating the two-hundredth anniversary of the 
endeavour that led to its birth as an independent and 
sovereign State, and that has preserved its aspiration to 
continue offering the international community its long-
standing tradition of respect for the principles of 
international law and its ongoing commitment to the 
cause of peace and peaceful coexistence among 
nations. 
 Uruguay takes pride in its calling to serve the 
international community in promoting dialogue, 
understanding and the tireless search for consensus as 
the most appropriate ways for interaction among its 
members. It was through the application of those 
principles that we recognized and welcomed this year 
the 193rd Member of this Organization, the Republic 
of South Sudan.  
 Likewise, in March we recognized the State of 
Palestine. We believe that all of the necessary 
conditions have been met for this recognition to 
become universal and for the realization of a two-State 
solution, which Uruguay has supported since 1947, as 
well as for a path that reaffirms the right of Israel and 
Palestine to coexist in peace, within secure and 
recognized borders, in a environment of renewed 
cooperation and free from any threats or actions that 
could jeopardize peace. 
 The Palestinian people have a legitimate and full 
right to statehood. But the Jewish people also have the 
undeniable right to live in peace in a safe country, free 
of terrorist attacks — attacks that Uruguay has always 
rejected and condemned. 
 Uruguay is proud to have made a decisive 
contribution to the creation of the State of Israel, 
whose hard-working people have lived up to the 
historic vision of the men and women who made its 
creation possible. We are convinced also that the time 
has come for the Palestinian people to show the world 
their decisive contribution to peace, development and 
international cooperation. 
 Once again, in keeping with our adherence to 
international law, we cannot but express our utmost 
rejection of coercive measures that violate the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, such as 
the economic, trade and financial blockade imposed by 
the United States against Cuba — a unilateral measure 
that contravenes not only the Charter but also 
international law as well as one of the most important 
principles of my country’s foreign policy, namely, the 
peaceful settlement of disputes. 
 We reject all manner of violence and all threat or 
use of illegal force, including terrorism — an unjust 
and unjustified crime, a cruel scourge that 10 years ago 
most painfully affected New York City. We express our 
condolences and solidarity to the victims’ families and 
the American people, as well as our desire and 
commitment to ensure that these kinds of acts never 
happen again, here or anywhere else.  
 While we are guided by the principles of 
international law, the promotion and protection of 
human rights and international humanitarian law also 
figure among the priorities of Uruguayan foreign 
policy. This a reflection of the country’s political and 
institutional heritage, that of deep-seated democracy 
and the solid rule of law. 
 Allow me to express in that respect my gratitude 
in connection with the honour conferred on us when 
Uruguay was elected to chair the Human Rights 
Council. We will strive to honour this vote of 
confidence by working every day to strengthen the 
multilateral system for the protection and promotion of 
human rights. 
 Uruguay has an outstanding record in this area, 
not only because it is one of the countries that has 
signed the widest array of conventions, but also 
because it has made specific contributions in diverse 
fields, including the defence of the rights of the child; 
the mainstreaming of a gender perspective into all 
United Nations system policies and programmes, as 
reflected in the establishment and implementation of 
the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the 
Empowerment of Women; and the promotion of 
fundamental freedoms, including, inter alia, freedom of 
expression. 
 
 
11 11-51384 
 
 During the course of its mandate, our country 
intends to promote a new culture of dialogue on human 
rights — a culture that favours the cooperation of 
countries with the system, but also of the system with 
those countries that need assistance to improve their 
internal human rights situation. We would also like to 
enhance the Council’s working methods and promote 
the implementation of its instruments in a non-selective 
manner, avoiding double standards. We would also like 
to strengthen the role of the Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as a 
key element of promotion and protection mechanisms, 
by providing the resources necessary so that it can 
effectively discharge the mandates that Member States 
are increasingly assigning to it. 
 Uruguay is not indifferent to situations of armed 
conflict. That is why we have made tremendous efforts 
in that respect and will continue to do so in order to 
maintain and strengthen the applicable norms of 
international humanitarian law. 
 In keeping with this, we believe that we cannot 
ignore mass atrocities such as genocide, war crimes, 
crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing. Bearing 
in mind at all times the principle of non-intervention in 
the internal affairs of other States — a principle that 
our country and region holds dear — we recognize the 
State’s primary responsibility to protect its population, 
as well as the importance of fostering cooperation with 
States that might require international assistance to 
fulfil that obligation. The aim is not to weaken their 
sovereignty but, rather, to strengthen it. 
 A few months ago, we welcomed the Secretary-
General to our country, and we congratulated him once 
again on his re-election, which Uruguay 
enthusiastically supported from the outset. Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon expressed the recognition of the international 
community of one of the most relevant aspects of our 
foreign policy over the past several decades: our 
unwavering and committed participation in United 
Nations peacekeeping operations. With approximately 
30 per cent of its operational defence forces devoted to 
these operations, Uruguay is the main troop contributor 
as a proportion of its population and ranks 10th in 
absolute terms. Uruguay thus places at the disposal of 
the United Nations valuable human and material 
resources in the context of work that is the flagship of 
this Organization, deploying in situations and 
discharging mandates of increasingly complexity. 
 Given the complexity of current international 
affairs, together we have begun an in-depth discussion 
of the United Nations peacekeeping system. We are 
convinced that these missions will be sustainable only 
if we seriously reconsider the resources needed for 
their proper functioning and update the conditions 
offered by the system so as to ensure that the United 
Nations is supplied with both equipment and human 
resources. 
 Today peacekeeping operations are the most 
important and visible aspect of United Nations 
missions and the one that most exposes the United 
Nations to international scrutiny, often positive but 
sometimes negative. 
 Uruguay reaffirms its commitment to 
peacekeeping operations and to the strictest 
enforcement of the mandates and standards regulating 
the conduct of field personnel. That is why, in cases of 
shameful and unacceptable misconduct — such as that 
perpetrated by five members of our military deployed 
in Haiti, where since the beginning of the United 
Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti we have 
contributed tens of thousands of men and women, some 
of whom have offered their lives to help that brother 
country consolidate peace and stability — we have not 
hesitated to act with the utmost severity and rigor as 
the circumstances demanded. Under my country’s 
military justice, those five individuals accused of 
military crimes have now been sentenced to prison and 
the case has been referred to the civil justice system to 
initiate the corresponding criminal case. Thus, within 
the framework of respect for due process and in the 
utmost transparency and cooperation with the relevant 
United Nations entities, we will stop at nothing to 
uncover the truth and punish those responsible. 
 Our commitment to international peace and 
security has also driven our country to play an active 
role in the field of disarmament. Like many countries, 
Uruguay has firmly promoted all initiatives aimed at 
eliminating nuclear weapons and other weapons of 
mass destruction and at regulating the control and 
reduction of conventional weapons, which every year 
cause thousands of innocent civilian casualties. 
 As a signatory of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, by 
virtue of which Latin America and the Caribbean 
became the first nuclear-weapon-free zone, Uruguay 
has decisively contributed to strengthening both the 
regional regime and the Treaty on the 
  
 
11-51384 12 
 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which is 
considered the cornerstone of the disarmament and 
non-proliferation regime. Uruguay has adhered fully to 
the five points identified by the Secretary-General. We 
believe that the international community must make 
the most of progress to date to advance firmly towards 
a world free from nuclear weapons. 
 The topic of this year’s general debate is linked 
to the international peace and security agenda. We 
therefore welcome the selection of a topic that 
underlines the pressing need to strengthen the political 
capacities of the United Nations. Professional and 
accurate prevention and mediation efforts could save 
thousands of human lives and billions of dollars of 
material damage, thereby avoiding the loss of 
generations, growing resentment and despair, and a 
vicious cycle of violence can be broken only by 
reconciliation. 
 That is why we welcome efforts to strengthen the 
role of mediation and preventive diplomacy as 
mechanisms for dispute settlement. Such efforts can be 
carried out at several levels. There can be no doubt that 
the United Nations is the natural forum for such 
efforts, given its intrinsic legitimacy and impartiality. 
However, it cannot be denied that in practice such 
efforts must be complemented by the actions of 
regional entities and even individual countries, which 
can be very effective, as has been shown in several 
instances. In addition to the strengthening of the 
aforementioned capacities, confronting global issues 
requires the development of community spirit that 
requires more than combined political will. A systemic 
approach is fundamental.  
 Climate change is probably the most obvious 
example of an urgent global challenge. It is essential to 
immediately start enforcing adaptation and mitigation 
measures against its adverse effects, since a 
compromised environment will limit any development 
effort. We are aware that necessary measures require 
changes in modes of production to avoid seriously 
compromising resource distribution within our 
countries. 
 The Uruguayan Government strongly supports 
negotiations on climate change under the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC). We take this opportunity to call for 
accelerated efforts to ensure a second stage of 
commitments on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in 
the outcome of the next Conference of Parties to the 
UNFCCC. Furthermore, it is essential that progress be 
made in the negotiations on chemicals, especially in 
the context of the current exercise on mercury. The 
sensitivity and importance of this matter, which has 
greatly potential to harm the environment, requires the 
commitment of all countries in order to successfully 
conclude the current negotiations. 
 Another priority of our country is the particular 
situation of agriculture as it relates to the climate 
change phenomenon. A huge number of developing 
countries, including my own, depend on that sector, 
which is especially vulnerable to its negative 
consequences. That is why agriculture requires a 
special chapter in the framework of the UNFCC 
negotiations.  
 A new balance among many centres of power, the 
emergence of new States and intra-State conflicts have 
called for a reformulation of peace missions. Global 
threats include climate change and terrorism, and an 
international criminal justice entity has been 
established. Profound political changes have taken 
place in many countries. We now live in a different 
world. But the changes do not affect only political and 
security matters. Enormous transformations are taking 
place in the global economy and development issues. 
Developed countries are facing serious difficulties in 
their efforts to recover from a deep economic crisis. 
New, so-called emerging economies are playing a 
growing role in setting the direction of the world 
economy. In recent years, the need to establish new 
regulations and global agreements has become ever 
more apparent. We are entering a new era in 
international economic relations. 
 In that context, we must remember that peace and 
stability will not be achieved without sustainable 
development. This year, the United Nations has taken 
very significant steps in recognizing the link between 
security and development, which is born not from 
political declarations, but from empirical evidence, and 
is a sine qua non of capacity-building at the national 
level.  
 The United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20) will provide us with a unique 
opportunity to renew the will to achieve the goals and 
commitments contained in Agenda 21 and the 
Johannesburg Plan of Implementation. The quest for 
long-term development must be based on a 
 
 
13 11-51384 
 
comprehensive development concept that takes 
economic, social and environmental dimensions into 
account. We believe it essential that Rio+20 achieve 
tangible results that benefit our citizens. For that to 
happen, issues related to technology transfer, technical 
training and financing for developing countries must be 
taken into account.  
 Food security is a fundamental component of 
Uruguay’s development agenda, as well as one of its 
national priorities. We remain convinced that the 
current critical situation is caused by structural causes 
that must be resolved collectively and urgently. We are 
particularly concerned by the paralysis in the 
negotiations of the Doha Round of the World Trade 
Organization. That ambitious exercise, one of whose 
objectives is the reduction or elimination of trade 
distortions, could, by strengthening trade, promote the 
development of the most disadvantaged countries of 
the world. 
 It is essential to eliminate agricultural subsidies. 
Countries that until a few decades ago were self-
sufficient for their food needs now need to import a 
large part of what they consume, and they do so from 
countries that subsidize their agricultural production. 
The artificially low prices of agriculture exports, 
sustained for decades by some countries through 
subsidies and other trade-distorting measures and 
limitations on market access, are mainly responsible of 
the food security problems.  
 Stimulating investment to increase production 
and improve productivity, a successful conclusion of 
the Doha Round, as well as the transfer of adequate 
technology to developing countries, capable of 
achieving efficient agricultural economies, are 
fundamental to obtaining food security. 
 As a middle-income country, Uruguay still faces 
serious development challenges, particularly in 
eradicating poverty, diversifying production, 
introducing technological innovation and promoting 
renewable energy, to name but a few. The progress 
achieved must be consolidated, and to that end it is 
vital for us to be able to count on the support of the 
international community, and of the United Nations 
system in particular. I must reiterate the urgent need to 
consider in depth a new cooperation modality or 
scheme that takes into account the specific 
development needs of middle-income countries like 
Uruguay. 
 Uruguay is committed to the reform process of 
the Organization. Through the Global Governance 
Group, we have maintained a proactive attitude in 
order to promote a strong bond between the United 
Nations and informal discussion forums outside the 
system. However, it is critical to lead by example. For 
that reason, we believe that improving global 
governance is first an internal task of the United 
Nations system. In this regard, my country is very 
satisfied with the results obtained in the pilot 
programme of Delivering as One, whose next 
intergovernmental conference will be held in 
November in Montevideo. 
 For all these reason, but above all because of its 
firm commitment to the cause of peace and 
multilateralism, Uruguay is seeking a seat as a 
non-permanent member of the Security Council in 
2016-2017. That would be our country’s second time in 
the past 66 years, after having served in 1965-1966. 
 In conclusion, consolidating multilateralism is 
one of the most challenging international tasks. 
Multiple ongoing crises demand immediate response 
and action. The rise of new informal forums with a 
limited number of members but a growing influence in 
international governance requires an additional 
collective effort to strengthen the role of the United 
Nations as a forum for political discussion in which all 
States are able to participate in decision-making.  
 A permanent effort is required to combine 
effectiveness with legitimacy — a challenge that has 
become increasingly more significant as globalization 
deepens. We need a new United Nations for the twenty-
first century. The first decade of the century has 
already run its course. History is harsh with those who 
cannot adapt to its challenges, and its consequences are 
bitter. At the United Nations, we are responsible for 
putting forward appropriate answers to the 
international community. There is still time.

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿On
behalf of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, I would
like to congratulate my friend Ambassador Vuk
Jeremić on his election to preside over the work of the
General Assembly during its sixty-seventh session. His
experience, competence and reliability will be crucial
in ensuring that the most representative body of the
United Nations effectively fulfils its duties. We assure
him of the full support of Uruguay.
The focus of the General Assembly this year
on the promotion of the rule of law at national and
international levels is extremely relevant, and I take
this opportunity to welcome the declaration adopted
by the General Assembly on Monday on that matter
(resolution 67/1). Respect for and promotion of the rule
of law at the national and international levels are two
sides of the same coin, which has the well-being of the
individual as its raison d’étre. It means also that neither
individuals nor States are above the law, but are subject
to it. Uruguay considers rule of law a constitutive element
of the social contract that sustains its democratic system
and that stands out as a pillar of its foreign policy. It
is important to stress that this was not motivated by
foreign influence, nor did it come through the adoption
of an abstract political model from outside. Rather, it
was the result of a profound internal process of building
and organizing the free coexistence of our people.
The principle of juridical equality of States,
like equality among individual people, is one of
the fundamental principles of our Organization,
guaranteeing to all the same right to participate in
the responsibilities of the international community,
independent of the power possessed by each nation. It
is precisely in respect of this principle that our country
rejects any coercive unilateral or extraterritorial
measure that contravenes the rules of international law
and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
The clearest contemporary example of such a measure
is the embargo unfairly set against the Republic of
Cuba.
The principle of the self-determination of
peoples — understood as a collective right that must be
observed in a manner analogous to respect for freedom
of the individual at the domestic level — is also an
essential pillar of the rule of law. That freedom, which
includes freedom of expression and other fundamental
freedoms, is closely related to the effective operation of
democratic institutions.
In that respect, and without prejudice to reaffirming
that any attempt at the partial or total disruption of the
national unity or territorial integrity of a country is
incompatible with the purposes and principles of the
Charter of the United Nations, Uruguay has always
defended the right to self-determination of peoples
as a key principle for the international coexistence
of States. It reiterates its desire for a peaceful, just,
sustainable and mutually accepted solution of the
question of Western Sahara, based on international law
and resolutions of the General Assembly and Security
Council and respectful of the human rights and the will
of the Saharan people.
An independent judicial system, to which all
persons have access on the basis of the principle of
equality before the law, is necessary for the genuine
rule of law. Projecting this concept of the State and
of the law beyond our borders is a vocation for peace
and the peaceful settlement of disputes, of which my
country was an early promoter. My country showed its firm commitment to those values and principles
already at the Hague Conference of 1907, where it tried
to introduce compulsory international arbitration, and
also in 1921, when it became the first country to legally
accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the Permanent
Court of International Justice, under only the condition
of reciprocity.
The strenuous efforts of the international
community to build a fair system and to achieve greater
balance among countries and greater well-being for
their societies have not yet achieved the necessary
ethical and policy solutions.
Recently we have seen what appears to be an era
of change in some regions of the world. Peoples are
seeking their freedom with the means they have at
hand, with a legitimate desire to achieve democracy
and greater well-being. Political actions of peoples
seeking new alternatives of power have come up
against those who are better organized politically and
who thus will prevail, as they have always prevailed.
Those who have now assumed power must be aware of
their responsibilities towards those peoples.
Eradicating tyranny, consolidating peace and
making social benefits available to everyone are
enormous challenges. The task is to build real
democracies, and to build them with all of the
contradictions, differences and difficulties that exist
within a society.
Even in our region we have received threats with a
major ideological component. The attempted coup d’état
in Ecuador and the breakdown of the democratic order
in Paraguay have shown that Governments of change
have been affected in the development of their policies.
The rule of law and democracy are not acquired values;
rather, they must be defended each day as precious
goods.
Recent events such as what happened in Paraguay
demonstrate that the rule of law is still threatened and
that despite progress in terms of democratic institutions
in all our nations, threats to the full exercise of
fundamental rights and democratic values persist.
That represents a great challenge to our aspiration
to strengthen the integration and development of our
countries, making the defence of the rule of law and
the democratic order a necessary and unavoidable
condition.
Despite the great changes that have afflicted
humanity, the international system continues to work hard, yet it does not resolve the problems, or resolves
them unfairly. It has been unable to create equal
financial or commercial opportunities. Even today, it
is not a priority to invest in countries’ human resources
according to their specific needs. The political system
has acted to control or decide political destinies, rather
than to ensure the security or well-being of the people.
Those who suffered before are suffering now. Powerful
countries still threaten or intervene in other countries.
We have written about values and principles and
have incorporated them in our constitutions. We have
preached in many ways about what is good for everyone.
But we have not succeeded in meeting the basic needs
of billions of poor people, nor have we guaranteed
them programmes for health, education, housing or
employment.
The basis of social justice has not changed. It is
peace, it is freedom, because without that we cannot be
actively aware of noble causes that require that one not
be dominated or oppressed — and without that, there is
nothing. It is dignified housing that protects a family,
work with dignity at a fair wage, the right to education
and the responsibility of each individual. It is the health
care that can save the 7 million children under 5 years
of age who die each year around the world and that
cares for the elderly, for women and for the destitute.
What is truly revolutionary is to change the
conditions of life for those who cannot fully enjoy their
rights, because our political ideal must be, essentially,
the human dimension. The solution requires that the
system provide each person the greatest guarantees of
his political rights and that it be fair with regard to the
obligations and responsibilities in that respect.
The greatest freedom implies the greatest
responsibility. Each person, as both an individual
and part of the community, must receive, possess and
enjoy the rights that are fundamental to ensuring the
well-being of all as a way to transform solutions into
reality. The struggle for transformation determines
the struggle of each person to find a solution for his
problems. Resolving the issues inherent in poverty,
lack of freedom or impediments to the enjoyment of
economic, social and cultural rights requires concrete,
urgent and immediate action.
Almost 200 years ago, someone declared that
the most unfortunate would be the most privileged.
His thinking was truly revolutionary, but there was
something in it even more revolutionary, because he took on the task of orchestrating and executing
the changes that would provoke the redistribution of
resources. He took his solutions to the most needy:
widows with children, children, and poor blacks,
zambos and creoles.
Development requires change. The present day has
given us, as a fundamental condition of our projects,
insoluble problems such as poverty, malnutrition,
overcrowding, unemployment, child mortality and
other socioeconomic scourges that still afflict most of
humanity. Therefore, this system requires a change,
and the only way to carry it out is to transform reality.
Our responsibilities as a community of nations
cannot be avoided, as some of those problems occur as
a natural result of the conditions and characteristics of
relations among States. The international context tends
to concentrate wealth, efficiency and competitiveness
and has no mechanisms to redistribute the resources in
a fair and efficient manner that would provide a roof to
every homeless person, a plate of food to every hungry
person or break the chains of the oppressed. The
international system is based on the struggle of national
interests for a more powerful position, and that means
that the concentration of power becomes ever greater.
Everyone is aware that countries such as ours
operate within highly competitive international markets,
that we do not determine prices, that commodity prices
f luctuate thus altering our national export matrix, and
that we are exposed to successive financial crises.
Continuing with this line of thought, it is essential to
prioritize Uruguay’s involvement in the international
community, integrating international aspects of the
country’s issues in the areas of agriculture, industry,
commercialization and financing, all with the purpose
of eliminating poverty, achieving social justice and
firmly establishing primary education. Among other
things, this requires reducing or eliminating the
distortions that pose obstacles to commercial exchange,
particularly agriculture subsidies, internal supports and
other protectionist measures that prevent international
trade from becoming a factor that contributes to solving
the financial crisis that is currently affecting the global
economy.
Economic and social development requires the
stability and predictability that the rule of law ensures.
The United Nations has grasped that reality, and it is
encouraging to see that strengthening the rule of law,
and the institutions whose job it is to implement that rule of law, is central to the tasks of the Organization’s
various peacekeeping, peacebuilding and special
political missions, including the United Nations
Stabilization Mission in Haiti, to which Uruguay is a
principal contributor.
Our historical belief that a national society must be
ruled by law means that we believe that the community
of sovereign nations should regulate itself in conformity
with international law. In that context, it is Uruguay’s
hope that the international community can take
effective steps towards eliminating nuclear weapons
and focus its efforts on eliminating this terrible threat
still hanging over humankind. Similarly, we call for
redoubled efforts to enable us finally to conclude a
treaty regulating the arms trade, which has a serious
impact on Latin American and Caribbean countries and
other developing regions of the world.
Regarding the promotion and protection of human
rights, Uruguay’s coordination with the international
system has reached a very high level. Our country is
party to all legal instruments relating to human rights
and international humanitarian law. It offers an open
invitation to all universal and inter-American special
procedures to visit the country and recognizes the
binding jurisdiction of all monitoring committees for
receiving individual complaints and communications.
At the same time, Uruguay has expressed its preference
for establishing international jurisdictional bodies
and institutions. Our country’s longtime goal in this
area was realized at the regional level through the
establishment in 1969 of the Inter-American Court of
Human Rights under the San José de Costa Rica Pact.
Uruguay has been a member of the Human Rights
Council since its creation in 2006 and is its President
for the period 2011-2012. During our mandate, we
have advocated for a new culture of dialogue, for the
progressive and incremental utilization of special
procedures and other instruments for action before
resorting to coercive or confrontational measures, for
a two-way cooperative model between States and the
United Nations system, for greater regional coordination
and for the importance of civil society’s participation.
We have promptly, clearly and constructively expressed
our position on situations involving serious violations
of human rights, ethnic cleansing, crimes against
humanity and war crimes.
Uruguay has been a party to the Rome Statute since
2002 and has enacted a law that can be seen as a model
of cooperation with the International Criminal Court. Seven years ago, when the Assembly was
considering the concept of the responsibility to protect,
we committed to ending mass atrocities, giving priority
to prevention and aiding States that so requested to
comply fully with their responsibilities to protect their
peoples from such scourges and to respond speedily
and decisively in accordance with the provisions of the
United Nations Charter.
We firmly condemn the serious violations of
human rights that are taking place in Syria. The
situation has deteriorated and the suffering of the
civilian population has become intolerable. We support
the work of the independent international commission
of inquiry established by the Human Rights Council,
which in its most recent report (A/HRC/21/50) states
that there is reason to believe that Government forces
are committing crimes against humanity. All violence
in Syria must cease immediately; it is essential that
we establish a process of dialogue aimed at reaching a
peaceful solution. Uruguay supports the mediator role
of the United Nations within a framework of a strict
respect for international law and the principles of the
Charter. The protection of civilians is a multifaceted
task, of which the most sensitive and important aspect
is protecting those facing imminent danger of physical
violence.
Through its firm commitment to peacekeeping
operations, Uruguay has played and will continue to play
a proactive and constructive role both at Headquarters
and on the ground. Nevertheless, we must make greater
efforts and work for better coherence among all the
actors involved in order to eliminate or minimize as
far as possible the numbers of civilian victims of armed
conflicts.
Human rights are universal, interdependent and
indivisible. Ensuring that they are enforced, protected
and promoted is possible only through a firmly
established rule of law and well-functioning democratic
institutions, democracy, good governance and a more
effective multilateral system.
It is essential that the United Nations adapt to
global challenges, guarantee its presence on the ground
and respond to all the challenges faced by developing
countries in accordance with their priorities and
needs. It is thus imperative that development processes
emphasize one of the greatest threats to the rule of
law and democracy — poverty, particularly extreme
poverty, which causes instability and insecurity. Our country has given absolute priority to combating that
scourge purposefully and head on. In the past year
alone, Uruguay was able to reduce the percentage of
people living in poverty from 18.6 to 13.7 per cent, and
of those in extreme poverty from 1.1 to 0.5 per cent.
Combating the adverse effects of climate change, a key
challenge to achieving sustainable development, is also
one of our priorities.
Now more than ever, we must revitalize our global
alliance for development and increase international
cooperation.
Finally, if the strength and sustainability of the
rule of law at the national level depend on the active
participation of citizens in defending the standards
that ensure every society’s continued coexistence and
development, at the international level it requires full
compliance with the principles of international law and
the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and
strong commitment to the causes of peace, the peaceful
settlement of disputes and multilateralism. That is the
main goal that Uruguay has pursued during the process
of building the United Nations, both as a founding
Member and through its participation in the activities
of the General Assembly. It is our ambition to continue
those efforts from within the Security Council should
our country be elected, as we hope, to that body as a
non-permanent member for the period 2016-2017.

===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
I come from 
the South. At the conjunction of the Atlantic and the 
River Plate, my country is a gentle, temperate plain 
where livestock graze. Its history is one of ports, leather, 
salted beef, wool and meat. There were dark decades of 
lances and horses until finally, with the outset of the 
twentieth century, we were at the forefront of social, 
education and governmental affairs. I would say that 
social democracy was invented in Uruguay. 

For nearly 50 years, the world saw us as a kind of 
Switzerland, but in reality in economic matters we were 
the bastard children of the British Empire. When the 
empire ended, we experienced the bitter and terrible 
terms of trade and we yearned for the past for almost 
50 years, remembering Maracaná. Today, we have 
re-emerged in a globalized world, having learned from 
our pain. 

My personal story is that of a boy — because I 
once was a boy — who like others wanted to change his 
times and his world and dreamed of a free and classless 
society. My mistakes were in part the results of my era. 
Obviously I take responsibility for them, but sometimes 
I cry: “If only I had the strength that I had when we 
enjoyed such utopia!”

However, I do not look towards the past because 
what we have today was created from the fertile ashes 
of yesterday. On the contrary, I am not on this planet 
to settle scores or to reminisce. I am greatly anguished 
by the future that I will not see, and to which I have 
committed myself. Yes, it is possible to have a world 
with more humanity, but perhaps today the main task 
is to save life.

I am from the South and I have come from the 
South to this Assembly. I share with the thousands of 
poor compatriots in cities, in the jungles, in the plains, 
in the pampas and the canyons of Latin America the 
common fatherland that we are creating. I bear upon 
my shoulders the indigenous cultures, the remains 
of colonialism in the Malvinas, and the futile and 
regrettable blockades of Cuba under the Caribbean 
sun. I also bear the consequences of the electronic 
surveillance, which does nothing but create the distrust 
that poisons us needlessly. I also come with a huge 
social debt and with the need to defend the Amazon, the 
seas, and our great rivers of America. I also have the 
duty to fight for all on behalf of my fatherland and so 
that Colombia can finally regain peace. I have the duty 
to fight for tolerance for those who are different and 
with whom we have differences and disagreements. We 
do not need tolerance for those with whom we agree. 
Tolerance is the foundation of peaceful coexistence, 
understanding that we are all different in this world. 

I fight against the illicit economy, drug trafficking, 
theft, fraud, corruption — the contemporary scourges 
unleashed by an opposite set of values and by those 



who maintain that we are happier when we are richer, 
no matter by what means. We have sacrificed the old, 
immaterial gods and we are now occupying the temple 
of the Market God. This god organizes our economy, our 
politics, our habits and our lives, and even provides us 
with rates and credit cards and the illusion of happiness. 
It seems that we have been born only to consume, and 
when we can no longer consume we are overcome by 
frustration, poverty and self-loathing.

It is true that today, in order to spend and to bury 
our garbage in what science calls the carbon footprint, 
if in this world we aspired to consume like the average 
American, we would need three planets in order to be 
able to live. In other words, our civilization has mounted 
a deceitful challenge, and as we go on it is not possible 
for everyone to achieve that goal. Indeed, our culture is 
increasinglt driven by accumulation and market forces. 
We are promised a life of spending and squandering; 
in fact, it is a countdown against nature and against 
future humankind. It is a civilization against simplicity, 
against sobriety, against all natural cycles; worse yet, it 
is a civilization against freedom, which requires time to 
experience human relationships and the most important 
things: love, friendship, adventure, solidarity and 
family. It is a civilization against free time that does 
not pay, that cannot be bought and that allows us to 
contemplate the beauty of nature.

We have destroyed the real jungles and sown 
anonymous cement jungles. We have tackled a 
sedentary lifestyle with walking, insomnia with pills, 
solitude with electronics. Can we be happy when we 
are so far from the human essence? We have to ask 
ourselves this question. Stupefied, we have rejected our 
own biological imperative, which defends life for life’s 
sake as a superior cause, and we have replaced it by 
functional consumerism and accumulation.

Politics, the eternal mother of all human 
endeavours, has remained shackled to the economy 
and to the marketplace.Going from one adventure to 
another, politics achieves little more than perpetuating 
itself, and as such it delegates its power and spends its 
time bewildered, fighting for the Government. Out of 
control, human history marches forward, buying and 
selling everything and innovating in order to negotiate 
what is, in a way, non-negotiable. Marketing exists for 
everything: cemeteries and funeral services, maternity 
wards, fathers, mothers, grandparents, uncles, 
secretaries, cars and vacations. Everything is business. 
Marketing campaigns deliberately target children and 
psychologically influence older children to reserve 
safe territory for the future. Abundant evidence exists 
of such abominable uses of technology that sometimes 
induce mass frustration.

The average city dweller wanders between financial 
institutions and tedious office routines, sometimes 
moderated by air conditioning. He often dreams about 
vacations and freedom. He dreams about having the 
ability to pay his bills until one day his heart stops and 
he is gone. Other such soldiers will fall prey to the jaws 
of the marketplace, sharing in material accumulation.

The crisis really rests in the powerlessness of 
politics, which is incapable of understanding that 
humankind cannot and will not escape nationalism, 
which is practically etched into our DNA. Today, it is 
time to fight to prepare a world without borders.

The globalized economy has no other driving force 
except that of the private interests of the very few, 
and each nation State seeks only to maintain its own 
stability. Today, the great task for our peoples and our 
humble way of seeing things becomes the be-all and 
end-all. As if that were not enough, truly productive 
capitalism is a prisoner of the banks, which are at the 
summit of global power. More clearly, the world is 
clamouring for global regulations that respect scientific 
achievements, which abound, but it is not science that 
governs the world.

Today, we need a lengthy agenda of definitions. We 
must define working hours throughout the world. We 
need to have convergence among currencies. We need 
to finance the global struggle for water and against 
desertification. We have to figure out how to recycle 
more and how to counter global warming. What are the 
limits of each human task?

We must achieve a broad planetary consensus to 
unleash solidarity among the most oppressed and to 
punish and tax waste and speculation by mobilizing the 
large economies not to produce disposable goods, but 
rather useful goods without planned obsolescence or 
excess, which would help the world’s poorest peoples. 
Useful goods could stand against world poverty. Turning 
to a useful neo-Keynesianism on a global scale in order 
to abolish the world’s most flagrant embarrassments 
would be a thousand times more profitable than making 
war.

Perhaps our world needs fewer global organizations, 
organized forums and conferences, which serve only 
to aid hotel chains and airlines; perhaps no one really 



benefits from their decisions anyway. We must return 
to what is old and eternal in human life, along with 
science that strives to serve humankind, and not only 
the rich. With scientists, the counsellors of humankind, 
we can create agreements for the entire world. Neither 
the large nation States nor transnational companies, not 
to mention the financial system, ought to govern the 
world of humanity. Yes, lofty politics combined with 
scientific wisdom — it must come from science, which 
is not attracted by material gain but looks towards the 
future and tells us about things we may not foresee. 
How many years ago did they tell us in Kyoto about 
certain facts linked to climate change?

We have finally learned that intelligence must be 
at the helm, guiding the ship to port. Actions of this 
nature and others that we cannot name, yet which we 
believe to be crucial, require life and not acquired 
wealth. Obviously, we are not so naïve; these and other 
things like that will not come to pass. Many pointless 
sacrifices still lie ahead of us. We still must deal with 
the consequences and not tackle the causes. Today, the 
world is incapable of establishing global regulations for 
the planet, due to the failure of lofty global politics, 
which meddles with everything.

For a time, we were protected by more or less 
regional agreements, established to create a deceitful 
so-called free trade that in the end constructed 
protectionist, supranational barriers in some regions 
of the globe. In turn, important branches of industry 
and services dedicated to saving and improving the 
environment will arise. We will be comforted by that 
for a while. We will be distracted. 

But of course, the accumulation will continue 
unabated, to the delight of the financial system. Wars 
and fanaticism will continue until nature calls us to 
account and makes our civilization non-viable. Perhaps 
our vision is too crude, not compassionate enough, 
and we view man as a unique creature, the only one on 
Earth capable of acting against his own species.

I reiterate that what some call our planet’s ecological 
crisis is the result of the overwhelming triumph of 
human ambition. This is our triumph and our defeat, 
given our political impotence to fit into the new era that 
we have helped to build without realizing it.

Why do I say this? The numbers tell the story. 
The truth is that the global population quadrupled and 
gross domestic product grew by a factor of at least 
20 over the past century. World trade has doubled 
approximately every six years since 1990. We could 
continue to list numbers that clearly establish the 
march of globalization. What is happening to us? 
We are entering a new era, and rapidly, but with our 
political bodies, cultural accessories, parties and young 
people all reduced to old age before the horrific and 
accelerating changes that we cannot even grasp. We 
cannot manage globalization because we do not think 
globally. We do not know if this is a cultural limitation 
or we are reaching biological limits. 

The portents of revolution are present in our age 
as in no other in the history of humankind, yet our age 
does not have a conscious direction or even a basic 
instinctive direction, and still less organized political 
direction, because we do not have even the beginnings 
of a philosophy with which to face the speed of 
oncoming changes. 

The greed that has been such a negative force and 
such a driver of history has also pushed forward the 
material, scientific and technical progress that has 
made our era and our time what it is and has enabled a 
phenomenal leap forward on many different fronts. At 
the same time, this very tool — the greed that pushed us 
to domesticate science and transform technology — is 
paradoxically pushing us over the edge into a shadowy 
abyss, towards an unknown fate, an era without history, 
and we are left without eyes to see or the collective 
intelligence to continue to colonize and transform 
ourselves. 

If there is one thing that defines this tiny little 
human creature, it is that it is an anthropocentric 
conqueror. It seems that things come alive and submit 
to men. Glimpses of these things abound everywhere, 
glimmers that should allow us to discern these things, 
or at least make out the direction in which things are 
headed, but it is clearly impossible to make collective, 
global decisions about the big picture. Individual greed 
easily triumphs over our species’ greed. Let us be clear. 
What is the big picture of which we speak? It is the 
system of global life on Earth, including human life, 
with all the fragile balances that make it impossible for 
us to continue as we are.

On the other hand — and this is less contentious and 
more obvious — in the West in particular, because we 
are indeed from the West, though we are also from the 
South, the republics arose to make the claim that men 
are equal, that no one is better than anyone else, and 
that Governments should represent the common good, 
justice and equity. Often, these republics become warped 



and fall into the habit of ignoring ordinary people, the 
man on the street, the common people. Republics were 
not created to outgrow their constituents, but instead 
are historical phenomena designed to function for their 
own people. They must therefore answer to majority 
and must fight for its interests.

As for the traces of feudalism that persist in 
our societies, or the domineering classicism, or the 
consumer culture that surrounds us all, in the course 
of their existence republics often adopt a way of daily 
life that excludes and holds at arm’s length the common 
man. In fact, that common man should be the central 
cause of the republic’s political struggle. Republican 
Governments should increasingly look like their 
respective peoples in the way they live and the way they 
deal with life. 

The fact is that we tend to cultivate feudal 
anachronisms, spoiled affectations and hierarchical 
distinctions that undermine the best feature of 
republics — the fact that no one is better than anyone 
else. The interaction of those factors and others keeps 
us living in prehistory, and today it is impossible to 
renounce war when politics fails. Thus, economies are 
strangled and resources wasted. Every minute in the life 
of our planet, we spend $2 million on military budgets 
around the world — $2 million a minute. Medical 
research on all manner of diseases, which has made 
huge advances and is a blessing that promises longer 
life, receives barely a fifth of what is budgeted for the 
military. That process, from which we cannot escape, 
perpetuates hatred, fanaticism and distrust, fuels new 
wars and wastes fortunes.

I know that it is very easy politically to criticize 
ourselves at the national level, and I think it naive 
in this world to propose that resources that could be 
saved and spent on other, useful things. Again, that 
would be possible if we were capable of making global 
agreements and working on global prevention and 
world policies aimed at ensuring peace and offering 
the weakest among us guarantees that do not exist. 
Enormous resources would have to be cut to address 
the most shameful things on Earth, but one question 
suffices. Where can humankind as it is today go 
without those guarantees? Thus, each wields arms 
commensurate with his size. 

And that is where we are today, because we can 
barely reason as individuals, let alone as a species. 
Global institutions, especially today, languish in the 
shadow of the dissenting great nations. Clearly, such 
nations wish to hold on to power. They block action 
by the United Nations, which was created in the hope 
and with a dream of peace for humankind. But what 
is even worse is that they have cut it off from global 
democracy. We are not all equal. We cannot be equal 
in a world where some are strong and others weak. As 
a result, our world democracy is wounded, and we face 
the historical impossibility of reaching a global peace 
agreement. We patch up diseases when an outbreak 
occurs as one or other of the great Powers wishes, while 
we look on from afar.

It would be difficult to invent a force that is worse 
than the chauvinistic nationalism of the great Powers. 
Nationalism, a force that liberates the weak through 
the process of decolonization, has become a tool of 
oppression in the hands of the strong. The past two 
centuries are full of examples. The United Nations is 
languishing and becoming increasingly bureaucratic 
from lack of power and autonomy, above all of 
recognition of democracy for the weak of the world, 
who are the majority. 

By way of a very small example, our little country 
is in absolute terms the largest Latin American 
contributor of soldiers to peacebuilding missions, 
and we go wherever we are asked to go. But we are 
small and weak, and in the places where resources are 
distributed and decisions made, we cannot go even to 
serve coffee. In our heart of hearts we long to help 
humankind emerge from prehistory — and people who 
live with war are still living in prehistory, despite the 
many artifacts they can build — but as long as we do 
not emerge from prehistory and retire war as a resort 
when politics fails, that is the long march and challenge 
we have ahead of us. We say that in full awareness; we 
are familiar with the loneliness of war.

Such dreams, however, require us to fight for an 
agenda of world agreements that can begin to steer our 
history and overcome life’s threats, step by step. Our 
species should have a Government for all humankind 
that supersedes individualism and creates political 
leaders who follow the path of science and not merely the 
immediate interests of those governing and suffocating 
us. At the same time, we must understand that the 
world’s poor are not from Africa or Latin America; 
they are all part of humankind, and that means that we 
must help them to develop so they can lead decent lives. 
The necessary resources exist. They can be found in the 
waste of our predatory civilization. 



A few days ago a tribute was delivered in a fire 
station in California. An electric bulb had been turned 
on for 100 years. It had been on for 100 years! How many 
millions of dollars have they taken from our pockets 
deliberately creating junk so that people will buy and 
buy and buy? But globalization means a brutal cultural 
change for our planet and for our life. That is what 
history demands from us. The entire material basis has 
changed and it has changed man. In our culture, we act 
as if nothing had happened. Instead of us controlling 
globalization, it controls us. 

Almost 20 years ago, we discussed the humble 
Tobin tax, which could not be applied at a global level. 
All of the banks with financial power rose up against it. 
Their private property and who knows how many other 
things would be harmed. However, that is the paradox. 
With talent and collective work, with science, step by 
step humankind can make deserts green; humankind 
can bring agriculture to the seas; humankind can 
develop agriculture that lives with salt water. 

If the power of humankind is focused on what is 
essential, it is infinite. Here we see the greatest sources 
of energy. What do we know about photosynthesis? 
Almost nothing. There is a great deal of energy in 
the world, if we work together to use it properly. It 
is possible to eliminate poverty from the planet. It is 
possible to create stability. It will be possible for future 
generations, if they begin to reason as a species and 
not just as individuals, to bring life to the galaxies and 
pursue this dream of conquest that we, human beings, 
have in our genes. 

But if those dreams are to come true, we will have to 
control ourselves or we will die. We will die because we 
are not capable of being at the level of the civilization 
that we have been developing with our efforts. That 
is our dilemma. We should not spend our time merely 
correcting the consequences. Let us consider the deep-
rooted causes, the civilization of waste, the present 
civilization that is stealing time from human life and 
wasting it on pointless matters. 


Let us remember that human life is a miracle. 
Consider that human life is a miracle, that we are 
alive as a result of a miracle, and that nothing is more 
important than life. Our biological duty is, above all, to 
respect life, promote it, take care of it, reproduce it and 
understand that the species is our being.



===== Session 69 - 2014 =====
Ours is a harsh and difficult world — a complex, sometimes 
disgraceful world where 6 million children die each 
year before their fifth birthday, many from problems 
related to malnutrition; where violence has taken on a 
new dimension of terror and horror, with hundreds of 
thousands of deaths in Libya, Syria and Iraq; and where 
human rights violations and crimes against humanity 
occur more frequently and with greater ferocity and are 
the daily reality in those countries.

It is a world where more than 8 million people 
die every year from tobacco consumption — an 
incredible genocidal activity that cannot be stopped 
and is promoted by markets that are increasingly more 
open, free, less regulated, and licensed to operate in 
contravention of people’s rights to life and health. It is 
a world where military bombs strike and kill those in 
schools, ethnic or religious minorities, or those who 
may adhere to different political beliefs. It is a world 
where natural disasters devastate countries one year 
and again the following year and the next, as they have 
in the brotherly countries of the Caribbean. In this 
world, those who act as global police have bequeathed 
social and political disasters wherever they have gone. 
Global governance has been inspired not by rights, but 
by interests. Those narrow interests were paid for with 
people’s lives, human rights violations and migration, 
in which people have had to leave their homes, cities 
and countries, vulnerable and facing anguish, violence 
and death again and again. 

The United Nations has been unable to build a 
system to find solutions, and it has failed fundamentally 
in its ethical dimension. There has been no dearth of 
work, documents or meetings, but there has been a lack 
of solutions for people. Our shared ethics should be 
based on the people. Our shared ethical structure in this 
case must be capable of incorporating our diversity, to 
free us with democracy and participation. We need to 
grow and develop multilateralism, which is the only 
path and basic instrument to promote that shared 
ethical structure, ensuring ever more rights for ever 
more people. We need to grow and develop in freedom.

The political and financial crises of this world are 
linked to common values and ethical standards. Today’s 
world is one of sheer confusion in which humanitarian 
crises follow upon political crises, which in turn follow 
upon financial, economic and social crises. Here in 
this building we have our own microclimate; we wear 
elegant suits, eat in expensive restaurants and drive 
large, modern cars. What happens to people who are 
not insiders but who suffer in refugee camps where 
their families are killed, their villages are destroyed 
and they are tortured, or where their environments are 
destroyed by the effects of climate change? No one who 
has gained a right should lose it the next day; we need to 
protect that right. We need to offer better opportunities.

The Millennium Development Goals have served 
as a useful tool to foster and channel efforts for specific 
purposes, but we should not leave countries alone in 
those efforts. Within that framework, we should step up 
our efforts every year and seek to define more clearly 
the sustainable development goals that will make up 
the post-2015 sustainable development agenda in a 
balanced, transparent and consensual way that envisions 
integration of the three dimensions of sustainable 
development: social, economic and environmental.

We should eliminate poverty from the perspective 
of human rights and the recognition of those rights. The 
wealth that comes into the world causes an increase in 
the gross domestic product and exports and creates 
more dynamic investment, all of which must be 
accompanied by a logical recognition of rights. We are 
more developed and richer when we have more rights to 
exercise, when those rights are protected, and when we 
have more guarantees against the growing inequalities 
in the world. Poverty is experienced at many levels, 

and each country is responsible for granting ever more 
rights to help its people overcome poverty, improve 
conditions and eliminate discrimination. 

All efforts are valuable in every one of our countries, 
and as is every non-governmental organization that 
charts the way or denounces an abuse of human rights 
or seeks to improve opportunities for women, children, 
youths, retired people and migrants in different areas, 
such as health care, education, social protection, decent 
work, social and economic opportunities, whether they 
are employed as rural or domestic workers. In every 
individual there is an enormous potential that needs to 
be protected and fostered. 

The gender perspective that we need to promote 
should also be aligned with key rights for every 
individual who may suffer from even a little bit of 
discrimination in this world. The women’s agenda is one 
of the most powerful vectors for development that we 
can design. Any type of discrimination involves some 
form of underdevelopment, because discrimination 
based on gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, sexual 
orientation or migratory status is contrary to what our 
societies need. 

Our societies must be more inclusive. Our 
societies should incorporate every single one of those 
rights into our political system and legal protections, 
whether they relate to the right of same-sex marriage, 
the right of those who cohabit, or the rights of those 
with HIV. It is essential to fight for equality and to 
eliminate discrimination based on sexual orientation or 
gender identity. All rights are part of the best social 
structure — love. Love is the essential factor that 
eliminates inequality and discrimination, that makes us 
all equal and that allows us to identify with our fellow 
human beings.

The comprehensive human rights agenda must 
be based on an increasing number of rights for an 
increasing number of people so that everyone is able 
to grow in freedom and equality. We need to continue 
to make definitive progress on social topics such as 
communicable and non-communicable diseases. That 
includes those related to tobacco consumption, from 
which, as I mentioned, over 8 million people die every 
year. It is expected that that figure will continue to rise. 
It is therefore crucial that we have national policies that 
focus on healthy lifestyles.

In 2013, Uruguay legalized the sale of cannabis, 
choosing an alternative regulatory model to combat drug 
trafficking and its disastrous consequences in society. 
We do not claim to be an example or a trailblazer, but 
we do, obviously, want to redesign the kinds of policies 
that have categorically failed to date and that have not 
produced the expected results.

The critical situation in the world today with 
respect to food security is a structural problem. It is 
the result of bad global policies. One of every eight 
people, many of them children, suffer from chronic 
malnutrition. Humankind wastes more than a third of 
all the food we produce, which would be enough to 
resolve the problem of hunger. It is estimated that 30 
to 50 per cent of the food produced every year is never 
consumed by people, and the situation is worsening due 
to soil erosion, growing water scarcity, climate change 
and the improper use of toxic substances in the food 
production chain.

Combating climate change is a top priority. The 
need to implement policies today and not put them 
off until tomorrow is the moral imperative of every 
single individual in this Hall, so that we can give 
concrete content to the sustainable development goals 
and continue to grow. It is also important to continue 
to develop civil and political society, which we must 
support. The principle of the legal equality of States is 
essential. That is why my country rejects, for example, 
any coercive, unilateral or extraterritorial measures 
that contravene the norms of international law and the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The 
clearest example of that is the unjust blockade imposed 
against Cuba. We would like to once again express 
our strongest rejection of it. Uruguay would like to 
unequivocally demand that Cuba be stricken from the 
list of countries who harbour terrorists.

In the same vein, Uruguay would like to call for an 
end to be put to financial speculation by vulture funds. 
It is important that countries be able to restructure 
their sovereign debt in predictable, unchanging and just 
conditions without impacting development and, thus, 
the well-being of their people.

Global peace and security are essential. The 
eradication of any form of violence in this world is a 
crucial issue. It is essential to have negotiated solutions 
that parties agree on, and contributions by peacekeeping 
missions are essential to providing maximal guarantees 
in the world.

Human rights should be fully respected. They 
should be fully monitored, and guarantees should 

be provided in that regard to every individual. The 
authorities should ensure that human rights are fully 
monitored to ensure that their people enjoy the broadest 
possible freedoms.

Uruguay deplores violence in all its forms. The 
substance of violence is bad at its core. There is no 
justification for violence to continue to spread in the 
world today. Every time one right is undermined, it 
is our responsibility, as those who govern, to lead 
the fight for its restoration. Every time justice is not 
rendered, it must be our mission, as leaders, to demand 
accountability. Every time we recognize a new right, 
it is our obligation to remember those who still cannot 
exercise that right and to work tirelessly for their 
benefit.


===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
I bring to this forum, the largest and most representative of today’s world, the greetings of the people and the Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay — a greeting that expresses our passion for peace and freedom; our commitment to democracy, human rights, justice and solidarity; our commitment to the sustainable development of our country; and our desire for a humankind that, despite the redundancy, places at its core human beings — all human beings, men and women of this world without exception or excuse. We are all equal before the law, but above all we are all equal before life.
Although I come from Uruguay, I am not here to talk about the problems of Uruguay. I would modestly like to discuss problems affecting humankind as a whole. Weeks ago the world public opinion was moved by the image of a dead child on a beach after the sinking of the vessel with which, like so many other victims of the conflict in their country, he was trying to find a place in the world where he could find the protection to which he was entitled. The international reaction was immediate, but we hope that it was not ephemeral, that we not forget this tragedy that hit us and shamed us, to act with determination and efficiency in finding
solutions to the global tragedy of the exodus of millions of human beings.
Uruguay, as a nation nurtured by immigration and as a people that received international solidarity when it needed it, accepts this unavoidable duty. It is imperative to avoid a repetition of this tragedy, but it is also necessary to address the causes that brought it about. Always, and not just in matters of health, prevention is better than cure. Prevention means recognizing others as the same as us, which is much more than “tolerating” them”, respecting and promoting their rights, all their rights; betting on democracy as a form of government and state of society; educating and training for dignified life, decent work and full citizenship; respecting the planet on which we live, which, moreover, is still the only one on which the human species can survive as such. If we continue to destroy this world in the short term, humankind and future generations are sure to be homeless.
Prevention also means rejecting all forms of terrorism and discrimination so that there are no dead children on the beaches of the world because they cannot find a place to live, rejecting terrorism and discrimination wherever they arise and in all circumstances and places. Prevention is thinking boldly and acting sensibly with an eye on future generations, but as there is no future without a present, prevention is also thinking and acting according to our hopes, needs and possibilities.
A moment ago, I made a reference to health, no doubt because of my work experience — since I am a physician and until very recently was in the full exercise of my profession and vocation — but not only from experience. As the leader of my country, I am well aware that public health is a key and essential component of the sovereignty of nations, a right of individuals, a factor in the development of societies and an unavoidable responsibility of States.
From that perspective, we face a disturbing and unavoidable reality at the level of the whole of planet Earth. Indeed, according to recent studies and reports of the World Health Organization, first, the global burden of disease is shifting from acute, infectious diseases to chronic non-communicable diseases; the two must be fought, by working to keep acute diseases from appearing and by acting to prevent non-communicable chronic diseases from occurring. Secondly, chronic conditions such as heart disease and strokes are
15-29431 35/51

A/70/PV.16 29/09/2015
currently the leading cause of death worldwide. If we add other non-communicable diseases linked mainly to the lifestyle that we are developing as we advance, it is obvious that there is little left to say. Over 60 to 70 per cent of morbidity and mortality worldwide is due to chronic non-communicable diseases — cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes, and so on. Accordingly there is still so much to be done.
That task should have no borders of any kind, because the complex of problems underlying them know no borders. That is so much the case that the mere mention of the complex global landscape brings to mind Africa and Asia in particular, as well as Latin America, where many low-income and middle-income countries currently face a double burden of morbidity. Infectious diseases are killing people mercilessly and impacting us deeply, while chronic non-communicable diseases are also insidiously killing our populations.
At the same time, malnutrition and risk factors for chronic non-communicable diseases, such as overweight and obesity, have been said to also affect high-income countries and remain prevalent in the world. It is estimated that cancer has been costing Latin America $4.5 billion annually in terms of direct costs for physicians’ consultations, studies, diagnoses, treatment, medication, hospitalization, palliative care and more. There are indirect costs as well, such as travel and accommodations, lost work days and productivity. How much of that money could be saved if, rather than using it to treat the effects of these diseases, it could be put into social policies to improve people’s lives by offering better education, better health and dignified living conditions for our peoples?
It may be unpleasant to mention this aspect, but it is part of an uncomfortable reality that we must change, because if we do not adopt immediate measures by the year 2030, 1 million Latin Americans will die annually of cancer alone, and more than 7 million people globally will die from a preventable disease that, with early diagnosis and proper treatment, can be cured. Cancer will kill more people in the world every year than those killed during the Second World War. We are facing a brutal pandemic and, I humbly suggest, we must be aware of the reality we are currently suffering a pandemic that the humankind has never before known.
Life is precious; it has no price. In order to address and reverse the growing morbidity and mortality
from cancer and other non-communicable diseases, it is important to adopt political positions and policies and to implement systemic strategies to end poverty, generate social inclusion, promote education, encourage healthful lifestyles, and strengthen integrated health systems, including national programmes for the primary prevention, early detection and diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and long-term follow-up of these diseases. In regard to healthful lifestyles, physical activity and sports are important, as is a healthful diet, as opposed to the harmful and highly processed foods of an industry that growing exponentially.
We must control smoking, alcoholism and drug abuse. Based on our experience, we feel that it is indispensable to include tobacco and alcohol in our policies on drugs. We know it is not easy, but it is possible to regulate those markets without resorting to prohibitionist dogmatism and respecting the rights of individuals and making public health a matter of State sovereignty and social progress. Above all, I reiterate that the fight against smoking is also one against its vector of transmission, which is not mosquitoes, birds or rats but a multinational tobacco industry that, in order to double its profits, has no problem killing its own customers.
Uruguay has been a world leader in the implementation of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Beginning in January 2014, Uruguay adopted a law on the control and regulation of cannabis, and we are working on measures related to controlling alcoholism, perhaps with a zero-tolerance policy in certain cases and circumstances. Finally, with regard to that issue, nothing can be achieved in isolation. Everything requires sensitivity, resolve and perseverance on the part of all Governments and peoples throughout the world.
In the area of international cooperation, we are not starting from zero. There are a number of institutional frameworks and modalities and very many projects under way. Could the implementation of the former and the progress of the latter be improved? No doubt, but rather than inventing new ones, let us make better use of what we already have. To that end, we certainly will need more human, material and financial resources, but there is one resource without which all these things, as abundant as they may be, will always be insufficient. I am referring to the resource of political will, which in this case is more than an ideological dilemma or a question of left, right or centre; it is an ethical issue.
36/51 15-29431

29/09/2015 A/70/PV.16
It is not ethical that, in some circumstances, tribunals and multinational organizations are able to prioritize trade over the defence of the fundamental human right to health and life. That is what Uruguay is suffering from. A major international tobacco company — I would cite only its initials so as not to offend certain sensibilities, but it is in fact Philip Morris — has appealed against Uruguay for bringing the issue of tobacco control to the World Health Organization. That is the situation Uruguay faces. Perhaps because we are a small country, we have been chosen for that role, not just to punish Uruguay but so that other countries of the world do not follow the path Uruguay has taken to fight against tobacco and to provide a better quality of life to its people.
Calling for ethics in the twenty-first century, I realize, might appear to be naïve or anachronistic, but the reality indicates the opposite. As we stated, we need only look at the news of the past few weeks to see that in some aspects, none of them trivial, the world really seems to be a kind of lunatic asylum run by its own patients. That is terrible, but if humankind wants to survive and progress, it cannot resign itself to such a terrible situation. It cannot become resigned to war or to the humiliation of poor people who have nothing to eat, nor can we close our eyes 24 hours after seeing a Syrian boy dead on a Turkish beach.
From our own perspective as a Latin American country and as Latin Americans, we cannot fail to mention three situations that are prominent on the agenda of our region. The first is the restoration of diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba as an indispensable step in the normalization of bilateral relations between the two countries. We commend that step, and while we are aware of the complexity of the process under way, we are confident with regard to its future, particularly with regard to the key element of ending the economic, trade and financial embargo imposed on Cuba more than 50 years ago by the Government of the United States. As it has done on previous occasions, Uruguay will vote in favour of the General Assembly’s draft resolution calling for an end to the embargo. Hopefully it will be the last time that the Assembly will have to pronounce on the issue.
The second situation in Latin America is the tension that has existed for several weeks on the border between Colombia and Venezuela. We call for calm, respectful and open dialogue between the Governments of these brother countries in order to deal with this
situation, whose main victims are the peoples of the two countries, especially their socially most vulnerable sectors.
The third situation is the peace talks in Colombia, another complex but decisive process for our brother country and our region as a whole. We support this process and are ready to cooperate with it under the terms agreed to and demanded by the parties. Uruguay is not omnipotent, nor does it claim to be omnipresent or infallible, but neither is it indifferent.
In 2008, our country officially submitted its candidacy for a seat on the Security Council as a non-permanent member for the period 2016 to 2017. We did so based on our commitment to this Organization, of which we are a founding member; on our adherence to international law and multilateralism; on our firm rejection of all forms of terrorism and discrimination; on our conviction that the only means capable of resolving conflicts are the peaceful ones laid down in the Charter of the United Nations; and on our confidence in the value of the Security Council’s efforts to fulfil its primary function of maintaining international peace and security.
Uruguay has contributed to peace and security with a concrete and unwavering commitment that began before the creation of the United Nations, has been maintained over the Organization’s 70-year history and today is manifest in its participation in the peacekeeping operations whose mandates come from that very Security Council. We want to bring our values, commitment and efforts to bear as a non-permanent member of the Council for the period 2016 to 2017. We rely on the support of those here to help us do that, and we will not disappoint them.


===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
As a citizen and the President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, it is an honour for me to speak to the General Assembly again from this rostrum. In this forum, which is the largest and most representative of humankind today, I offer the greetings of the citizens and the Government of my country. Our greetings reflect the values of peace, freedom, democracy, justice and solidarity, which define our nation and the United Nations, which we helped found in 1945, and today we are a non-permanent member of the Security Council.
As this is not my first time here, I run the risk of repeating what I said on previous occasions, and in particular what I said on 29 September 2016 in the General Assembly at its seventieth session (see A/70/ PV.16). But I am taking that risk because, with only a few exceptions, all the issues that I raised a year ago can be conveyed in the same terms and, in some cases, even graver ones.
Let us be clear: I do not say that as a reproach, and even less so as self-praise. It is painfully obvious, however, that despite the efforts of the United Nations to fight terrorism, violence, intolerance, discrimination, poverty, inequality, injustice and organized crime, these scourges continue to plague much of humankind. For it is our modest belief that the task of Governments and, moreover, of rulers — that is to say, our task, which has been entrusted to us by our citizens — cannot be limited to making assessments and telling people what is amiss. Our unconditional duty is to create the conditions for our people to build their own lives in society and to support them in that task. What I am saying does not seem like much, but it is a lot.
Without ignoring the enormous importance of other issues under consideration by the Assembly, let me refer to one that perhaps is not in the news, but it is certainly important because, as the data provided by the World Health Organization shows it is the primary cause of mortality throughout the world, especially in low- and middle- income countries. I am mainly talking about non-communicable diseases, in particular cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes and chronic pulmonary diseases. Clearly, the consequent terrible impact that these diseases have on humankind fly under the radar of our Governments, but they nevertheless tragically affect the lives of our peoples. And these avoidable diseases are largely due to four risk factors directly linked to supposedly typically modern behaviours, that is, smoking, alcohol consumption, unhealthy diet and physical inactivity.
The primary effects of those risk factors are dramatically felt increasingly in middle- and low-income countries, and the poorest people in every country, strongly reflecting the underlying socioeconomic determiners. Among these populations, the conditions are ripe for creating a vicious cycle. Poverty exposes people to the behavioural risk factors that lead to non-communicable diseases and these, in turn, tend to worsen the state of poverty of the affected individuals and families. Health systems are also affected by the impact of the high costs of the treatments that are needed to treat chronic non-communicable diseases. To give an idea of the financial implications, and without being dramatic, I want to draw members’ attention to the following statistics, which they certainly already know.
First, the direct cost of smoking on the national health-care systems of Latin America is estimated at $33 billion. That is the equivalent to 0.5 per cent of the gross domestic product of our region and 7 per cent of what it spends annually on health care. And the tax that our countries impose on tobacco products does not amount to 50 per cent of the costs of illnesses directly caused by smoking. Secondly, in 2009 the overall estimated economic cost of cancer in Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America amounted to an estimated $286 billion in direct costs — for example, doctors’ visits and medical analyses — and indirect costs, including travel and lodging expenses and lost workdays and productivity, among others. Therefore, in our humble view, unless we vigorously fight the epidemic of non-communicable diseases in countries and social groups that are most exposed or affected, the impact of those diseases will grow. And the plausible global goal of reducing poverty, which is timely and adopted by the Assembly as the condition sine qua non for sustainable development, rather than drawing closer, dramatically, retreats more each day beyond our reach.
If we look at the statistics available, in a single working day approximately 104,109 people worldwide will die today as a result of the diseases I mentioned. How then can we not design and implement strategies to control alcohol and tobacco consumption and to promote healthful lifestyles, such as a healthful diet and physical exercise. No doubt what I am saying here is a far cry from what those who preceded me in addressing the Assembly have said. While I hope I am mistaken, if we do not take appropriate measures, our countries, especially the poorest and most humble among them, will suffer dramatic consequences due to those diseases, which, I repeat, can be prevented. Of course, this is not a medical panel or a scientific symposium. But as a political leader who has not forgotten his medical profession and continues to be involved in it, allow me to tell the Assembly that not only is it possible to design and implement such strategies, but that very positive results can be achieved.
Those are not easy or simply strategies, but they are essential and can yield good results. Uruguayans know this from our own real-life experiences. But more than that, we have in place actual projects that we are working on. As on this issue there is also no future without solidarity, we call upon all countries, Governments and peoples, non-governmental organizations, as well as scientific, medical and international organizations, to form an alliance under the United Nations against the epidemic of non-communicable diseases — an alliance for a healthy life and as broad, vigorous and dynamic as possible. It is possible — not easy, but possible. In many ways, more than financial resources, it requires conviction and political will to go ahead.
Uruguay is a world leader in the implementation of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. But there have been opponents to that leadership. Among them, at the beginning of the year 2010, a claim was brought before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes by the tobacco firm Philip Morris. That company was suing our country because of its opposition to two regulations adopted by our country in order to control tobacco. In addition to the formal arguments brought by that tobacco firm, the main reason for its action was to punish a small country like Uruguay that had decided to control tobacco consumption and to work hard for the health and right to live of our people. The lawsuit was a punishment, using our small country as an example, so that all countries that were implementing or planning to implement similar policies would learn from this lesson not to go forward with them.
The proceedings were lenghthy, meandering and costly. In the end, though, on 8 July, the arbitral tribunal of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes handed down its final ruling. It was decisively favourable to Uruguay. None of the claimants’ arguments were accepted and, more important, the policies adopted by our country were recognized as sovereign, legitimate and in line with the international commitments Uruguay had undertaken and in accord with international law. But things do not happen by coincidence. In that regard, I would like to thank the World Health Organization, many of the countries represented here and all the institutions and individuals who in one way or another supported Uruguay’s cause in this dispute. I thank all of them sincerely on behalf of the Uruguayan people. The best way to return such support — and without being ignorant of the circumstances under which we live today — we commit ourselves to continue working hard, as our modest means allow — to help all the people of the world succeed in meaningfully defending their rights to health and life.
Uruguay is not unaware of the circumstances in other regions of the world. Again, we are not indifferent. Allow me to address some of those issues.
First, we would like to congratulate the Government of Colombia and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia. We reiterate to them our willingness and readiness to continue cooperating with the parties in the new and demanding stages of the peace process.
Secondly, in our address to the General Assembly in 2015 (see A/70/PV.16) we expressed our desire that the seventieth session would be the last at which our country had to call for an end to the economic, trade and financial embargo so unfairly imposed by the United States on Cuba. So long as the embargo remains in place, Uruguay will continue to demand here its definitive lifting.
Thirdly, we are not indifferent to the complex political and institutional situations that exist in several brother nations. As good brothers, we hope that such difficulties will sovereignly resolved on the basis of democratic institutional frameworks and in a calm, respectful and sincere dialogue among the parties involved. The will of citizens, the will of the people, must be thoroughly respected.
I very much appreciate the attention the Assembly has given to me today. On behalf of the Uruguayan people, a small country in South America’s Southern Cone, I would like to reiterate that, within our modest means, we will continue to work with members to strive for a more fraternal world with more solidarity for more social justice, with peace, with respect and with tolerance for all inhabitants of the planet.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
As we greet all delegations, we also welcome the holding of the seventy-second session of the General Assembly. Uruguay is convinced that today more than ever we need to strengthen these bodies of international coordination and leadership. Failure to do so would be to abandon humankind to transnational powers that escape regulation and arbitrarily impose their rule, notwithstanding the full validity of national sovereignties, which, throughout the course of history, have shown great longevity and bravely responded to challenges.
By instituting the reforms necessary to adapt its structures and methodologies to a time that is very different from the one in which it was born, the United Nations should become stronger, and the General Assembly, its main body, should be given higher priority. This would be a worthwhile endeavour, given that the Assembly is and will continue to be the expression of a universal demos, which humankind must safeguard as the ideal for organizing peaceful coexistence on a global scale, where all States, large and small, are equally worthy and respected.
Uruguay’s foreign policy has focused on certain traditional pillars that have governed its actions throughout history, such as democracy, the rule of law, respect for and promotion of human rights, the defence of multilateralism, and the commitment to dialogue and peace. These are the principles that our country has historically defended and actively promoted. Uruguay has made these pillars its State policy, supported by all its political parties regardless of the different ideological or programmatic orientations that alternate based on the rotation of power that is inherent to our idea of democracy. They represent a common heritage and a key chapter of the agreements entered into throughout our history that define our national identity.
Today, with the world facing a broad range of threats and challenges, Uruguay is resolved to make its voice heard and base its actions on the international stage on those cornerstones that have held up its architecture in a peaceful and democratic manner. The increase in armed conflicts, characterized by unprecedented violence, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the expansion in the trade of all types of weapons, the spread of terrorism, cyberattacks, hunger and the devastating effects of climate change make it more than ever necessary for the international community to make a strong commitment to addressing them.
At a time when many of these expressions of violence and devastation are the result of global causes, it would be injudicious to strive to impose painful or insufficiently local responses to such challenges. The international community must rise to the occasion, consolidate its frameworks for joint action andstrengthen global governance in order to resolve these serious problems.
Today, millions of people are directly affected by violence and armed conflict. Hundreds of thousands have been killed and thousands of others injured, and millions of displaced persons have been forced to flee their homes and risk their lives in search of peace. We should never consent to idly stand by when faced with such tragedy and devastation, in the midst of an indifference out of which we are shaken only exceptionally, when a memorable image moves or strikes us. Such an image — and this is the greatest tragedy — may be sadly representative of the fate of tens or hundreds of thousands of human beings whose lives and sad destinies we will never know. “Wasted lives” was how Polish philosopher Zygmunt Bauman, the father of “liquid modernity”, described them in his outstanding essay. It is only right to recall here that the world bade Bauman farewell earlier this year.
Unfortunately, human trafficking networks, which take advantage of human despair and vulnerability, emerge in those contexts, promising people a non-existent future. In the face of this scourge, all countries gathered here must redouble their efforts to combat all forms of trafficking, including human trafficking. All States must cooperate in order to put an end to all such heinous practices, which denigrate their victims and strip them of their basic humanity in service of the interests of global criminal and terrorist networks, and in order to promote the growth and social development of nations.
Let us call a spade a spade: inequality remains the main cause of most of the difficulties and threats that we face. We all know that, with the current advances in science and technology, poverty and hunger are unacceptable, and issues stemming from poor organization and the inequitable distribution of power and national and international resources are the cause of their unjustifiable persistence. For that reason, we reiterate that the rule of law and development are inextricably linked and mutually reinforcing. Both are therefore essential to sustainable development at the national and international levels.
Uruguay fully endorse the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the commitment to leave no one behind. It pledges its unqualified support for that commitment, without any preconditions. It is a commitment that can be undertaken in a straightforward manner by a country such as ours, which throughout its history has made the fight against abandonment one of the marks of its identity and succeeded in building, from a relatively early stage, a reasonably integrated society with a significant degree of social cohesion, although not without having to confront challenges and difficulties.
In July, at the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, my country, for the second year in a row, submitted its voluntary national report on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which involved carrying out a regular process of consultations and interinstitutional coordination with the participation of the Government, academia, civil society, the private sector and international organizations, with respect to its implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
However, there is an issue on the United Nations agenda that is even more vital for Uruguay — disarmament as a prelude to peace. The international community must be committed to actively seeking effective solutions to this global problem. The growing threat of terrorism and the challenge it poses to the international community as a whole, the risk of the potential use of weapons of mass destruction by terrorist groups, and the acquisition and use of conventional weapons and the links of such weapons with transnational crime have made the failure to disarm one of the greatest threats facing humankind . It is therefore a matter of deep concern. Controlling the international arms trade is an urgent necessity, given that trafficking and arms deals with warring parties in conflicts contribute directly to the suffering and murder of civilians.
For that reason, the accession to and ratification of international instruments intended to protect civilians, such as the historic Arms Trade Treaty, are a great contribution to that end. And let me repeat here in the General Assembly something that has already been mentioned in the Security Council. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, 74 per cent of the total volume of arms exports in the period 2011-2015 was carried out specifically by the five permanent members of the Security Council. Similarly, military spending in 2016 was $1.69 trillion, which was higher than in 2015.
We should ask ourselves how many needs could have been met had those funds been redirected to the economic and social development of countries. The possession of nuclear weapons and the delay in disarmament by the States that possess them also endanger and threaten the world’s stability and human security. If the proliferation of nuclear weapons overtakes diplomacy, the consequences will be devastating. Diplomacy, diplomacy and more diplomacy: that is the path that we must take.
The use and threat of use of nuclear weapons constitute a crime against humankind and a serious violation of international law, including international humanitarian law, as well as of the Charter of the United Nations. The only guarantee against the use and threat of use of those weapons is their explicit prohibition and total elimination. Nevertheless, far from abandoning their weapons programmes, the nuclear Powers continue to improve and actively modernize their nuclear arsenals. Data from specialized organizations indicate that nine countries have more than 17,000 nuclear weapons, of which approximately 2,000 are on high alert, ready to be launched at a moment’s notice.
Uruguay welcomes the success of the United Nations conference that negotiated a binding instrument to ban nuclear weapons and bring about their total elimination. It concluded with the adoption of the historic Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, recently opened to all States for signature, and to which Uruguay has just acceded. In that regard, we call on all countries to sign the instrument, which aims to ensure a dignified life for future generations and avoid a humanitarian catastrophe.
As part of its concern about the development of nuclear weapons, Uruguay expresses its strong condemnation of North Korea’s nuclear tests and ballistic-missile launches and urges that country to abandon its existing nuclear programmes in a complete, verifiable and irreversible way, putting an immediate end to all related activities, including launches using ballistic-missile technology, and other acts of provocation.
In the same vein, we urge that country to respect the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and return to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which it abandoned in 2003, and the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards regime. However, we also urge all countries, in particular the great United States, to avoid the verbal escalations that have always preceded major tragedies throughout history and weigh every word in a responsible manner, eschewing all violent rhetoric. A dynamic of antagonism often makes it impossible to stick to the facts.
In addressing the 3rd meeting of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session, our Secretary- General, Mr. Antonio Guterres, made reference to “sleepwalking our way to war”, inspired by the eloquent title recently used by the historian Christopher Clark to describe how human beings and nations marched into the tragedy of the First World War, dazed and confused by mutual misunderstandings and unheeded warnings. When they became aware of the outcome, it was too late.
Just three months before ending its term as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, Uruguay wishes to emphasize once again that it is firmly convinced of the importance of focusing its efforts on protecting civilian populations in all conflict zones by using different modalities, through peacekeeping operations and the delivery of humanitarian assistance, by, inter alia, protecting hospitals and medical personnel and denouncing flagrant violations of human rights.
In the current context of crisis, we wish to acknowledge the bravery and altruism of humanitarian personnel as they continue to assist, at the risk of their own lives, those in need in conflict situations. We understand that the best way to honour humanitarian workers, who have saved thousands of lives in numerous settings, is to devise successful policies and reach agreement within the framework of the United Nations to bring about the immediate cessation of attacks on civilians, while making possible the delivery of humanitarian assistance to those in conflict situations. We are concerned at the increasing number of attacks on and deliberate bombings of civilians, humanitarian workers and civil infrastructure such as hospitals, schools and markets, all of which are serious human rights violations.
The ultimate atrocity is when defenceless human beings are attacked while they are assisting other defenceless human beings at the worst times and in the worst places. Not only should we emphatically condemn this, but we should also adopt resolutions to protect victims and bring perpetrators to justice. Uruguay once again calls for full compliance with Security Council resolutions, especially resolution 2286 (2016), and the establishment of effective mechanisms for itsimplementation. I wish to reiterate that this kind of attack against civilian targets, disguised as collateral attacks, should never be tolerated.
It is undeniable that we are experiencing deep- seated changes in the kinds of conflicts we are seeing. The increasing presence of terrorist organizations and non-State actors spreads fear among populations and disproportionately undermines the rights of women and children. History has shown us that there is a constant pattern in terms of conflicts in the world, regardless of region or religion. Women and girls are those who suffer the consequences most. War invades their lives, threatening their sense of security.
In this context, as an elected member of the Security Council, a country with a long-standing participation in various peacekeeping operations and an active troop contributor, Uruguay is intent on fighting sexual exploitation and abuse in armed conflicts. We are deeply committed to the zero-tolerance policy. We reiterate our support for this policy and are working very hard to prevent new cases of abuse and sexual exploitation in peacekeeping operations, with the understanding that a single case is one too many.
For more than 50 years, Uruguay knew what it was like to be outside the most important decision-making body in the world. That is why we believe it is vital that the issues taken up by the Security Council be public knowledge for all Members of the United Nations. What is discussed there is of such importance that all States present here today should be aware of what goes on behind closed doors. That is why Uruguay will continue working towards more transparent and inclusive working methods in the United Nations within the framework of the Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group, as well as in other multilateral contexts. As a signatory to the Charter of the United Nations, Uruguay emphasizes its commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations while committing itself to working tirelessly to sustain those principles, which we believe are vital for building a safer and more prosperous future.
We cannot even think of peace in the world if the international community does not make a serious commitment to disarmament and non-proliferation. Any progress in disarmament and non-proliferation — be it serious commitments; gradual, effective, specific steps forward; or results — must be welcomed and celebrated as a tremendous achievement of the United Nations.
We wish to conclude our statement by highlighting the overarching historical significance of the peace process that has been gaining ground in Colombia and putting an end to the armed conflicts that divided it, drowning it in pain and blood for many long decades. As Uruguayans, as Latin Americans and, in this case, as the then President of the Security Council, we are pleased and proud to have made a modest contribution to the building of peace in Colombia. This is the best example we have when we talk about specific results.
It is our Latin America that we have made a region of peace today. The great note of hope that has sounded when this ceasefire and the peace agreement were reached gives us the enthusiasm we need to take on the new and difficult missions in other parts of the world in which the way out often seems difficult to see. Latin America has single-mindedly rejected all attempts to resolve internal conflicts in Latin America, no matter how intense they are, through military intervention.
In the historical experience of our continent, such interventions have only left a trail of lasting violence, poverty and instability. Latin America is united as a block against interventionist war-mongering endeavours that are neither rational nor prudent.
I would like to reiterate once again our emphatic rejection of the unfair blockade which, after 55 years, is still looming over our sister Republic of Cuba, and we express our sympathy and condolences in connection with the victims of the hurricanes and earthquakes that recently affected the region.
In conclusion, achieving a sustainable planet and a decent life requires the effective use of existing resources so that we can live in peace and security and our legacy can be a habitable world for future generations.

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
I bring greetings from the people  of  the  Eastern  Republic of Uruguay, a country in the Southern cone of the Americas that is small but nonetheless has strong democratic institutions, social and economic stability and clearly defined values and principles, and that is making tangible progress in all  areas. Of  course, it   is not and never will be perfect — do such countries exist? — but it works humbly day after day to make progress while leaving none of its inhabitants behind. That is the meaning of development, a multidimensional and dynamic process aimed at achieving the well-being and prosperity of all citizens. In the World Economic Forum’s Inclusive Development Index 2018, published in January, Uruguay is ranked as one of the 10 most inclusive emerging countries in the world and second in Latin America, owing to efficient public policies that enable us to use economic growth to reduce inequalities and promote social inclusion and equity among generations.
Despite that, we admit that we still have a lot to do. In that regard, there is a specific issue affecting several countries, including our own, that I would like to briefly discuss. In our view, the criteria  and  methodology that the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development applies to assess countries’ development according to their per capita income represents a grave injustice. As a result, Uruguay, like other countries in the region, has been considered a high-income country since 2013, and starting this year, no longer qualifies for official development assistance. The recognition of our progress is encouraging, but we do not agree with the new classification for a fundamental reason, which is that while growth and development are linked, they are clearly not the same thing. Uruguay has enjoyed significant economic growth over the past 15 years that has enabled thousands of its citizens to emerge from poverty. But structural gaps persist.
Development in transition is not an arbitrary concept. It is the most accurate description of the situation of countries that, like Uruguay, are on a path to development but still need the support of reconsidered and reoriented cooperation. There is no question that we have made progress, but the road  ahead will still be difficult. Paradoxically, it seems that no good deed goes unpunished, and we hope that this criterion will be reviewed soon. In addition, we are also of the view that in the life of countries not everything is about economic development and the  distribution  of  resources.  We in Uruguay know that and have advocated nationally and internationally for an agenda oriented towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, approved by the Assembly in the framework of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Such an agenda should put special emphasis on the transformation of the energy matrix towards renewable sources and adaptation to verifiable climate change; on making progress in the irrefutible responsibility to protect our environment; and, as members are aware, on the fight for the health of our people, which is the struggle for
 
life, the main human right that all the beings on this planet have.
As a result, we have implemented strict policies for the control of tobacco consumption and the prevention of non-communicable diseases, one of humankind’s worst afflictions, in addition to active participation    at the international level. That includes  co-chairing the World Health Organization Independent High- level Commission on Noncommunicable Diseases and hosting the Global Conference on Non-Communicable Diseases in October 2017, where the Montevideo Road Map 2018-2030 was approved, wherein we reaffirmed the commitment to undertake bold actions to reduce by one third the number of premature deaths from such diseases. There is much left for us to do.  There  is also much to be done to combat the mortal agent that is tobacco, which kills more  than 7  million  of the planet’s inhabitants per year, much more than the number killed by the two world wars of the twentieth century. That is why we invite every country to apply the measures established in Montevideo by the World Health Organization.
Those and other elements — such as the universal digital agenda, for which we we have developed our Ceibal and Ibirapitá plans, which we do not have the time to go into further detail about here — give an account of a small, modest and self-confident country moving in a concrete direction. That direction could be described simply as improving the quality of life of all the country’s inhabitants without discrimination of any kind.
Uruguay also belongs to the region and the world. In that vein, we reaffirm our historic commitment to  a more participatory, fairer, balanced and multipolar international system that translates into the basic principles of  our  foreign policy  that  has  existed  for decades. That includes, for example, first, the commitment to the maintenance of peace, international disarmament and security, as well as the participation of our armed forces in peacekeeping operations; second, our country’s firm rejection of terrorism, organized crime and all types of violence and discrimination, which unfortunately are rampant in the world; third, support for the peaceful settlement of disputes  and  for the sovereign equality of States regardless of their geographical size and number of inhabitants; fourth, unimpeded dedication to, and respect for, international law, which is the greatest guarantee for the sovereignty of peoples and their peaceful coexistence; fifth, our
unwavering commitment to the promotion and the protection of all human rights; sixth, adherence to relevant notions such as non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, respect  for  sovereignty  and the self-determination of peoples; and, seventh, the promotion of multilateralism in all its facets, political, economic, cultural, et cetera, as the best way to face the global challenges facing humankind.
In a turbulent international context where the world resembles an asylum run by its own patients, we assert more than ever the values and principles I just mentioned. In that context, we call for a joint, committed effort to strengthen and modernize the international system and the United Nations. Those are not just words. In practice we worked intensely as non-permanent members of the Security Council during the 2016-2017 biennium, and now we are doing the same in the Economic and Social Council. We put forward our country’s candidature as a member of the Human Rights Council for the period 2019-2021. Uruguay is committed to pacifist ideals, solidarity and global peace and security.
From this place, where we can speak about any number of issues of interest to humankind, I wish to conclude my intervention by mentioning one that, humbly, we consider it a priority to address before everyone here. I am speaking of environmental degradation and the consequences of climate change. The crisis that we are experiencing at the global level must be handled decisively by the leaders of each of the nations represented here. This is everyone’s fight. It is the struggle for life. We ask the powerful world leaders to respect international agreements to protect the environment and to try to avoid ills that are suffered essentially by the world’s poorest people. We have to take active measures to protect all people in our world, especially the poorest, who suffer the most. The world is also suffering, just as a living being suffers, from various risk factors that destroy it little by little, day after day. This world is our only home for now and for future generations. This world suffers from wars, from the unbridled desire for indiscriminate profit by industries that kill humankind, as the tobacco industry does, which have no regard for the environment, pollution or the consequences of the savage consumerism that we are experiencing.
Just as our behaviour directly affects our health, and it is the duty of the States to fight for the lives of their inhabitants, it is the duty of all of us who inhabit this planet to fight for the place in which we live and
 
that we will have to leave for  those who  will follow  us in this life. That is the case of the December 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, concluded within the framework of the 1994 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. As it is the best possible hope for global survival and security, as well as a commitment that is essential to achieving the 2030 Agenda, we reaffim our commitment to that Agreement. We once again urge the powerful leaders of the countries of the world to respect and comply with those Agreements. Agreements are signed in order to be carried out — and this one especially must be complied with. We also join the call to all those States that have not yet ratified it to do so as soon as possible. On that issue, as in so many other areas of life, we need not rush; however, we must not be late either. Humankind does not have much time to consider those agreements, which are necessary to protect the environment.
In conclusion, we are convinced that the United Nations system is humankind’s best possible opportunity to approach confidently and optimistically the problems that the present and the future pose, and to act accordingly. We are all necessary to this shared task. Member States can count on us, and we know that we can count on all Member States.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
At the outset, I would like to extend to Her Excellency Ms. Maria Fernanda Espinosa Garces, President of the General Assembly at its seventy-third session, a well- deserved recognition for her excellent leadership of the main organ of the United Nations system. As the first woman from Latin America and the Caribbean to be elected President, she not only represented Latin Americans, but also women from all over the world.
I would also like to congratulate the Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its seventy-fourth session. We wish him every success in the discharge of his duties and pledge the commitment of our entire delegation.
I cannot touch upon the central theme of this debate without first making some observations that put it in context. We are today living through a difficult global situation of great uncertainty, product of the clash of opposing forces struggling to establish a new world order, often without considering the serious consequences of their actions for world peace — that utopia we yearn for in which all people can live in a state of happiness and freedom, with their basic needs met and without fear of suffering least of all deprivation of their rights and security.
A quick glance at the planet suffices to realize the fragility of the foundations that underpin peaceful coexistence among States. The tension in Western Asia and the Middle East, the political and economic upheaval in Europe, hunger and malnutrition in Africa and the alarming spread of extreme ideologies are additional risk factors beyond the power struggle among the various Powers vying for domination, whether in the form of trade wars or ideological wars.
We are gravely concerned about the withdrawal of the United States from the nuclear treaty with Iran, a hard-won agreement, which casts a shadow over the future of peace in that fragile region and could lead Iran to resume its nuclear programme, with unforeseeable consequences for international peace and security. Uruguay, a firm champion of denuclearization, urges the parties to reconsider their positions and act with a universal conscience by putting aside rhetoric to score short-term political gains at the cost of dire global consequences.
Similarly, my country is concerned about the proliferation of arms, especially small arms and light weapons. The indiscriminate access of private individuals to such weapons in countries with permissive legislation is responsible for a growing trend of vigilante justice.
In Latin America we are deeply alarmed by the spread of extreme ideologies that seek to forcibly apply their methods in other countries, thus shamelessly violating the authority of regional organizations and generating situations of crisis and violence as an excuse to impose their doctrines by force and plunder the Latin American peoples for their own benefit. We are even more concerned that some Governments in the region embrace those same ideologies and procedures, the use of which has had significant adverse effects still evokes bitter memories.
We cannot allow the principle of non-intervention to be a protective barrier to enable grave violations of human rights. Nor can we tolerate foreign intervention under the pretext of defending democracy, all the while terrorizing the population with the threat of an allegedly liberating invasion whose only certain results would be the loss of thousands of innocent lives and the suffocation of many others through economic sanctions that would plunge them into deeper poverty, as is currently the case with Venezuela. Only dialogue and understanding between the parties can lead to a peaceful solution to the crisis.
In a similar vein, we again raise our voice in this Assembly, as we have done for 27 years, to strongly condemn the savage and illegal commercial and financial blockade that has been applied for more than 50 years against the Republic of Cuba. Illegal sanctions that run counter to international law have impoverished the people of Cuba, and their grave consequences are detrimental to the future of the women and men of that brotherly Latin American country.
Uruguay has a long tradition of defending multilateralism, democracy, self-determination and the protection and promotion of human rights. We come to this Hall today to renew our commitment to fighting for solutions based on dialogue, peace, democracy and the full enjoyment of human rights when it comes to addressing conflicts generated in our region.
Uruguay considers the Security Council to be the only organ with the competence to apply measures against a Member State for the purpose of maintaining or restoring international peace and security or to determine whether the use of force is warranted under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. The world has made progress in building this institutional architecture, which, with its strengths and weaknesses, must be defended — and Uruguay, which believes in international law as the guarantor of peaceful coexistence among nations, will always do so.
For that reason, it participates actively in the maintenance of international peace and security, through peace operations to which it contributes substantial contingents. In fact, Uruguay is the top personnel contributor in the entire Western Hemisphere. As a founding member of the United Nations, Uruguay is deeply committed to multilateralism in all spheres, not only as protection against more powerful actors, but also as a framework for faithfully fulfilling its own obligations.
Four years ago, the States Members of the United Nations committed to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), some of which serve as inspiration for this general debate. In this regard, Uruguay has responsibly assumed its commitments to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which fully match the policies it has been implementing over the past 15 years, as my country has been integrating the SDGs at the national, departmental and local levels. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, in order to properly ensure accountability, my country submitted voluntary reports that take stock of the significant progress we have made in each of the 17 Goals.
In my view, there are three cross-cutting vectors within the Sustainable Development Goals — the elimination of poverty, the fight against climate change and quality education.
Allow me first to focus on the worst global scourge, the greatest enemy of peace, the cause of most of the ills of our era and the enemy we should focus all our efforts towards exterminating — poverty. If we eliminate poverty, we can universalize education and do away with the education deficit. If we eliminate poverty, we would be reducing harm to the environment. If we eliminate poverty, we will be eliminating hunger, exclusion and discrimination. If we eliminate poverty, we will finally approach the state of well-being to which I referred at the beginning of my statement — world peace.
The equitable distribution of wealth and the eradication of extreme poverty are a priority objective for the Government of Uruguay. We are committed to definitively eradicating extreme poverty and indigence by 2030 and have been working for 15 years to achieve this objective. It is with great satisfaction that we can say today, in this Hall, that in Uruguay there is not a single child sleeping on the streets.
The year 2005 marked a milestone in the fight against poverty and extreme poverty in Uruguay. In order to respond to the needs of the Uruguayan people, we undertook key institutional innovations and promoted normative reforms that have expanded social protections. This new institutional framework focused on social policies, increased public spending and launched a comprehensive strategic planning programme in this area. All this took place in the context of uninterrupted economic growth over the past 15 years. In addition, our country opted for decent work, providing more guarantees and rights to workers, including the right to social security and free medical care for rural and domestic workers, who have historically been neglected.
Those public policies have been critical for the Government to fulfil its social inclusion goals, which it has done with such remarkable success that, at the most recent International Labour Conference of the International Labour Organization, a private-sector representative complained that, in its view, the Government has granted workers too many rights. As a result of those same social policies, the total number of people living below the poverty line has been reduced to 8 per cent, the lowest in Latin America, with indigence standing at 0.1 per cent and inequality at 0.38 per cent, making Uruguay the most egalitarian country in Latin America and the Caribbean.
The rights agenda for which Uruguay is internationally recognized has also significantly contributed to the advancement of a freer and more democratic society. After all, we are one of the few full democracies in the world based on a strong institutional framework and the strength of traditional political parties, the oldest of which have existed for 200 years and the youngest of which has been around for half a century. Our robust institutions have allowed Uruguay to avoid the wave of corruption that shook the region.
Although personal wealth worldwide has grown exponentially in the past 20 years, 736 million human beings live in extreme poverty. Less than 10 per cent of the world’s population holds 86 per cent of global wealth, while 70 per cent shares a mere 2.7 per cent of the wealth. In addition, 96 per cent of the world’s poor live in various Asian countries, in Africa and in Latin America.
Driven by the explosion of digital technology and the growth of emerging economies and the global economy after the financial crisis at the start of the century, the world’s wealth has increased by 66 per cent compared to the year 1995. However, that increase in wealth has not ended poverty or reduced inequality. On the contrary, they have increased. Today, the wealth per capita of the high-income member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is 52 times that of low-income countries. This is a major challenge for the United Nations. Only with enhanced institutions and exemplary legitimate governance can we make progress in managing the complex global processes that lead to inequality.
We are not utopian, but we believe that it is possible and necessary to take steps towards a gradual but effective action that will make it possible to reverse the abysmal and shameful inequality on the planet. This inequality significantly affects the entire edifice of rights and tends to turn it, not infrequently, into a formalism of little substance, valuable only as a proclamation of what should be, but not very real and present in the daily life of many nations.
To end poverty and reduce inequality, we must invest in people, the most important component of the wealth of nations. Women account for less than 40 per cent of global wealth because they continue to earn less than men throughout their lives. Achieving gender equality would increase human capital by almost 20 per cent. That is why Uruguay inserts a chapter on trade and gender, with an inclusive approach, in all of its trade agreements, as was the case in our recent agreements with Chile, with our Southern Common Market partners and with Canada. That is why it is important for States to design and implement fair and balanced social policies aimed at reducing inequalities, ending poverty and narrowing the existing gaps in our societies, thereby offering everyone a better, fairer and more hopeful future.
Numerous studies show the multidimensional nature of the phenomenon of poverty, which can only be addressed through comprehensive policies that can build sustainable solutions. Without such a multidimensional approach, there will be 1 billion people living in poverty by 2050, with the lowest- income countries experiencing the highest population growth. All States must consider the multidimensional approach, since poverty is a problem that afflicts all societies in the world, which is why multilateral efforts are the key to eradicate it.
Secondly, with regard to the fight against climate change, if we are to succeed, we must be aware that the harmful effects of climate change directly affect the increase in poverty and global economic and social inequality. By 2050, climate change could displace 140 million people in sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia and Latin America alone.
The severity of environmental degradation has reached levels beyond what is tolerable. The commitment of all Members of the United Nations is essential to stopping environmental damage and to trying to reverse its bleak consequences. The devastating fires that have ravaged California, Siberia, Bolivia and Chile this year, in addition to those in the Brazilian Amazon, seriously threaten biodiversity and the balance of the planet’s largest ecosystem. Governments have an obligation to protect biodiversity as our common heritage and legacy for future generations.
Uruguay reaffirms its willingness to work together with all countries committed to the protection and safeguarding of the environment, in accordance with the principles established in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, adopted in 1992, and the commitments made in the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and makes a fervent appeal to Governments to seriously address this real threat to the stability and equilibrium of the globe. In this regard, my delegation reiterates its full support for the twenty- fifth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Santiago in December, and congratulates Costa Rica on its commitment to the environment and its efforts to accelerate climate action at the pre-Conference meeting it will host in October. Given the risk that climate change poses, Uruguay has been adopting policies that place it among the most advanced countries of the world in the field, including its salient national energy policy through which it achieved generating 98 per cent of its electricity through renewable energy sources.
As nations, we have the responsibility of pooling our efforts to agree on educational policies that allow us to deepen the integration of climate change throughout the educational process and to contribute to increasing the awareness of our peoples with respect to the challenges it poses. Only in this way will we be better prepared to face its negative effects and therefore achieve a more resilient international society that is less vulnerable, with greater capacity to adapt to change and climate variability and more aware and responsible given the challenge. An active and conscious citizenry, with an education guided by that awareness, will act as an effective means of controlling Governments and private enterprise, thereby enhancing cooperation with the safeguarding of the environment.
Thirdly, I will address education. In order to provide quality education, it is necessary to be prepared to face the use of technology and its democratization. Rapid technological advances in artificial intelligence are transforming societies by changing the way people learn, work and live together. Education systems could use artificial intelligence to change their management, teaching and learning.
Each of the goals outlined in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development requires education to equip all people with the knowledge, skills and values that will enable them to live with dignity, build their own lives and contribute to the societies in which they live. However, serious difficulties unfortunately persist. According to UNESCO, 262 million children and young people do not attend primary or secondary school, and 750 million adults are illiterate, all of which contribute to increased poverty and marginalization. Aid to education has stagnated since 2010, and only one third of it is allocated to primary and secondary education in low- and middle-income countries.
In Uruguay, we are absolutely convinced that the key to facing those challenges lies in the universalization of education. Education is a human right — an invisible engine of sustainable development and peace. Because of Uruguay’s free, secular and obligatory education, 98.6 per cent of its population is literate, 99 per cent of five-year-old children are in school and 100 per cent of its public and private primary schoolteachers are credentialled.
Uruguay has chosen to embrace the concept of transformation with equity, and within that framework, it has developed public policies that have had a direct impact on reducing the digital divide. The introduction of technology was a fundamental tool for equity and social inclusion — values that are at the heart of our digital public policies — in addition to widely known projects, such as universal access to the Internet, livestock traceability and Plan Ceibal, through which Uruguay became the first country in 2009 to ensure that every school-age child had a laptop for personal use. More recently, a new plan was launched that universalizes the use of laptops and tablets among the elderly.
For those reasons, it is not surprising that since February 2018 Uruguay has been part of the group of the most digitally advanced countries, the so-called Digital 9, the chairmanship of which it has held since February. The next summit of the group will be held in Montevideo in November. However, countries such as Uruguay, which are on the path to development, still need a redesigned and refocused form of cooperation to support it in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by bridging the structural gaps that still persist.
As Uruguayan President Tabare Vazquez did before the General Assembly last year (see A/73/PV.8), we reaffirm the concept of development in transition, and we will continue to fight so that development is no longer measured solely in terms of per capita income — an indicator that ignores the existing gaps among the various sectors of each country, denies the reality of the most vulnerable groups and poses a very serious risk of reversing the progress so laboriously achieved by our Governments on social issues. Change is in our hands. By placing human beings at the centre of public policies, we will contribute to reducing inequalities, combating poverty and making this planet a better place every day, by giving everyone hope for a better, fairer future with better opportunities, free of hunger, poverty and exclusions, and in which peace prevails.

===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
President of the General Assembly, Ambassador Volkan Bozkir,
Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres,
Heads of State and Government,
National representatives and representatives of international organizations,
Ladies and gentlemen,
The seventy-fifth anniversary of the United Nations finds us once again amid a crisis, which, undoubtedly, looks very different to the disaster caused by the Second World War, but also forces us to reimagine our future in order to build on achievements and prevent future crises, be they economic, health, climate or all of them together.
The scale of the current pandemic and its distressing consequences — loss of life and its impact on the health of many people — are the focus of our attention because we must seek solutions for our peoples, in particular those who are most vulnerable and most at risk of being affected by the pandemic as a result of its impact on their health, as well as on their way and means of life.
But the commemoration of this anniversary should also challenge us about the future we want for our countries and societies beyond this crisis.
It is here before the General Assembly, Mr. President, that Uruguay wishes to emphasize once again that the road to be travelled, both for a way out of the pandemic and for the next 75 years, will always find us on the same side — that of multilateralism — supporting the quest for solutions that are protected by multilateral legal frameworks in all aspects of international life — health, environment, trade and migration.
Uruguay’s accession to membership a few months ago in the Alliance for Multilateralism, an initiative, launched by Germany and France, seeking to uphold multilateral order, is another sign of our country’s commitment to this cause.
Mr. President,
Uruguay supports the role of the World Health Organization and the role of the United Nations system in coordinating the global response to the pandemic, as we understand that international organizations play a fundamental role in coordinating and guiding the best possible solutions to the current critical situation and in the coordinated management of its medium- and long-term impacts.
My country, Mr. President, has adhered to the calls to achieve global and equitable access to health technologies, medicines and vaccines through the sharing of knowledge, intellectual property and data necessary for the detection, prevention, treatment and response to COVID-19.
Our country’s response to the pandemic has focused on a multidisciplinary approach that covers its social, economic and epidemiological aspects and is monitored by an Honorary Scientific Advisory Group of which we are very proud. Our approach is based on our citizens’ responsible use of their freedom, with solidarity and generosity, which, together with a strong and resilient health system, has allowed us to resume work and educational and cultural activities.
We would also like to call on the international community to ensure that the current pandemic does not result in our failing to fully honour the commitments made at the multilateral level. We must avoid falling prey to nationalism and protectionism, which would in any way harm international relations in international trade or disrupt supply chains and the distribution of the medical supplies that are so necessary for emerging from this health crisis.
At the beginning of the Decade of Action to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals, moving from words to action will be essential for ending poverty, protecting the environment and improving the living conditions of the world’s population.
The United Nations has promoted Agenda 2030 and, despite the considerable current challenges, it should remain the main guide to achieving sustainable development.
Uruguay has worked hard since its recognition for effective compliance. Our country continues to honour its history of reducing inequalities, as well as its commitment to decent work based on investment and growth.
Our Government has also made the necessary commitment to education at all levels, as education is essential for the full actualization of human beings and for ensuring that all citizens have equal opportunities.
This global pandemic has shown that in the face of ever-changing challenges, it is important to maintain the necessary environment and support for international cooperation, so that all States, and in particular developing countries, can move towards sustainable development.
In this scenario, it is paradoxical that countries classified as high-income developing countries, such as Uruguay, do not have access to the majority of sources of international cooperation or more favourable lines of credit. That is why we will continue to promote the revision of that classification or graduation, which is based solely on per capita income.
For these categories to be truly adequate and equitable, a multidimensional criterion should be considered to define classifications of development and the international support needs of each country based on its specific situation.
In this regard, I wish to underscore the support of ECLAC for the development of a multi-factor approach. Sustainable development will not be such if we are not concerned about caring for the environment. That, too, as with the pandemic, is a challenge that countries cannot face alone, but requires collective will to meet the challenges facing humankind.
Uruguay continues to take steps in this direction with its recently established Ministry of Environment to demonstrate that this issue is a priority for the Government.
Mr. President, Uruguay wishes to reiterate its support for the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and its firm commitment to objectives in that area.
Uruguay has developed a National Climate Change Response Plan, which addresses risk prevention, mitigation and adaptation.
We understand that productive efforts, good experiences and effective and efficient management, subject to accountability in the light of current challenges, should receive greater attention and recognition.
We also welcome the holding of the Summit on Biodiversity, which will take place next week. We express our commitment to promoting strategies and practices for the sustainable use of biological diversity and natural resources, while developing mechanisms to improve their management and use.
My country would like to reaffirm here at the Assembly its support for the Secretary-General’s Road Map for Digital Cooperation. Uruguay understands that for these initiatives to prosper and contribute effectively to the fulfilment of the SDGs, digital technologies must enable us to bridge the digital and connectivity divide, among countries and within each country alike.
It is also essential to promote respect for human rights in such networks, the protection of privacy and personal data, as well as access to information and freedom of expression, both public and private.
Lastly, it is necessary to work on digital security, with the broad participation of State actors, the private sector and civil society.
With regard to the Secretary-General’s initiatives, I would like to focus for a moment on his call for a ceasefire — a global ceasefire — which was endorsed by my country.
A peaceful environment is indispensable for addressing the pandemic, which is why we must now recommit to dialogue, peaceful dispute resolution and the rule of law in order to alleviate suffering and bring hope to the most vulnerable populations.
My country is strongly committed to United Nations peacekeeping forces, as it is a main contributor of troops per capita worldwide. A clear demonstration of this national commitment is the offer made by our Government to establish a laboratory to increase medical diagnostic capabilities within United Nations peace operations in response to the pandemic.
In this context, it is worth recalling Uruguay’s calls to protect hospitals and schools under attack in conflict zones and the need to support Security Council resolutions on this matter.
Uruguay reiterates its national commitment to the human rights agenda and will continue to actively uphold human rights, including the protection and rights of children, the plight of civilians in conflict situations and women’s rights, and promote respect for such rights among actors in the international community. In this regard, we will continue to ensure the effective implementation of advocacy mechanisms by the United Nations.
We would like to make special mention of the vulnerable sections of the population, who are particularly affected by the pandemic, such as women who are victims of domestic violence, which is of particular concern for Uruguay. It has prompted us to develop specific policies to respond to this situation. We cannot forget migrants and internally displaced persons, who are also doubly vulnerable to this pandemic.
We again underscore the open policy of our country, which welcomes voluntary migration, based on the values of democracy and equality before the law and respect for the rights of all people, regardless of their origin.
Mr. President, by strengthening human rights, not only will protection be advanced, but those called to be key actors in building peace and promoting development will be empowered, more specifically women and young people.
Lastly, I would like to underscore the role of the International Criminal Court and the importance of its deterrent effect on mass genocides and atrocities and their perpetrators. Uruguay reiterates its commitment to the international justice system and, in particular, its support for the International Criminal Court as an independent and impartial judicial institution with a central role in the fight against impunity and in the pursuit of justice.
In this forum, where peace was sealed 75 years ago, I would like to express my concern about the threats posed by non-compliance with or the withdrawal of some parties from disarmament agreements, which may lead to the resumption of an arms race that will take us back to a time when the world lived in the spectre a possible nuclear conflict. Global peace cannot be achieved without serious commitments by the international community on disarmament and non-proliferation.
The region and my country are concerned about the proliferation and illicit trafficking of small arms and light weapons, which pose a threat to the stability of regions and global security, incite crime and insecurity and affect peaceful coexistence in society.
Our Government is committed to combating insecurity and crime and we will work hard to do so. We will also continue to cooperate with the United Nations in the fight against terrorism, transnational organized crime and the links between the two.
Mr. President, the future we want for our peoples is one in which we can move ahead with common and supportive solutions to challenges that emerge, in order to achieve sustainable and inclusive development, where the rights of all are respected and opportunities are offered for the development of each and every citizen of this world, leaving no one behind.
We want a peaceful future in a world where States are committed to dialogue and negotiation; where we find a way to emerge from today’s conflicts that considers the rights of all parties. We therefore need to redouble our commitment to preventive diplomacy and mediation, as well as to conflict prevention. To this end, we need a United Nations that focuses more on coordination, both in word and in deed. We need an Organization that actively cooperates with other international organizations, including financial institutions, to implement a variety of mechanisms that enable countries to overcome external and internal obstacles to development, given its multidimensional nature.
Uruguay is particularly interested in increasing the relevance of the overall efforts of the United Nations, and in particular the General Assembly, as well as its Member States to ensure the potential for effective participation.
Uruguay has always sought to contribute to the overall transparency of the functioning of the United Nations and all its organs, including the work of the United Nations Security Council.
In today’s world, the possibility for increasing the efficiency and efficiency of the Organization will be appreciated, while cutting operating costs and increasing transparency and accountability with regard to its spending.
We particularly appreciate the Organization’s efforts to include civil society and the private sector, as part of the solution to the economic, social and environmental issues that arise, as inclusive and sustainable development requires the participation of the entire society.
The leaders of the world must rise to the level of the circumstances and of our peoples and be capable, just as our leaders were 75 years ago, of thinking beyond the current crisis and consolidating the multilateral mechanisms and instruments that enable our societies to achieve sustainable and inclusive development, respecting democracy, freedoms and the rights of all human beings.
We world leaders must take charge.
Thank you very much.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
Almost two years ago now, the world changed completely, affecting every nation all over the world — rich, poor, big, small, developed and non-developed. There was no plan, which compounded the situation, and every country dealt with the pandemic with different approaches. And we are familiar with the results, which have differed from country to country, although some implemented similar measures.
The coronavirus disease pandemic has finally and starkly revealed our strengths and our weaknesses. We should acknowledge the outstanding work of researchers and scientists, of our health-care systems, which were overwhelmed, and our teachers and professors, who came up with ways to continue to provide education. The way work was done was extraordinarily transformed. In short, humankind demonstrated its ability to adapt in the face of such a large-scale crisis. Let me say that we saw the best version of humankind. In return, however, the pandemic exposed the inequities and structural disparities between countries, as well as the democratic soundness and aptitude for freedom of various Governments and societies.
Our country, Uruguay, has an enormous aptitude for democracy and very much values individual freedom as the purest state of the individual, which demonstrated during the pandemic, as if it were not obvious, that freedom means different things when we have unequal access to the necessary tools. What it has made clear is the false dichotomy between the presence of the State and individual freedom. Furthermore, in the countries where the State has done a good job of protecting people, the most vulnerable individuals can access the tools they need to exercise their freedom. I believe that we should take a moment to reflect on that point. While we are discussing the domestic policies of each of our countries, those policies nonetheless have international repercussions.
We cannot conceive of freedom without responsibility and solidarity for each of us in our own environments. In my country, Uruguay, we demonstrated that by exercising responsible freedom, we could manage much of the pandemic without major reversals. We had community solidarity when we undertook major activities, but we also saw it reflected in actions unknown to the wider public that nonetheless had a positive impact. At the international level, in which countries participated in one way or another, we entrusted part of our development to them. We should be clear in that regard, particularly where vaccines are concerned. There was a race against time to develop vaccines, and they were developed in record time. Here I should say that I do not want to talk about patents or formulas but about access to the vaccines. There was a shortage of vaccines, and their distribution was not equitable. Every country was forced to purchase its own vaccines. I believe it is important to underscore that, because we all know that the vaccination process is vital to restoring freedom in our countries.
I would like to mention three other points that have had an impact on people’s freedom. During the pandemic, Governments needed to protect their people. Our first priority was to protect our fellow countrymen. However, we also made sure that such protection did not become protectionism. We needed the freedom to trade and compete for excellence. We needed access to markets. Our country is now in that process, the process of reopening up to the world. We need cooperation with all the countries, blocs and major Powers.
In addition, I could not let today’s meeting go by without addressing the issue of human rights violations perpetrated by Governments that are members of the Organization. Obviously we respect the principle of non-intervention, but we must also understand that we cannot ignore such violations. We must denounce them. The abuse of power undermines those freedoms. Authoritarian Governments that are feared by their peoples and restrict their freedoms end up impoverishing their people for several generations.
Lastly, and on a point that has already been mentioned here by several Heads of State, when it comes to freedom in the future and the health of the planet, we have delivered statements, participated in conferences and made commitments. Now is the time for action. Others have also stressed that point at this rostrum. Financing mechanisms are also crucial so that countries can have access to and make progress on the issues of sustainable development and environmental protection.
I would like to conclude with an optimistic view of the current situation. As a young man, I opposed the philosophy of Thomas Hobbes and the concept that man is a wolf to man. Time has shown that he was deeply wrong. For those who have not read his book, I would also recommend a book by the Swedish author Hans Rosling, Factfulness, in which he clearly demonstrates humankind’s positive evolution. That is why, after the Assembly, each of us will return to our countries and
our daily duties in the domestic arena. But let us not lose sight of what we have said and heard here. Every action in every corner of the world involves us all. If there is a lesson to be drawn from the pandemic, it is that we are all one.


===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
Exactly two years ago, during the commemoration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the United Nations, we were in the first year of the pandemic. It was a year replete with uncertainty and fear, owing to the unexpected outbreak of a virus, the historic aftermath of which, even today, continues to affect us in terms of loss of life, serious health ramifications for our populations and damage to our economies. Since then, the international situation has not only failed to improve, but new sources of tension have emerged that have made it difficult to make progress in economic recovery and in addressing the significant social costs of the pandemic.
The military invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation is unjustifiable. Our country has condemned it in the strongest terms as a clear violation of the principles on which we have built the Organization and that must be respected by all its members. It is imperative that the Russian Federation cease hostilities and withdraw from Ukraine as soon as possible. The parties to the conflict must work towards returning to the negotiating table to resolve their differences peacefully, as set out under the Charter of the United Nations.
In the meantime, the negative effects of the armed conflict are being felt in many spheres at the international level and are increasingly weighing on the daily lives of millions of people. The impact on international trade is fuelling recessionary trends in many countries. The shortage of agricultural products is seriously affecting least-developed importer countries, and the lack of access to world markets is leading to food insecurity in several regions of the world. Other countries are experiencing energy shortages or higher energy prices, which is having an impact on the living conditions of millions of people. At the same time, it has also created a new environmental threat.
Although its outcome did not meet everyone’s expectations, the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26), held in Glasgow, in November 2021, saw the achievement of several promising results. Furthermore, it was clear that countries have not given up on the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. The discussions at COP26, in Glasgow, will allow for further debate in other contexts in the near future. We hope that the high level of ambition will be maintained by all countries and that the promise to muster the financial resources necessary to support adaptation and mitigation measures against climate change will be kept. Otherwise, the international community will have missed another opportunity — perhaps its last — to address one of the greatest threats facing it. If we fail in that work, future generations will be justified in saying that we, who governed during this century, did not live up to shouldering our political responsibilities.
In that regard, I would like to renew Uruguay’s support for the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and our firm commitment to achieving its objectives and its concrete targets. That is the shared goal that we have set for ourselves, and we must make a greater effort to achieve it. In that context, as we face such significant challenges, “multilateralism” is not a hollow or meaningless word. It is therefore essential to strengthen the multilateral system, to which we all belong and which constitutes a common asset. International and regional mechanisms must be strengthened and improved to make them more effective and preventive.
The international community is today facing three major challenges: international peace and security; the environment; and global health. The multilateral system is essential to addressing those challenges, not only as an inspirational principle, but also as a key tool for making our work effective. In that regard, I would like to reaffirm once again our commitment to multilateralism.
Despite the interconnected shocks of2022, this year should also be seen as a milestone for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We are already living in the decade of action, and it remains imperative that we translate words into the realization of the Goals. To that end, Uruguay submitted its fifth voluntary national review on the achievements and targets met by our country in 2021. The reviews clearly reaffirm my country’s commitment to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to achieving the SDGs.
Uruguay is sparing no effort to create proactive public policies and improve the relevant indicators. Within the international system, there are persistent shortcomings that affect and weaken the work that has been done in pursuit of our countries’ economic and social development. Many times, the need to establish certain criteria in order to ensure international cooperation results in adverse, undesired and extremely negative outcomes. Many countries, including Uruguay, have been adversely affected by the archaic concept of development based on per capita income and resulting in a graduation process that, in practice, constitutes a punishment for countries on the path to development that have achieved a better redistribution of income.
States shoulder the primary responsibility to protect the human rights of their populations. We are deeply shocked to see that, in many parts of the world, the basic rights of millions of men, women and children are being flagrantly violated, which is made even worse when the perpetrators of such atrocities are their people’s own rulers, who misuse repressive mechanisms and violate their international obligations in this domain. That reality is all the more difficult to bear and disturbing, as we have such examples in our own region of Latin America and the Caribbean. There is no more appropriate forum than the General Assembly in which to reaffirm Uruguay’s humanist and humanitarian vocation and reiterate its continued and permanent commitment to the human rights agenda, while demanding that the international commitments undertaken by the members of the Organization be fully respected by all actors of the international community.
Similarly, we must ensure that efforts to address such sensitive issues in the relevant multilateral forums are carried out in an objective and non-politicized manner. In that regard, I would like to underscore Uruguay’s firm commitment to strengthening mechanisms dedicated to the protection of the rights of women, children, adolescents, the elderly, migrants, persons with disabilities and the members of the LGBTI community.
Migratory waves resulting from wars, internal conflicts and political and economic crises of various magnitudes have increased in recent years. Hotspots of regional instability, such as those resulting from the conflict in Ukraine, the civil war in Syria and events in Libya, Myanmar and Venezuela — in our own region — have caused an increase in the flow of people and families fleeing their homes and countries in search of security and relief. I would like to highlight the role of the International Criminal Court as a central mechanism of the international justice system and its relevance as a deterrent and means of punishment for the perpetrators of acts of genocide, mass atrocities and crimes against humanity.
With regard to the maintenance of international peace and security, and as it does every year, Uruguay renews its support for United Nations peacekeeping missions and operations. Our country has a long history of contributing to those missions, which began in the late 1940s, and has continuously deployed troops in various missions for more than 70 years. Uruguay was among the first 15 troop contributors to the United Nations system, and our main troop deployments are currently in the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force in the Golan Heights. Uruguay is unwavering in its commitment to peace, international security and the protection of civilians. In line with the spirit and provisions of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), Uruguay officially submitted its national action plan on women and peace and security on 21 July.
Uruguay is one of the founding countries of the Organization and throughout its history has worked collaboratively to meet its goal of maintaining international peace and security. Uruguay does not believe that peace is possible in the world without the firm and serious commitment of the international community in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation.
The impasse and paralysis recently experienced in in the framework of the tenth Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons must make us reflect upon this particular moment in the history of the United Nations. Uruguay has supported and will continue to support the United Nations disarmament agenda. It will therefore continue to tirelessly seek agreements to enable the disarmament architecture to function effectively and reliably.
Among the current factors responsible for insecurity at the international level, we must recall the growing influence of international organized crime, drug trafficking and international terrorism. As my country’s Government has made combating crime and drug trafficking one of its priorities in order to provide its citizens with a greater level of security, I reiterate Uruguay’s firm commitment to and cooperation in the fight against organized crime and terrorist activities at the regional and international levels.
Uruguay is committed to the cybersecurity agenda and combating cybercrime. The Organization shoulders a major responsibility in that area, and Uruguay actively participates in the relevant activities under way. In addition, Uruguay has formalized its request to the Council of Europe to accede to the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime, also known as the Budapest Convention, and thereby is ready to embrace the most modern legislation available to deal with cybercrime.
As we all know, the various activities of the Organization are numerous, timely and necessary, but as Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has rightly said, we must combat the dysfunctionality that paralyses us. As leaders, we have an obligation to ensure that the Organization represents all citizens, including the voiceless and faceless, and is not perceived as an annual display of rhetoric for representatives and diplomats.
Democracy is not a perfect model and does not resolve all the world’s problems, but it is clearly the system of Government that best safeguards people’s greatest aspiration — their freedom. Democracy is the form of Government that uniquely represents and reflects the human condition itself, our expectations of spiritual and material betterment and the enjoyment of the right to choose. Democracy and the rule of law are necessarily interdependent elements and essential for ensuring that the social and political order of a country represents the genuine will of its citizens.
However, democracy and its principles and values are systematically under attack in many parts of the world. For Uruguay, the democratic system is part of its history and its best traditions. It is an identifying feature of our society. We are proud to be considered as a full-fledged democracy, but we are also aware of our responsibility as leaders to strengthen it every day and protect it from the many challenges it faces.
That democratic edifice, together with its values and guiding principles — our democracy and our rule of law — have enabled Uruguay’s voice to be not only heard but also respected in the international community. Those were, are and will remain the fundamental pillars on which my country’s contribution to the international order rests. On that basis, Uruguay renews its commitment to the international system of nations.

===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
I greet the President of the General Assembly, as well as the Secretary-General, the Heads of State and Government, the official delegations and the Organization, which has worked hard to convene this meeting today.
Today once again. I come to speak on behalf of my country. I come to speak on behalf of my compatriots. We come here to this forum where representatives from more than 190 countries come to share their messages. We have different cultures and Governments with different ideologies and different social, economic, climatic and geographical situations. But if we are all here, that means that in some way we agreed, a long time ago. to be guided and protected by the same rights, obligations and principles under international law. with scant coercive power and where the same yardstick is often not applied to the great Powers than to smaller countries.
We come once again to the Assembly with a positive and optimistic vision of humankind, but we must not be naive. Objectively, we live in a better world, although of course our current reality has its challenges and threats. We are convinced that globalization, information technology, artificial intelligence and real-time communication are tools that help the integration and development of our peoples — of course, if they are used well. In that respect, there is a growing sense of responsibility among world leaders. I heard the Secretary-General emphasize that issue earlier today. We are in a world where speeches are actions; where, standing here, a world leader can generate consequences — be it an international conflict, a bank run or something else —just with his words.
Uruguay comes to the Assembly enjoying a full and stable democracy and in full respect for its institutions and the law. which is a historical tradition in our country. Despite the pandemic, despite the Russian invasion, despite different climatic factors, our country has restored its economy to what it was before the pandemic. Employment has improved and unemployment has decreased. We have made a historic public investment in infrastructure. We have received significant foreign direct investment and a large part of those revenues have been reinvested in our country, which signals an important sense of confidence. Public finances are in order. Inflation is at its lowest in the past 18 years. We have been able to lower taxes and. at the same time, we have carried out reforms that have long been urgent, such as educational and social security reform. Uruguayans practice a very precious and responsible freedom.
Earlier today, when I was writing part of my speech. I remembered what I said here in September 2021. Towards the end of my speech. I said that “[i] f there is a lesson to be drawn from the pandemic, it is that we are all one” (A/76/PV6, p.20). For the very reason that we are truly all one. today I wish to refer to responsible international freedom. It is clear that our well-being as independent countries is inextricably linked to the common good. Everyone must know that, accept it and. of course, act accordingly.
Many Heads of State have long raised the issue of the environment in this forum. I belong to a country that began calling itself “natural Uruguay” many years ago. Among other things, renewable energy in our country exceeds 90 per cent today. We have engaged in significant reforestation. We have sustainable production processes, and I could go on adding to a long list that affirms the concept of natural Uruguay. After many years of declarations and commitments, the international community has truly come to understand that the economy and the environment are closely associated. A few months ago. Uruguay issued a sustainable bond based on rewards and punishments that depend on compliance with parameters established in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. I want to draw attention here today to the fact that we are convinced that this very system of rewards and punishments should apply to international loans, market access, quotas and tariffs, with the aim not only of punishing non-compliance, but also of rewarding those who have processes that are environmentally friendly and sustainable. In that way. as happens to us when we are children, the stimuli to improve will surely push nations to make a greater effort that will pay off in domestic economies and. obviously, at the global level.
In that regard. I want to share a situation that our country is going through and that. I am sure, some of the nations represented here are also experiencing. We could call it the sin of doing things well. What do I mean by the sin of doing things well? Our country has achieved important human and economic development, and because we have obtained those standards we are often denied access to certain cooperation and preference systems and certain very important instruments of international commercial relations. Obviously. I do not want to stop sharing in the spirit with which those mechanisms were created, but I believe that we must redesign them, because in some way they do not stimulate countries to grow and sustain themselves if they lose access to those conditions. I want to make it clear that Uruguay is not here to beg or make exaggerated claims, but simply, as I said earlier, in appealing for international responsible freedom, we want to act with justice. If we do things well, the international cooperation should act accordingly. That means nothing less and nothing more than improving access to opportunity.
I shall close here, because members have had a long day. I want once again here, as I have done in other forums, to firmly condemn the Russian invasion of Ukraine and stand in solidarity with the Ukrainian people. I also concur with the Secretary-General in raising my voice against authoritarian populism that impoverishes its people and violates human rights, and thus condemns current and future generations.
Once again, perhaps in this area we will have to say a mea culpa, because the absence of a forceful and effective reaction from the international community has often exacerbated or failed to prevent such situations.


===== Session 79 - 2024 =====
A very good afternoon, everyone. I would like to greet everyone here, all delegations. Today is my last speech here as President to this Assembly, and I would like to take this opportunity to greet everyone here, and in particular, the delegation of Uruguay, who has worked so hard here at the United Nations. As my la-... As this is my last statement, I was looking over the previous statements I had delivered, and in these previous statements, there was a common thread, and this is in line with how I see my vision for our country and how states relate between each other. This is the concept of freedom with responsibility, responsible freedom. I would venture to say that the first can't exist without the second. The l- life in society is about the development of the individual, and at the same time, the common good. That is what our constitution said since our country became independent. And of course, this has evolved over time with the changes in social customs. It is impossible to understand humanity without understanding the concessions that the individuals make for the common good. Essentially, we are social beings, and this ultimately impacts everyone, or at least it should, that should be the case. And that is what inspired me, as president of my country and in the spirit that I have come with to this Assembly. I am convinced that globalization will only continue further, and this represents an excellent opportunity to understand ourselves better and to take advantage of the synergies that can be taken advantage of when different cultures meet. This can be the case provided that we are tolerant and respectful of those who may think differently from us. At the same time, we must also deepen the criterion of freedom and justice, in particular here in the international stage. For this to be possible, we must all make this effort as far as we are able to. The efforts to make concessions, of course, that doesn't mean the loss of freedom or independence or the loss of any sovereignty. At the same time, we also need to have fair mechanisms where international law is applied to all equally, regardless of the country's size and regardless of the country's economic power. We must work together to build international law, which is credible and robust. Agreements, treaties, conventions, documents that are signed and are not implemented only leads to weakening international law. Of course, no country was obliged to participate in these organizations. That means that we can be, and we are, critical of how the organizations work in some ways. But what's the other option? It would be to isolate oneself in this interconnected world. Well, that wouldn't make any sense. So, a large part of the freedom within our countries and the international stage and to uphold justice, a large part of this falls on those who govern and lead us. And in this modern world where speeches lead to actions, an important leader, just with what they say, can lead to positive or negative repercussions in their country or indeed beyond. That means that we must be much more careful when we try to stimulate unity and not division within and beyond nations. Politics have, has meant that some leaders have used division as a tool to reach power and to stay in power. But of course, there's one thing to defend one's own beliefs or those shared by some individuals, and it's quite another thing to attack others' beliefs and others' way of life. In some countries, formal democracy in terms of elections, constitutions, and laws, such as the material, which is the material democracy that citizens experience on a daily basis, sometimes when that is weakened, that means that people, people's freedom can be affected. And I cannot ignore to mention what is happening in Venezuela. Among other things because this isn't a new position that we are taking. Fortunately, we have always been far from this authoritarian regime, this intolerant regime, which has attacked freedom and the common good. We all know what has been going on for quite a while in that country, and many governments and many global leaders have turned a blind eye. And for a l- a, a lack of interest, some of them, or un- unfortunately, because of their interests for some. I'm not going to go into the situation on the, of the elections. Ultimately, one has to call out the regime and the situation of the elections and not just the distorted electoral process. This also has to be done in terms of the political persecution that is going on and the violations of human rights and arbitrary detentions.I know that many heads of state and government have spoken about this. It seems to me that now is the time to act. We need to act for Venezuela and for the Venezuelan people. And also, if the international community tolerates these attitudes, then we just, we'll just wait to see what the nec- con- next country would be that would be subjected to a similar fate as the Venezuelans are. Another matter that I touched upon in my previous statements here pertains to the environment and the economy. What we have is a vocation in terms of caring for the environment. There's always this separation that we see between the economy and the environment, and the first time that I came to this assembly and I heard speeches from heads of state on this matter, since then, I am pleased to see that there has been something of an evolution, quite a quick evolution on this matter. Now, we are seeing how the economy and the environment are interlinked, and this is excellent news for humanity. Sustainable financing, for instance. My country has been a pioneer in issuing instruments such as green bonds or access to loans where fulfilling environmental goals and caring for the environment is tied to these financial products according to performance. And this has a very important and interesting domino effect because it helps states, it helps states to access financing and also to care for the environment, but also governments can then reward producers and those in industry for good behavior, for caring for the environment, and for creating a clean economy, and ultimately that will lead to greater benefits in the future. I mentioned a few minutes ago the concept of justes- justice and international law. Now, this law is applied, uh, differently in different cases. There are countries who pollute, and we see some countries w- who are making major efforts to try to improve their environmental situation. In order for this path to be sustainable in the medium and long term, the goals domestically should be fulfilled for each country and at the same time, countries need to shoulder economic commitments. And in addition to just un- undertaking commitments, they have to fulfill them because the, in the absence of this implementation, ultimately that would lead to a loss of stimulus in caring for the environment. Lastly, I just wish to mention one other, one other point that I have also touched upon previously, and on this there hasn't been much positive change. I'm convinced that it is not possible to fully enjoy freedom in the international community if there isn't the freedom of trade, if there isn't free trade. Protectionism has hindered the development of our peoples. It has led to a vicious cycle where isolation is being stimulated and protectionism is being stimulated given these barriers that are being erected. We have to aim for a more open world for other countries' goods and services, and that does not in any way mean neglecting the domestic economy. It is possible to have open-facing policies in terms of trade, and also stimulate domestic, the domestic economy. We have to build a more open world if we really believe in the equality of opportunities. The reverse case would be clear, that is to say we would not be able to generate wealth, and generate jobs, and ultimately not be able to generate prosperity if we do not do this. I wish to repeat today a concept that I mentioned in one of my previous statements to this assembly. We are all one. I, at that point, was referring to what's, to the lessons of the pandemic, if some of, some people hadn't noticed that at the time. Ultimately, this is an affirmation of common sense, and I think it should also be a compass for us in our daily work as we exercise power, both domestically and also in our bilateral relations and in the multilateral domain as well. Believe me, I am convinced that we will progress much more quickly and much more united if we do this. Thank you.