

===== Session 01 - 1946 =====
At the resumption of the first session of the General Assembly, the Argentine delegation wishes to state its views on a number of questions.
Politics are determined by circumstances. Accordingly, in making these remarks, we do not renounce the right to take decisions in the light of events; but we nevertheless think it desirable to state here certain useful principles to serve as a guide for our actions. We hope that these remarks will be interpreted at their true value. We are not sceptics, but our relative optimism would be strengthened if we found that a spirit of conciliation were gaining ground. Otherwise, we should be obliged to resume complete freedom of action, and proceed in accordance with the circumstances and the interests of the country which we represent.
We are no friends of unanimity, which is wont to disguise undesirable, if not improper pressure. Even the hottest debates in the defence of conflicting points of view are not incompatible with the desire to reach a solution. We are met here to ensure and maintain international peace and security, and not to lay the foundations of another conflict. The purpose of our deliberations is to reach positive decisions as equitable as our respective interests permit, and not to separate after heated controversies without having done anything useful.
Hence, we realize that it is necessary to compromise. Nations, like individuals, when they meet to debate and solve problems which concern them equally, must not believe themselves to be in possession of the only real truth. Each of them may, and perhaps should, believe, that its own particular conception of the truth is the best; but when the respective truths differ, insistence is out of place. The world, or if you prefer it, the man in the street, may regard such insistence as deliberate and as being maintained with the sole object of preventing a solution being reached.
Between perfect accuracy and complete error there are many degrees which are acceptable in proportion to their closeness to the particular conception of truth that each of us personally upholds. A decision must be taken in favour of one of them, and clearly that must be the one which reconciles the greatest possible number of opinions.
In making this assertion, it is not my intention to defend solutions adopted against the wish of substantial minorities, as is done to solve internal problems in countries governed by representative assemblies. I think it would be very difficult to make people submit to the decisions of a universal parliament, primarily because such a parliament would be very difficult to organize. But when an international assembly obtains a majority of sixty-five per cent, seventy per cent or seventy-five per cent of the countries represented, the minority must recognize that this exceptional majority has at least as good intentions as those by which it is itself animated.
Otherwise we should have to recognize that we have come here not to hold discussions, exchange impressions and, if necessary, accept suggestions, but to impose our truth which in such circumstances would be identical with our will, not to say our whim. If that were so, it would be better to stay at home and await events.
But the fact is that the last war was fought against such a system, and we, even though we did not take part in it, knew that it was fought with real justification. Even if we admit that every people is governed in the manner best suited to it within its own frontiers, it is not possible to live with peoples who claim to impose their particular truths or, if you like, their ideology on others. Is it not on that account that the regimes of Hitler and Mussolini met their downfall? Has the San Francisco Charter been signed in order to choose a new overlord, and are we meeting here for that purpose?
When faced with international problems which appeared to be insoluble, Argentina has always had recourse to arbitration. In the political field this Assembly must be the arbitrator; in the legal field, the International Court of Justice. If that procedure is followed in the future, when a nation believes it has lost its case either here or at The Hague, it can nevertheless feel satisfied, because the worst of verdicts will always be more favourable to it than the best of wars, if wars can be anything but bad. A good example, moreover, will always have a good influence and that nation will have contributed toward maintaining international peace and security.
Is it not on the basis that Roosevelt and Churchill signed the Atlantic Charter? Is it not with that purpose that we signed the San Francisco Charter? Is it not a fact that the great Powers have promised the world to act in good faith? It is precisely their economic and military power which places upon them the obligation to fulfill that promise.
I referred just now to arbitration in regard to my own country; permit me to dwell further on that matter.
We have solved our frontier differences with Chile, Paraguay and Brazil by means of arbitration. In the first case, His Britannic Majesty’s Government was the arbitrator. A decision was reached, and the boundaries were fixed in accordance therewith. We now maintain the most cordial relations with Chile.
Need I recall that, at the end of the last century, we were on the brink of war? Need I recall that the embrace of Presidents Roca and Errazurriz at the Straits of Magellan and the signing of the May pacts which followed, consolidated our friendship with our sister Republic?
The Treaty of Alliance signed in 1865 with Brazil and Uruguay, before the war against Marshal Lopez was started, entitled us to incorporate in our territory the whole of the Chaco as far as Bahia Negra. When peace was signed, we did not make use of the rights we had earned by our victory; we ceded the territories to the north of the Verde River and in face of the Paraguayan Government’s opposition in regard to the rest, we submitted to arbitration, by the President of the United States of America, our rights to the lands between the said river and Pilcomayo. President Hayes decided in favour of Paraguay, and since then we have cultivated relations of brotherly friendship with the Paraguayan people.
Mariano Varela, Sarmiento’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, expressed the point of view of the Argentine Foreign Office in a saying which some have called ingenuous, but which I regard as magnificent: “Victory does not entitle the victors to fix at their discretion their territorial boundaries with the vanquished.”
In 1889 we had drafted a frontier agreement with the Brazilian Empire: we were discussing the ownership of an area of twenty-five thousand square leagues in Misiones. When the Republic was proclaimed in November of that year the Brazilian Congress refused to approve the agreement. We then submitted the dispute for arbitration, again to the President of the United States of America. Mr. Cleveland decided in favour of Brazil, and to this day we are maintaining the closest relations with our neighbour in the north, whose territory is three times larger than that of Argentina.
After a century of direct negotiations during which incidents occurred that in other countries might have led to war, we fixed our frontier with Bolivia.
We maintain that arbitration is a juridical procedure which must be incorporated in public international law with universal application if we wish to avoid war. We have signed treaties of this kind, which are in force at present, with Uruguay, Paraguay, Bolivia, Chile, Brazil, Italy, Ecuador, Venezuela, Colombia, France and Spain.
Were the Argentinian people in agreement with these decisions which deprived us of extensive territories in the Chaco and Misiones? They certainly were not, for our rights in both cases appeared to be indisputable. But the members of the Government and the press reminded them that “a verdict once given must be held as truth,” and the people returned to their work, that noble work which, in the material sense, enabled us, within a short time, to produce one hundred times the value of the territories lost, and in the moral sense gave the people the satisfaction of feeling that they were taking their place in the vanguard of universal civilization.
Personally, I think that those arbitration verdicts were just, because we believe in the justice of arbitration even when the verdict is against us.
Such antecedents prove that we are a peace- loving people, respecting, as much as any, the rights of other nations; we cannot accept without protest any attempt to represent us in a different light. The facts contained in the record of history establish beyond doubt who is speaking the truth.
Do we hope to grow, to increase our population, to create wealth and distribute it, so that none of our people may lack the means necessary to provide them with shelter, clothing, footwear, food, education; in short, with at least the minimum of dignity which the human personality requires? We do, indeed: but that aspiration, whilst representing an unquestionable right, is also a duly in which we must not fail. Our country can support a hundred million inhabitants and we are ready to work to that end, so that the prophesy of Sarmiento, our great visionary, may be fulfilled. In acting thus we in no way desire to encroach upon the interests, or wound the susceptibilities, of any other nation. On the contrary, we shall help towards the solution of the acute social and economic problems caused by the. war, which might lead to the downfall of present-day civilization.
Have not we, the united Provinces of the south, before our eyes the great example of the United States of the north, this mighty country which is our host? We desire to follow that example. When all the nations of the earth have reached a similar stage of development, the two thousand million human brings dial inhabit it will be much happier. It is towards that goal that civilization must aspire.
But to return to the question of arbitration and our international tradition.
Once when the composer Verdi was invited to attend the rehearsal of an unpublished musical score, he sat down in an armchair with his hat on. Someone noticed that from time to time during the performance the composer doffed his hat. When it was over, they asked him why he had done this and Verdi replied “I was greeting old friends." He was referring to certain musical motifs in the work he had just heard which he had written himself.
We Argentines, on reading the Atlantic Charter and some of the provisions of the San Francisco Charter, doff our hats respectfully, greeting principles which are now embodied in public international law and with which we had long been familiar.
But our attitude is not based on pretentious claims. We do not claim to be, the authors of these formulae; we simply rejoice that some noble juridical principles, which our country has defended, have been accepted by the great Powers of the earth.
If the policy of neutrality maintained by our Government throughout both world wars led us along the wrong road, we have always retraced our steps, and that must suffice.
Some neutral countries, very honourable ones moreover, abandoned their isolation through force of circumstances. Others maintained their attitude in the face of every difficulty. Allow me to say in passing, and it should be fully recognized, that the Argentine people have always been opposed to aggressors. We have never started a war. On the two occasions when we were obliged to resort to arms, we had been provoked; in both cases we won and our victory was also a victory for freedom and justice.
Out of the first war, a new nation, today a most progressive one, came into existence; after the second, not only did we refrain from annexing the territories we had been promised, but, as I have already said, we lost many thousands of square kilometres of land. All this happened in the course of a short and somewhat turbulent existence.
After the wars of independence, we fell first into anarchy and then into a dictatorship. It was only in 1853 that we provided ourselves with a Constitution, and it was not until 1862 that the country was finally organized. Nevertheless, as early as 1813, the Assembly of the united Provinces of the south had abolished slavery and during the period of tyranny we practised arbitration and withstood foreign interference.
Between then and 1880, the year in which the organization of the country was completed by the federalization of the city of Buenos Aires, there were three presidencies, historic in the greatness and in the qualities of the men who held that office. Barely seventy years have passed since then. In 1912, we achieved electoral freedom, but the freely elected governments did not succeed in interpreting the aspirations of a great part of the people who had put them in office.
A social revolution which was started by a de facto government in 1943 is now being completed by the constitutional government elected in February of this year; this was necessary before any improvement in the balance of economic factors could take place.
This shows that the Argentine people have always succeeded in asserting themselves at every stage of their history between 1862 and the present time. It also shows that, although they sometimes made mistakes, they rectified them in the end. But all this is exclusively our own history, and although we certainly cannot deny anyone the right to pass judgment upon us, to applaud our wise actions and blame our mistakes, we do not and never shall allow foreign interference in any matter concerning the right of our people to decide their own destiny inside the boundaries of the territory which fate has given us.
From the time they achieve their independence, nations are sovereign States, equal before the law and not subject to any interference from outside unless it be with their own free consent.
In speaking on this subject before this Assembly, and in recalling this principle, which is a part of our international political tradition, it would be unjust not to refer to Louis Maria Drago. As long ago as December 1902, this Argentine Prime Minister, by denying the great European Powers the right to obtain, by the presence of their fleets in the waters of the debtor nation, the repayment of loans made by certain of their nationals, upheld the right of men and nations to live at peace, free from fear.
The United Nations Charter recognizes all these noble principles to which I have referred; that is why we signed it and we are naturally determined to support it.
Passing to another subject, I wish to affirm our solidarity, first and foremost, with all the nations of America from Cape Horn to Hudson Bay, and to state that we support the purposes and principles set forth in the San Francisco Charter for the establishment and the maintenance of international peace and security and that we have co-operated, and shall continue to co-operate, in the material rehabilitation of the world. That is why we are here.
I have just referred to the San Francisco Charter, the multilateral international treaty that binds us together. No one can pretend that it cannot be improved. For our own part, we maintain that it must be improved. Experience has shown that the privilege granted to five Powers to invalidate even those resolutions which have been unanimously adopted, has not yielded the results which was expected of it when it was established. It should not therefore be retained, especially as it openly contradicts the very provisions of the Preamble and the purposes and principles upon which the Charter is based. The Argentine delegation has already said that at San Francisco; the only reason why it did not object to the original text, as approved, was because it acknowledged that in certain given circumstances, what is legally just and desirable may not be politically possible. But it added that experience would show whether a reform was appropriate or necessary.
Experience has eloquently proved that, so far, this privilege has not operated in defence of the basic principles underlying the United Nations Charter.
This is not the time to attempt a demonstration of this point. As, however, I know something of the motives which led to the approval of the clause which I am criticizing I shall restrict myself to saying that the privilege referred to is not conducive to reasoned discussion such as will lead to compromises and agreements; on the contrary, it invites obstinate defence of one-sided points of view and therefore leads to differences and to the abandonment of any constructive action.
This privilege should be suppressed and replaced by the system of a two-thirds or three-quarters majority vote by the body concerned.
This system should operate for the executive organ, namely, the Security Council. The privilege has, however, been extended to the question of the reform of the Charter, which cannot be effected without the unanimous approval of the same five Powers. I maintain that in this case it becomes not a privilege but an absurdity. The first time an attempt is made to exercise such an unjustified right, there will be no other practical solution but to dissolve the Organization and set it up again immediately on a non-privilege basis: that alone demonstrates the absurdity of the situation.
However, pending the solution of this difficulty, we must not remain idle. We are confronted by serious problems; reconstruction of the devastated areas; codification of international law, so that the principles of freedom and justice, for which the second world war was fought, shall be universally established; and, above all, the establishment of social security, so that by one means or another and in proportion to the economic resources of each country, free men throughout the world may know that they are indeed equal and may exercise the right to live, while enjoying the essential minimum standard of decency compatible with human dignity.
I do not wish to conclude this address without making an appeal to the highest sentiments of my colleagues here. After the first world war, the Allied and Associated Powers laid the foundations of the League of Nations. For reasons which it is not fitting to dwell upon here, the League failed; but not to the extent of preventing statesmen from returning to the idea after the second world war.
Most of the free nations of the world are represented here. The United States of America, which at that time preferred to remain aloof, is now taking a leading part and working with the greatest enthusiasm. The material assets of the former League have been transferred to us; and dominating the whole scene is the spirit of that great visionary of peace and enlightened democrat, Woodrow Wilson, whose life unfortunately came to an end in the midst of the onerous task which he had undertaken. We are in the country of his birth. Let us raise our thoughts towards him and place this Assembly under his auspices. Let us pledge ourselves to work with enthusiasm, but also with the tolerance needed to co-ordinate the tasks entrusted to us.
This continent of America, whose welfare we all have at heart, should not be the permanent home of a civilization which has fled from a shaken and devastated Europe, but merely the temporary refuge in which people from the old world, who have come here to face the task of preserving and developing its civilization, may find peace of mind. We can and must show the peoples of the world, who are now at peace and are striving for welfare and progress, that in planning the future happiness of the young nations — our own happiness — we do not contemplate the downfall of the old-established human civilizations, which preceded us in history and to which we owe a large part of what we have and what we are.


===== Session 02 - 1947 =====
On behalf of the Argentine delegation, I should like to refer first to the general problem of the maintenance of peace, and later to the concrete question of the greatest obstacle facing the United Nations in the effective accomplishment of its specific functions.
The two problems are linked together. I am sure that if we could solve the second, even partially, we should be able to make swift progress towards the solution of the first. K minds were at peace and men were freed from physical fear, they would be able to find harmonious if not identical means whereby all peoples might ensure peace at home and abroad.
Let me consider these questions in turn.
On 6 July 1947, almost on the eve of the anniversary of our independence, President Peron issued an appeal to the whole world and especially to the peoples of America. The Argentine delegation feels that it is doing its duty by repeating that appeal in the Assembly where the majority of the nations of the world are represented.
The main idea of this appeal is contained in a single word: solidarity. Solidarity must be our basis for achieving internal and international peace, and peace is the only atmosphere in which civilization may exist and develop.
To achieve internal peace we must overcome the difficulties artificially created by man.
Inequality is a law of nature and man cannot escape it; he does not escape physical inequality; nor can he escape spiritual inequality. Atavistic traits transmitted by heredity, environment, inadequate or badly directed education, the imponderable factors that colour human personality, all these, combined in different degrees, create diversity in the human species. The applied sciences have not yet found efficient methods of correcting these inequalities and reducing the diversity to a common denominator.
Hence the difficulties to which I have referred are created by the instinctive end inevitable expression of each personality. Fortunately, those which may be considered discordant dements are in the minority.
Our most efficient method of dealing with such difficulties so far has been general, public education — and I would add: free, compulsory education at State expense. But all other methods of awakening and developing in man the concept of good neighbourliness, tolerance and respect, first within the family and then within the community, should be tried and encouraged.
Furthermore, we must end, or at least mitigate, the sufferings of the “have-nots”. Social security should ensure protection for all human brings, from the cradle to the grave; safeguarding tire health of mother and child; looking after the education of the young; providing work for the adult and ensuring the tranquility of the aged, so that even the most humble may enjoy at least the essential minimum compatible with human dignity. Social security is the great remedy for creating internal peace and solidarity.
The climate of social injustice is too harsh to compel man to live in it without rebelling.
Poverty and plenty cannot live together; that is why the fortunate ones who have more should hasten to give a part of their surplus to better the lot of the needy. Indeed, they should realize that by such action they are taking out an insurance policy, so that they may enjoy in greater tranquility what remains to them.
What I have just explained with regard to internal affairs should serve as an example for international affairs. In the name of the Argentine Government I wish to state that we are ready to add our resources to those provided in the general plans for the material and spiritual rehabilitation of the world, and especially of Europe.
Spiritual forces and, if need be, material strength and wealth must be placed at the service of the powers of good, to counteract the efforts of those who, through vice or temperament, conspire with what is evil.
To achieve peace in the international sphere, we must first condemn all aggression, whether territorial, economic, or political.
Those who have power in the world should realize that fate has placed in their hands all that they need to bring happiness to their peoples. There are many small and medium sized States which have inscribed in their tradition and in their history their desire for peace and a tranquil life within the hereditary domain that fate has allotted them. Such conduct should be respected and Imitated by the great Powers, so as to give an impressive example to those smaller States which are less peace-loving.
What I have said about solidarity at home, in speaking of poverty and plenty, can by analogy be applied in the international field to the «nail and great Powers of the world.
Another means of ensuring international peace is respect for the right of determination of peoples, a fundamental principle which we have always upheld and which is inscribed in the sacred tablets of Chapter I of the United Nations Charter.
Finally, we must strive for all the States Members of the United Nations to give up a little more of their sovereignty by accepting arbitration as a compulsory method of settling disputes, whatever their magnitude.
We believe that we have preached by example, for this peace-loving attitude has always been the policy of Argentina in international affairs.
With the object of promoting the implementation of this programme, we must encourage humanity’s spiritual disarmament. A concerted effort by the men, women and children of all nations, especially the women and children, can banish the ideas, words and acts of the victims of an aggressive psychosis, which is a real disease and one that we must fight until it disappears.
Let us not forget furthermore that man is on a higher plane than the systems he has created, and that those systems should be made to serve him. To promote aggression or to unleash war in defence of certain systems is an outrage against humanity and in present circumstances is liable to lead to its destruction.
Let us abandon systems if they do not help towards progress; let us save man, who, when all is said and done, is the best system, material or spiritual, yet created, since he is the work of God and not of man. To save him we must try every social action that is compatible with public and private resources. Such action may vary with each country, but it must create an atmosphere of well-being at home, which in the international sphere will make war hateful as a means of reconciling differences between nations.
Such is the programme outlined in the appeal made to the peoples of the world by the Argentine Government. To those who accuse this appeal of being too ambitious or too theoretical, I would say that even the most insignificant programme appears ambitious when indolence deters us from making the effort to carry it out, and that any programme is theoretical if people do not wish to take the trouble to apply it, I should like to add that many of the items m this programme could be carried out immediately if, instead of continually losing sight of the purposes and principles of the Charter, we re-read it every day as though it were a Bible inspiting our actions which are for the most part strongly influences by our selfish interest as individuals, and by the desire for expansion and domination in the world community.
To illustrate this point, I propose, in this second part of my speech, to discuss a concrete problem of an international nature related to our Organization, and one which in our opinion should be reviewed immediately.
The delegation of Argentina has asked for a reopening of the discussion on the privilege of the veto granted to those States which are permanent members; of the Security Council. It should be noted that the States enjoy a dual privilege. On the one hand they hold permanent seats on the Security Council, and on the other, they can nullify its resolutions, even those to which all the other members of the Council have agreed.
The veto is contrary to the principles of the Charter. I do not think that this statement needs any explanation; but, to put it bluntly, the United Nations is based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all its Members, and therefore any political discrimination, such as the veto, violates that principle.
No discrimination could be more glaring. Under the Charter, the eleven members of' the Security Council represent all the Members of the United Nations and act on their behalf; nevertheless, a single State has the power to nullify the will of the other fifty-four. Even if we assume that each of the eleven members of the Security Council represents five of the fifty-five States in the United Nations, it could still be said that a single State is able to nullify the will of fifty.
The veto was established because of contemporary political circumstances which were likely to change and, as everyone knows, have in fact changed. At that time, and in spite of favourable circumstances, only thirty States voted for the veto and seventeen against it; I am sure that if the question were reopened in the present circumstances, that proportion would change fundamentally and the decision would go against the privilege.
At the time the head of the Argentine delegation stated that the court of experience would judge which side wag right. He certainly did not expect that court to pass a final and unfavourable judgment within two years. I said “unfavourable” and that is what I mean. To obtain the majority required to approve the proposal for convening a conference for the propose of reviewing the Charter is one thing; what each of the Member States thinks of the veto is another. I venture to assert — and this is my personal impression — that the majority is now convinced that the inclusion of the veto in the Charter was a grave error, but there are some who believe that we can still wait and they recommend palliative measures, although I do not think they have much confidence in the success of such measures, even if they should manage to impose them.
Worst of all, the veto has been used improperly. Under the provisions of the Charter and in accordance with the San Francisco declaration of the four Powers which upheld the voting procedure agreed upon at Yalta, the veto is only to be applied in matters dealt with in Chapters VI, VII, VIII and XII, that is, in matters concerned with assuring security and maintaining peace. Indeed, that is the specific function of the Security Council. The use of the veto is restrictive; it should be restrictive. Its sole object is to prevent the United Nations from exerting pressure on one of the great Powers, for fear that such pressure might endanger peace.
Nevertheless, the Security Council has allowed the veto to be applied in matters concerning the admission of new Members, and now the world looks on with amazement as peace-loving nations such as Ireland, Portugal, Transjordan, Italy and Austria wait at the door of the United Nations, because the Security Council persists in maintaining that their requests for admission must obtain the favourable recommendation of all five of its permanent members.
With regard to the admission of new Members, the Security Council’s task is to make a recommendation, for or against; but it can only recommend; the only organ of the United Nations which can and should decide, for or against, is the General Assembly. We shall see whether the Assembly this year will defend its rights and exercise its powers when the Argentine delegation proposes the admission, of the five nations I have mentioned, all of which have obtain is seven or more favourable votes in the Council, which, in my view, is equivalent to a favourable recommendation. The Security Council can recommend the non-admission of new Members, but the use of the veto in this matter cannot be sanctioned, since in that case it would be a Security Council and not an Assembly decision.
Apart from the fact that the text of the Charter is explicit, I shall mention only one argument in support of my thesis. When the Charter wished to authorize the use of the veto by the so-called “Big Five” in matters unrelated to security and international peace, it expressly said so. It did this in the case of the ratification of amendments, which cannot be considered as approved without the concurrent votes of the five permanent members of the Security Council.
If we pass from the Security Council’s action with regard to the admission of new Members to a consideration of the performance of its other functions under the Charter, it must be confessed that matters have fared no better.
Four countries, two of which are Members of the United Nations, are in conflict. Each blames the other for what has occurred. A commission of the Security Council has confirmed the facts; the Press has criticized the effectiveness of that commission. Yet the Security Council, after numerous and prolonged meetings, has not been able to decide what to do. The Council was expressly created to maintain peace and avert or eliminate conflict; yet it spends its time carrying out tasks which are not within its province, and fails to fulfil the specific obligation imposed upon it at San Francisco, despite the wide powers granted to it at that time.
The Security Council is to prepare agreements for the regulation of armaments; the Assembly last year made recommendations to this effect. Up to now it has not been able to take any decision on the matter. The Council, furthermore, ought to set up the “international police force” which is necessary to enforce compliance with its resolutions; up to now it has not fulfilled this obligation. We must conclude that its behaviour has been dictated by the “do-nothing” policy which it has pursued up to now, and for which, of course, a police force is hardly necessary.
I need not add that all this is due to the veto power; the power which authorizes any one of the permanent members of the Council to paralyse the action of that body.
To attain such results, the great Powers did not require the privilege which has been granted to them; while the small and the medium sized nations would not have approved a Charter containing this privilege, if they had known it was going to prove useless in achieving the ends for which it was intended.
The great Powers have always enjoyed what I might call a “free” veto, to differentiate it from the “legal” veto provided by the Charter. Whenever one or more States attempted to act against the interests or the rights of a great Power, that Power felt itself entitled to use its “veto”, to complain, to negotiate, to hold up the action of the other great Powers and request the convening of an international conference in order to satisfy its aspirations or its vanity. In the absence of this recourse, the great Powers resorted to armed conflict to impose their will, if the fortunes of war seemed to favour them. I will only recall two cases. One of Germany’s vetoes brought about Sedan and the fall of the Second Empire; another the Algeciras Conference. Yet neither Bismarck nor Wilhelm II possessed the “legal” veto which the San Francisco Charter has established.
Now, however, if one of the great Powers decided not to carry out in good faith its obligations under the Charter, it could paralyse the action of the Council that was set up at San Francisco as a panacea for maintaining peace. Furthermore, it could, by dilatory manoeuvres, by the use and abuse of the “legal” veto, distract the attention of the other great Powers, complete its military preparations and launch the conflict when it was most convenient to its own interests.
Was it for this that forty-five nations met at San Francisco and voluntarily tied their hands by a treaty from which — so it is said — they cannot free themselves without dissolving the Organisation?
The great Powers were in a better position before signing the Charter, since they were not bound by a covenant compelling them to act in good faith.
It follows that' the veto is an excellent method of doing two things: preventing the United Nations from adopting resolutions for the maintenance of peace and security; and favouring any of the great Powers who decide to act in bad faith.
Meanwhile, it would seem that the other nations are obliged to remain passive while they contribute their money, their efforts, the time lost in conferences, in the drawing up of rules of procedure, fixing terms of reference, constituting “committees and sub-committees, drafting wordings and rewordings” to the possible establishment of a world dictatorship. If any of the great dictators of the past had suspected that good faith could lead to such extremes, he would certainly have decided to take the lead in setting up an international organization as the exclusive instrument of Ins campaign for domination.
Some will argue, no doubt, that to counter such eventualities, we may resort to Article 51 of the Charter, which authorizes legitimate individual or collective self-defence, independently of the Security Council. I accept this and in that connexion I applaud the decision of the nations of the Western Hemisphere to form an indissoluble union by virtue of the Treaty of Rio de Janeiro for the purpose of availing themselves of this right in case of aggression. But the argument is valueless. Before signing the Charter all the nations, great and small, enjoyed this same right to repel aggression, cither individually or collectively.
From all this it follows that before San Francisco the great Powers enjoyed the right of veto on terms of equality and of full freedom of action. The small nations on their part enjoyed the right of individual or collective legitimate defence, depending on whether or not they had allies. On the other hand, the veto, having been legalized by the Charter, can only benefit potential aggressors. It was not worth while establishing an international organization to achieve such a result.
In their eagerness to defend the interests of the great Powers, the authors of the Charter forgot those of mankind. The veto is useful chiefly as a means to inaction, an attitude which may be desirable in some cases. For example, if the United Nations were to seek to exert pressure on one of the great Powers, inaction could be used to avoid friction which might lead to war. But in the majority of cases action is required for the maintenance of peace.
To offset the misuse of the veto, what should have been established was a counter-veto placed in the hands of those nations now lacking the authority to exercise the veto or of those entitled to use it, who believe that this is a time for action. In that case, the veto would have served to defend the legitimate national interests of the great Powers, and the counter-veto to defend the interests of mankind and peace.
I consider that one of the most serious errors committed by the Security Council with regard to the veto is the attempt to conceal its use. It has been said that this is a political manoeuvre intended to mitigate the attacks levelled against the veto.
In order that decisions taken by the Security Council on matters of substance should be valid, they require an affirmative vote of seven members including — and here I quote the actual words of the Charter — “the concurring votes of the permanent members”. When a vote is to be taken on a resolution before the Council, if one of the permanent members abstains because, he does not wish to vote in favour of it but has no special interest in its rejection, and if the seven required votes are obtained, including those of the other four great Powers, the resolution passes as though it had been legally approved. In this way the number of vetoes is reduced and a smaller target is exposed to the attack of hostile critics.
But such a decision has no legal value, nor has any resolution of the Security Council on matters of substance within its competence which does not obtain the affirmative vote of the “Big Five”, even if it does obtain the affirmative vote of the six nonpermanent members. Abstention by one of the great Powers is therefore sufficient to prevent the adoption of decisions.
If the Security Council persists in adopting this method of interpreting the abstentions of permanent members, it will be abetting a form of deception tending to cloak the harmful effect of the veto, and the great Powers which resort to abstention for this purpose will, in the end, encourage this attitude in open contravention of an explicit provision of the Charter. Without consulting the Assembly and without awaiting ratification by the States Members, the Security Council will have amended the Charter and granted its permanent members a third and new privilege, for the amendment will be a de facto amendment.
Sir Carl Berendsen, our distinguished New Zealand colleague, pointed out a short while ago how the veto might operate when he referred to the possibility of a representative of the “Big Five” being detained at a party, at his hotel or on the golf course.
Nor should we forget — and this is much more important — the futile conflict which would inevitably arise if a State affected by an illegal decision of the Security Council refused to obey it We must avoid anything which might undermine the prestige of the United Nations, and nothing can undermine it more than the adoption of capricious resolutions in violation of the Charter.
The veto is often referred to as the unanimity rule. The name is resonant and expressive, but far horn concealing the drawbacks of the veto, it makes them more obvious. In passing, I might point out that the unanimity in question is the unanimity of five members out of eleven, which is a unanimity sui generis.
Experience shows that when the decisions of a corporate body depend upon the will of one of its members, it is very difficult to prevent that one member from trying to bring everyone round to his way of thinking. He knows that without him there can be no solution, and if he suspects that the others are anxious to find a solution, he creates difficulties in order to impose his will, or to obtain as neatly as possible what he wishes. He becomes an arbiter. The discussions arc prolonged, the arbiter conceals what he thinks until the last moment; the Press tries to guess the enigma from his most trivial statements, until finally he either kills the proposal with his negative vote or magnanimously accepts the “compromise” most favourable to his interests from among the many compromises offered to secure his consent.
The five-member unanimity rule established in the United Nations Charter is intended to force the majority, however large, to waive its rights mid bow to the will of the minority which, its purpose achieved, proclaims to the world that everyone thinks as it does, when in reality the exact opposite is true. Thus the unanimity rule may be very useful as a tool to construct a “new style” democracy, but it is of no use for the establishment of security and the maintenance of peace. On the contrary, it will inevitably lead us to war.
At the time of the Rio de Janeiro conference, Argentina’s attitude was represented as contradictory, far defending the unanimity rule at Petropolis while attacking it at Lake Success, Such a contention is not merely wrong; it is childish. The unanimity supported by Argentina at Rio de Janeiro does not constitute a veto, or a measure making it impossible to adopt resolutions, as occurs in the case of the rule requiring the unanimity of five members out of eleven in the Security Council. The nations which favoured the resolution would have been entitled to put it into effect, however many States had dissented. In the League of Nations unanimity prevented action without the previous approval of all. The unanimity of five members out of eleven required by our present Charter prevents action without the previous approval of those five members. The unanimity advocated at Rio de Janeiro does not prevent the American nations, whatever their number, from taking action if they consider it desirable. And as the Pan- American system has no international police force, there would be no difficulty in proceeding in this way. But we shall discuss this matter in the Political Committee; I make this explanation only to put an end to mistaken interpretations and possible intrigues.
I should not like to conclude this critical statement showing our lack of faith in palliatives without at least suggesting the remedies which I personally should be inclined to advise.
This is a subject which falls within the province of the conference which we have proposed and which would be convened, not to please Tom, Dick or Harry, but to discuss the matter at length and to adopt the most appropriate decisions, not excluding those likely to protect the interests of the great Powers. However, this is no reason for not putting forward some suggestions, even though they are only the result of personal study.
There are two methods of breaking the deadlock created by the veto. The first would leave decisions in the hands of the Security Council and require the affirmative vote of three-fourths of its members, without veto. The second would give any of the great Powers the right to object to a resolution adopted by two-thirds of the members of the Council; the resolution would then remain pending until a permanent committee of the Assembly, composed of all the States Members, had ratified or rejected it Resolutions not supported by two-thirds of the States Members would be void.
The permanent committee would have to take a decision within three days on the pending resolution, voting for or against it without debate after bearing two statements: one by a representative of the majority which adopted the resolution, and the other by a representative of the great Power or Powers which objected to its adoption.
The organization of the permanent committee would not entail any expenditure or inconvenience for Member States, since those Members not having permanent delegations accredited to the United Nations could be represented by their diplomatic or consular agents in Washington or New York.
The only decisions which could be referred to the committee would be those adopted in accordance with the powers granted to the Security Council in Chapters VII, VIII and XII of the Charter. The only one of their present privileges which would be retained by the “Big Five” would be the right to a permanent seat on the Council.
By the first method, three members could force the Security Council to take no action; on the other hand, nine members would enable it to take action.
By the second method, four votes would be required to take no action and eight votes to take action. In the latter case, if one or more of the great Powers objected to the action proposed, the decision would rest with the States Members as a whole.
As may be seen, both methods take into account the interests of the great Powers and the interests of world peace. The second method is more democratic, but the first is more expeditious.
If the General Assembly does not amend the Charter in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108, or does not decide to convene a conference to discuss the whole subject fully as provided in Article 109, there is only one course that gives hope of progress within the framework of the Charter. The “Big Five” must determine to use the veto strictly in accordance with the Charter and, as agreed at San Francisco, with the sole purpose of avoiding coercive action or the use of force against themselves. In that case, we could temporarily overlook the disadvantages involved and get on with our work.
But if the veto is persistently used to exempt Member States from compliance with the decisions taken by the Security Council for the maintenance of peace, the veto will serve only as a device to win adherents and to divide the world into two or more blocs. The United Nations, first formed in 1942 to win the war and organized in 1945 to win the peace, will cease to exist and will be replaced by the “Disunited Nations”, unless tine majority decides to take drastic action to show potential aggressors that such adventures may cost them dear.
Let the great Powers bear this in mind, and let them for one moment forget their selfish interests and think of the welfare and the fate of mankind.
As for the Members of this Assembly, you may begin work without prior revision of the Charter by considering the applications for admission from new Members, bearing in mind the results of the various votes taken in the Security Council and without concerning yourselves with the illegal and vicious procedure which the Council seeks to impose on the General Assembly in defiance of express provisions of the Charter.
I was not a little surprised to find that among the many bouquets Mr. Vyshinsky distributed yesterday in his amiable speech he thought it necessary to present one to us. In accordance with the diplomatic practice still in use, I must therefore, before concluding my speech, express my thanks.
Fortunately I was present and can vouch for the calmness with which he referred to Argentina after his giddy flight round the world which began in the United States, crossed the Atlantic, traversed several countries of Europe: the United Kingdom, France, Greece and the Ruhr; of Africa: Egypt and the Sudan; of Asia: Turkey, Iran, China and the Korean peninsula, and returned via the Pacific to his point of departure where, according to the representative of the Soviet Union, people are cynical and everybody has taken to conspiring against the USSR.
As he had overlooked Australia, a country which is situated in the southern hemisphere in the same latitude as my own, I presumed that we might also escape his notice. But it was not to be. Just then, the aeroplane in which the representative of the Soviet Union was travelling, driven by a hurricane like that which has unfortunately just devastated the State of Florida, encountered an air pocket and went down as far as the River Plate just long enough to reprimand Argentina for not having consented to withdraw its Ambassador from Madrid.
Mr. Vyshinsky knows as well as I do why we did not withdraw him, and he knows better than I do that the Assembly’s recommendation regarding Spain was adopted in disregard of the San Francisco Charter. I maintain: in disregard of the Charter; for Mr. Vyshinsky remembers the provisions of that Charter when the action of his colleagues annoys him; but the Soviet representatives, beginning with himself, have not the least objection to violating those provisions when it suits them.
For example, they are complaining now of the United States’ action in bringing the question of Greece before the Assembly after it had been withdrawn from the Security Council’s agenda. They have no cause to complain. They showed the way last year when, in order to help their comrades in the wandering Spanish Government, they requested the withdrawal of the Spanish question from the agenda of the Security Council in order to bring it before the Assembly.
There is this difference, however: while the case of Spain does not threaten world peace, that of Greece — as Mr. Vyshinsky is well aware — may be the powder keg which will once again touch off a weald war.
In thinking over these matters, I remembered that one of the Soviet representatives in the Security Council referred to those of us who attacked the veto as “hot-headed”, and I thought sadly how much we, on our side, fed the lack of a representative capable of marshalling all the arguments against the veto with the serenity with which Mr. Vyshinsky defends it.
That is all I have to say for the moment.


===== Session 04 - 1949 =====
Mr. ARCE said that the difficulties which clouded the international horizon could be traced to causes both within and without the United Nations but that some, if not all, of those difficulties had been successfully resolved.
116.	Those which divided the great Powers, or which were the outcome of their conflicting interests, were beyond the sphere of action of the United Nations. The most the other States were able to do was to offer their good offices and to emphasize the responsibility of the great Powers in maintaining peace.
117.	On the other hand, the differences which arose within the Organization were more within the scope of Member States, which were in duty bound to study them, to publicize them and, whenever possible, to suggest a method or methods which appeared best calculated to resolve them. It was partly for the purpose of fulfilling that duty that Mr. Arce had risen to speak.
118.	For the fourth time since the entry into force of the Charter, the Members of the United Nations had assembled in order to deliberate. When the Organization had been established in San Francisco, it had been decided that its Members should meet together annually. According to the terms of the Charter, the current session was the fourth regular session of the General Assembly. But if that purely formal consideration could be disregarded for a moment, and if the political significance of that gathering of the nations and the peace of the world were borne in mind, then it would be seen that that gathering was also — and must be — the annual gathering of Member States determined at all costs to survive, whether by retaining the existing Organization or by establishing another which would be better able to ensure collective security, order, justice and social progress.
119.	That consideration should be borne in mind for two important reasons. First, because the purpose of maintaining peace, which was the primary objective of the Organization, required a wider rather than a more narrow field of action; it called for the admission of all the nations of the earth; it required that the war which for six years had devastated large areas of the earth should be forgotten and that thoughts should be concentrated solely on peace, which could be more easily preserved with a greater number of nations associated in the achievement of that noble aim.
120.	The second reason was that if the peace were unfortunately broken, it would be much easier to restore it if there were a greater number of associated nations. Moreover, it was imperative that possible aggressors should be fully aware that in such an eventuality they would have to face a union of nations already in being. A policy of plain speaking, of calling a spade a spade, was the best service to the United Nations.
121.	Mr. Arce then proceeded to take stock of the period which had already elapsed, of the defects which had been noted and of the results achieved. The United Nations was a living organism which thought, spoke, acted, succeeded and made mistakes. It was an organism which must develop and be perfected if it were not to disappear. Although its disappearance would not necessarily result in the disappearance of its component parts, it would destroy the aims which had inspired its formation and structure. If the nations wished to profit by experience, they must at all costs prevent the eclipse of the Organization. The United Nations must not be destroyed.
122.	Mr. Arce preferred to associate himself with those speakers who dealt with the success achieved rather than the mistakes made by the Organization although, in the last analysis, both groups were solely concerned with serving the cause of the United Nations.
123.	The Argentine Government was particularly interested in the improvement of the Organization and, as in the past, it was always prepared to co-operate in the task of ensuring peace among nations, of promoting liberty among peoples and of improving the social conditions of individuals.
124.	Even in the very darkest moments, the Argentine delegation had never lost sight of the noble purpose of seeking good for the sake of good alone without considering less worthy interests. Argentina was prepared to fulfil the obligations arising out of its international commitments, but that did not prevent it from working for the settlement of differences, no matter how deep-rooted such differences might be. Argentina would never give up the hope that agreement might be reached, and even if all paths appeared to be blocked, Argentina would still be ready to work for peace. Recent events furnished authentic proof of the purposes of the Argentine Government and of the aims which inspired the policy of the delegations which had represented it previously and of the delegation which represented it at the current session.
125.	Representatives of all the groups and voicing all the tendencies existing in the General Assembly had made frequent references to violations of the Charter. The representative of Argentina felt that such references proved that no one deliberately set out to violate the Charter. The diversity of points of view provided a sufficient explanation of those charges, and showed the advisability, if not the necessity, of undertaking a study of the provisions which gave rise to such controversies.
126.	The undertaking of such a study did not imply that those provisions must be modified in accordance with a given point of view. It was necessary, in the first place, because provisions which had been approved without great difficulty four years previously had in practice been subjected to the most contradictory interpretations. They must therefore be revised, clarified, modified or deleted or, if in the course of debate agreement were reached on a single interpretation of a controversial provision, that provision must be retained.
127.	It was necessary, in the second place, because a provision which had been approved in spite of serious differences of opinion or under the pressure of special circumstances, had turned out to be bad or inoperative in practice; it was therefore advisable to reconsider it.
128.	Those differences had arisen both in regard to the sphere of action of the Security Council and in regard to the interpretation of the powers of the General Assembly.
129.	The energy with which the Argentine delegation had fought the privileges granted to certain members of the Security Council was a matter of common knowledge. Mr. Arce did not dispute the privilege of membership conferred upon particular States under Article 23 of the Charter. But whereas the Charter did not require that those States should be given similar treatment in the Economic and Social Council, they were re-elected whenever there was an election. And although the Charter did not require that they should be given five of the seven vice-presidencies of the Assembly, that always happened.
130.	Such conduct in organs in which the various States had no special privileges whatever clearly showed the consideration given to the great Powers notwithstanding the silence of the Charter in that regard. In those circumstances, the fact that the members which enjoyed the privilege to which Mr. Arce had referred were reelected, showed a fortiori that they would be re-elected to the Security Council. For while the permanent members of the Security Council might doubt the sentiments of some of the fifty-four other Member States, they could not doubt the political experience of those States; consequently the one Council where they would remain indefinitely, even if no such privilege were granted in the Charter, would be the Security Council.
131.	The fifty-four other Member States were at least as much concerned with world peace as the five permanent members of the Security Council, and the indefinite re-election of those members would be in the nature of an insurance policy which the other States would willingly sign and maintain without any external compulsion. It was clear that such a course of action would be in greater harmony with Article 2, paragraph 1 of the Charter, concerning the sovereign equality of all the Members, than with Article 23, which conferred the privilege of permanent membership on certain States designated by name.
132.	But what could not be accepted was the privilege commonly known as the veto. The use of such an extraordinary power might be justified in a case involving the political interests of the State concerned, if any decision of the Security Council were likely to harm those interests. It was absolutely unjustified, however, in cases involving the interests of other States or in connexion with the most varied and most insignificant questions.
133.	That privilege was bound to create, and did in effect create, sectors or spheres of influence, as in the era of the balance of power. The expansion or contraction of those spheres of influence might affect privileged States which were proposing to exercise, in their own interest, the privilege granted to them, but the other nations were kept in constant fear, waiting for the spark which would once again ignite a horrible war.
134.	Mr. Arce would not discuss the disadvantages which had been demonstrated in practice by the use of the veto; they were well known to all the representatives as well as to those who followed the proceedings of the Security Council in the Press. But certain drawbacks could not be passed over in silence; he was referring to what had been called the hidden veto and the double veto.
135.	The first of those had been regarded with favour by those who considered that the end justified the means. Mr. Arce held a completely different view. The so-called hidden veto was actually a veto, despite the fact that the permanent member which resorted to it, not wishing to cast an affirmative vote, took refuge in abstention. In fact, it was not a hidden veto, because nothing attracted greater notice than a permanent member which abstained from voting. It could be said that it was morally inadmissible for the permanent members to abstain from voting. They had accepted a responsibility under the Charter, and hence should always cast a vote, whether yea or nay.
136.	It was easy to show that an abstention was, in effect, a veto. The Charter made no mention of a veto; nor did it speak of negative votes intended ipso facto to void a decision which had been approved by seven or more affirmative votes. The Charter spoke of decisions adopted by an affirmative vote of seven members, including the concurring votes of the permanent members. Under the Charter, any decision which had not obtained the affirmative votes of the five permanent members had no legal force.
137.	Nevertheless, the Security Council, using an arbitrary interpretation, had accepted as valid resolutions which had obtained the affirmative vote of only four permanent members, provided the fifth permanent member had taken refuge in abstention. Such an interpretation led the representative of Argentina to call the so-called hidden veto by a name which was more accurate in the light of the Charter and the facts, to wit, a furtive or shame-faced affirmative vote.
138.	That arbitrary interpretation constituted a new privilege for the permanent members, which appeared to seek their own convenience and to escape their responsibilities, rather than to promote the general interest of the United Nations.
139.	Mr. Arce recalled the Declaration subscribed to by the five permanent members in San Francisco, for that Declaration was apparently the Gospel of the veto. That document, which bore the signatures of the Governments of China, France, the USSR, the United Kingdom and the United States, stated: “The first group of decisions” — the document was referring to questions of substance — "will be governed by a qualified vote — that is, the vote of seven members, including the concurring votes of the five permanent members.”
140.	Accordingly, in pursuance of an explicit provision of the Charter and of the equally express opinion of the Governments of China, France, the USSR, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, all decisions of the Security Council which had been held valid although they had obtained the affirmative vote of only four of the permanent members, were null and void.
141.	The permanent members of the Security Council answered those arguments by saying that the Council was implicitly empowered to interpret the scope of the powers granted to it and that, consequently, no other authority of the United Nations had the right to discuss the validity of its decisions concerning the application of Article 27.
142.	It should be pointed out that the issue was not an interpretation but a modification of the Charter. As yet, however, so few representatives claimed that the permanent members of the Security Council had exceeded their powers that it was useless to make attempts which were doomed beforehand. They would have to wait for a better time, but, in the meantime, it should be recognized that the Security Council was claiming the right to interpret the Charter in regard to its own powers; it was to be hoped that it would not deny the same right to the General Assembly, in other words, to the United Nations.
143.	No such prerogative as the double veto appeared in the Charter; it was based on the San Francisco Declaration. That Declaration had not been incorporated in the Charter as a key to interpretation, nor had it been approved by the San Francisco Conference. Hence, the double veto was a new privilege which the permanent members of the Council conferred upon themselves, though without any legal justification. An examination of the text of the Charter led to a diametrically opposite conclusion.
144.	In accordance with the procedure of the double veto, whenever a doubt arose as to whether a question was one of substance or of procedure, and therefore whether it was or was not subject to the veto, it must be resolved by a prior decision which required the affirmative vote of the five permanent members. That method of resolving doubt was provided for neither in the Charter nor in the Council’s rules of procedure. Consequently, it had no legal value. The correct procedure in such cases should be to seek guidance from Article 18 of the Charter which dealt with voting in the General Assembly.
145.	The Security Council had preferred to depart from the Charter and to adopt its own interpretation, basing itself solely on the fact that that was the solution appearing in the Declaration of the permanent members. Thus the least important question might become a question of substance simply at the wish of any one of the permanent members.
146.	The use of the double veto as well as of the hidden veto showed that the permanent members of the Security Council believed themselves entitled to interpret the Charter in their own way in so far as it referred to the powers which had been granted them. So long as there was no revision of the Charter, that view must be noted.
147.	The delegation of Argentina felt that in both cases there was an abuse of power and hence had asked at earlier sessions of the Assembly that a general conference should be convened under Article 109 of the Charter to discuss various questions and to proceed to the revision of the Charter if the conference considered it advisable or necessary.
148.	When a text was open to doubt or when, through abuse of power, it was given an entirely false interpretation, it was more advisable to amend it so that it would clearly express what had been decided and thus establish the procedure to be followed thereafter.
149.	The Argentine delegation had renewed its request (A/970) before the opening of the fourth session of the General Assembly. It had been argued in the General Committee that the subject might give rise to heated debates and that the current session of the General Assembly, already named the “Peace Assembly”, was aiming at solutions based on effective international co-operation which might be prejudiced by the Argentine proposal. The delegation of Argentina had not wished to shoulder so heavy a responsibility; it had withdrawn its proposal and was prepared to accept less extensive and even provisional solutions. It hoped, however, that its confidence would not be deceived.
150.	Should the attitude of Argentina contribute to the removal of even one of the difficulties dividing the great Powers, the delegation of that country would feel satisfied with the procedure adopted in accordance with the principles of peace and harmony put forward by its Government. Should the contrary prove to be the case, the Argentine delegation would feel compelled to renew its proposal the following year and would attempt to convince the representatives that the sole purpose was to seek a clarification of those provisions which in practice had given rise to contradictory interpretations.
151.	The much discussed assessment of the powers of the General Assembly was one of the questions most vital to the life of the United Nations; Mr. Arce deplored the fact that its importance had failed sufficiently to impress itself upon those States, Members of the United Nations which enjoyed no privileges.
152.	Next to the question of the maintenance of peace, the admission of new Members was the most important subject to be considered by the General Assembly, since the acceptance of all, or at least most of the States still outside the Organization, was a decisive factor in the strengthening of peace.
153.	When every country in the world had the right to be heard before the Assembly of the United Nations, no Power, however great, would dare to defy the world, as represented in the United Nations. Any attempt to do so would merely condemn that Power to the execration of all free men of the world including those living within its own borders. Hence the General Assembly should take up the defence of the principles of the United Nations and finally reach a decision with respect to all pending applications for admission to membership in the Organization.
154.	The Argentine delegation would be very pleased to see all peace-loving countries admitted to the United Nations. Even though some of them were not admitted in consequence of a negative decision of the General Assembly — the only organ with the right to postpone their admission — the Argentine delegation would prefer a final decision to the shameful spectacle of more than a dozen States knocking at the doors of the United Nations without the latter condescending to reply.
155.	The General Assembly could, but was not bound, to bar any State from admission to the United Nations. When the facts leading to a negative attitude on the part of the General Assembly were not serious, as in the case of States which had not as yet obtained the support required under the Charter, a mere postponement might be sufficient. The reasons for a negative decision might disappear. Mr. Arce was convinced that in the end the United Nations would admit all countries showing a desire to co-operate in the task of maintaining peace. The General Assembly must emerge from the impasse which it had reached. With that purpose in mind, the Argentine delegation intended to submit to the First Committee certain solutions which it was considering.
156.	The Argentine delegation felt that the provisions of the Charter on that question were clear. In view, however, of the fact that doubts had repeatedly been expressed, it was desirous of securing some decision which would safeguard the unquestionable right of the United Nations to settle matters pertaining to its own constitution; those were matters concerning which no privilege could be invoked, since they were within the competence of the United Nations itself, which had laid down the procedure governing its decisions.
157.	The “Peace Assembly” quietly proceeded with its discussions in spite of rumours and reports of all kinds. Mr. Arce felt, personally, that the General Assembly was right in not allowing itself to be swayed by the political difficulties that had emerged in one of the areas into which the international field was divided. Political difficulties appeared and disappeared; technical progress was a consequence of unending study and work and could not be held back. A step in any given direction was followed the next day by a step in the opposite direction. There should be no cause for alarm, however, since the forces of nature could be used in various ways and human genius would always contrive some means to eradicate or reduce the bad effects and to make use of the good.
158.	Mr. Arce proposed a truce during which the United Nations might pursue its efforts for the realization of its primary aim, peace, pending the working out of an agreement on all types of weapons, both atomic and non-atomic. If such an agreement were to be arrived at, it was necessary to reduce the effects of other even more dangerous weapons, such as rumour, intrigue, political jealousies, arbitrary measures and unbridled ambition.
159.	Mr. Arce stated, on behalf of the delegation of Argentina, that it would do everything in its power to bring about such a truce.


===== Session 05 - 1950 =====
The world is witnessing today a conflict of forces more intense than ever before, the pressure of which has provoked and continues to provoke actions and reactions which strengthen or affect the supreme right of the peoples to obtain a permanent peace.
17.	The United Nations was set up for the main purpose of maintaining world security. It gave one of its main organs, the General Assembly, the necessary authority and power to consider or discuss any matter within the scope of the Charter, and to bring it to the attention of the Security Council.
18.	Articles 10 and 11 of the Charter assign a well- defined task to the Assembly. They empower it to consider the general principles of international co-operation, which include the maintenance of peace and security, disarmament and the regulation of armaments. They also authorize it to make recommendations on these principles to the Security Council or to the Members of the Organization, particularly with regard to the powers and functions of any of the organs.
19.	Fifty-nine States are here convened to exercise their lawful functions, and we fervently desire that our Assembly may merit, with greater justification than any other, the title of a peace-making Assembly, and that it will spare no efforts in its task, not hesitating, even to revise the Charter, if necessary, in order to adopt an efficient system whereby problems not foreseen at San Francisco may be settled. This is a task of paramount importance, and the peoples of the world are entitled to expect great results from it.
20.	Respect for the sovereignty and equality of states, non-intervention in domestic matters, improvement of legal principles, economic development and social progress, must be the main objectives of our discussions.
21.	The Argentine delegation comes to this Assembly to occupy its place among the free nations, with a mandate which ratifies a position in conformity with those principles, a position which it has always maintained in the United Nations, corroborating its international activities in the course of international political events.
22.	This position is a faithful reflection of the will of the Argentine people, exercised through the policy of their Government, which in its turn is the authentic expression of their sovereign will.
23.	Some of the serious difficulties which the Assembly will have to overcome have already become apparent. To the task of settling them the Argentine delegation brings the contribution of a position that is indisputable from the legal point of view and is characterized by a positive approach towards the problems of today.
24.	This attitude and the ethical principles which have inspired it have enabled her to assess facts, which, as the actual manifestations of policy, might endanger or shatter security, and have prompted her to implement decisions adopted by the competent organs of the United Nations whenever they did not imply a renunciation or weakening of national sovereignty, which the Charter itself expressly recognizes as a fundamental element in relations between States.
25.	Argentina was honoured by the fourth session of the General Assembly [231st meeting] in being allocated a seat on the Trusteeship Council. We believe we fulfilled the task then entrusted to us, directing our efforts in that organ towards promoting the development of the inhabitants of the Trust Territories, with a view to bringing them to self-government or independence. As a non-administering authority, we gave the interests of those territories their due importance, and did not allow alien factors to intervene in the solution of the problems affecting the colonial peoples.
26.	Devotion to our duties has been accompanied by the exercise of our rights. Even in the Organization’s most difficult moments, we held fast to the hope of a reconciliation between the most widely divergent interests and we laboured to achieve that end. The aims of the Argentine Government were marked by an association of duties with rights.
27.	In accordance with that unequivocal attitude, which serves the fundamental objectives of the United Nations' Charter, Argentina has attempted to bring into the discussion of world affairs non-member States which might co-operate in the strengthening of peace. For that reason the admission of new peace-loving members will be supported by the Argentine delegation, which maintains its ideal of co-operation between all nations which desire peace and right.
28.	My Government cherishes the hope that the United Nations, in its task, may count upon the support of those countries whose admission is not favoured because of certain political differences of which we are all aware. This Assembly has the means of finding an appropriate and just solution to this problem; the exercise of its sovereign power requires that it should do so.
29.	In considering the various territorial questions, we have respected the will of the peoples; and because we faced these questions in a high-minded spirit, our goodwill and our traditional international policy would not permit us to hand over territories — and their populations — to satisfy the interests of third parties. That is the spirit which prevailed in the settlement of the future of the Italian colonies, by which the Assembly recognized the right of Libya and Somaliland to independence. At the present session we shall continue the debate on Eritrea, and we are convinced that a solution will be found which will reconcile the various aspects of the question and reaffirm those principles which are the very life-blood of the United Nations. The first requisite in this connexion should be respect for the natural rights and interests of the inhabitants of Eritrea, upon whom Italy has left her imperishable mark. We are convinced that the civilizing influence of Italian culture will continue to make itself felt upon the African continent.
30.	It was oil similar deep-rooted democratic principles that our decision to attempt to curtail the privileges granted to some members of the Security Council was based.
31.	The pedestal of international security, built upon the equal sovereignty of all States, will not be sufficiently solid to support the effigy of peace so long as the extraordinary power which is called the veto continues to be exercised and to destroy the main value of the Charter.
32.	A short time ago the Security Council took the responsibility of recommending that the Members of the United Nations should give the Republic of Korea the help it needed to repel the armed attack and reestablish peace and security in the area of the conflict.
33.	The Assembly is now being asked to consider items which will place it in a position to settle by its own vote questions which require a decision of the organ in which all Member States are represented at a time when the Security Council appears powerless to take action. The steps which the Assembly could take in connexion with the war in Korea, the question of Formosa, disarmament, and the control of the use of atomic weapons are, among others, the vital subjects demanding our attention.
34.	This should stand out as evidence of the fact that the United Nations in general, in agreement with the opinion of certain members of the Security Council as expressed in the draft resolutions submitted, reaffirms the powers of the Assembly. These powers are the essence of the Assembly’s high mission, in defence of which many delegations, including that of Argentina, have expressed the highest hopes.
35.	The economic and social problems submitted for the Assembly ’s consideration are of particular importance. We may say that problems of an economic or social nature lie at the root of any political conflict, whether it be national or international.
36.	Moreover, a study of the particular form of community life which has appeared in the modern world shows that peaceful and stabilized economic and social conditions in the internal life of the various nations are now, more than in any other period of history, the best guarantee of international peace.
37.	My country has noted — and I venture to draw attention to this fact here — that extreme political views, either of the left or the right, cannot flourish among a population when the state, inspired by the. doctrine of the common weal, has found a solution for these economic and social problems.
38.	In my country, the people owe the implementation of our doctrine of the common weal, a doctrine of justice, to the inspired work of our President, General Peron. The doctrine is a synthesis of values and traditions which are the heritage of our culture. It is a harmonious combination of the requirements of individual freedom and of the basic purpose of all democratic societies with social legislation and the full, organic development of the country’s natural resources — a process which the State promotes in order that the advantages of our social legislation may be real and effective.
39.	Our economic policy is based on the fundamental principles of humanizing capital and dignifying labour. Under our new Constitution, private capital is recognized and protected as an essential factor in the exploitation of the natural resources of the country; at the same time the workers are not only entitled to a fair wage but are also protected by constitutional principles aimed at according the maximum dignity to labour.
40.	This action of the economic system based on justice is complemented by a work of profound public spirit and human solidarity — the Eva Peron Social Welfare Foundation — which lends its support and assistance to the children and the aged, to the sick and the crippled, so that no part of the people is neglected when faced with the elementary necessities of life.
41.	If internal social peace is consolidated in all the nations, tension and conflicts of an international character will be reduced proportionately. The violent agitation of the masses with false inflammatory slogans will cease to be used as an instrument for international political infiltration, and will yield to a genuine and absolute respect for national sovereignties.
42.	The action which the United Nations can undertake in this field is tremendously important. In the modern world the social benefits to which the nations aspire depend, in large measure, on the co-operation of technically advanced countries with abundant capital. For this reason we favour the United Nations technical assistance programme, and, similarly, the Argentine Government looks with sympathy upon the efforts of the Economic and Social Council to solve the financing of the economic development of backward areas, and to bring about a higher standard of living, full employment and economic stability.
43.	It seems to us that, just as the existence of profound social-economic inequalities leading to disorder and disturbance of the peace is being fought within the framework of a national community, so in the larger sphere of the international community it is reasonable that the more richly endowed nations and those with larger resources should play their part in solving the problems of the less developed nations.
44.	Even in the interests of the more developed peoples themselves, it is necessary that a genuine spirit of international solidarity should promote improvements in the world’s standard of living, through a wise social- economic policy, which the technical organs of the United Nations should then put into practice.
45.	Such a policy must be carried out without delay. To a large extent, a solution of the serious problems which today beset the world depends on our decision to carry out an adequate and vigorous social-economic policy.
46.	It is the fervent desire of my Government that these realities should be borne in mind for the good of humanity. To that end, we pray to God and turn for support in this hour of decision to the immortal legacy left us by that most exalted personage, General San Martin, the centenary of whose death the Argentine and other American peoples are devoutly commemorating.


===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
The delegation of Argentina has come to the sixth session of the General Assembly fully aware of the times through which we are passing. At this time, and in the face of the anxiety now besetting man, we in this hapless generation can truthfully repeat that we do not know whether we are treading on fertile or on barren ground.
2.	The harmony which reigned between the United Nations at San Francisco was fleeting. While the peoples of the world were still suffering from the consequences of the Second World War, the so-called “cold war” began. The expression was somewhat picturesque and passed into popular parlance, but to responsible minds with any kind of intuition the adjective did not obscure the stark fact of real war, for that was actually the issue — war under another guise; that disturbed the main organs of this international institution, and the deep differences of opinion paralysed any constructive effort. Those were the facts; the rest was mere words.
3.	What happened in political affairs? There the impact of this collision was reflected in the failure of efforts to give effect to Article 43 and related Articles of the Charter which form the basis of the system of collective security contemplated at San Francisco.
4.	We have also seen what happened to disarmament. The optimistic hopes entertained at the beginning of this session were dimmed as soon as the general debate got under way, because without the necessary fundamental understanding between the opposing camps it will be difficult for the General Assembly to find a solution in accordance with Article 11 of the Charter.
5.	Korea added to the complexities of a situation which was already difficult enough and which was endangering the maintenance of peace, even though a parlous peace. The negotiations for a cease-fire, a matter which, is generally settled quickly, have been complicated by all kinds of vicissitudes and disappointments, and the situation at present is this: the war goes on, and its consequences may be disastrous for the future of mankind.
6.	Our Organization has had to deal with situations which were never envisaged at San Francisco. In order to cope with them it has had to resort to emergency measures which led to the “Uniting for peace” resolution [377 (V)] adopted at the last session of the General Assembly.
7.	Let us agree that in a divided world any solution is difficult to reach, but let us also honestly admit that the peoples are following our deliberations and rightly look to us to find the road to harmony and to set the rule of law and order above force and arbitrary methods.
8.	If we wish to follow the United Nations Charter faithfully and respect its spirit and letter, let us remember that it begins with the words “We, the peoples of the United Nations, determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war...”
9.	If we wish to avoid the destruction of a civilization which is not only our heritage but which we also hold in trust for future generations, we cannot in this hour turn a deaf ear to the cry of millions and millions of human beings whose hopeful eyes are fastened on this Assembly.
10.	The Argentine delegation is inspired by the words of the President of our country: “Our international policy tries to serve the just cause of the-peoples”. Accordingly, Argentina’s international policy has two well-defined objectives: as regards its own problems, to subordinate everything to the supreme will of the people, and, as regards the problems of other nations, to endeavour to interpret the aspirations cherished by the peoples of the world who will be affected by the solutions proposed.
11.	We are convinced that if the peoples were to be consulted before any decision relating to international disputes was reached, peace would be assured, because no people wishes to commit aggression upon another people, and no people desires war as a solution for its problems.
12.	Faced with the perils which beset us, we are under a duty to explore every avenue and every short cut until we find an Ariadne’s thread which will lead us out of the labyrinth in which we are lost.
13.	We firmly believe that the General Assembly should take the initiative in such a delicate situation as this, without regarding itself confined to the isolated solutions which may be advanced for each of the problems brought to its notice.
14.	We are convinced that, in situations as complicated as the present, there ought to be, in addition to an analysis of each separate item, a comprehensive study having the one object of easing the present tension. All efforts will be useless if a minimum of normality is not achieved in international relations.
15.	For all these reasons we consider that, side by side with the solutions for strengthening the system of collective security, we should press for action to escape from the impasse which is fraught with grave danger for the whole of civilization.
16.	It is evident that political and economic questions are the two sides of the same problem. How can we hope to achieve international peace if we do not at the same time strengthen the domestic peace of nations? This peace can only be achieved if social justice prevails and ensures the best living conditions to peoples. So long as social justice does not prevail, whatever may be devised will be a fabric of illusions, and any remedies contrived will only be a false healing of open wounds,
17.	In this connexion I am glad to be able to tell you that my Government has carried through a policy which conforms to Article 55 of the Charter of the United Nations. In promoting a higher standard of living it has eliminated the unemployment index and has guaranteed conditions of economic and social progress and development.
18.	The economic crisis which afflicts the world is caused by under-production and by the inadequate distribution of goods produced among the peoples of the world. The human element ought to receive special attention in production, because without a just and worthy remuneration the worker’s output will always be below normal. In this connexion we have worked out legislation which, based upon the principle of social justice, has abolished the exploitation of man by man. Accordingly our President, General Peron, was able to claim that in our country man has ceased to be the slave of the machine, that man is no longer a mere tool but has become a being.
19.	With the same object of social welfare, the Social Assistance Foundation has performed a great work, setting up hospitals and charitable institutions throughout the country, to the achievements of which I can point with legitimate pride.
20.	We shall therefore emphatically support the programmes for raising the standards of living of the peoples and ensuring social justice.
21.	As regards the adequate distribution of capital goods and materials, we wish to state that it is essential to satisfy the needs of the under-developed countries as a matter of the greatest urgency. The distribution of scarce materials has required the establishment of an international body, which proceeds on the basis of the share in world trade. We support the principle of total representation in international organs. We also consider that rationing plans cannot be partial and include only some of the scarce materials. Nor should international action operate to the detriment of those countries which are the suppliers of primary materials. If those nations are to regulate their export trade in accordance with the recommendations of international bodies, it is only right that a similar system should be established for their imports.
22.	We should also take precautions against the possible devaluation of funds in foreign exchange or gold which, because they could not be used for the purchase of goods, have had to be accumulated by the central banks of nations which have favourable balances of payments. The experience of the last war has taught us a lesson which should not be forgotten.
23.	In general we agree with the principles concerning land reform, referred to in resolution 401 (V) of the General Assembly and resolution 370 (XIII) of the Economic and Social Council, as an instrument of social justice and a means of ensuring a better standard of living for the peoples. The object will be to give the land to those who till the soil. In this way we shall be building the economy of one of the main sources of our wealth on solid and lasting foundations.
24.	As regards trusteeship, we shall impress upon the Administering Authorities the need to do their utmost to promote the rapid political advancement of the Trust Territories of which the Charter speaks.
25.	In the matter of administrative and budgetary policy we shall maintain the view that economies compatible with the performance of the essential services of the Organization must be made.
26.	Our Government is following with special interest the studies relating to the progressive development of international law and its codification. We believe that development should be sought step by step in keeping with the principle of recognition of the sovereignty of nations, with its corollary of non-intervention.
27.	In this great assembly of nations we note the absence of many countries whose co-operation in the task of maintaining peace would have been most desirable in these difficult times. The Argentine position in the matter of the admission of new Members is so well known to you that I need not elaborate it further. I merely wish to state that we maintain our attitude, which is based on the principle that the General Assembly is the supreme authority competent to rule on admissions. In addition, we firmly believe that the success of our Organization will depend in great measure upon its universality. Consequently we find it unjust that countries such as Italy should be absent from our deliberations. We know the qualities of the Italian people and we are convinced that their exclusion is contrary to right and justice. We are strengthened in our view by the conviction which springs from our historical link with that great nation and from the contribution which its citizens have made to the growth of our country.
28.	In this serious international situation the questions at issue are not simply material interests but, above all, spiritual values which constitute a way of life and basic principles of our civilization which are now in danger. We therefore share the view that in this respect large and small countries are on the same moral footing, and that today more than ever the voice of the weakest should be heard with the same respect and attention as that of the strongest because, in the final analysis, what we are all seeking is the establishment of the rule of law and order over force.
29.	For this purpose, it would perhaps be advisable to consider the pressing need to set up a neutral group with instructions to work out the minimum conditions on which the General Assembly, in virtue of the powers conferred upon it by Chapter IV of the Charter, would make general recommendations for the improvement of the present state of affairs. The urgency of the present situation demands courage and decision on our part in facing the responsibility we have assumed towards our peoples. Let us hope that this debate will bring forth ideas that will lead to the improvement of the international situation.
30.	So we come to the Assembly animated by the earnest desire to find ways of improving the relations between Member States. As regards continental relations we are united to our brothers in America by the undertakings we have entered into and, more than that, by the bonds of affection deriving from our common origin. This close spiritual brotherhood is what leads us forward in America along a common path.
31.	Argentina, as a Member of the United Nations and on the basis of the Charter, is guided, as our President has said, by the traditional desire of its people to settle international disputes by pacific means and by respect for equality between individuals and for the sovereignty of the State; we affirm our will to social justice, our repudiation of any form of hegemony, our belief in democratic ideals and in the principle of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of States.
32.	We are convinced that only on those principles, which are the basis of our Organization, can a better world be built, a world in which there will be no privileges of any kind, either for nations or for States.
33.	In this two-thousand-year-old city, gracious host; to this sixth session of the Assembly, steeped in the spirit of the great minds that have illumined the history of culture, I express my hopes that their light may shine today upon the path of men.


===== Session 07 - 1952 =====
The Argentine delegation is attending the present session of the Assembly fully conscious of the gravity of the present world situation and of the resultant problems, which have long faced the United Nations.
39.	The practical application of the Charter has brought a number of fundamental defects to light. We would not presume to attribute to these defects all the difficulties besetting international relations in these historic times. It is, however, obvious that by perfecting the instrument governing relations among peoples, we should do much to promote the understanding for which mankind is yearning, and to allay the anxiety caused by the prospect of a grim future, fraught with problems and dangers.
40.	The rule of unanimity of the five great Powers, a variant of the rule of absolute unanimity formerly obtaining in the League of Nations, was instituted at the Conference of San Francisco with a view to facilitating United Nations action, but it has not yielded the results which were anticipated in 1945. To our way of thinking, it could not have been otherwise. As we have already pointed out on a number of occasions, it is doubtful whether any organization of States whose members do not all enjoy genuine equality of rights can function effectively. Any rule which establishes exceptions to this principle is not only a violation of the unalterable concept of sovereignty, it is also an attack on the harmony essential to the success of any international action. This is not the moment to elaborate upon the possibility of reforms which, to judge by the failure of the various proposals submitted at previous sessions of the Assembly, would be unlikely to meet with a favourable response, perhaps because of the pressure of certain political interests, which prevent an impartial view of the problem. We would merely recall that we shall in a relatively short time have an opportunity of implementing Article 109, paragraph 3, of the Charter, which provides for the convening of a general conference of the United Nations for the purpose of reviewing the Charter. In this connexion, I was glad to note that the representative of New Zealand, who spoke before me, holds somewhat similar views. We shall, of course, concern ourselves not only with the desirability and scope of reforms affecting vital issues, Such as the unanimity of the permanent members of the Security Council and, especially, the reform required in respect of the obstacle imposed by Article 108 of the Charter to any amendment of that instrument, an obstacle which is unacceptable to my delegation, but also with many other amendments to the Charter which experience has shown to be necessary and some of which it appears could be introduced without the same difficulty.
41.	 With regard to the functioning of the United Nations, I feel bound again to emphasize the deadlock which has been reached in regard to the admission of new Members. I must make the stand which the Republic of Argentina has taken since the outset quite clear and definite. On the one hand, I would again point out that we adhere to the principle of the universality of the United Nations, which means that the Organization should include all peace-loving peoples, and, on the other hand, I would stress the need, which is daily becoming more apparent, for the General Assembly, in order to defend its powers, as the sovereign body in the matter, to take whatever decisions it sees fit in regard to each applicant.
42.	We consider that, as early as possible in the current session, the General Assembly should press the Security Council to submit its recommendations for the admission of all or the largest possible number of the States which have applied for admission so that the Assembly can decide each case as it thinks best. We are unable to understand why this solution, which would result in the admission of the largest possible number of States, while securing compliance with the provisions of Article 4 of the Charter in every case, has not been accepted by the majority. We believe that the failure is mainly due to political considerations, which prevent a completely objective view of the matter. Although the results which have been achieved so far have been manifestly unfavourable, we still cherish the hope that a solution of the problem will be reached at the present session of the Assembly. My delegation wishes to make it clear that it intends to continue to press for the immediate admission, as full Members, of States such as Italy, which should long since have been Members of this Organization.
43.	As at the two previous sessions, the work of the Assembly at the present session is upfolding against a background of events culminating in the hostilities in progress in the Korean peninsula. While endeavouring to bring those hostilities to an end, the Assembly has sought to set in motion machinery for collective measures to repel any possible future aggression. As the Argentine delegation has said before, it considers that it is obvious from the present world situation that, while the elaboration of such machinery may, theoretically, be of value, its effectiveness depends on the determination displayed by States in repelling aggression and on the possession of the necessary means for that purpose. By reason both of the facts and of the provisions of the Charter, the prime responsibility rests with the great Powers. For that reason we again wish to call attention to the danger of technical complications and the advisability of concentrating on the root causes of the difficulties encountered in international relations in order to find a remedy. We whole-heartedly support the view that, in order to secure lasting peace in international relations, we must establish conditions conducive to economic and social stability, without which it will be impossible to dispel the dangers threatening international harmony.
44.	The need for this stability is generally recognized, but we have made little progress towards its attainment. We consider that in this exceptionally important question the medium and smaller Powers can exert their influence with a view to achieving a sound solution. One of the most important factors in assuring the peace and well-being of the nations is the proper regulation of commercial and economic relations. It is for that reason that the securing of co-operation in the station of international economic and social problems is one of the basic objectives laid down in the Charter. This objective is intimately related with the other objectives, and together they constitute an organic whole, which provides a basis for the activities to be undertaken by the Organization. Its attainment is thus a prerequisite for the accomplishment of the basic objective — the maintenance of peace and international security. In line with this provision, the Organization has made great efforts to secure a solution of economic problems. Its action has. been developed through the Economic and Social Council, the many organs of that Council, and the specialized agencies, which have undertaken valuable studies and activities. We believe, however, that international co-operation is not on a scale commensurate with the urgent economic and social problems of the times.
45.	 Since the end of the Second World War, we have seen the highly industrialized States proclaim the desirability of reorganizing world trade on an equitable basis, while at the same time seeking to safeguard the situation which existed before the war, with many of its inequalities. This paradox has persisted throughout the post-war period, and goes to show that the great declarations of principles, sound though they were, were smoke-screens for activities definitely designed to maintain a state of affairs which is certainly not conducive to the desired spirit of co-operation and understanding. Later, in order to bring some solution to the serious problem of poverty in vast regions of the world, the great Powers announced their intention of carrying out vast programmes designed to achieve better economic development in these regions and thus to eliminate the existing differences, which constitute a serious threat to the peace and security of mankind. In substance, these programmes are designed to counteract the shortcomings of private enterprise, which is generally hesitant and cautions in its approach and does not lead to a satisfactory distribution of world savings in line with the interests of the peoples, who have been impoverished for generations by the effects of a capitalism practised without full awareness of contemporary social realities. The social function of capital can be fulfilled only if private enterprise takes the initiative in a process of self-education, weighing the material consideration of profit against the interests and the prosperity of the working masses, who form the actual backbone of production and the basis of a just and progressive society. In our view, therefore, it is essential that private enterprise should clearly understand its mission in the world of today; otherwise its very existence will be threatened by the gains which other ideologies will amass at its expense. The lack of vision in private enterprise has been manifest of late in certain cases which have in fact developed into international problems which the community of nations is now trying to solve. Private enterprise has not made sufficient response to the calls of the world of today and it is because of this failing that we have to adopt the programmes to which I referred. Nevertheless, in Spite of all these good and sincere proposals, utter	poverty still prevails as an unfortunate reality in vast regions of the world. We are in fact witnessing a process whereby a large proportion of the world’s savings is being devoted to the production of war materials, to the great detriment of the programmes for economic development.
46.	The most important factor for the nations known as the under-developed countries, or those which are going through the process of industrialization and are developing towards economic independence, is the question of the price of raw materials as compared to that of the Manufactured goods which these countries have to acquire for their subsistence and development. It is absolutely essential to establish fair relations in trade if these countries are to be able to build up the capital formation within their frontiers which they need for progress and economic expansion. The deterioration in the balance of trade is the result of a historic process and it will in the long run be fatal if the highly industrialized countries fail to take adequate steps to correct this trend.
47.	Action in this field was taken, as regards certain specific products, through what is known as the International Materials Conference, which was set up precisely in order to control the price of raw materials, either directly or indirectly, thus preventing trade in the products within its scope from reaching the level required to promote the development of the underdeveloped countries. The declared purpose of the Conference was to regulate the world distribution of certain products, giving priority to defence requirements and subordinating economic development to war mobilization plans. It should be added that the establishment and activities of the Conference bore no relation to the known and recognized rules of international law. Nor is it enough to call attention to the Conference’s shaky constitutional position: its activities have proved unfavourable to the countries which produce raw materials and, politically, they have been discriminatory, in that they have favoured the highly industrialized Powers. Now that these results have been achieved, the International Materials Conference is in process of dissolution, and the committees dealing with products which are now in plentiful supply or whose prices are beginning to drop have been abolished. This is the case, inter alia, for wool, a textile of paramount importance in the foreign trade of many countries.
48.	Prompted in the first place by a sincere desire to collaborate in such matters, Argentina accepted the invitation to take part in the work of the Conference’s Wool Committee. But whatever slight efforts we made to persuade the Committee to take some account of the position of the countries producing raw materials were blocked by the large wool-importing countries. It was simply a question of an amendment to a resolution on military purchases to the effect that countries making emergency purchases for military purposes should not suddenly withdraw from the market and thus create serious disturbances. We were led to submit this amendment by the memory of what had happened in connexion with Korea, when the announcements of large purchases for purposes of strategic stockpiling led to a wave of speculation and a marked increase in prices, an increase which was quickly checked by sudden withdrawals from the market and other similar measures. As is well known, this led to the tremendous drop in the price of wool, beginning in March 1951, to a level even lower than that prevailing before the outbreak of the Korean conflict. The same happened in the case of tin, copper, etc., although the Conference had no jurisdiction over some of these products.
49.	The Argentine motion was rejected and the Argentine Republic was then obliged to enter a special reservation regarding its desire to make its position known to the public and to explain the reasons for its attitude as well as the circumstances leading to the rejection of its amendment. It was compelled to do this because the Committee's proceedings are not open to the public and are even kept secret from the other member countries which are not represented on it. This in itself is highly significant and it is for this reason that we are using this all-important international forum to inform Member States and world public opinion of the activities of this supra-national organization which has no real justification for its existence and has done serious damage to the countries producing raw materials. We believe, in all good faith, that it is necessary to situate this state of affairs within the general picture of the problem of the economic development of the under-developed countries. This Assembly will deal with the problem of financing such development and the methods of achieving greater productivity in the world, Both these problems can be solved only if the question of the balance of trade is also taken into account and settled justly and fairly so that the countries producing raw materials will be able to proceed with their economic development.
50.	The present unfair situation which has developed out of a continuing process through long periods of history, and the resulting lack of capital equipment in these countries, will completely offset any programme which does not take such realities into account. This problem should therefore be thoroughly studied so that, as it becomes better known, practices such as those we have described will be abandoned. At the same time, it is essential from the outset to place economic development high on the list of questions requiring a solution in the present world economic and political situation, for otherwise we shall simply go on in the same vicious circle. The peace and security of mankind depends basically on the satisfactory solution of this problem. Whenever this question has come up, we have proclaimed the principle that the peace and prosperity of the world are indivisible and it is by virtue of this principle that we are asking Member States to collaborate in finding a solution for the critical position of the majority of the world's inhabitants. We shall express our point of view concretely by submitting a draft, resolution at the appropriate time, to the appropriate committee, so that we may help, to find a satisfactory solution which will show a way of adjusting the present situation and lead us on to progress.
51.	Just and equitable prices will also enable us to achieve the social justice which is demanded by world public opinion, not only through increased investments and the growth of economic activity, but also through a fairer system of remuneration for labour. The main purpose will always be to raise the general standard of living by providing the conditions and services called for by the modern concept of social justice, through a system of fair distribution in the interests of the community. Our Government's whole policy is based on this social approach to the rights and duties of the individual in an organized community, an approach which is essential for peace in the world.
52.	We have mentioned these facts in order to contribute towards the solution of economic and social problems. This Assembly could shape future events if it became the starting point for a new era of international harmony and understanding. With this end in view, we shall work earnestly to bring about an understanding of these problems and to facilitate their solution for the benefit of a suffering section of mankind which, by its very existence, as we have already pointed out, constitutes a threat to world peace.


===== Session 08 - 1953 =====
1.	 First, let me congratulate Mrs. Pandit most cordially on her election to the high office which, to the honour of India, she is holding at this Assembly. To what other delegations have said regarding Mrs. Pandit’s outstanding qualifications and about the significance of an election which pays a due tribute to her sex, I should add that my country feels deeply gratified because of its friendly relations with hers. I must emphasize that one of the chief builders of this mutual understanding is the Indian Ambassador in Buenos Aires, whom we are glad to see once again as a member of India’s delegation to the General Assembly. Thanks to his effective work we have been the better able to appreciate and to draw closer to that great Asian land.
2.	Despite the appreciable advance represented by the armistice in Korea, this eighth session faces us with the same problems and with the same uncertainty about our ability to solve them. To cite only the most fundamental, we have to consider, besides of course the Korean question, such matters as disarmament and the admission of new Members, the solution of which is primarily dependent upon agreement among the great Powers.
3.	The question of Korea is at present the crux of our difficulties and also the basis for a possible agreement which, if it came into being, would make it possible to settle all other questions. In the recent debate at the seventh session of the General Assembly, we expressed our great satisfaction at the conclusion of the armistice, which ended the terrible human and material destruction undergone by the noble Korean people. And although we appreciate the reasons actuating the military action in Korea, we can never forget this fresh example of the destruction of a small country resulting from the inexorable action of the great machines of war. That is why Argentina concentrated its help, within the limits of its powers, on the needs of the population as a whole, eschewing any share in the military action as such. That, too, is why we listened with real satisfaction to the statement of the Chairman of the Canadian delegation in this general debate [441st meeting] when he said that his country’s troops would not take part in the unification of the Korean peninsula by force.
4.	The convening of the political conference is beset with obstacles, and every effort must be made to remove them. The decisive factor in reaching agreement may well be the United States representative’s suggestions, which justify the belief that the question of participation will be satisfactorily settled, with special attention to the particular interest of certain Asian countries in the matter.
5.	Another question which will no doubt engage our particular attention is the admission of new Members. The Special Committee set up to study ways and means of solving this problem, one of the main grounds for criticism of the United Nations, set to work during the year. If we wish to become the guardians of international peace and security, if we expect the United Nations to take steps, as it has done, to give guidance to States when their international behaviour is incompatible with the aims and purposes of the community of nations, we cannot continue to be a closed organization made up of a given number of countries. We cannot claim to guide the conduct of States when we have set up a system of inequality, a system of privilege, depending on membership or nonmembership of the United Nations. There is yet another argument which prompts my delegation to continue to urge with insistence that the doors of the United Nations should be flung wide open, and that is that the States outside it are mostly new States, which have emerged in consequence of recent changes in the political pattern of the world. These new States, which are now at the most difficult stage of their development  — the winning of complete political sovereignty and economic independence — and which urgently need to be given a chance to co-operate in the international community on a footing of complete equality with the other members, are being prevented from entering on alleged procedural grounds. When the history of this period of the life of the United Nations comes to be written, it will be hard to explain why sixty nations opposed the admission of twenty others and their enjoyment of the rights and assumption of the commitments prescribed by the Charter. My delegation is ready to press again that a solution should be sought.
6.	Many other countries, too, should have already been admitted, either on account of their cultural tradition in which our civilization is rooted, such as Italy, or because of their geographical situation or industrial potential, such as Japan, since their active participation is essential to solving the difficult problems of the contingents to which they belong.
7.	Now permit me briefly to refer to the item proposed by Argentina [A/2415], concerning the application of the United Nations Charter. In the explanatory memorandum on that point, we make it clear that the request for the inclusion of this item in the agenda was motivated by the principle that all work done by the United Nations must conform to the provisions contained in the Charter. Some of its articles give rise to difficulties of interpretation, and this has caused a variety of interpretations to be placed on one and the same clause. A knowledge of the meaning and scope of the basic provisions of the Charter is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the Organization.
8.	This leads me to refer to the items proposed by the delegations of the Netherlands [A/2442] and Egypt [A/2466 and Add. 1], which directly concern the revision of the Charter as provided for in Article 109. Although the purpose of our proposal is not the revision of the Charter — perhaps the studies we are asking for may be even more useful if it is not amended  — we recognize that there is a very close connexion between the item we have proposed and those proposed by the Netherlands and Egypt. My Government’s position on the revision of the Charter is well known. At San Francisco, the community of nations had, in the face of certain purely transitory political considerations, to yield for practical reasons on certain principles which had been regarded as basic, and which in fact are basic. Legally and institutionally, the Charter signed at San Francisco represented an appreciable retreat from the principles recognized in the League of Nations Convenant. And experience has shown that it is often a mistake to relinquish principles firmly grounded in the legal and democratic tradition of States for the sake of possible solutions of a political character which are in fact compromises leading to nothing but a system of arbitrary power and privilege.
9.	The trend noticeable in United Nations practice towards an extension of the powers of some of its principal organs, which may lead to a violation of the principle of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of States, also warrants our most careful attention, whether we are considering the revision of the Charter or studying the true meaning of its text as it stands.
10.	The Assembly will also have to consider various matters pertaining to dependent territories. The Argentine delegation will examine these problems in the light of its traditional position, which is that such territories should be brought into the community of independent nations as rapidly as possible and that their peoples should be allowed to shape their own destinies.
11.	With respect to the colonial territories on the American continent, we shall continue to be guided by resolution XXXIII of the Bogota Conference, which states that “the historical process of the emancipation of America will not be complete so long as there remain on the continent peoples and regions subject to a colonial regime, or territories occupied by non-American countries”.
12.	We also maintain that the metropolitan governments are not entitled to alter the political status of a Non-Self-Governing Territory when it is the subject of a claim or suit by another State.
13.	Matters pertaining to the budget and administration of the United Nations are more important than they appear to be at first sight. That is why we welcome the Secretary-General’s efforts to effect economies in the Organization’s budget. The task is a hard one, but his acknowledged ability and experience warrant our entertaining the highest hopes that he will succeed in putting the budget in order and in establishing an administrative structure that will obviate duplication of effort and complication in the work assigned to the Secretariat.
14.	As regards questions concerning the staff, we repeat that its independence does not preclude it from acting in harmony with each and every Member State, and that a single policy should be applied to the entire staff, without distinction of nationality. We also affirm that loyalty to the, Organization does not exempt officials from complying with their duties as citizens of their countries. We consider, further, that the higher posts should be equitably distributed among nationals of the different Member States.
15.	In social affairs our position is as follows. The competent United Nations organs, in collaboration with the specialized agencies, have taken appropriate steps to make a complete analysis of the major social problems affecting the world, and to establish the basic principles of international action designed to contribute to their solution. Not only has full consideration been given to the close relationship between economic development and social progress, but an attempt has been made to secure a proper integration of social programmes in development plans. This has made it possible not only to aim at a rationalization of what has already been accomplished but — and this is much more important — to analyse the practical possibilities and the means available for initiating programmes commensurate with the world’s needs. Possibly the most significant result of this analysis has been the fresh evidence it has brought of the tremendous disproportion which exists between the problems and the means available for solving them. That is a painful conclusion, but instead of arousing pessimism, it should be regarded as the most powerful incentive to intensify our efforts and to develop international co-operative action to the fullest. These conclusions and this incentive must be kept in mind every time we are called on to consider problems of economic development, for a balanced economic development is the only means of obtaining the resources that are indispensable for social progress.
16.	The Argentine Government takes a deep interest in this work; on the national level, it has made strenuous efforts to promote and consolidate social progress by adopting far-reaching legislation in that field and establishing appropriate institutions.
17.	International economic problems play an increasingly important role in the proceedings of the United Nations, and, by the same token, the need is growing to find effective formulas to solve them. Attention must once again be drawn to the ever-widening gap between the living standards of the highly industrialized countries and the under-developed countries for it is a gap that only aggravates the problems confronting the community of nations. It has become apparent at a lime of great economic activity, when the productive resources of the most highly developed economies are fully employed. During this period, it is clear, the world has been affected by the mobilization for defence, but even so, that is no explanation of the unstable position existing at present. On the contrary, it only serves to magnify our doubts as to the stability of the present economic structure.
18.	We are therefore driven to conclude that the world economic order is suffering from fundamental defects which must be rectified before we can reach the goal of an expanding economy through the intensified economic development of the under-developed countries. We shall have to revise completely the procedures and methods employed in the past, and adjust international economic policy to those requirements of economic independence and social justice which the world demands.
19.	We have seen how the international bodies created to stimulate a balanced economic development in the post-war period have failed to overcome the difficulties and problems they were set up to solve. The limitations of the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and similar bodies are recognized almost universally. And the unrealistic approach made in the Havana Charter to the problems of international trade, so far as the economic development of the under-developed countries is concerned, makes it impossible to ensure the execution, on a world-wide scale, of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which was based on the concepts underlying the Havana Charter.
20.	And yet we are still being pressed to accept as a panacea this same set of arrangements which has already failed. It is argued that those methods were ineffective not because of any inherent flaw in their conception but through the fault of the circumstances then obtaining; and there are some who assert that satisfactory solutions will be possible only if we rectify the circumstances. But the facts show that it is the present state of affairs that has led to the backwardness and economic under-development of large areas of the world. The division of the nations into industrialized countries and countries which are producers of raw materials has not only made the world economy extremely vulnerable, but has also kept the greater part of mankind in an impoverished and backward state. To overcome the difficulties in which we find ourselves, we must jettison the abstractions of our doctrinaire teachers, who would recommend an international division of labour on the lines I have just mentioned; the real solution, even though it may run counter to such generalizations, is to be found in the industrialization of the under-developed areas and the introduction, in those areas, of a diversified economy. A transformation of that sort will unquestionably involve great difficulties before it can be achieved. But international co-operation can be solicited to solve those difficulties, though that does not mean that the under-developed countries should expect to receive everything from foreign sources.
21.	Although the principal effort must come from the under-developed countries themselves, it cannot be really fruitful unless the changes required to facilitate it are effected in the international field. Therefore all that is needed to help those countries to make a start on the road to progress, which is an urgent necessity for them, is to apply elementary standards of justice and equity which will rid the world of the evils of a defective system.
22.	We therefore ascribe paramount importance to finding formulas for stabilizing the general price level of raw materials entering the international exchanges. There must be a fair and balanced relation between those prices and the prices of manufactured articles. That will help to facilitate the adoption and execution of large-scale national programmes of integrated economic development through the accumulation of domestic capital and the stabilization of revenue derived from the production of exportable raw materials. The importance of measures aiming at that end is indicated by the fact that about 60 per cent of world trade consists at present of the trade in raw materials. Within very short periods of time shrinkages and violent fluctuations cause enormous changes in the balance of payments of producer countries. It is obvious then that the stabilization of prices in the most important sector of international trade will, almost automatically, aid in solving the major part of the currency problems which are affecting world trade and world economy at the present time. The stabilization of raw-material prices under the conditions mentioned will have to be correlated with the adoption of national programmes of integrated economic development.
23.	It is, of course, true that this latter problem is not subject to international action, since it concerns the domestic affairs of countries which are seeking to stimulate their production. But if it is realized in the international community that nations must achieve fully integrated economies, changes which do not involve undue hardship will presumably be permitted in the commercial and economic structure of the world. Such an understanding of these needs will lead to the adoption of a world trade policy far wider in scope than policies based on the so-called international division of labour. It is not possible, therefore, to reduce the problem to such simple terms as tariff reductions and the removal of tariff barriers on basis of reciprocity, while ignoring the fundamental differences which separate nations from each other.
24.	The problems of the international financing of economic development are also closely bound up with this question. The capital needs of large sectors of the world’s economy cannot be met solely by the national resources in those sectors, owing to the slow rate of growth of those resources which, in turn, is due to under-development; and it is the lack of adequate capitalization that prevents development. To break this vicious circle believe that, in addition to the international trade measures I have mentioned, we shall have to set on foot some system of large-scale financing such as the proposed special fund for the issuance of long-term, low-interest loans, which is to be discussed by this Assembly.
25.	At the same time, we consider that the international flow of private capital should be stimulated by favourable measures, so as to supplement national saving in the financing of development programmes in economically expanding countries. The advantages of that type of investment are numerous: while the investor can obtain a fair profit, the stimulus given to development is attended by fresh advantages both to the receiving country and to the world economy. Naturally, in exchange for a fair profit, investments must be guided into activities which favour the development of the receiving country. It is not out of place here to allude once again to the unfortunate results that foreign capital too often has produced when, instead of contributing to the progress of the receiving country, it has sought solely the maximum gain at the expense of progress and has ended by becoming a source of disturbance to the national economy and jeopardized the very independence of the country concerned.
26.	The Argentine Congress has passed a law whose purpose is to encourage foreign investment, providing such investment is really designed to promote that sort of activity and is likely to contribute to the economic development of the country. By assuring the investor of fair treatment, the law affords him a suitable incentive.
27.	One practical and immediate step for reconstructing the international economy would be the formation of regional economies to facilitate the process of integrated economic development. In that way we should obtain maximum efficiency and a certain measure of national specialization to the advantage of world productivity as a whole. Moreover, it would thus be possible to overcome the limitations imposed on a national economy in large-scale industrial planning by the small size of the home market and an inadequate domestic production of supplies of raw materials. Here, too, if it were properly understood on an international level that it was necessary to agree to certain structural changes, economic development would be speeded up.
28.	Measures to ensure a more rapid improvement in the living standards of under-developed countries have been taken by the Argentine Government at the national level; the principles underlying those measures govern its policy at the international level. My country has recently completed a new stage in its efforts to attain the aims I have described by concluding treaties of economic union with the neighbouring republics of Chile and Paraguay. These important instruments guarantee effective international collaboration in the southern part of the American continent, the object being, without prejudice to the sovereignty and political independence of the countries concerned, to develop complementary economies which will allow of the maximum return for their production. Even though our efforts are necessarily limited to action within our national borders and to collaboration with our sister countries for the attainment of common objectives, they offer an example of how to set about making the structural changes to which I have referred. It is, of course, essential that the facts which I have placed before you should be fully understood by responsible governments and world public opinion. My country will resolutely pursue that policy in conjunction with all the American republics. The studies carried out by the United Nations, in particular those based on resolution 623 (VII) which was adopted by the General Assembly at the last session, will provide the necessary basic knowledge of the facts and further the adoption of appropriate measures.
29.	Once this stage has been passed, international collaboration in the economic field can be guided into more effective channels. We believe that, when that happens, it will be necessary to call a world economic conference to prepare the indispensable basic agreements and to set up whatever new bodies may be suitable or make any adaptations in existing ones that may be deemed expedient. We believe that the experience of the years that have elapsed since the war is a guarantee that such a conference of that sort will represent a turning point. It should provide the basis for a progressive order, ensuring the development of equitable economic relations and the attainment of practical solutions commensurate with the character and the magnitude of contemporary problems.
30.	In indicating these prospects for the future, we are confident that within a short time we shall be able to enter upon a new era of international understanding and co-operation, in which we shall succeed in finding a satisfactory solution for the most urgent problem confronting the world today, that is, how to speed up and strengthen the economic progress of the underdeveloped countries; this solution will constitute an indispensable basis for the harmony which in its turn will enable us to insure real peace among all nations.

===== Session 09 - 1954 =====
I have particular pleasure in congratulating the President on his election because my country supported his candidature from the first as a further expression of the unshakable friendship between our two countries, one of the most recent manifestations of which has been the raising of our respective diplomatic missions to the rank of embassy. I wish him every success in conducting the deliberations of this august assembly.
75.	Despite the anxiety that is reflected day after day in the newspapers of the world, there has undoubtedly been an improvement in the relations between the great Powers in recent months, the most positive expressions of which have been the continuation of the Korean armistice and the conclusion of an armistice in Indo-China. Although we appreciate the complexity of the host of problems facing the great Powers, frankness compels us to say that our satisfaction at the steps leading to more peaceful relations between peoples has been somewhat diminished by the failure, at the time of reaching agreements, to use the United Nations as the normal channel for the solution of problems.
76.	The United Nations cannot be made a forum for the academic discussion of either political or economic problems; we cannot allow it to become a place where problems are discussed interminably, only to be settled outside the Organization when the time comes. This attitude and actions of this kind encourage scepticism about the effectiveness of the United Nations and give the public the impression that the Organization has failed.
77.	International co-operation, the basis of good neighbourly relations and coexistence, the fundamental principles of the Charter, cannot be a mere form of words used to describe a special situation created by conflicting ideologies. International co-operation, as the smaller countries see it, means genuine dedication to the solution of the most pressing problems of all mankind, without distinction on grounds of political or philosophical belief, because nations have the right to full development within the international community in the same way as individuals in the national community, and because in the international scale of human values mankind come first, then the peoples, and finally individuals.
78.	In this belief and in the belief that the nations have an international purpose and that the rights of the international community are confronted by the free will of the nations composing it, our Government considers, in accordance with a policy sanctioned by the decision of the Argentine people, that international peace and harmony in the community of nations can be achieved only through absolute respect for each of those nations and, in particular, through respect for their inalienable right to social justice, economic freedom and political sovereignty.
79.	On the basis of these premises, which make man the highest reality of the community while recognizing his obligation to fulfil his social functions in the service of his country and mankind, and in discharging its international duties as a member of the community of nations, Argentina reaffirms its support of the principles and purposes for which the United Nations was founded and its hope that the United Nations will do its part to enable men to live a decent life free from fear of mutual destruction and in accordance with the laws of God, who created man in His image.
80.	As the President of my country, General Peron, has said, Argentina’s historic policy and the geographical factors that create a common destiny indissolubly unite us with our sister nations of the American continent. Argentina’s international policy is directed towards closer union of the peoples and nations of America on the inviolable basis of complete respect for the sovereignty of the nations of the continent. Moral forces, expressed in incontestable facts, have created my country’s fraternity with the other American countries, strengthening the indissoluble ties based on community of origin, of language and of the religion in whose name the continent was settled. Argentina’s good neighbour policy has been yet another expression of its unchangeable and irrevocable purpose to live in peace with all nations of the earth, in particular with the countries of the American continent.
81.	With our elder sister, the United States of America, we have maintained a traditional friendship, which we wish to make even closer, to the advantage of both our countries, and of America, the continent of which we are part. We realize the importance of the United States in the concert of nations and in the future of our continent, but by the very fact of its political, economic and military greatness, a genuine inter-American spirit will have to be embodied in deeds if its great power is not to arouse suspicion and mistrust among the smaller nations.
82.	Only thus will it be possible to achieve lasting co-operation founded on mutual respect for differing ways of life based on differences of ethnic origin, in economic and social conditions and the consequent differences of culture, civilization and progress. And, it should be added, as an expression of the trend of Argentina’s international policy, that our fraternal ties with the countries of the Americas are not incompatible with our determination to live in peace and friendship with all the nations of the earth and to join in the common effort to achieve in the United Nations the great ideals on which the Organization is founded.
83.	Our profession of faith in America justifies our enthusiastic support of continental unions and regional agreements, the most complete, concrete and important expression of which is, in our opinion, the Organization of American States. Nevertheless, we consider that the existence of regional arrangements does not mean that they or the agencies created under them take precedence over the United Nations, or that the United Nations should refrain from discussing or endeavouring to settle problems submitted to it by a government representing a Member State.
84.	We recognize that there may be cases in which it can legitimately be maintained that the regional and world organization have concurrent jurisdiction; but to hold that the regional organization has exclusive jurisdiction would in our view lead to the absurd position that a State Member of the United Nations which was a party to a regional arrangement would be at a disadvantage as compared with other States which for some reason were not members of regional agencies. We cannot accept a legal argument that would involve a discriminatory situation in regard to the United Nations Charter, and which would make the security of a country depend on the special political characteristics and circumstances of regional arrangements.
85.	The Argentine Republic cannot accept a view that might deprive it of the right, as a Member of the United Nations, to request the United Nations to consider or settle any international problems affecting it.
86.	We consider that the present provisions of the Charter are perfectly clear in this respect and that no other construction can validly be placed upon them. At the same time we feel that the interpretation and clarification of the relevant provisions should be one of the subjects examined when the possible revision of the Charter is considered next year. While it is not our intention to bring before the Assembly political issues that can be regarded as settled, we wish to express our misgivings regarding the establishment of a precedent that might result in legal obstacles.
87.	The harmony and cohesion of the United Nations would be seriously impaired if instead of removing any doubt in this connexion the impression were allowed to remain that the Organization involved obligations that were without effect so far as the rights of States Members are concerned. If the United Nations exists solely to comply with the suggestions and deal with the problems of the great powers, there will be no reason for surprise if many countries eventually decide that there is no point in making sacrifices to maintain a body which forgets that it was founded to embrace and protect the rights of all alike.
88.	Our respect for the obligations we have undertaken in the inter-American sphere with regard to the maintenance of peace where regional action is possible and the settlement of disputes of a local nature through regional organizations is not less sacred than our respect for the right of Members of the United Nations to demand that the Security Council should do its duty of intervening per se in every situation which might lead to international friction or endanger the maintenance of international peace and security. We consider that, as the Charter states, the Security Council should, where appropriate, utilize regional agencies for enforcement action but that such action must always be under its authority, since no enforcement action can be taken without its authorization.
89.	In short, the less local a dispute and the more obvious it is that enforcement action may be needed, the more necessary is the intervention of the Security Council, which has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security.
90.	It is time that the chief and most responsible Members of the Organization, who reserved for themselves the right of veto — despite the unanimous opposition of the Latin-American countries — when the Organization was founded, understood that if the absence of the fifteen or so nations not permitted to join the Organization is aggravated by the exodus of many disillusioned present Members, the effort to consolidate the rule of law in international affairs may well suffer a shattering and possibly fatal setback. We who support the principle of the universality of the Organization in the belief that a community of nations of the civilized world cannot function in the absence of so many countries, must continue to work for the solution of the thorny problem of the admission of new members at this session.
91.	The action of the United States in proposing to share its atomic knowledge with other countries with a view to the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes has been received with great satisfaction in Argentina. The proposal is completely in line with our own views as stated by the President of the Republic, General Peron, and reflected in the work of our research organizations, which have been primarily concerned with the use of atomic power for the humanitarian purposes of general progress.
92.	We cherish the hope that the great nations of the earth will arrive at an agreement to prohibit the use of atomic weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. We are also optimistic about the possibility of agreement on measures that will lead gradually to universal disarmament. This is not the time to analyse, however briefly, the characteristics and immediate prospects of the various proposals that have been made. We simply believe that Governments and peoples cannot be swayed by a suicidal spirit which is bound to lead to mutual destruction. We note with pleasure that the positions of the various parties are less rigid and that there is perceptible a narrowing of the gap between their points of view.
93.	Although no final settlement has been reached, since the central issue remains to be solved in both cases, we believe that the maintenance of the armistice in Korea and the recently signed armistice in Indo-China are essential preliminaries to the development of a policy that will lead to a final peaceful settlement. In accordance with our profoundly democratic sentiments and our belief in the self-determination of peoples, we hope that the unification of Korea will be achieved through the will of the people themselves, who deserve a happier life. We also hope that the peoples of Indo-China may be able freely to determine their own future.
94.	My Government wishes to restate here its position in regard to colonies, a position which was reaffirmed at the Tenth Inter-American Conference at Caracas by the will of the nations of this continent. The Conference proclaimed the solidarity of the American Republics in regard to the just claims to territories occupied by non-American countries, and stressed the need for those countries to press on with the completion of measures to enable the peoples of their present colonies to exercise their right of self-determination.
95.	The Argentine Republic has proclaimed its sovereignty over the maritime shelf contiguous with its coastline and accordingly endorses the thesis of other Latin-American countries that the continental shelf and the waters covering it belong to the riparian State. My country therefore supports the statements of Chile, Ecuador and Peru regarding fishing rights in their waters, based on the principle of the sovereignty of the riparian State over the waters adjacent to its coasts.
96.	The most fruitful activity of the United Nations is undoubtedly international co-operation for the accelerated economic development of the under-developed countries. The Argentine Republic’s position on this issue is well known: we have consistently argued in the Assembly that the community of nations should assist the peoples of the world to attain the conditions without which their efforts — the mainspring of their progress — cannot be reflected in rising income and higher standards of living. In essence, our basic proposal seeks to order international economic relations in such a way as to correct the existing imbalance between the highly industrialized nations and the under-developed countries by the creation of appropriate conditions.
97.	Unfortunately, the reception accorded to this basic idea, which should govern the policies of the community of nations, has not so far been encouraging. On the contrary, all the basic proposals to achieve this essential goal have been set aside, one after the other, sometimes owing to lack of understanding and sometimes because it was felt that the proposals were in conflict with other, more immediate aims and must therefore be postponed to a more appropriate time. This continual and repeated postponement of action to deal with the needs of the majority of the world’s peoples cannot continue to be the rule in our discussions if, as we hope, the United Nations is to play a positive role in achieving peace and justice in international relations. We trust, therefore, that past frustrations will serve as a lesson and help us to create the understanding without which great undertakings cannot succeed.
98.	We wish to emphasize once again that the Argentine Republic considers that economic development primarily depends on the sustained effort of the people themselves. But, just as the individual in society is to some extent dependent on his environment, the economic development of the underdeveloped countries can be stimulated by a series of external factors that facilitate and promote it.
99.	It is gradually becoming generally recognized that the economic growth of the under-developed countries requires the planning of economic activity to channel investment into the more productive undertakings. National action of this kind can be facilitated by external action in the form of technical co-operation and the investment of foreign public and private funds to offset the shortage of local capital. In this connexion, I would emphasize that in co-ordinating the efforts of national private enterprise — the basis of economic development — governments and labour can be usefully assisted by the external financing of development to make up for the deficiencies of the present rate of capital formation.
100.	I mention these topics in order to emphasize how much remains to be done internationally to establish a determined and vigorous international economic development policy as a matter of the highest priority to canalize and encourage the efforts of the men and women of the. under-developed nations. What is needed is financial co-operation, rather than grants and subsidies; an international commercial policy that recognizes development needs, as opposed to ideal mechanisms based on the outmoded conceptions of classical theory; relative stability of prices of primary commodities, as opposed to the sway of market prices, which has been a factor in the backwardness of the under-developed areas; and finally, positive technical assistance in every field of development. Such would be the cornerstones of a well-ordered programme of international co-operation.
101.	In this connexion it should be recalled that the Charter states that one of the fundamental purposes of the United Nations is “to achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character”. Such international co-operation, which is essential and which is the basis of the United Nations, can best be expressed in joint action to facilitate the necessary changes in the world’s economic structure.
102.	The peoples are fully alive to the need for social justice and economic independence as well as for political freedom to exercise their right of self-determination and to shape their own destiny. Economic development, besides being a fundamental requirement of growth, is a basic social need and an essential factor in the attainment of the other purposes of the United Nations, including world peace. We trust that the hard facts and the force of the argument I have just outlined will make possible a substantial advance in the right direction in the near future.
103.	A suitable occasion for making a promising first step will, we believe, be furnished by the Conference of Ministers of Finance or Economy to be held at Rio de Janeiro on 22 November. The meeting is being held under the auspices of the Organization of American States; but because of the importance of the proposals to be considered, the implications of the discussions will go far beyond the geographical boundaries of the American continent so that the Conference will, we feel, serve as a precedent for other regions and provide a basis for comprehensive general solutions. The Inter-American Economic Conference to be held at Buenos Aires later, and the efforts being made in other fields, will lay down the basis for plans and proposals to reorganize the regulating machinery of international trade and the world economy in order to facilitate and stimulate the accelerated integral economic development of the under-developed countries. As we have said on previous occasions, these preliminary operations would culminate in a world economic conference, at which approval would be given to the agreements embodying the proposed reorganization.
104.	Argentina has taken the initiative in the effort to find ways and means of overcoming present deficiencies of the world economic structure. One result of our action and of the positive thinking of a great many nations in a similar position is General Assembly resolution 623 (VII). Under that resolution, which may be regarded as the starting point of a new and fruitful stage in the discussion of these important topics, various studies have been prepared and have underlined the urgent necessity of attaining the proposed objectives. I should like in particular to refer to the report on Commodity Trade and Economic Development. The report, which was prepared by a group of acknowledged experts, is in general agreement with the position of our delegation.
105.	In United Nations discussions, particularly in the Economic and Social Council, we have noticed that the views of the majority of Member States regarding primary commodity prices seem to meet with considerable misunderstanding and a certain unwarranted resistance. It has been argued that an attempt is being made to establish controls over commodity trade so that parity systems or price mechanisms can be used to subsidize one group of nations at the expense of others. Nothing could be further from my country’s intentions. We advocate a change in international relations in this respect in order to solve a problem that affects all nations to a greater or lesser extent and has considerable bearing on the possibilities of the more rapid economic development of the under-developed countries. The justice we seek will be of benefit to all because the problems resulting from the instability of commodity markets affect all nations alike. Despite the resistance and lack of understanding, which we hope will weaken and disappear in the near future, we obtained majority support in the Economic and Social Council for the establishment of the Commission on International Commodity Trade. It is encouraging that we have been able to make this progress towards our goal, and we trust that all States will assist the Commission in dealing with the important problems before it. In this connexion, we welcome the constructive attitude of certain important countries which can contribute much to the solution of those problems.
106.	In view of the serious problems created by the heavy surpluses of certain primary commodities, my Government has prepared a series of emergency proposals for the protection of world commodity markets. When they were first considered by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, we were greatly disappointed to find that both producer and consumer countries apparently prefer to leave the commodity markets in a state of unprecedented and unjustified anarchy. International co-operation for the benefit of the community, which is so necessary in emergencies, is passed over in favour of opportunist expedients or policies based on the special circumstances of a few Member States.
107.	We trust that in the United Nations the pressure of the common interest is sufficient to make possible a thorough discussion of proposals which, like ours, seek to promote genuine international co-operation. The appropriate organ to study the proposals will undoubtedly be the Commission on International Commodity Trade, which is to meet for the first time in January 1955.
108.	Another line of action we have developed and to which we attach great importance is the conclusion of economic, unions with sister countries on the American continent. The establishment of common markets, with the consequent increase in interregional trade, combined with the co-ordinated planning of the economic development of the countries concerned, is, we believe, fundamental to an international policy for the accelerated economic development of the under-developed countries.
109.	The growth of regions in the early stages of development must be supported and encouraged so that the gap that separates them from the more developed countries can be gradually reduced. It is essential that international co-operation should be directed to that end instead of being designed, as so often in the past, to support and stimulate the already advanced economies of certain regions. We know that the measures that have been discussed in this connexion form a coherent whole which promises well for the future. We trust that the resulting action will usher in better times for the United Nations.
110.	In concluding my remarks on specific agenda items, I wish to refer to budgetary questions and to express our satisfaction at the substantial savings the Secretary-General, Mr. Hammarskjold, has achieved without, as he says in the Introduction to his annual report [A/2663], impairing the-efficiency of the Organization. His policy and proposals deserve our encouragement and support,
111. I feel that this is a suitable opportunity to refer to Mr. Hammarskjold’s interest, co-operation and active and direct participation in the work of the Economic and Social Council, over which I have the honour to preside. The Secretary-General’s valuable contribution and his close understanding of the Council’s views and activities are bound to produce good results which will undoubtedly help to increase the effectiveness of the economic and social activities of the United Nations.
112.	Historical tradition and the unalterable sentiments of our people have made the Argentine Republic an essentially peace-loving and genuinely democratic country. Our deeds and the international legal instruments to which we are parties are evidence of the consistency of the policy we have pursued in the world community of nations. Expressing our opposition to the alteration of frontiers by the use of force, we have from the earliest days of our independence rejected any territorial expansion not based on the canons of justice and of law. Argentina has settled frontier questions with neighbouring countries by arbitration, demonstrating its intention to live in sincere friendship and harmony with its sister nations.
113.	My country can point with legitimate pride to its substantial contribution to the establishment of the fundamental principles and doctrines that regulate relations between nations and to the formation of positive international law in America. Argentina has steadfastly supported its essential principles and laid the basis for some of its most solid achievements. These moral forces are deeply rooted in our history and are based on the recognition of the self-determination of peoples, the juridical equality of States and an ethical international policy, the main feature of which is the obligation to refrain from direct or indirect intervention in the domestic affairs of other countries; they are the expression of Argentina’s unswerving purpose, reaffirmed by President Peron on memorable occasions, of living in peace with all nations.
114.	This background and these purposes, uncompromisingly expressed at international meetings, give authority to Argentina’s appeal to all nations beset by problems which may lead governments to wage war to settle their differences within the framework of the United Nations and thus to save their peoples from death and destruction on an unimaginable scale.
115.	Throughout history it has been found that the dislocation of war and post-war periods is social rather than political and is accompanied by the transformation of hitherto established economic, legal and moral principles. The need for reconstruction of the bases of contemporary society is becoming increasingly evident, since the foundation of all harmony, whether in individual or collective life, is justice. Without social justice there can be neither economic stability nor independence, and the political sovereignty of peoples is therefore merely a form of words that does not define a genuinely sovereign personality.
116.	At this time of international anxiety, the Argentine Government accordingly resolutely reaffirms its determination to contribute as a peaceful and democratic State to the fulfilment of the aims of the United Nations so that we may usher in a just and Christian era for mankind. In doing so it speaks for all the Argentine people. This age belongs to the peoples, and the governments that represent them must serve them unswervingly.


===== Session 10 - 1955 =====
107.	Before I begin my statement, I should like first of all to express my delegation's pleasure at the election as President of this august Assembly of an eminent public figure from our sister republic of Chile, Mr. Maza. I should also like to express our best wishes for the rapid recovery of the President of the United States of America, Mr. Eisenhower.
108.	In addressing this tenth session of the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Argentine Republic, let me say at once that the people of my country are most gratified at the emergence of a new spirit of harmony and understanding in international relations. The pessimism with which we formerly watched the course of these relations is now happily being dissipated by events such as the Geneva and Bandung Conferences, which we hope mark the beginning of a new era in international affairs. I sincerely trust that now the world will find the road to peace, all private and local interests being subordinated to the cause of universal understanding. My Government is ready to do all in its power to contribute to this end.
109.	Perhaps at this point I may be allowed to make a digression which I think will answer some of the questions which have understandably exercised public opinion in the countries represented here. I wish to speak about the political situation in Argentina.
110.	Although history has already given its sanction to the principles governing our international policy, it is fitting that I should restate them before this Assembly, to show that the fundamental and permanent policy of my country remains unchanged, and has indeed taken on an even more liberal and generous character at this time, when our feet are once more firmly set on the path of law, justice and human freedom. The people of Argentina have shown that they are able to risk their lives rather than live without honour and freedom.
111.	The provisional Government of General Lonardi guarantees respect for the human person, freedom and the rule of law, in accordance with the true feelings of the Argentine people. It therefore declared, clearly and emphatically, from the very outset, that the Argentine nation would scrupulously fulfil all its international commitments, that it would promote friendly relations with all countries throughout the world, especially with its sister nations of the American continent, and that it offered its unconditional support to all peoples ranged in defence of the principles of liberty, which are the heritage of our Western world, without excluding those who are struggling to maintain similar principles anywhere else in the world. One of the corollaries of these principles is that liberty, that noble ideal which we never abandoned, implies an effective guarantee of the rights which make its exercise possible, among them freedom of religion, freedom of the Press and freedom of association and assembly.
112.	I claim for my country the unqualified confidence of all free peoples on the grounds of its clear record of honourable conduct, of the respect for law which has been an invariable feature of Argentina’s foreign policy from the very beginnings of our nation, and of the complete good faith in international dealings which has always been characteristic of my country, so much so that Argentina is now without question the champion of every noble cause throughout the world.
113.	The Argentine Government, with the genuine and sovereign support of the people, is at pains to re-establish this international confidence; and our past history, known the world over, gives us the right to give this assurance in this world forum, in the confident knowledge of the respect we have earned by our unsullied international conduct, from which we have never wavered, in defence of fundamental human rights. This confidence has been generously confirmed by the spontaneous manner in which practically every nation of the world has recognized our new Government, which faithfully reflects the traditions characterizing and inspiring the Argentine nation.
114.	Before stating its views on the various items on the agenda for this session, my delegation would like to refer to the position it has always upheld on one particular point, and which was most clearly expressed at the Tenth Inter-American Conference held in Caracas in 1954. At that Conference it was stated that the peoples of America were determined to eliminate colonialism completely, as well as the occupation of American territories by non-American Powers. Argentina’s position on this point applies also to the American Antarctic territories which, as a result of scientific and technical advances, have now become regions of special importance. In this matter, the Argentine Republic confidently relies on the principles of international justice and law which govern political coexistence and respect for territorial integrity.
115.	The proposal for the inclusion of certain items in the agenda of this Assembly has given rise to heated debate, and it has even been suggested that a generous policy with regard to the inclusion of items put forward by Members might jeopardize the very existence of the United Nations.
116.	In the controversial cases of Cyprus and Algeria, the Argentine Republic voted in favour of their inclusion in the Assembly’s agenda. I shall not at this point elaborate on the legal interpretation of the text of the Charter on which our vote is based; but I feel it desirable to make certain points which I think are important in clarifying the stand taken by Argentina during the discussions which have taken place.
117.	In the first place, I should like to say that, when the alternative is put, whether it is advisable for certain matters to be discussed publicly here in the Assembly, or whether it would be preferable to try to settle them in a more discreet way through ordinary diplomacy, my delegation is decidedly in favour of the former course. For surely the aim of the United Nations is precisely to establish better understanding and closer relations between peoples, and one of the best ways of achieving this is to bring them together here, so that they can work in concert for the solution of problems which may affect their future and the maintenance of international peace and security. Senator Vandenberg put it in a nutshell when, in his now famous phrase, he called the United Nations “the town meeting of the world”. This idea would seem to imply a form of public diplomacy contrasting with the secret diplomacy which has been the rule hitherto.
118.	If anything weakens the Organization, it is just this — the removal from its cognizance of problems which can be discussed under the terms of the Charter itself. It was for this that we created the United Nations and hence we must firmly oppose any restriction of its competence. Otherwise, we might sap the vitality of the United Nations, on even deal it a death blow. But again I must emphasize that any such discussion must be conducted on the basis of good faith on either side, which implies understanding and friendliness on the part of States. We should all be ready to seek the best solution — within the realms of possibility for each case that arises, since diplomacy is, so to speak, the science of facts and the art of the possible.
119.	My country advocates an equally liberal policy in regard to the admission of new Members to the United Nations, on the grounds that the broad and unrestricted application of Article 4 of the Charter cannot fail to be helpful in achieving the aims of the Charter.
120.	In this connexion, I should like to refer to a case which, for reasons both of history and sentiment, is of special concern to Argentina. While in principle we endorse the support given by the USSR to sixteen States which have not yet been admitted to the United Nations, we ask you to consider how incongruous it would be for the Security Council not to recommend the admission of a nation like Spain, the motherland of America, the history of whose civilization has been marked by the most admirable achievements in the fields of religion, art, science, discovery, and indeed in every important field of human endeavour. If the only qualification for membership of this Organization is to be peace-loving, I am sure that no Power would venture to use its veto against Spain, the cradle of an ancient culture of which we today are the direct heirs.
121.	My country regards the question of reduction of armaments as a matter of vital importance to all mankind. If the vast sums now being spent on armaments by the great Powers could be used for economic and social development programmes, it would mean a substantial contribution to the well-being of mankind. For this reason, I should like here and now to pledge our agreement to any constructive programme to this end, and 1 sincerely hope that the discussions now taking place in the Disarmament Commission, as well as those to be held at Geneva, will make it possible for this Assembly to achieve tangible results.
122.	With regard to the peaceful uses of atomic energy, I should like to convey the congratulations of the Argentine Government on the recent United Nations Conference on that subject convened on the United States Government’s initiative, and on the admirable way in which the Conference was organized by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Argentine Government is most anxious that in the near future this stupendous source of energy should be placed once and for all at the service of humanity instead of hanging like the sword of Damocles over the very prospect of human survival.
123. These ten years during which the United Nations has been in existence, while they have been marked by slow but sure progress towards international stability, have undoubtedly revealed defects, some important, others insignificant, in the structure and functioning of our Organization. The Argentine Government realizes that this is quite natural in any constitutional body, and therefore feels that an effort should be made to adapt the Organization to the new claims of a world which has undergone marked change in the short time since the San Francisco Conference was held. But as with any constitutional revision, we must await the opportune moment and the circumstances in which modifications will be acceptable and appropriate.
124.	Meanwhile, it may not come amiss to recall what Mr. MacMillan, United Kingdom Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, said [529th meeting] with reference to the Geneva Conference, that the same words are often used to mean different things. We would add that what matters is that we should reach agreement, not on the letter of the texts which govern our action, but on the spirit underlying those texts.
125.	At the same time, whether these ideas are shared by the majority or not, it is clear that the Charter can and should be thoroughly studied in the utmost detail with a view to perfecting it as much as possible. Perhaps we should add that any revision of the Charter must of course keep strictly intact the great fundamental principles set forth in the preamble for, as Grotius so well put it, fidelity to its word is the basic principle not only of each individual State, but of the great community of nations as a whole.
126.	It is more or less unanimously agreed that the world economy during the last few years, in spite of its ups and downs, has on the whole developed favourably. At the same time, it is also recognized that this development has not been homogeneous.
127.	The most striking and significant features of the upswing are to be found mainly in the industrially more highly developed countries of North America and Western Europe. In contrast, while the countries belonging to the less developed regions throughout the world, where the bulk of the world’s population is to be found, have also made notable progress, their rate of progress has been far slower, so that there is an ever- widening gap between the volume of economic activity in the more highly developed countries and in the less developed countries. This has aggravated instead of relieving the lack of balance in the international economic structure.
128.	Without going more deeply into past history, we feel that at the present time we are faced with a new problem which strikes us as highly important. In our view, it is essential to the expansion of the world economy that its structural deficiencies should be remedied and its foundations strengthened so as to ensure a sound dynamic balance.
129.	The Argentine Republic has developed its economy essentially on the basis of its own efforts and resources. Today more than ever, therefore, we feel we must stress the fundamental responsibility of each country for its own economic development.
130.	We feel, too, that countries which are in the process of development must give adequate, palpable evidence of their ability and willingness to promote that development, and make every effort to use all their productive resources in the most efficient manner possible. There is no denying that economic development implies certain prerequisites, without which no effort can bear fruit, namely, a clear sense of responsibility and a complete willingness to work on the part of every citizen. At the same time, there must be an honest and efficient public administration.
131.	Even where those conditions are fulfilled, of course, the underdeveloped countries will still have to rely to a considerable extent on the international cooperation of the more highly developed countries, their initiative and their understanding. If the countries in process of development had to rely solely on their own resources then, at best, their advance would be too slow to ensure the attainment of a reasonably even balance. The recent easing of international tension opens up vast possibilities and raises great hopes for international co-operation in the field of economic progress.
132.	In our view, the United Nations should assume the paramount responsibility for promoting an international economic system based on justice. We also believe that there can be no healthy international economy until the national economies have first achieved a sufficiently sound basis. For this reason, we feel that the problems of international trade deserve the utmost attention from the organs of the United Nations.
133.	For the past ten years, we have been witnessing a series of attempts to re-establish a system of multilateral trade and to promote its expansion in a balanced manner. The problems still outstanding are extraordinarily complex, and the attempts made so far to arrive at a solution of some sort have either failed or have yielded meagre results. Of all the schemes put forward within the United Nations since the war, perhaps the most signal failure in the field of trade has been, that of the Havana Charter, which in its turn largely inspired the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
134.	We attribute the failure of the Havana Charter and the difficulties encountered by GATT to the fact that, in the world today, the necessary conditions are not forthcoming to enable an international organization to impose contractual obligations which ensure the elasticity vital to the trade policy of individual countries. This is especially clear if we bear in mind the great variety of ways in which the various States depend on international trade for their stability and economic development. But at the same time it is not right that, in such a vital matter as this, the instrument should be lacking which would make it possible to take a comprehensive view of trade problems and to discuss the best way of directing the efforts of each country for the benefit of all.
135.	Hence the Argentine Government considers it essential that within the United Nations there should be adequate organs and machinery for thorough discussion and analysis of the tendencies of international trade, and for the study of the most suitable ways and means of finding solutions for the benefit of all.
136.	The same applies to the question of basic commodities. In international trade, the trade in basic commodities is a definitely critical sector, first of all because of its importance, and secondly owing to the fluctuations attending it, which affect not only the producing countries vitally dependent upon such trade, but in a very serious way the industrial countries which in general are large-scale importers of basic commodities. For this reason, we attach great importance to the current international action to study this problem, especially in the United Nations Commission on International Commodity Trade, and in the appropriate organs of the Food and Agriculture Organization.
137.	Without prejudice to the over-all study of international trade, we attach great importance to the study of regional trade problems. The important part played by trade in the recovery of Western European economy is no indication that Europe’s experience should weigh heavily in the study of the problems of other regions, particularly those of Latin America. Hence we regard as highly important the studies carried out at the Meeting of Ministers of Finance or Economy of the American States held at Rio de Janeiro in November 1954 and, secondly, by the Economic Commission for Latin America.
138.	The question of the international financing of economic development programmes is also a matter of great moment. Ever since the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was established, there has been evidence of great progress in the granting of international credits. During the last few years, there has been a very healthy trend towards promoting the movement of private capital for financing economic development. Any increase in this trend will depend upon the joint efforts made by the capital-investing countries and the countries which need capital for their development. We are confident that regular co-operation and mutual understanding will further accentuate this healthy trend.
139.	Without pretending to lay down a universal rule, the Argentine Government affirms its belief and its confidence in private enterprise as the most effective factor in economic development and social progress. Consequently, no effort should be spared to ensure that international economic co-operation is directed in accordance with these principles.
140.	With regard to the noteworthy progress made in the studies carried out by the United Nations, the Argentine Republic would like to express its appreciation of the benefits they have brought, especially in the economic, legal and social fields. These achievements have a direct influence on intellectual circles in the various countries, which have grown to seek their inspiration in the general trends revealed by the brilliant teams of experts working for the United Nations.
141.	Human rights, as now being crystallized in practical schemes, declarations and enlightened debates, embody true ideals which it is hoped will be applied in every country. These rights were recognized in the Argentine Republic from the very dawn of our national life;
142.	I should like also to refer to the importance attached by the Argentine delegation to the reorganization of the Secretariat and the economies which have been effected, and to point out the necessity for a realistic and discerning policy, so as to ensure that objectives which we regard as vital to the purposes of the United Nations are not jeopardized.
143.	The delegation of the Argentine Republic would like once again, with the help of Divine Providence, to pledge its enthusiastic co-operation in the cause of maintaining peace, perfecting the international system and promoting the advancement of peoples and of the human person; and to express its sincerest wishes for the success of the work of this tenth session of the General Assembly, which opens in such auspicious circumstances


===== Session 11 - 1956 =====
I should like to take this opportunity of congratulating Prince Wan Waithayakon on the unanimity with which he was elected to preside over this eleventh session of the United Nations General Assembly. I am convinced that his extensive experience of the work of the Organization and his acknowledged ability will enable him to carry out successfully the arduous and difficult task of directing the work of the General Assembly, now meeting in circumstances which constitute a specific trial of its effectiveness, before the expectant gaze of a convulsed world which anxiously awaits solutions to its problems from the decisions of this great body over which he now presides.
145.	Two grave situations threaten to disturb the balance of international relations, achieved at the cost of so much effort during the post-war period; a balance which, in spite of its instability, serves to keep antagonistic forces in check in deference to the supreme requirement to maintain peace.
146.	The conflict in the Middle Eastland the situation in Hungary both threaten this equilibrium, the destruction of which would precipitate our world into chaos. Faced with this gloomy prospect the Government of Argentina wishes to reiterate its position before this Assembly and would once again appeal that the rule of law, the only force which can be imposed without causing injury, be heeded and applied.
147.	As regards the Hungarian situation, it is Argentina’s hope that, in accordance with the fundamental principles which govern its own destiny, the Hungarian people may be allowed to determine theirs without outside interference. This was stated by my Government in a note [S/3693] which it sent to the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 28 October 1956 and in which it pledged its full support to any effort which might be made to secure a speedy termination of hostilities in Hungary and the withdrawal of Soviet troops. This statement has been reaffirmed by my delegation in the course of the discussions on this question.
148.	In the opinion of the Argentine Government, this Assembly has the inescapable responsibility — in the event that the Hungarian people are not allowed the full enjoyment of their rights and civic liberties — to adopt, in due course, appropriate measures to achieve that end.
149.	The Argentine Government and people also hope that a definitive solution may be found for the conflict in the Near East. My Government was one of the first to support the action taken by the United Nations in this conflict for the purpose of restoring the shattered peace, securing the withdrawal of foreign troops from Egyptian territory and ensuring that the rule of justice and the principles of the Charter might prevail.
150.	Despite the resolutions which have been adopted, however, the hoped-for results have not yet been achieved, and we are therefore appealing once again to the States concerned to pay heed to the recommendations of these resolutions, for they represent the voice of the free and law-abiding world.
151.	In stating its position thus, my Government is expressing, on the international level, the basic principles of the moral and spiritual policy of our own people which summarize the philosophy and doctrine of our way of life. These represent, in other words, our desire that all men and all peoples may, as a human right, determine their own destiny without unjust interference.
152.	The dramatic shadow which these conflicts and their repercussions are casting over the international scene render it difficult for us to pursue our usual tasks. It is our duty, however, to overcome any pessimism and, while keeping these conflicts constantly in view, to concern ourselves during this session of the Assembly with the continuing problems of our Organization, upon which we have been working unceasingly for a decade, striving steadily to render our work for peace more effective and to bring to reality the ideal of living together in peace with one another as good neighbours, in the spirit of the Charter.
153.	In this connexion I should like to quote from a statement made by the President of the Republic of Argentina on 24 October 1956, when he received the representatives of international organizations on United Nations Day: “The United Nations” — he said — “is the expression of an indomitable faith in the ability of men to live together on a basis of liberty and justice and the supremacy of the spiritual values of civilization.” I do not think that a more just, more sober or more fitting definition could be found. “The expression of an indomitable faith in the ability of men to live together.” Let us pause for a moment and consider the import of these words.
154.	If the ability of men to live together on a basis of liberty, justice and cultural progress is to develop in harmony and attain its full objective, then human rights must be strengthened and supported until they become indestructible. It is useless for men to seek the benefits of living together, without previously having guaranteed those privileges which are the intrinsic right of every human being. To live together it is necessary to live, and life is impossible without the minimum guarantees, essential to the human personality for its survival, which are as deeply rooted in mankind as the sense of the Deity.
155.	One writer has called these “the essential rights”, and another has called them “the international rights of man”. The name is not important. What matters is that the basic faculties which man has been developing, painfully, at the cost of a thousand struggles, since the dawn of the centuries, should not fade and wither away but should grow with time. Those rights, which are man’s principle treasure, are in his hands an inextinguishable torch, to light the darkness of his dangerous path and guide him as he travels towards the achievement of his ideals, improving himself at every step.
156.	The responsibility of the international community with regard to this problem is a grave one. If that community wishes to justify its existence, it must spare no effort to strengthen human rights.
157.	We have come a long way since the International Declaration of Human Rights was proclaimed in this city in 1929, by the American Institute of International Law. The Fundamental Declaration of Human Rights, drawn up at Lausanne, in 1947, by the Institute of International Law; the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, drawn up at Bogota in the following year by the Ninth International Conference of American States; and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which the General Assembly of the United Nations proclaimed in Paris in December 1948 represent the principal milestones along a road of progress having undeniably vital interests as its ultimate goal.
158.	These various declarations, which have, as it were, risen up as a reaction to the almost inhuman persecutions in Eastern and Central Europe following the First World War and have been stimulated by the recurrence of those atrocities during the terrible period between 1933 and 1945, represent a series of concentric bulwarks, growing ever tighter and stronger, erected by the guarantees of civilization around man, fragile and eternal, who must be defended, and who turns his gaze outwards, north, south, east and west, from the heart of this imaginary structure, holding high his burning torch.
159.	The Universal Declaration of 1948 has the value of a fundamental charter for all States. It proclaims a long series of personal, social, economic and political rights for the individual. In 1950, the Council of Europe adopted in Rome an even more complete declaration, which, however, has been signed by only twelve States,
160.	There must, however, be no document, no resolution, no agreement which goes further than the efforts of the United Nations in this regard. In other words, the United Nations must adopt as its own the successive advantages that are embodied in other instruments as the result of regional agreements guaranteeing human rights and individual liberties, for the United Nations must not forget that it is, first and foremost, the expression of an indomitable faith in the ability of men to live together.
161.	In addition to the grave responsibility of creating, strengthening and diffusing an appreciation of the sacred and inviolable nature of human rights, the United Nations also has the task of ensuring that these rights can be exercised peacefully and of preventing any arbitrary and violent impulse from attacking this balanced and noble edifice.
162.	Human rights are the very basis of individual, national and international life, and their universal application will provide the world with a practical formula for a stable peace, for freedom and for law. Such an application will ensure the victory of light over darkness and will break the bonds of millions of souls who, far from enjoying these benefits, are now tasting the bitterness of oppression.
163.	The Assembly’s agenda contains many items dealing with political, economic and social questions. The scope of this general debate does not permit me to deal at length with the Argentine Government’s position on each item. I shall only single out a few fundamental points. In the first place, there are the Iso-called colonial questions. Argentina is proud of its anti-colonial traditions, which are deeply rooted in the very origins of its independence. It is firmly opposed to any form of subjugation of one people by another and shall therefore continue to support this Assembly as it seeks, in a spirit of moderation, calm and goodwill, for the best solutions to the problems which in this regard are troubling the world.
164.	In the Argentine Government’s view, the United Nations must continue to support and guide the irrepressible force that is generated by the political, economic and social evolution of peoples who were formerly under the dominion of vast colonial empires but are now achieving full liberty and have the right to assert their personality in international political affairs.
165.	I must add, however, that the United Nations is also in duty bound to oppose that other form of “colonialization”, sinister and deplorable, which has already enslaved many peoples, including some with an ancient and advanced civilization. This must be a matter of concern to the United Nations and to the peoples and Governments which have always opposed every form of colonialism and have struggled to uphold the principle of self-determination; because this new form of colonialism is a reversal of progress and destroys the very basis of liberty, the supreme goal of individuals and peoples.
166.	The Argentine Government has requested the inclusion in the General Assembly’s agenda, of an item entitled “Draft Convention concerning a System of Consultation.” Such a system would function within the United Nations machinery. Situations sometimes arise which, although capable of endangering international peace and security, are not discussed in the United Nations, either because their possible importance and repercussions are not readily apparent, or because it is feared that the Security Council may be hampered by a veto, or because the General Assembly is not in session and there does not seem to be any need to call an emergency special session. This state of affairs, as the Secretary-General has on several occasions pointed out, tends to weaken the United Nations.
167.	The Argentine Government believes that analysis and appraisal of any problem which may arise should be carried out within the United Nations. The present machinery offers no possibility for such action. Argentina has accordingly suggested a procedure which would enable States to exchange views around a conference table on any given international situation.
168.	The problem would be submitted to the Security Council or the Assembly if that were considered necessary, but the consultative meeting might itself be able to arrive at a satisfactory solution. The fact that the problem was being considered within the United Nations might tend to calm spirits, prevent impulsive actions and even, with the passage of time, allow the conflict to subside.
169.	Although in the present circumstances it may seem inopportune to consider the question of disarmament, we feel that precisely because of those circumstances the problem is vital and urgent. Although the wounds of the Second World War have not yet completely healed, we can again discern in the distance the rumblings of warlike preparations.
170.	Suffering humanity is looking anxiously to this Assembly, where virtually all the peoples of the world speak and vote, and expects not only words of reassurance but also calm and resolute action in the immediate future. We must not disappoint that hope. As it has fallen to us to meet at a crucial time for the peace of the world, our duties and responsibilities are that much greater. This Assembly cannot close its session nor the statesmen here assembled return home until our mission is accomplished.
171.	The Argentine Government believes that nothing could restore the world’s lost tranquillity better than an agreement on disarmament. This is the responsibility of all countries, but particularly of the great Powers. I therefore appeal especially to them to strive for such an agreement and thus give tangible proof of their declared intentions to live together in peace.
172.	Argentina, together with other countries, has proposed an increase in the membership of the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and the International Law Commission. The admission of nineteen new Members calls for an increase on a moderate scale in the number of seats in these and other important organs of the United Nations. This would make room for some of the new Members and ensure an equitable distribution on a geographical basis so that nobody would feel left out or deprived of adequate representation.
173.	In the economic field, international co-operation has continued to grow, and great efforts are being made through many different institutions and programmes, some within the framework of the United Nations and others set up by regional bodies or under bilateral agreements. The Argentine Government has given concrete evidence of its interest in problems of economic development and its spirit of international co-operation in that field.
174.	All this, as well as much else that would be taken up in a detailed examination of international economic and social problems, must now be viewed in a different perspective as a result of the critical situation which confronts the world.
175.	In other circumstances, stress was laid on the need for accelerating economic development in order to strengthen peace. At the present time, when there are grave questions which require rapid solution, it is clear that only if a sense of international responsibility on the part of all Governments helps to solve the present crisis, can the road to economic development through international co-operation be re-opened. Harsh reality has strikingly shown what economic and social advancement means in terms of human values.
176.	Argentina wishes to reaffirm today, in this supreme forum, its conviction that the rights inherent in the spiritual dignity and liberty of man are as valuable as life itself and that, without them, all theories and promises of economic and social progress are only an illusion. Governments and peoples which in furtherance of their own policy or as members of an international group, agree to forego the application of these essential rights in order supposedly to obtain some immediate material advantage will learn from bitter experience that they have irremediably sacrificed everything.
177.	In conclusion, we wish to stress with the deepest conviction that the international community must make every effort to strengthen human rights. As the years pass, the United Nations Charter will have to be amended and improved in the light of experience, but the recognition of human rights and their extension to the entire international community will always be the mainspring of the United Nations. In the light of this glorious torch, which man paid so dearly to kindle and which prevails over all the evil lurking in the shadows, we intend to cooperate loyally and resolutely in the meetings of this eleventh session of the General Assembly in order thereby to hasten the triumphant reign of peace, justice and work — the triumph of the brotherhood of man.
178.	As we still believe in spiritual values, may I be allowed to appeal to the heart and conscience of this Assembly which represents the heart and conscience of the world. Every passing day, each man reiterates his faith and his hope and prays to his God in prayers that never lose their significance or freshness because they are the essence of eternity. Let us, the peoples of the United Nations, revive our faith and our hope by repeating to ourselves each day and vowing to observe the Preamble of the United Nations Charter, which is also a prayer of love to our God and to your God, for mothers and children everywhere, on either side of any frontier created by man, are, after all, mothers and children created by our God and by your God. t Only the spirit can redeem us from the sin of violence. The hour is grave and solemn. Let us join in the prayer which is common to all of us and of which we shall never grow weary since it is eternal: “We the peoples of the United Nations “Determined “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind, and “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, and “to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained, and “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom, “and for these ends “to practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours, and “to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security, and “to ensure, by the acceptance of principles and the institution of methods, that armed force shall not be used, save in the common interest, and “to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples, “Have resolved to combine our efforts to accomplish these aims.” So be it.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
First of all, I should like to join my congratulations to those Sir Leslie Munro has received from other delegations upon his election to the high office with which this Assembly has honoured him. It is a fitting tribute to him and to his country, New Zealand, which has distinguished itself by its consistently co-operative attitude in the United Nations.
2.	I should also like to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Hammarskjold, upon his reappointment for another term; it is a deserved acknowledgement by the General Assembly of his abilities and the competence with which he is discharging his important functions.
3.	I am likewise pleased to welcome the new Member State, the Federation of Malaya, now a partner in the British Commonwealth of Nations as the result of agreement with the United Kingdom, which has once again demonstrated its liberal and forward-looking policy.
4.	Year after year new States enter the United Nations. Yet there is one exception which becomes increasingly evident owing to the importance of the State concerned and the arbitrary reasons for its exclusion. I need hardly add that I refer to Germany, part of whose territory has been governed for the past twelve years by a foreign Power which refuses to withdraw its troops, thus preventing reunification. No one can deny the right of Germany, like any independent nation, to choose its own government with power over the whole of its territory by free elections. Nor has it less right to membership in the United Nations, which remains an incomplete organization without the most important State of Central Europe. My delegation hopes that Germany will be reunified and subsequently admitted to the United Nations.
5.	The Argentine Government, faithful to its undertakings and to the principles of the Charter, followed with deep concern the serious events which last year imperilled world peace.
6.	The Suez crisis was resolved because the States which had intervened in Egypt complied with the General Assembly's resolutions. The same did not occur in Hungary, which is still occupied by foreign military forces despite repeated resolutions condemning the Soviet Union's aggression and urging the Soviet Government to withdraw its forces.
7.	Last year's session opened in an atmosphere of alarm. This Assembly is starting in an atmosphere of anxiety: anxiety concerning Hungary and the Middle East; anxiety concerning the deadlock in disarmament negotiations; lastly, anxiety concerning the unpredictable events which may result from the expansionist policy of a great Power which is seeking world supremacy and uses force without regard for the principles of justice and humanity.
8.	In the course of this general debate [681st meeting], the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union spoke with commendable moderation. Unfortunately, however, that does not change his country's position with respect to the serious international problems before this Assembly. The USSR representative stated: "In all its actions in the international arena, the Government of the Soviet Union is guided by the doctrine of Lenin, the founder of our State, regarding the need for peaceful co-existence between countries, irrespective of their social systems."
9.	May I say that the endorsement of Lenin is hardly soothing to anyone who knows his doctrine. For the Bolshevik leader said: "Replacement of the bourgeois State is impossible without a violent revolution ...For all these reasons, the dictatorship of the proletariat is necessary, and victory over the bourgeoisie is impossible without a prolonged, tenacious, and desperate struggle to the death; a struggle which calls for calm, discipline, firmness, inflexibility and single-mindedness." And his book Imperialism, the Highest State of Capitalism. referring to the monopoly of certain industries under the capitalist system, Lenin says: "These results prove that so long as the economic basis does not disappear, so long as the means of production continue to be privately owned, capitalist wars are entirely inevitable."
10.	I do not see how those ideas can be reconciled with the peaceful coexistence of countries with different social systems.
11.	The Soviet delegation has submitted a draft declaration [A/3673] whereby the General Assembly would call upon all States to base their mutual relations upon the following principles: "mutual respect for one another's territorial integrity and sovereignty; non-aggression; non-intervention in one another’s domestic affairs on any economic, political or ideological grounds whatsoever; equality and mutual benefit; and peaceful coexistence."
12.	The Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom, in his eloquent speech, expressed [685th meeting] the amazement caused by that declaration. It could hardly be otherwise when we recall that the proposed declaration, which is in essence a repetition of the basic principles of the Charter, is presented by the State guilty of aggression in Hungary and the occupying Power of eastern Germany.
13.	Among the items included in our agenda, by far the most important is the limitation of armaments, an agonizing problem which has been discussed for years now by the great Powers, but which affects all States because not one of us could escape the formidable destructive power of modern weapons if war should break out. As the Secretary of State of the United States, Mr. Dulles, said: "Humanity faces a tragic future if the war threat is not brought under control. It would mean that men, in order to survive, must learn to live as burrowers within the earth's surface to find protection against death" [680th meeting, para. 361.
14.	It is self-evident that unless mutual confidence is restored, there can be no agreement on disarmament. Yet the mutual distrust between the Western Powers and the Soviet Union makes it imperative to introduce control, though that is difficult enough in the case of armaments and even more difficult in the case of atomic and thermonuclear weapons.
15.	An eminent jurist and former judge of the International Court of Justice, Charles de Visscher, in a recent book which has already become a classic, advocates international control and lucidly analyses its implications. He says: "Control, assuming it to be technically feasible, in the atomic and even more in the thermonuclear field, implies genuine co-operation at all stages: agreement on the functions of the control organs; agreement on the permanent stationing and powers of inspection of the control agents; agreement on their competence to decide on the spot the immediate or at least temporary cessation of any prohibited manufacture. "Such strict control", adds the learned professor of the University of Louvain, "requires not only the elimination of existing antagonisms, but also a high degree of mutual trust constantly kept alive by a clear awareness of the common danger. It is therefore obvious that nothing effective will be done unless there is a general and rapid relaxation of the present tension in political relations. In essence, the problem of control is political, so much so that it raises the question whether the establishment of genuinely effective control does not, in the final analysis, require a renunciation of the very concept of national sovereignty and an entirely new approach to the relations between nations."
16.	But the problem of disarmament cannot be considered to be resolved merely by ceasing the manufacture of atomic weapons. The discontinuance of atomic tests proposed by the Soviet Union would be no more than a first step towards a broader, general plan prohibiting the use of weapons, bombs and missiles the horror of whose destructive power is still fresh in the minds of the peoples who lived through the Second World War.
17.	The armaments race is a crushing burden on the world economy. The military budgets of the great Powers run into thousands of millions. The astounding technological advances in arms production force the Powers into constant renewal of their war materiel. The battleships, submarines and bombers built a few years ago are now obsolete, and the same is true of weapons of all kinds. Astronomical sums have been wasted on war machines which soon become antiquated. It is distressing to think of the benefits humanity might have derived from those thousands of millions spent on means of destruction.
18.	Economic and social agreements are more feasible than political or military agreements. In both those fields, the United Nations has achieved positive results which demonstrate international solidarity.
19.	Among the plans recommended to this Assembly, one of the most important is that proposing the establishment of a Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development (SUNFED). The plan was presented by the Netherlands delegation at the twenty-fourth session of the Economic and Social Council, with the co-sponsorship of Argentina, Egypt, Greece, Indonesia, Mexico and Yugoslavia. After an exhaustive debate in plenary meeting, in which the eighteen member delegations took part, it was adopted by 15 votes to 3, [99th meeting] the opposing votes being cast by Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. The three negative votes were based more on reasons of timeliness than of substance, since all delegations agreed on the need for external assistance to the less developed countries.
20.	In view of the difficulties of establishing the Fund with substantial capital, precisely because of the investments in arms, my delegation proposed the establishment of a body with fewer functions and a smaller membership to be responsible for promoting the financing of genuinely effective projects to stimulate the productivity of the economically weak countries.
21.	The Argentine proposal, which I had the honour to introduce at the 992nd meeting of the Economic and Social Council during the debate on the international financing of economic development, was accepted by the sponsors as an addition to the original proposal. What is now recommended is that the General Assembly should set up a preparatory commission with the following functions: to prepare the necessary measures for the establishment of SUNFED; and to select a limited number of projects to be financed on an experimental basis by voluntary contributions until such time as the Fund begins full operation.
22.	The large majority which supported the proposal in the Council leads us to believe that it will also be supported in this Assembly. The establishment of SUNFED will fill a need felt by the under-developed countries. My delegation's efforts on behalf of the resolution adopted in Geneva were completely disinterested since, as I brought out at the time, Argentina is not one of the countries which will either contribute to the Fund or benefit by it.
23.	The United Nations, which was founded in 1945 with fifty-one States Members, now has a membership of eighty-two, among them important Powers recently admitted. There is no doubt that so great an increase in membership should be offset by a proportionate increase in the number of members of the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, which have eleven and eighteen members respectively. There is no reason why the Charter should not be revised to that effect with a view to broadening cooperation in those important organs of the United Nations.
24.	It has become the custom to bring before this Assembly internal matters or international disputes which it cannot settle. When the parties concerned secure the required majority, the Assembly confines itself to making a moral recommendation which has the effect of widening differences rather than reducing them and serves only to embitter debate. The Secretary-General, in his clear introduction to his annual report [A/3594/Add.1] has reminded us that the United Nations, as an entity, is not a super-State and does not have the powers of a super-State. And that is even more true of the Assembly, whose powers are limited under the Charter.
25.	I cannot conclude without expressing my country’s fervent hope that this Assembly will accomplish constructive work not only in the economic and social fields, but in the political field as well. The world still hopes for an agreement among the great Powers on disarmament which will remove the nightmare of war and tremendously relieve the burden of military expenditure. Agreement is difficult, but not impossible if the negotiating parties will only reflect on the horrors of a third world conflict, a war of annihilation for victors and vanquished alike. The supremacy of might is precarious. Once the struggle is over, there arise, from among the ruins and the dead, the same conflicts of interest, the same antagonisms, the same problems which destruction and violence could not resolve and never will be able to resolve. Let the great Powers reach that agreement and they will have earned the gratitude of all mankind, which will then be able to devote itself to fruitful labour in the serene atmosphere of peace without fear.


===== Session 13 - 1958 =====
1.	Allow me first to convey to the President my congratulations and those of my delegation and the Government of the Argentine Republic on his election.
2.	The Government of Argentina wishes special significance to be attached to its attendance at this, the thirteenth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. For Argentina, after a process which has not been without its difficulties, has returned to an invigorated constitutional order, with solidly- based democratic institutions and with the rule of law firmly established. My Government can therefore appreciate the true significance of this great Assembly, for our country has always been a champion of the tenets of international law; and through its behaviour in the most widely differing circumstances, has shown its respect for the juridical settlement of international disputes, and its obedience to peaceful authorities, to whose judgement it has always submitted the outcome of its own victories.
3.	For us, the United Nations genuinely represents one of the most far-reaching ventures ever undertaken by man. It is a noble attempt to unite the International community through the rule of law and to give practical effect to that universal morality which we all desire, as being the only means whereby peaceful relationships can be established between all the peoples of the earth. But the high hopes which we place in the United Nations do not, of course, allow us to forget the extreme gravity of the problems which today darken the world scene and jeopardize the destiny of the civilization shared by all peoples here represented.
4. The existence of two powerful blocs around which vast numbers of the population of the world are grouped is an undeniable fact. And it is also a fact that the ceaseless interplay of power and national interests gives rise, within the restricted areas which it affects, to constant and ever-recurring disputes which bring mankind to the brink of chaotic and unpredictable
5.	My country accepts the existence of this unfortunate state of world affairs, since the harsh reality of facts makes It imperative to do so. It believes, however, in the absolute necessity of finding an issue from this grave crisis. It believes that the instinct of self-preservation lays upon all peoples the urgent obligation to unite to find a solution to this potential conflict, and that this paramount objective cannot be achieved by resorting to vague statements or expressions of good will, but only through concrete measures which, by promoting progress and wealth, will make possible the appearance of new protagonists on the world stage, New influences will have to emerge, capable of restoring the balance endangered in our time by the disproportionate development of certain nations.
6.	That is how the situation looks to the Argentine Republic, from its American and Western standpoint. We wish to make this standpoint perfectly clear. We Argentines are part of a continent which, geographically and historically, is one, a continent in which all countries are linked by the closes ties of friendship and mutual respect. And at same time we are heirs to a civilization the vitality and spiritual wealth of which has made possible the great adventure which mankind is living today.
7.	But it is precisely because we are Westerners, heirs to a traditional humanism, that we feel able to judge differences and antagonisms from a loftier standpoint. For we know that our civilization has spread its benefits throughout the world because it is inspired by Christian ideals which, in spite of the occasional weaknesses recorded by history, hold a universal message for all mankind. For that reason it is not difficult for Argentines to address themselves in a broad spirit of Christian cordiality to men who belong to other cultures. The interests of all peoples are interdependent and on many occasions It is obvious that to defend one of those interests in another part of the globe is simply to defend the Interests of one's country.
8.	Many countries, geographically remote from us, are faced with situations arising from economic and social structures similar to our own; they share the same problems, they believe that such problems should be solved in the same way and they consider, as we do, that joint action is the best, indeed the only, method of developing their own international personality. Against this background, it is evident that the activities of our country within the community of nations must lie based on the clear-cut principles which have characterized Argentine international policy at all times.
9.	Thus, we Argentines believe in the principle of self-determination of nations. Brought up in the democratic tradition which is deeply rooted in America, we cannot conceive of any legal basis for power other than the free consent of the community, when that community is bound together by spiritual, traditional, racial and historical ties which constitute the nation itself. And since we believe that power can only be legitimate if it is based on the free consent of the community, we cannot refrain from encouraging the endeavours of genuine nations' groups that seek to achieve self-government.
10.	My country has also a profound respect for human values. Consequently, it is deeply concerned with the safeguarding of the rights and concrete freedoms which are part of the deeply-cherished inheritance of the Christian and Western tradition. The human person is sacred and my country feels that battles waged anywhere in the world in its defence are its own battles.
11.	We also uphold the right of all peoples to cultural and economic development, and we feel that that problem, on the satisfactory solution of which the peace of the world depends, must be the focus of the activities of countries in a position similar to our own within the framework of the United Nations.
12.	We jealously defend the principle of national sovereignty. We have resolutely taken up this attitude on more than one occasion, as the sister republics of this hemisphere can testify. It is a principle which we proclaimed in times when international affairs did not engage the public attention to the extent that they do today.
13.	Not having been involved in the conflicts which have made our century one of the most dramatic in history, we can say that it has been our invariable policy to defend the cause of world peace — a Christian peace, of course, the fruits of a genuinely peaceful coexistence in freedom, combined with a scrupulous respect for the dignity of man — and, naturally, not a peace which is merely the expression of order imposed by force, by the exercise of overwhelming power.
14.	Argentina believes that the greater the frankness with which problems are discussed by the United Nations, the nearer that Organization will come to achieving the aims that inspired its creation. Since international politics are, to a great extent, the visible expression of the internal conditions and circumstances prevailing in a given country, the success of the Assembly's work will largely depend on the frankness with which those circumstances are stated before it. Accordingly, the Argentine delegation wishes to set forth with absolute frankness the situation prevailing in its country.
15.	The Argentine Republic is still a country in which economic development is inadequate. That is the first fact which must be frankly admitted, in spite of the impression which may be made on the casual foreign observer by its capital, one of the great cities of the world, and in spite of the vigour of the Argentine people.
16.	It is a country well endowed with human and natural resources, but it has not yet experienced that upsurge which will one day lead it to greatness. Its population is sparse in relation to the extent and wealth of its territory. Up till now it has been content to concentrate on its immense agricultural and livestock resources which continue to be the basis for its participation in the international markets, but it has not rationally and methodically developed other factors making for a rich national life, although these are a necessary complement to the country’s activity if it is to attain true greatness in keeping with the exigencies of our time.
17.	The struggle to protect our products, which have always been dependent upon the conditions imposed on the world market by the most influential economies, has been a hard one. Conditions of equilibrium in the market on which we depend have beer, subject to sudden fluctuations which we have not been strong enough to control, and this on more than one occasion has discouraged our producers and left them with a sense of helplessness. Nor can we overlook the steady decline in agricultural and livestock production resulting from our inability to take advantage of the latest advances and techniques which are today indispensable. Although the country is endowed with immensely rich coal and water-power resources, it still suffers from a shortage of energy which weakens its creative impulses.
18.	In short, the situation in Argentina has been typical of the group of countries in which the effects of the technological revolution have not made themselves fully felt and which are therefore lagging behind in a period of bewilderingly rapid progress. It cannot be denied today that we are living in an age of rapid industrialization and intensive mechanization which presents backward countries with the terrifying alternatives of keeping abreast of the times or becoming colonies of countries which are already industrialized. Lastly, these phenomena are closely related to the simultaneous development of industrial technology and large-scale industrial organizations.
19.	It should be made absolutely clear that this state of dependence is advantageous neither to those countries which have to endure it nor to mankind as a whole. Mankind is the chief victim of imbalance between nations in times when misfortunes and their repercussions affect the most distant regions in entirely unexpected ways.
20.	The Argentine Republic is therefore perfectly frank about its present position; equally, it does not conceal the way in which it intends to face and overcome its difficulties. We do not believe that development in a national vacuum is feasible. There have been no instances of it in history and it would be senseless to harbour any such idea in this day and age. We do of course believe that we must encourage national savings in every conceivable way, if only to demonstrate our respect for moral values. But we are also aware that we must have the cooperation of foreign savings if we are to undertake the task of expansion and development to which we are committed.
21.	It is absolutely essential for our country to raise the investment level and Argentina is therefore offering watertight guarantees to all those who are willing to co-operate sincerely in a mutually profitable task. Now that constitutional government has been restored, we realize that a sound fiscal policy, real social stability, scrupulous respect for the existing legal system and firm guarantees against improper expropriation and an arbitrary policy of restricting transfers of profits abroad are essential if we are to obtain the cooperation we need.
22.	There is today in the Argentine Republic an attitude of mind which makes the accomplishment of the great undertaking already begun not only possible, but possible with the speed of a veritable mobilization, as required by present circumstances. We have successfully fought against two views of long standing which have constantly hampered any really serious attempt at national emancipation. The first is the so-called doctrine of international division of labour under which for many years our country was assigned the simple task of supplying raw materials at low prices to the countries directing the world economy in exchange for manufactured goods at high prices. The second is the attitude of mind which, on the false pretext of fighting the just and popular cause of the home-made product, has actually favoured the maintenance of the status quo, the position of dependence and stagnation.
23.	Such an outlook is a thing of the past in our country. There is a real, genuine national consciousness and awareness of exactly what we want to achieve, and on, this foundation our Government has introduced within a few months and with great resoluteness a vigorous development policy. That is the significance of the recently-launched battle for oil; it is the first great fight for national fulfilment. In fighting it, we are facing at an ever-growing pace the task of exploiting fully our underground mineral wealth and thereby solving our energy problems. The oil and coal which lie hidden in huge quantities beneath our American soil are now ready to be added to the world's production and made available to the world markets, provided the capital to which Argentina is offering highly favourable terms is forthcoming.
24.	International commitments assumed by previous Governments have been and will be scrupulously respected. This has already been proved in the few months during which the Government has held office, and it can be regarded as evidence of the maturity of a country which is fully aware of the solemn nature of its international obligations.
25.	This in broad outline is the course which Argentina intends to follow now in preparation for the great mobilization which will give the impetus to national development. It is a mobilization similar to those carried out in earlier days and other latitudes by the enterprising pioneers who laid the foundations for the great Powers of our time. What it has so far accomplished shows clearly that our country has already passed the stage of mere talk and is determined not to lose a single day in the great battle to make it free and great.
26.	But while we are conscious of our vigour and our potentialities, we are also alive to our real difficulties. This simple and unadorned picture of our country's position makes it clear that if the efforts of our people are to be fruitful, they must not be made in isolation but as part of a joint effort with other countries in like circumstances, first and foremost in association with our sister republics of the American continent.
27.	We have already referred to our peculiar situation in the Americas. We now reaffirm the solidarity of all the countries of the continent without exception, a family which extends from pole to pole; but at the same time we have to recognize the fact that while one particular country has reached a stage of development unprecedented in history there are others which, despite their wealth in human and natural resources, remain stagnant and backward. Our own case and that of other Latin American countries shows the difficulty of acting in isolation and the extreme vulnerability of economies which are not diversified. That is why any speech by a Latin American should be addressed in the first instance to all those nations which share with us the legacy of the civilization which made our nationhood possible.
28.	We Latin American countries have the unique privilege of belonging to perhaps the only group of nations in the history of the world which can legitimately call themselves "sister nations". Doubtless each of us has genuine national characteristics based on a spiritual structure of its own, individual in pattern. But we have also been united from our historical beginnings by the closest ties that have ever bound people together anywhere in the world. The Latin American countries all came into existence at practically the same time; they inherited the same tradition; they are of the same racial origin and of the same religious faith. All the ties which are ordinarily taken to be characteristic of a single nation closely unite our countries, even though each of us may have decided to go its own way in the intriguing enterprise of forming a community.
29.	Both this irrevocable decision and our fundamental unity of origin suggest that at this time, on the basis of strict respect for national entities — the foundation of international law — we should resolutely embark upon joint action for mutual development in the economic sphere, with a view to removing the obstacles, sometimes less real than they seem and often at variance with our wishes, which prevent us from cooperating in the joint solution of our common problems.
30.	Latin America is today playing an important part in the concert of nations and it aspires to a decisive role. For that purpose it can draw on the most extensive resources to be found anywhere in the world. Its rich cattle-lands, its enormous mineral wealth, its mighty sources of energy extend from the tropical zones of the north to the most southerly continental latitudes. Lastly, it can be Said that of all the continents it offers the brightest prospects for the increase of its present population without the risks of Overpopulation.
31.	The ills of Argentina to which we are now drawing attention are, of course, the same ills that stunt the growth of the American countries and their great potentialities; and they can be overcome only by the joint efforts of those of our countries which suffer from them. At the same time, such efforts are bound to have a decisive influence on the development and cohesion of every single one of our countries. In short, joint solutions must be sought for common problems. We need one another's assistance in world markets; we need to face the problem of relations among ourselves squarely and decisively, using peaceful means for solving our disputes and our little boundary problems; we need to help one another to liberate our economies completely from the shackles which hamper their development. This genuine respect for each of our countries as legal and political entities, with no thought of subjugation or rivalry, must be translated into a vast plan, judiciously worked out, to enable each of our national entities to expand within the framework of the development of the Americas.
32.	Because our aims are ambitious our methods must be wise, simple, well-defined and concrete. For instance, the efforts which must be made towards the establishment of a Latin American common market must be based on a series of agreements between countries as they gradually overcome both the apparent and the actual difficulties. In tills way we shall move towards our goal realistically. We can never hope to reach it merely by making declarations and building castles in the air.
33.	It must be realized, indeed it should be clearly emphasized, that the constantly changing pattern of world economy raises at the present time a number of questions which in conjunction with the situation just described bring the important prospects of the future into nearer focus. The economy of European countries seems for the first time to have reached a point of stagnation in its hitherto uninterrupted expansion since the war.
34.	The most recent developments in the United States are affecting world economy differently than might have been expected in the light of earlier experience. At the same time, the sharp decline in the price of commodities to which we have already referred is a determining factor in international trade reacting most sharply on countries undergoing development which are traditionally exporters of commodities.
35.	In the next few months, at this Assembly and other important international and regional meetings, problems and proposals of great significance to the future development of the world economy will be discussed. We would draw particular attention to the questions to be examined at the forthcoming conference of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to be held at New Delhi, to the regional meetings of the Latin American and Commonwealth countries and more especially, in connexion with the work Of this Assembly, to the prospective decision to set up a Special Fund for economic development.
36.	This brief survey reveals the need to co-ordinate efforts and programmes. To this end the Argentine delegation is anxious that I should put before you some of the basic views held by the Argentine Government. In the first place we wish to point out the need to attach a realistic and very flexible meaning to the idea of international economic co-operation. We believe it essential that within the framework of the United Nations the Economic and Social Council should assume that responsibility which rightly devolves upon it as a major consultative body. We hope therefore that the Secretary-General will spare no effort to gain the co-operation of Member States in relieving the Council of responsibilities of minor importance, thus giving it an opportunity to fulfill actively and effectively the mission entrusted to it under the Charter.
37.	Without entering into detailed consideration of the other aspects of international economic co-operation, which will be discussed in the appropriate technical and geographical contexts, we do wish to stress most particularly one aspect of economic co-operation which in our view is essential to the economic development of the less developed areas. Experience in this field since the war has shown that almost all the efforts towards co-operation for the purpose of economic development have been concentrated on the provision of financial aid and technical advice, and the expansion of international trade. While fully recognizing the need to maintain and increase efforts in those directions to the greatest possible extent, the Argentine Government wishes to take this opportunity of putting on record the need to give equal attention to intensive concerted action to overcome what it regards as one of the most serious obstacles standing in the way of economic development in the less developed countries, in other words to the need for training teams of technical and scientific experts among the nationals of the less developed countries. Such teams would not only make possible the joint execution of development plans; they would also provide both the Governments and private enterprises in those countries with responsible leaders capable of carrying through the arduous task of national economic development.
38.	It is our intention, therefore, at meetings of the appropriate bodies, to advocate the. allotment of a high proportion of the resources earmarked for international technical co-operation to the establishment in the less developed areas of permanent training and research institutes.
39.	Lastly, we must express the Argentine Government's deep satisfaction at the final establishment of the Commission on International Commodity Trade, which provides the United Nations with an appropriate organ for the discussion of one of the most difficult economic problems facing the world.
40.	We wish to avail ourselves of the world forum provided by the United Nations to give out a message from Argentina as a member of the American community. Conditions now exist in Argentina which make a policy of progress and national development possible: deep faith in the country's destiny; real legal security guaranteeing proper respect for individual rights, and the management of the economy in the country's interest. There are the three principles on which the young countries of the American continent are waging a great battle for self-realization; we now put these three principles before the countries of the world in the conviction that success in the battle will provide a considerable guarantee of stability in the immediate future. For just as the stature of each country in the American continent stands as a pledge of the stature of all the others, so also the greatness of the American continent as a whole is a pledge of security and peace throughout the world. The countries of the American continent are well aware that their situation is similar to that of other countries elsewhere in the world; they are aware that under-development, helplessness, discouragement and backwardness are to be found in other parts of the World which, in some cases more recently than they themselves, have joined the world movement towards political co-operation and progress.
41.	The countries of the American continent feel themselves to be the heirs to Western civilization and are aware of the immense debt they owe to the old countries of Europe from which they have inherited race, culture, language and creed. At the same time they have a sense of fellowship with those peoples for whom the hour of awakening has struck and feel with them in their trials and tribulations. We fully appreciate that national freedom and progress are desirable not only for our continent; indeed it is the duty of the great Powers, as well as fundamental to their own interests, to spread material progress throughout the world in the same way as they propagated the doctrines of freedom that were born of their cultures.
42.	We are especially anxious, of course, that the development of Latin America should be hastened, since we are convinced that if the countries of the American continent lag behind in their efforts towards economic development the result might easily spell disequilibrium between the great world systems with fatal consequences for the cause of peace and freedom throughout the world.
43.	We have tried to speak of Argentina’s problems frankly and directly, and we have explained why. Argentina is convinced that this is the attitude most consistent with the spirit and purpose of the United Nations whose avowed aim as set forth in the Charter is to strive for the rights and progress of peoples. Our aim was to give a full and clear idea of the situation in a country aspiring to a great national future in the service of mankind.
44.	Today when once more ominous clouds are gathering overhead, we of the countries which are on the threshold of virility and maturity and are preparing in peace to fight for peace, offer unstintingly the fine promise of our future to those who suffer discouragement, tribulation and fear.

===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
101.	Mr. President, may I offer you first of all my most heartfelt congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly. Your personality needs no praise in this Assembly-, where your voice has so often been raised in defence of just and noble causes. Suffice it to say that the Argentine Republic also considers itself honoured by the election of so distinguished a Latin American to preside over our counsels. My country wishes to express the sincere hope that God may inspire you in the fulfilment of your difficult tasks and to congratulate its sister republic of Peru on the signal honour bestowed on one of its most illustrious sons.
102.	I should also like to take this opportunity to pay a tribute to our retiring President, Mr. Charles Malik, who so skillfully and tactfully conducted the discussions of the thirteenth session of the Assembly. The manner in which he discharged his high office during the past year confirmed the esteem in which he was held at the time of his election, and we wish to convey to him our appreciation and gratitude.
103.	The international picture before us this year has special features that should arrest our attention; certain of these features may be viewed with optimism, others with justifiable alarm.
104.	In the first place we must refer to the tension between the great Powers which, threatening as it does the peace and security of the world, concerns us all. It was therefore natural that public attention should be focused on the meetings to be held between the Heads of Government of the United States and the Soviet Union, following on the talks recently held in Europe between the principal leaders of the Western Powers. My own country is not directly concerned with the matters which gave rise to those meetings; but in view of our desire to preserve peace, on which the survival of human life on our planet may perhaps depend, we feel bound to express our views with regard to such talks.
105.	We are firmly convinced that negotiation is the right method for the settlement of international disputes, and we pledge our support to any measure likely to ease tension and provide a just and practicable formula for peaceful coexistence among nations. We believe that, to achieve such an end, there must be frank exchanges of views among the parties mainly concerned. We believe, moreover, that the value of these discussions will be in proportion to the strength of the countries taking part. We are well aware that, whatever our own preferences maybe, the existence of large groups of countries with vastly differing ideological and political Systems is a fact, and must be reckoned with an such. Negotiations and talks must therefore be accepted as the only means of arriving at formulae which would at least make it possible to establish a stable modus vivendi. With this idea in mind my delegation fervently hopes that such meetings may advance the cause of peace. We are convinced that, today, no nation on earth wants war, and any effort made to prevent it will have the support of clear- thinking and responsible people everywhere.
106.	Our sincere devotion to the cause of peace does not prevent us from expressing our solidarity with the policy of the West, to which we belong as much by tradition and origin as by deeply rooted convictions. In this connexion we cannot but be concerned at continuous efforts of certain international movements to undermine the institutions of free peoples. My country, like others in America, Europe and Asia, has felt the impact of such movements, clearly inspired by foreign influences. On the national level my Government has no fear of the consequences of this subversive activity, and is prepared to repress it energetically by any means within the law. On the international level, however, we feel impelled to voice a warning that the cause of peace may be endangered by these systematic disruptive activities. As we have recently seen, they are particularly dangerous in the proximity of the points from which they are generated and diffused, but we have all suffered their noxious effects to a greater or lesser degree.
107.	We must therefore point out that the first step in any genuine effort to establish a climate of peaceful coexistence must be the complete exclusion of all attempts to overthrow from outside the political and legal institutions of other countries. Argentina, as it has shown, seeks to maintain normal diplomatic relations with all countries in the world and to strengthen those ties by extensive trade, but such a friendly relationship can exist only if our sovereignty is respected and the integrity of our way of life is safeguarded. My country is, in particular, convinced that, when diplomatic representatives, instead of promoting good relations between Governments, act as spies and social agitators, they misuse their calling and, if their activities are continued, discredit the intentions of the Governments they represent.
108.	So far we have dealt with matters related to world politics. It may be asked whether a country with no direct interest in such questions is in a position to pass judgement on them.
109. Our answer must be an unqualified affirmative. We have already said any matter threatening world peace must be our concern, even if we are not involved in the conflict and are far removed from the scene of events. Thus we believe that the countries which form the Latin-American community have the right, like any other regional groups, to be informed and consulted on any issue likely to endanger world peace, such as, for instance, the vital question of disarmament. We do not wish to be assigned a passive role in the designs of others; we are and wish to be active participants in world affairs. We know the limitations of our powers and we know that individually not one of our Republics is comparable in stature to the great actors on the world stage; but the twenty nations of the Latin-American community, with their enormous expanses of territory, their vast potential riches and 200 million inhabitants represent a cultural and political unit entitled to have its say in world affairs. We do not aspire, of course, to the position of arbiters in those affairs, nor on the other hand do we wish to lag behind the march of events and to be informed of them after they have become accomplished facts.
110.	In the sphere of the so-called "colonial" problems the Argentine Republic reaffirms its customary support for the principle of self-determination of peoples. It therefore views with satisfaction the constant emergence of new and independent States and is in favour, as It always has been, of their admission to the United Nations. With regard to the resumed thirteenth session of the General Assembly, held in February of this year to deal with the question of the Cameroons, my delegation wishes to express not only its satisfaction at the achievement of a just settlement for the people of the Cameroons, but its appreciation of the magnanimity of France and the United Kingdom, whose impartial attitude made such a settlement possible.
111.	Among these problems, the question of Algeria retains all its urgency and will undoubtedly give rise to vigorous debate during the current session. Argentina deeply regrets the fact that it has not so far proved possible to find ways of restoring peace in North Africa. It hopes that the forthcoming debate and the resolutions to be adopted will promote progress towards agreement, instead of deepening existing differences. In that connexion we wish to remind the parties concerned that, although extreme positions may provide an outlet for the heightened emotions engendered by conflict, they are not conducive to the achievement of effective solutions.
112.	In some parts of the world, problems have arisen which involve important principles of international law, particularly with regard to freedom of navigation. As the Secretary-General has stated [A/4132/Add.l, p. 4], these are problems in which political and legal factors are very closely linked, precluding our taking a stand in the matter. This does not, however, prevent us from reaffirming our belief that, whatever the solution reached, free navigation on the seas and international waterways must be guaranteed, because this principle forms part of the common heritage of mankind.
113.	With regard to regional matters, the American republics have had to face delicate problems, mainly affecting the Caribbean area. These problems led to the holding of a meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs in Santiago, Chile, within the framework of the inter-American system. On that occasion, Argentina reaffirmed its support for the principle of non-intervention, which is the cornerstone of peaceful coexistence among States. It also expressed the hope that Governments would conduct their affairs with the greatest possible respect for rules of law and human rights. In order to safeguard the enjoyment of such rights within each State, it is necessary to create a world-wide climate of opinion, in which the systematic violation of these rights would be morally impossible. This would mean that neither public opinion nor Governments could view with sympathy or maintain friendly relations with those who consistently disregarded the sacred respect due to human beings as creatures of God.
114.	We do not believe, however, in the effectiveness of individual or collective intervention, and consider that armed expeditions or international police action may set dangerous precedents. What is done today, perhaps with the best of purposes, may serve tomorrow as a means of gratifying personal ambitions or as a screen for a covert desire for power.
115.	We cannot conclude this statement without voicing the widely held opinion concerning the need to revitalize some of the principal organs of the United Nations in order to overcome certain apparent shortcomings in their functioning. We therefore give our full support to the suggestions contained in the introduction to the annual report of the Secretary-General to the General Assembly [A/4132/Add.1]. This document makes some practical suggestions for strengthening the work of the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and the International Court of Justice. My delegation, for its part, is prepared to vote in favour of any draft resolution giving effect to the Secretary-General's suggestions.
116.	We regard the recent action taken by the Security Council in the question of Laos as a sound step in the direction we have just indicated. No one can claim that the action of the Security Council is an unlawful intervention. Faced with a request for assistance by a Member State which considered itself a victim of aggression, the Council did the least it could do in such circumstances; it set up a sub-committee to investigate the charge and provide the information necessary on which to base a decision on the matter. I therefore wish to repeat what our representative said in the Security Council, namely, that the resolution adopted took into account both the mutual confidence that should exist among Members of the United Nations and the need to strengthen its authority and prestige.
117.	The Argentine Republic had the honour to be elected a member of the sub-committee, together with Italy, Japan and Tunisia. Our representative — and we are sure, the other members, too — will conduct themselves with complete objectivity and impartiality, and will rely solely on the facts.
118. The measures proposed in the Secretary-General's annual report to the General Assembly [A/4132] would solve some of the most serious difficulties impeding the effective functioning of the Organization, But the reinvigoration of the United Nations as a whole would require a revision of the Charter, and particularly of those aspects which are now out of date or which limit effective action by the principal organs. It has not so far been possible to carry out this revision, for which provision is made in the Charter itself, owing to the fact that the permanent members of the Security Council have been unable to agree on the substance and scope of possible changes. It is to be hoped that, if the talks now in progress between the great Powers produce favourable results, this revision will be undertaken, as it is to a large extent the key to the success or failure of the United Nations as an instrument of international security.
119.	The political tensions and the misunderstandings which divide peoples are closely related to the economic poverty by which many of them are beset. The almost incredible advances in technology and the improvement in human welfare which they imply have so far benefited only a comparatively small number of the inhabitants of this planet. This increased disparity in material conditions is thus connected with the suspicion and animosity which separate social classes and nations. In all fairness, we must acknowledge the magnitude of the co-operation and assistance being afforded by some of the economically more highly endowed countries, in particular the United States of America. Mention should also be made of the action being taken by the United Nations within the framework of its limited resources. In this connexion, we believe that the work carried out by the Special Fund during the year it has been in existence merits the support of all Member States. We consider that, since the Fund is a co-operative undertaking for the benefit of the economically less-developed countries, the scale of contributions should take this factor into account and unduly heavy contributions should not be required of countries which, far from being able to provide help, are in need of it themselves.
120.	In the conviction that economic co-operation is a sound basis for mutual understanding, the countries of America held an economic conference this year in the city of Buenos Aires. This conference stemmed from the valuable project known as "Operation Pan- America", to which we gave our full support and to Which we attach the greatest importance because of the advantages it will bring our countries.
121.	We are sure that the Buenos Aires conference has achieved results superior to those of any regional meeting so far held on the subject in our continent. We also believe that the measures in which it has resulted will help to extend commercial and financial relations among the republics of this continent. Lastly, we are convinced that the establishment of free trade zones, which is now in progress, will make it easier to overcome our material difficulties and will bring us closer to the ideal of a Latin-American common market. We should like to pay a special tribute to the work being carried out by one of the United Nations agencies (ECLA) with a view to the attainment of this objective.
122.	However, financial aid from the more developed countries and even mutual co-operation are not the only prerequisites for the achievement of full prosperity. Such prosperity will only be achieved in so far as the peoples do not my wholly on outside aid but set out to build their prosperity and their greatness by their own efforts. There is not a single example in history of a country which has reached full economic prosperity solely on the basis of outside aid. On the other hand, there are notable examples at the present time of war-ravaged countries which have risen from the ruins, not Only as a result of the assistance they received but also, and above, all, as a result of the energy and determination shown by their citizens.
123.	The recent welcome visit which the Secretary- General made to my country and to other sister republics of Latin America has strengthened the links which bind us to the United Nations. It is true that, since we enjoy the inestimable boon of living at peace, we are not among those who need the support of the United Nations as an instrument of security. But that does not make us indifferent to its fate, because we are convinced that any decline in its moral power means a weakening of one of the principal barriers separating us from barbarism and collective annihilation. We reaffirm our confidence in its activities and pledge our support for any effort to increase its strength and prestige.
124.	It is a commonplace to say that the world is now at the parting of the ways. But this statement is none the less true for being a commonplace. At the present time, the Argentine Republic, which sees grounds for hope as well as for concern, reaffirms its confidence in peace. It also proclaims its solidarity with those who seek to ensure the survival of the basic values of Western civilization on the earth. In this effort we are at one with all the free nations. We feel ourselves to be, above all, an integral part of the community of the peoples of Latin America, which once formed a single whole and which are again aspiring to a closer unity within the Christian world, to which they have belonged since their emergence as civilized peoples.

===== Session 15 - 1960 =====
I should like first, Mr. President, to congratulate you upon your election to the office of President of this Assembly. Your election is a tribute to the merits of one who is well known and respected in the United Nations. We are certain that in discharging your duties as President you will display the impartiality and moderation which are so much a part of your personality.
133.	Since the beginning of this year, the international situation — which appeared to be easing somewhat — has become considerably worse. In many respects the cold war is now more intense than ever before. This has created justified alarm throughout the world and intensified the fear of "war by miscalculation" as a result of the nervousness that dominates the international scene.
134.	This year's experience fully demonstrates the inadequacy of "direct diplomacy" on the international level and underlines the necessity of using international institutions as the centres for negotiations. In particular, it demonstrates the imperative need to use the machinery of the United Nations. Recourse to the United Nations has the advantage of providing the parties to a dispute with the opportunity of utilizing legal procedures of conciliation which do not exist in direct negotiations.
135.	It is undeniable that war and peace depend, in the last analysis, on the intentions of the countries whose military strength places them in a position to choose one or the other alternative. But this does not mean that nations with lesser capacity for making war cannot and should not exercise a restraining influence on the principal actors and exert every effort to discover ways and means of enabling the major groups into which mankind is divided to live together in peace.
136.	The middle-sized and small Powers are assuming an importance which they did not possess recently and their voice is being heard more and more forcefully on the international scene. The primary reason for this is the entry of new States into the international community and the fact that a nuclear war would be equally disastrous for all peoples, belligerents and non-belligerents alike.
137.	In that connexion the outstanding role played by those Powers in this year's meetings of the Security Council is to be viewed as an auspicious sign. The co-ordination of effort between their representatives in the Council has been a decisive factor in the revitalization of the Security Council after a long period of lethargy.
138.	It should be made perfectly clear that the fact that the middle-sized and small Powers play the role of moderator does not necessarily imply that they should take a position midway between the two conflicting ideologies. As far as my own country is concerned, we wish to reaffirm our solidarity with the West, to which we belong by origin and of which we are a part spiritually and geographically. We reaffirm our rejection of the attempts of one ideological bloc to extend its system to all countries of the world by means of subversion or force. We affirm our unshakable faith in the superiority of Christian moral values over atheistic and materialistic systems. We maintain that the struggle for a fairer distribution of wealth between peoples and classes of society is compatible with political freedom and respect for the inviolable dignity of the human person.
139.	Accordingly, we see no contradiction between taking sides openly and sincerely between the conflicting ideologies and the exercise of the peacemaking role which falls to the middle-sized and small Powers by reason of their limited military strength. Our great objective is to assist without abandoning our firmly held positions in maintaining peace and in thus ensuring the survival of man on earth.
140.	The United Nations has an outstanding part to play in this mission of goodwill. I have already mentioned the failure of "direct diplomacy" and the need to have recourse to international institutions in settling disputes. We believe that the United Nations, in view of the inefficiency of other procedures, has become the last objective recourse available to States — and particularly to the great Powers — for the solution of the differences between them. If this recourse were to fail, it is impossible to Imagine how negotiations could be resumed.
141.	In this connexion, we should note the decidedly positive outcome of the work of the United Nations in the year since the opening of the last Assembly. The Security Council has once again become an active body and has satisfactorily dealt with the most serious problems that have troubled international life. In that year, under specific mandate from the Council, the United Nations has carried out — in the Congo operation — the most momentous undertaking in its history. This should be emphasized because the action of the United Nations in the Congo crisis categorically refutes the charges of ineffectiveness so frequently levelled at the world Organization.
142.	Argentina, as a member of the Security Council, supported the United Nations action and contributed to it by making available the military pilots and aviation technicians requested of it. My country hopes that in future this type of problem can be solved strictly at the regional level thus precluding attempt at Interference alien to the legitimate interests of the African continent.
143.	In paying tribute to the work accomplished by the United Nations this year, it would be unfair to overlook the essential role played by the Secretary-General. Few people in the whole world are now unaware of the exceptional qualities which Mr. Hammarskjold has shown in the most difficult circumstances and the impartiality, wisdom and firmness with which he has coped with them. For all those reasons, the Secretary-General can rely on our continued confidence and has earned the gratitude of all Members of the United Nations.
144.	In the year just ended, we have seen an unprecedented acceleration in the evolution of the non-self-governing peoples towards self-government. No less than fifteen countries will become Members of the United Nations this year and many other territories are on the way to achieving full independence. The colonial system can now be regarded as a thing of the past. In view of our unceasing support for the principle of self-determination of peoples, you can legitimately view with deep satisfaction the completion of this process, and we offer fraternal greetings to the States newly admitted to membership.
145.	Frequently the emergence of a new country into independence or its admission to membership in the United Nations is used as an opportunity to launch a violent diatribe against the colonial system generally or against the former metropolitan Power of the country concerned, in particular. We cannot share in the spirit which sometimes underlines such attacks. When the transition from colonialism to independence is made with no opposition from the former colonial Powers or even with their close co-operation, such vituperation is unwarranted. Moreover, in the interests of the economic and technical development of the newly independent country it is often necessary that the friendly ties with the former metropolitan country should be maintained.
146.	It is also worth noting that independence is the culmination and not the beginning of a process of social maturation of which the political act is merely the outward formality. Thus independence does not merely imply the acquisition of rights; it also entails the assumption of heavy responsibilities. We are therefore certain that the new States will co-operate fully in the peace-making and constructive role we must expect of them.
147.	In the Declaration of San José, Costa Rica, of 28 August 1960 we once again reaffirmed the principle of non-intervention because we think we should make it clear that our condemnation of outside interference does not imply any restriction on the right of every people to establish institutions in keeping with its character and traditions. Non-intervention further implies that no American State will seek to extend its internal regime to any other by means of subversion or violence.
148.	But our determination to strengthen the juridical principles on which the regional system is based does not relieve us of the duty to draw attention to the great economic vacuum existing in Latin America. The economic backwardness in which more than 200 million Latin Americans are living is the major cause of that continent's political instability which is liable to deteriorate to an extent that cannot be foreseen.
149.	At the Seventh Meeting of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs held from 22 August to 29 August 1960 at San José, Costa Rica, the Argentine Government, aware of the dangers inherent in this emergency, raised the question of the need for a vigorous programme of international cooperation for Latin America similar to that organized for reconstruction of the nations of Europe when they were faced with the same dangers.
150.	Latin America is making an immense effort to preserve the fundamental institutions of the Western way of life with which it is inextricably bound. Our civilization rests on a political and economic system whose functional interdependence is becoming increasingly marked and whose preservation depends now as never before on the reciprocity with which each member country is treated within the community.
151.	This reciprocity is being undermined to an Increasing extent as a result of the unceasing progress of the industrialized countries as compared with the relative stagnation of the economically underdeveloped nations. It introduces an unjustifiable discrimination between countries which are working equally hard to preserve a way of life common to them all.
152.	We cannot, however, disregard the progress made on the continent of Latin America in understanding the problem. The Act of Bogota, adopted at the recent meeting of the Special Committee of the Council of the Organization of American States to Study the Formulation of New Measures for Economic Cooperation (Committee of 21) which took place in September, 1960 is a major milestone in inter-American co-operation. At that meeting, we welcomed the initiative of President Eisenhower and the United States Congress in launching a broad programme of social improvement in Latin America by providing additional funds and technical assistance. We also welcomed the change in the attitude of the United States Government, which has decided to join with the other countries of America in envisaging the reorganization of financial and trade relations with the European nations associated in the Organization for European Economic Co-operation, the European Economic Community and the European Free Trade Association. We also welcomed the recognition by the United States Government, when it endorsed the Act of Bogota, that an exceptional programme of international economic co-operation must be applied in Latin America. This programme must include financial aid, public and private, from the capital-exporting countries of the Americas, of Western Europe and international financing agencies.
153.	Nevertheless, we would point out that Latin America has not yet found, in actual practice, the combination of financial resources and instruments of international co-operation which would enable it to cast off the fetters in economic under-development, in order to meet the needs of the modern world. The frustration of those objectives is the source of many potential dangers in Latin America and leads to the temptation to apply political and economic methods inconsistent with our way of life.
154.	Again in the realm of inter-American relations, my Government announces, with deep satisfaction the conclusion of a number of agreements with Chile for a permanent settlement, through arbitration, of the boundary disputes between our two countries. The agreements signed are a guarantee that our differences have been successfully resolved and they will strengthen relations between two peoples bound by history, geography and the awareness of their common destiny.
155.	The Antarctic Treaty, signed on 1 December 1959 between twelve countries with special interests in the Antarctic to which Argentina is a party and which has been ratified by the Argentine Senate is a triumph of the spirit of international conciliation and cooperation. Its most distinctive feature is perhaps that it prohibits the use of the Antarctic region for nuclear experiments, thus laying down a rule which we should like to see extended to the other parts of the world. It should be made clear that the Treaty does not affect the rights of countries with sovereign rights in that territory.
156.	Economic development is still the most important of the economic questions before the Assembly. This Assembly can provide an opportunity for a thorough and honest appraisal of this problem. The presence in this forum of the highly industrialized countries and the under-developed countries of the world may lead to recognition of the urgent need to use every available means to transform the latter's economic structure. In our own case, all the countries of Latin America have already embarked upon the path of industrial development to which they are irrevocably committed. They are firmly convinced that social betterment depends on economic development, in particular, industrial development, and that this is the only way to achieve the high levels of living which they should be able to enjoy in view of their resources and the efforts which they are making to preserve political institutions consistent with the dignity of man. However, this last objection may have to be sacrificed in face of the need to eliminate hunger, poverty and ignorance.
157.	The advanced nations must understand the necessity of removing these dangers, not only in the interest of the less developed countries but also in their own interest. To achieve this end every effort must be made to establish new industries in the under-developed countries — particularly basic industries, which are the foundation of economic stability. The advanced countries agree to the re-establishment of the principle of reciprocity in trade on the world market so that the under-developed countries can recover and increase their former levels of foreign earnings, since this is the soundest and the normal means of financing their development.
158.	If the highly developed countries fail in the near future to increase their public and private investments in our countries in order to strengthen our economic development, especially in the basic sectors of our economies and do not provide conditions in which our primary commodities can be freely traded on a stable basis in the world market, cold war incidents will become increasingly wide-spread in the world.
159.	Some of the topics that will be considered in examining the report of the Economic and Social Council and of the question of economic development deserve special attention. Thus the studies made by the Commission on International Commodity Trade bring out some of the most serious difficulties encountered by the under-developed countries in their development plans, which should be taken into account in any policy it may be decided to apply for the benefit of these countries.
160.	My Government supports any measure to increase the freedom of trade and to reduce the barriers that restrict it. In this spirit it has become a participant in the Latin American Free Trade Association establishing a Free Trade Area. We are certain that this important step towards the creation of the Latin American common market will lead to an increase in trade with other regions of the world as well as in regional trade.
161.	This conviction has led us to express our interest in the efforts to establish a new European organization for economic co-operation. We believe that in view of the traditional direction of our export trade we are an interested party in any attempt to plan the agrarian and commercial policy of the countries of Western Europe.
162.	The problem of economic development is particularly acute in the newly independent countries. The Secretary-General's suggestion that there should be a special programme of assistance to these countries recognizes this fact. In conformity with its policy on colonial matters, my country views with sympathy any aid granted to the new members of the community of free nations. Nevertheless, in this particular instance having regard to the fact that the majority of those countries belong to a single continent, it cannot but point out the difficulties of reconciling this step with the principle of the equitable geographical distribution of United Nations assistance in accordance with the Charter. In the interests of all, therefore, it would be advisable to seek a formula which will make it possible to solve the problem through voluntary contributions.
163.	The scale of the problems inherent in the financing of economic development, the inadequacy of private capital and the increasing number of agencies and programmes with similar aims dealing with the question bring into new perspective the much discussed subject of the need to establish a United Nations capital development fund. We trust that these new circumstances will enable us to overcome differences and to find a way to constructive solutions.
164.	The conviction that it is a fundamental obligation of Member States fully to implement the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has determined my country's attitude towards cases of racial discrimination brought to the Organization's attention. For Argentina, as we have stated in the Security Council [854th meeting], racial prejudices are an aberration which we have difficulty in understanding. Having been brought up — like the peoples of the other Latin American countries — in the belief that all human beings are equal because they are all children of the same God, we have based our public and private life on the absolute equality of all races. We gratefully acknowledge that this spirit of brotherhood, transcending differences of colour, is one of the most valuable legacies of our Hispanic heritage.
165.	We therefore earnestly hope that the few cases in which Governments make racism an integral part of their national policy will cease to exist through respect for the dignity of the human person. At the same time, we would point out that any discrimination against the white population in newly independent countries would be as objectionable and inacceptable to us as discrimination against coloured people has been in the past.
166.	In the International protection of human rights national characteristics must be taken into account so that doctrines opposed to the fundamental beliefs of the contracting States are not imposed through treaties. In this connexion, my Government feels that it should draw attention to the importance of respecting in the forthcoming declaration on religious freedom the arrangements governing relations between the State and the various religious denominations in Individual countries.
167.	As regards the family, we maintain that United Nations declarations on the subject should not affect the principles of the stability of marriage and the right of parents to choose the type of education which they wish their children to have in accordance with their own beliefs. We strongly oppose any measures at the International level designed either directly or indirectly, to spread the practice of birth control. We are convinced that the problems of the "population explosion" can be solved by economic measures and not by biological methods which are repugnant to the deeply rooted convictions of many Member States.
168.	This Assembly will probably prove to be a decisive point in the history of the period following the Second World War. International tensions have become so great that we may well be unable to escape choosing between a nuclear war and the achievement of stability that will enable the peoples to live together in peace. For that reason the continuation of the cold war as a normal way of life no longer seems possible.
169.	This gives the measure of the responsibility that devolves on each and every member of this Assembly. Our common efforts will determine whether the nations will be able to face the future with greater confidence or will have to admit the possibility of destruction so unthinkable that until yesterday it seemed no more than a figment of the novelists' imagination.
170.	Beyond doubt our most urgent task is to find formulas that will make it possible to take the first steps towards effective disarmament under international control; but, as we have maintained on other occasions, in ensuring peace military disarmament is more an effect than a cause. What is essential is to establish mutual trust, since without It there will never be real peace.
171.	A prerequisite for such truth is the certainty that no one will endeavour to impose his ideological system and way of life on others. Armed aggression is of course to be condemned, but so too are subversive penetration and attempts to establish in other countries systems which are contrary to their national characteristics and traditions.
172.	We are in favour of peaceful coexistence based upon mutual respect and good faith in dealings between States. If under the auspices of the United Nations and by carrying out the principles laid down in the Charter we succeed in charting a course that will lead to a relaxation of the tension which keeps the world in a constant state of anxiety, we shall have proved ourselves worthy of the trust that the peoples place in this distinguished Assembly.


===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
﻿
The people of Argentina, on whose behalf I am addressing this Assembly, wish to support all those who have spoken here in favour of the maintenance of peace and friendship among all the peoples of the world. There is no more urgent and vital undertaking for the men of today —  those of all regions of the world, of all beliefs and of all social classes — than that of preserving peace. God created man with the mark of brotherhood, so that he might survive and multiply throughout the ages. War and destruction challenge that divine purpose, especially since another war might extinguish man from the face of the earth. The peoples of the whole world, anxious and afraid, come to this universal forum confident that the breath of creation, the supreme act which gave us life, will inspire the hearts and minds of all the statesmen, and thus forever banish war and weapons of mass destruction as instruments of international policy.
4.	I should like to pay a tribute of respect and admiration to the memory of Mr. Dag Hammarskjold, the late Secretary-General of the United Nations. Mr. Hammarskjold was not only the administrative head of this Organization; he also fulfilled highly responsible functions in international life. By the vigour of Ms action and the exceptional qualities he displayed in the fulfilment of his task, Mr. Hammarskjold became in this Organization an official whom it was difficult to replace, and his death in the line of duty constitutes a loss the magnitude of which will be fully realized as time goes by and all that his activities meant for peace becomes clear,
5.	The nation which I represent is a young one. It has just celebrated 150 years of independence. Born in the early years of the nineteenth century, it was guided by the liberal ideas of the American and French Revolutions when the world-wide interchange of goods and ideas was breaking up the trading monopolies and political autocracies and was spreading the principles of democracy, freedom and self- determination of peoples.
6.	We Argentines subsequently fought for the right to trade freely with Europe, without the discrimination and restrictions which the colonial system had imposed. We fought for our national self-determination, vis-a-vis not only Spain but other European Powers which, disputing the maritime and trading routes with Spain, were putting pressure on the new Republic of the River Plate with the object of incorporating it in their spheres of influence. As our nation grew and became an important producer of food and raw materials, the great industrial nations vied with one another in seeking to gain control of that wealth. The history of our country is a chronicle of the heroic efforts co the Argentine people to overcome its internal dissensions, consolidate its national unity and defend its political and economic independence.
7.	From the earliest days of the Republic, we Argentines clearly sensed our inviolable national sovereignty, the ties of ideals and interests which bound us to the sister nations of Latin America, and our obligation to be generous and open-handed members of the world community. We were at one and the same tim-3 Argentines, Americans and citizens of the world. The patriot armies which gave us independence marched with the Liberator, San Martin, across the high mountains of the Andes to liberate Chile and Peru — to liberate them, but never to dominate them.

8.	Invariably, with exemplary consistency, Argentina's international policy has been based on the three fundamental principles of international life — the legal equality of States, non-intervention in domestic affairs, and the self-determination of peoples. These 
considerations determined our delegates' actions in the League of Nations, in the Organization of American States and in the-United Nations.
9.	We invariably practise a policy of respect for international legal order, and never fail to support and implement the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes by means of arbitration, conciliation and good offices. We have opposed foreign intervention and any kind of pressure, whether political, economic, legal or ideological, by one nation upon another. That is how we acted when an extra-continental Power attempted by force to collect a debt from an American nation, and it was the same when any nation attempted to change the Government or political system of another, or when two sister nations went to war. In this last case we were always ready to offer our good offices.
10.	There has not been a single instance in which the Argentine nation has supported aggression, outside interference in the policy of any country, or recourse to armed conflict for the settlement of international disputes. On the other hand, there is abundant evidence of Argentine action taken to defend the self- determination of peoples and universal peace — from the activities of the Argentine delegations at Geneva after the First World War down to those of our representatives in the United Nations. This moral authority encourages us to confirm, before the world, the unequivocal international position of the nation which I here have the honour to represent.
11.	This assembly of nations reflects, dramatically, the picture of the contemporary world. The United Nations, which in 1945 brought together the States which had been victorious in the last war, has opened its doors to those which were then the conquered nations, and it now comprises practically 100 States, a third of which are nations having recently acquired independent status. There are represented here all the age-old beliefs of humanity, all the races, cultures and political and social systems; the most powerful nations and the most humble; those that once ruled over vast empires, and the colonies which have now been freed from their former overlords. There is thus being realized the ideal of an international organization excluding none, practising no discrimination or inequality, and bringing together nearly all the sovereign States of the world, represented by their lawful Governments and on a footing of absolute equality. The Argentine Republic will support any effort to make the Organization more universal and its delegations more genuinely representative.
12.	For the first time in the history of international relations, a world organization is functioning in which the voice of all peoples is heard. Bach of the Governments associated in it can express itself freely, and no nation or group of nations has a predominating or decisive influence over the rest in the important decisions of this body. Despite the natural limitations circumscribing the authority of any international legal body and preventing it from exercising supranational powers, the United Nations today represents, authentically and democratically, the conscience of mankind. That is why the Argentine Republic will support any efforts to increase the authority and prestige of the United Nations and the independence and responsibility of its principal organs.
13.	In this great Assembly is also reflected the most significant and decisive event of the century —  that which will give a historic name to our epoch. I refer to the heroic and majestic awakening of the new nations of Asia and Africa — to the unprecedented fact that millions of human beings, belonging to different peoples and separated by vast deserts and impassable mountains, have joined, within barely twenty years, in a great movement of liberation and of entry into the community of sovereign nations. The Argentines warmly • welcome their Asian and African brothers and pledge their whole-hearted co-operation in the arduous but glorious process of promoting freedom and ever-growing prosperity, both for those peoples which have already won their political independence and for those which are still fighting to obtain it.
14.	We peoples of America won our political independence a century and a half ago. Yet we know that sovereignty is not a legal formula, but a national will to power and self-determination which does not end, but only begins, with the political act of emancipation. Economic under-development is an enemy of a people's true sovereignty no less menacing than external political factors which restrict or stultify it. No backward country is completely independent. The political strife and the institutional distortions and setbacks which overtake the new democratic republics from the moment when the proclaim their independence are not the casual whims of nature. They are a consequence of the economic and social poverty, of the weakness and anachronism of economic structures, which continue to exist after the political act of emancipation. Highly developed and prosperous peoples are apt to judge severely, and from an academic standpoint, the difficulties, errors and abuses which mark the practice of democracy in the new nations. But democracy is not a fiat transmitted to mankind from above; it is a slow process, completed with suffering ap.d even with bloodshed by peoples that are endeavouring to govern themselves.
15.	As an American country, we aim at the permanent consolidation of representative democracy throughout the continent and the complete guarantee of republican liberties, as well as at the fullest possible protection of human rights.
16.	The only way of helping peoples to practise democracy and freedom to the full is to collaborate with them in their economic development and social well-being, which are essential to their cultural and political progress. There is no more effective way of delaying and obstructing that progress than by interfering from outside in the domestic vicissitudes of such countries and trying to impose institutions and customs on them, since these cannot be copied or invented but can be created only in the heart and mind of the people concerned. In this exceptional and serious world situation, the international community has no duty more urgent than that of assisting the underdeveloped countries of Latin America, Asia and Africa.
17.	The world which is emerging, the varied and numerous congregation of new peoples — such is the pointer of the scales where the future of mankind is concerned. Our ideals and interests, both immediate and long-range, coincide with the universal desire for concord and lasting peace. We shall therefore use all the weight of our influence in the United Nations to find adequate solutions for such fundamental problems as disarmament, the banning of nuclear tests, the question of peace with Germany, the peaceful solution of colonial problems, and all other questions affecting the peace of the world.
18.	The full development of our economies depends upon international financial assistance and the liberalization and expansion of trade between all regions of the world. Only in an atmosphere free from tension and mistrust among the great Powers will it be possible to achieve the ideal of universal and controlled disarmament. The continuation of the disarmament negotiations would of itself indicate and encourage a relaxation of tension. Failure to reach, at least, an urgent agreement on the absolute prohibition of nuclear tests in every form and in every part of the world is quite inexcusable.
19.	Disarmament, in its turn, will liberate vast financial and technical resources which the great Powers can use to promote the economic development of the under-developed countries. That contribution cannot be measured solely in terms of money and technical assistance. It involves an active policy of international solidarity which will serve as an example to sustain, throughout the world, the ideals of freedom, justice and respect for human dignity. When the international community succeeds in replacing its present anxieties and tensions by collective action for help to the new emerging world, the ideals of democracy and human freedom will have won the battle throughout the globe.	
20.	We peoples of Latin America, who by tradition and calling belong to the world governed by the ethical and cultural values of the West, are in virtue of those same principles bound to side with the peoples that are fighting to establish their freedom and to ensure for all their sons a level of living compatible with their moral dignity. In the same way, we have a right to expect that the great Powers will respect our sovereignty and help us to overcome backwardness and poverty.
21.	The philosophical and juridical idea of the international community is, in its origins, Western and Christian. During the Middle Ages and until the end of the eighteenth century, it was confined to Christian Europe. But the selfsame notion of Christian brotherhood and of Christianity's world-wide vocation caused that closed, exclusive community to change, little by little, into an association open to every system of values in the modern world. The present international community is a "plural" society, in which different cultures and ethical and legal systems exist side by side. It is based on the principle of the peaceful coexistence of all its members and on mutual respect for ideological and political differences. Hence, when we proclaim our Western and Christian affiliation, we are postulating no concept of exclusiveness or of hostility towards other ideas. Nor are we seeking to establish antagonism between blocs or to set one group of nations against another. On the contrary, the Christian concept of life predisposes us towards tolerance, coexistence in freedom and in justice, and the reign of peace among men and peoples.
22.	There is nothing so opposed to this idea of brotherhood than the rivalries and mistrust that are confining the world to this dangerous no man's land between war and peace which is identified with the term "cold war". The "cold war" is negative and sterile because it dictates the investment, in weapons which are daily becoming more destructive, of vast resources which science and modern technology could use to accelerate human progress at an incredible pace. The "cold war" limits and hampers material and cultural exchanges between peoples that are separated into rival camps. Lastly, the "cold war" constitutes a permanent threat of total war, demoralizing and paralysing the creative spirit of man.
23.	The under-developed countries have the most to lose from this division of the world, because it is they that stand in greatest need of international cooperation for their own development, and because war would overtake them as a disastrous consequence of the rivalries between the great Powers, in whose decisions they would have had no part whatever.
24.	For the under-developed countries, peace and disarmament are essential to existence itself, as well as to the realization of a universal ideal which they, too, uphold. Both in the United Nations and by unilateral diplomatic action, these nations must take positive steps, whenever opportunity arises, to try to reconcile conflicting interests; they must refrain from any acts which might help to poison the international atmosphere yet further; and they must always choose the path of negotiation, which excludes coercion and threats as methods of solving international disputes.
25.	The Argentine Republic will work, so far as lies in its power, for a reduction of international tension and for the use of negotiation and the peaceful methods of conciliation and arbitration, in all the international organizations, regional or world-wide, of which it is a member.
26.	That is the spirit underlying the most recent international acts of the Argentine Government, such as the Agreement of Uruguay, signed on 21 April 1961 with the Government of Brazil; the Declaration of Vina del Mar of 11 September 1961, signed with the Government of Chile; and the Act of the Conference of Punta del Este, of 17 August 1961. In all these instruments, the Argentine Republic has confirmed the immutable principles of its international policy and its adherence to the ideal of inter-American and world co-operation.
27.	The Argentine Republic is a member of the Organization of American States, and confirms its most resolute adherence to the high principles of Pan-Americanism, which have preserved the indestructible cohesion and solidarity of the American family of nations on the basis of respect for individual sovereignty and for the principle of self-determination and non-intervention. The Argentine Government also believes that President Kennedy's "Alliance for Progress" marks the beginning of a new era of the relations between the United States of America and the Latin American republics. The people of the United States realize that the reinforcement of democratic institutions throughout the hemisphere is the effective and essential basis of continental solidarity. It also realizes that the fate of those institutions is closely bound up with the economic, social and cultural development of Latin America, for which it has pledged substantial and urgent assistance. The Argentine Republic expresses its most fervent hope for the success of this co-operative effort, and has repeatedly declared its conviction that the speedy and generous implementation of the "Alliance for Progress" will enable the nations of Latin America to expedite the fulfilment of their own development plans and intensify their own efforts to overcome the backwardness and structural weakness of their economies.
28.	Systems and programmes of inter-American collaboration are not, incompatible with Latin America's participation in world trade and co-operation. None of the agreements I have mentioned — to which should be added the Treaty of Montevideo, which instituted the Latin American Free Trade Association —  in any way excludes or conflicts with the system of world co-operation. Latin America is uniting in order to be able to accelerate its rate of development and thus contribute more effectively to world trade. The more our peoples expand, strengthen and coordinate their economies, the greater will be the amount of the goods and services which they can offer to and receive from the world. The developing economies offer vast opportunities for capital investment and technical assistance from the industrial nations, whose rapid expansion requires equally rapid development on the part of the backward nations. At the same time, these latter nations are increasing the output and improving the quality of their foodstuffs and raw materials for the world market, to which they will send their products at competitive prices. My Government has therefore proclaimed the right of the Latin American nations to participate in all trading arrangements made by the European communities, the traditional markets for their products. In our view any discriminatory or protectionist policy, or formation of blocs on the part of the industrial nations will militate against the principles of international co-operation and multilateral trade which constitute the only guarantees of lasting peace.
29.	In the past, peace was an aspiration of mankind —  an ideal, tragically frustrated at times by man's blindness. Today, with his tremendous powers of invention, man has created such instruments of destruction that peace is no longer a Utopia but has become an absolute necessity. Man, who henceforth can kill his fellows only at the risk of destroying the species, has at the same time become the explorer and conqueror of the polar snows, the master of the deep and of stellar space. Science has laid the universe at the feet of the earth's inhabitants. Such science has no frontiers and pays no heed to ideologies or nationalities. It is as universal in nature as the cosmonaut who circles the globe and looks down upon the minuteness of his abode. And it is in this realm, opened up by man's prodigious intellect, that men and peoples divided by beliefs and interests exist. Man's creative capacity — his ability to transform nature, to wrest from it its uttermost resources, to produce unlimited matter and energy from the splitting of the tiny, invisible atom — ushers in an era unparalleled in human history. No wealth, no material achievement is now beyond the immediate reach of mankind, to be distributed freely and fully for the satisfaction of the petty and transitory needs of the human race.
30.	The same act which enables man to journey to the stars is a sure instrument for reconciling the hopes of peoples of the greatest diversity and the most conflicting beliefs. The brotherhood of man has received an unprecedented stimulus from this miraculous flowering of the intellect. The Utopia of which man has dreamed throughout history is now within our grasp. And yet, on this earth, where such a miracle has been performed, two thirds of the people are living in poverty and ignorance while nations accumulate weapons of destruction which they know must never be used and which consume gigantic resources. I belong to a country which is part of this "held back" section of humanity.
31.	At this moment, my people is making a tremendous sacrifice to overcome its difficulties and to build up a community which will be politically, democratically and economically independent, prosperous, and happy.
32.	On behalf of my country and the millions of people who are striving for their freedom and well- being in this era of the conquest of space, I express my profound faith in the conscience of humanity and in the moral values and intellect of man. I am confident that the representatives assembled here, and their respective Governments, will make this great assembly of peoples into the most active instrument for the peace and well-being of all the inhabitants of the earth. God, who sees man ascend to His heavenly realms, will give him the wisdom to set aside his disputes, and will inspire him to turn his mastery over nature into a common endeavour to redeem the human race from poverty, ignorance and oppression.


===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
44.	The Argentine delegation to the seventeenth session of the United Nations General Assembly is happy to congratulate you most sincerely, Mr. President, on your election to direct the debates of what is really a world parliament. The fact that you, the honourable representative of Pakistan, have been chosen to occupy this high position is a well-deserved tribute not only to your country, but in particular you, yourself, who have represented it for so long with such brilliance and eminence. All the delegations here assembled expect a great deal from the unruffled calm, the tried experience and the discretion with which you will direct the debates during the coming months.
45.	My first words of tribute would be incomplete if I did not add that we expect as much from the intelligence and firmness of our worthy acting Secretary-General, Mr. Thant, as from the guidance of the President of the Assembly: Mr. Thant, the eminent successor of Dag Hammarskjold, has already shown in his general leadership of the Secretariat and in the thorny problems of the Congo, New Guinea and others that he is eminently fitted to carry out his high functions.
46.	We have before us a spectacle the magnificence and impressiveness of which cannot be dimmed by annual repetition. One hundred and nine countries, that is to say nearly all the countries in the world, have sent their representatives here to tell us of their hopes and fears, to say with complete freedom and frankness what they think about the many complex world problems with which we are faced and to express the wishes of the peoples which the Charter calls "the peoples of the United Nations".
47.	Year after year, we see here the representatives of these peoples, which fall politically into the categories of great, medium-sized and small States. Behind these States are the men who form them, and man — the basic component of these political organizations — is the same everywhere. His desire for peace and security should be the main subject of our deliberations.
48.	We all live under the pressure of a disturbed present, with the “same anxiety about the uncertain future and we all hope that, in an atmosphere of honourable and lasting peace, we shall be able to till the soil, use our tools, work, care for our children and our homes, teach, learn, pray to God and bless Him for His goodness.
49.	In order to acquit ourselves of the task laid upon us by the peoples of this vast world, we must banish pride, conceit and intransigence from our debates. The lesson of untold centuries of history is that nothing lasting is achieved by violence, because what is won by the sword is lost by the sword. Violence is a quicksand on which nothing lasting can be built. For that reason, we must be guided by a willingness, to compromise, mutual understanding and respect, tolerance, and a realization of our own fallibility.
50.	In the past, the geographical and spiritual isolation of nations kept the ravages of war, hunger and disease localized in certain areas. But today we are one world, and together we shall triumph or perish. We must also be guided in our debates by this feeling of a common destiny, ominous or happy, but the same for everyone.
51.	Let us now look at some of the main events on the international scene today. There are problems which, alas, are always with us, always present at our deliberations, such as nuclear tests, the arms race, the cold war, poverty, and so forth.
52.	Nuclear tests are another way of saying "death-dealing tests". The peoples which are the most advanced in technology are devoting the major portion of their resources to improving the supreme weapon. The peoples which are not competing in this tragic race cannot remain silent, for with every nuclear explosion the thin envelope of air around our earth is being slowly but surely poisoned. Neither can they selfishly isolate themselves from world problems, for they know that we are all in the same boat and if it sinks we all go down with it. We must give voice to our anxiety.
53.	Not long ago, a publication with a wide circulation indicated the places which would suffer most from the bombings in an atomic war and those which would suffer less because of their distance from the probable theatres of war and bomb-targets. My country was among the latter. According to this paper, our relative isolation from the traditional fields of battle and from the most highly industrialized centres in the countries which would presumably be enemies in a future atomic war would give us a somewhat privileged position, a certain immunity.
54.	When I read this forecast, I did not feel happy or at all secure. The mere idea of an atomic war dismays all Argentinians so much that we cannot selfishly thank God for our isolation from the more advanced centres. But we have no illusions. If this happened, nobody would be safe. The winds know no frontiers. The poison from the explosions would spread death across all parallels and over all meridians.
55.	But while atomic war is still only a possibility, nuclear tests are a reality. We must sound the alarm and demand that these tests should be suspended and that from a given date, which should be as early as possible, countries should enter into a solemn undertaking to ban them for ever. That would be a step forward, as were the resolutions adopted by the General Assembly at the sixteenth session, particularly resolution 1648 (XVI), which urges the suspension of test explosions pending the conclusion of Internationally binding agreements, and resolution 1649 (XVI) on the urgent need for a treaty to ban nuclear weapons tests under effective international control.
56.	My delegation trusts that the General Assembly will not abandon its efforts in this direction. Would that its work might be remembered with gratitude by humanity in the future!
57.	We perfectly understand the grave political and strategic risks which are inherent in these proposals for the suspension or banning of nuclear tests. It is for this reason that neither of the two antagonistic groups into which the world is divided wishes to take an initiative which might reduce its military potential.
58.	If, however, there is a declaration of a common aim to ban tests and the only fear is that one side will not respect the promises it has made, why not, as a proof of good faith, allow investigation of laboratories and testing sites by other impartial States or by international organizations? No State that really intends to respect the obligation it has assumed has anything to fear from Inspection. Is no one in the world worthy of confidence?
59.	On the other hand, it is obvious that national detection systems have been so improved that it is very unlikely that any sizable explosion could pass unnoticed, so that inspection would be necessary only in a few rare cases and in limited areas. The Argentine delegation therefore hopes that both sides will find a common ground for agreement on what constitutes proper supervision of the application of any agreement that is reached and that nuclear testing will very soon be stopped and the question removed from our agenda.
60.	It is not enough, however, to outlaw nuclear testing. By doing so, we should make it more difficult to perfect certain means of destruction — which are, it is true, the most lethal — but we should not eradicate the danger points. It is these danger points that we must eliminate to prevent them from causing future armed conflicts, and to remove any possibility or pretext for using nuclear or conventional weapons. Peace cannot be won without effort.
61.	Peace is not only the absence of war, despite what we were told here recently. Peace should not be a static concept. Peace is our highest aim, the primary purpose of the United Nations, and lit requires the common effort of all Member States working in harmony, not only in the political, but in the social, educational and economic fields. Peace is not to be had for the asking, without trouble; we must win it daily by Our efforts and our sacrifices.
62.	One of the primary objectives of our efforts must be disarmament, since the peoples of the world, in signing the United Nations Charter, undertook to refrain from the threat or use of force as a legitimate means of settling disputes and to use only the many peaceful means provided by the Charter and other international instruments: legal and political means, good offices, mediation, arbitration, etc. All these means are directed towards the same end and all are good when the countries having recourse to them do so honestly; in an effort to reach a just and proper solution, as Argentina has always done, both in seeking solutions in its own international problems and in its conciliatory action in conflicts in which it was not involved.
63.	In order to achieve peace, the first thing to do, obviously, is to eliminate the causes of friction between peoples. To do this, we must loyally obey the precepts of the Charter. If we return to the positive principles which it enshrines, we shall have achieved a basis of mutual consideration and understanding, When all States respect the rights of neighbouring States, not only in word but in deed, and faithfully comply with the international obligations they have undertaken, when all States recognize the legal equality of other States, when the principle of non-intervention becomes a reality, we shall have reached the stage of education without which an international legal order and world peace — our supreme objective — cannot be achieved.
64.	The principle of non-intervention — which my country has proclaimed, supported and applied as one of the guiding principles of its international policy — must be accompanied by proper respect for every country’s right freely to choose its own institutions.
65.	While all peoples have the right to choose their own institutions, it is only on condition that they also respect other peoples’ right to do the same. No country can demand respect in its right to self-determination if at the same time, by well-organized propaganda, it is attacking other peoples and violating the principle of non-intervention.
66.	We respect the right of every State to adopt the system of government it considers best. What we cannot tolerate, however, is that any country should become a source of propaganda against our own democratic institutions or should flood us with subversive propaganda disguised under other names.
67.	When something like this happens, nobody can tell a country whose interests, institutions, feelings and beliefs are thus attacked that it must not take the necessary steps in self-defence; for self-defence is the first and most sacred of all rights, so much so that it is often more a duty than a right. Self-defence is legitimate, not only against armed aggression but against political aggression. For that reason, the Latin American countries, which have on various occasions been the victim of political aggression by a State not far from these shores have been obliged to take certain defensive steps and if the aggression continues they will have to take others in the future.
68.	Argentina is a nation nurtured in the principles of the Christian religion and of morality, tolerance and respect for fundamental human rights. When these principles are attacked we must defend them, because they are the basis of our Western and Christian heritage, making us fundamentally opposed to communism, which is atheistic and materialistic.
69.	We cannot allow disregard for human life and systematic violation of human rights to be tolerated in modern life. When a Government makes these anti- social practices the basis and foundation of its policy, we cannot maintain relations with it.
70.	Directly associated with this policy of contempt for human rights is the situation in Berlin, one of the greatest potential danger spots at present, with its degrading wall which has restricted movement between the two sectors of the city, violating the fundamental right of any person to leave any country, including his own, as set forth in article 13 (2) of the Universal Declaration. This attack on ideas rooted in civilized nations will scarcely be able to achieve its object of hiding from the eyes of the free world the realities concealed behind the wall.
71.	To revert to America, we state dearly that we have no wish to carry on propaganda outside our own frontiers but that we demand that no one should do so within our frontiers. In its international policy our country scrupulously respects the principles of self- determination and non-intervention, but it demands reciprocity. It makes no secret of its preferences. For reasons of ideological background we are on the side of the Western countries; from any Standpoint we are a Western and Christian country.
72.	It should be made quite dear that the principle of free determination of peoples, as set forth in the United Nations Charter, cannot be applied blindly or in an absolute manner. In some cases there are circumstances which affect the application of the principle and factors which limit its scope.
73.	Thus, when the territorial integrity of a State or the particular status of certain territories is in dispute, we should be extremely careful in interpreting and applying the principle. An example of this is the case of the Islas Malvinas (Falkland Islands) or any case where territories have been separated by force without the de facto situation having been subsequently confirmed by international agreement, and especially where the original population has been dispersed and small groups of settlers from the occupying Power have established themselves in the area.
74.	The principle of free self-determination could not be applied there, because it would place the destiny of these territories in the hands of a limited group of settlers from the Power which has established itself there by force, violating international law. The indiscriminate application of the principle of self-determination in cases like the one I have described would be a pretext for legalizing a transfer of sovereignty under the protective cover of a provision, of the Charter.
75.	In addition to the dangers to world peace resulting from the violation of political rights and from a mad armaments race, let us examine another: poverty. As long as there are peoples which have scarcely the essentials of life, or not even that, nobody can be surprised that they should listen to false prophets who preach violence as a remedy for their ills and as a key opening the door to a supposed paradise of easy living.
76.	To banish poverty — that too is a mission of the United Nations, not through charity but by technical and financial assistance, so as to raise the educational and economic levels of the countries which are not fortunate enough to be classified among the highly developed, and by the liberalization of international trade. After all, countries, cannot eat their cotton, copper or tin, nor can they clothe themselves with the coffee or wheat they cannot sell. Real assistance consists in facilitating production and opening the doors to wider trade, progressively freer and broader.
77. The other day we listened with great interest to the speech by Mr. Spaak [1138th meeting] in defence of the European Common Market. We should like to think that in the long run the European Common Market will not mean a decline in the trade of the market countries with countries outside. The Belgian Foreign Minister, however, completely ignored the countries of Latin America and concerned himself solely with allaying the fears of other areas which are promised associate membership of the European Common Market. It is a good thing that in this way many are able to enjoy its advantages. But what about those who are materially unable to enter the Market? Will it be said of us, in the words of the Bible, that many were called but few were chosen?
78.	In the wider orbit of the United Nations, we note with satisfaction that the economic development of the developing countries continues to occupy a preponderant place in the working programme and we trust that suitable measures for the effective implementation of the development plans will be approved. To this end the Argentine delegation will spare no effort in pursuing the goal of raising the level of living of the peoples, not as an end in itself but as a means of securing social peace.
79.	International action designed to overcome economic backwardness is obviously entitled to high priority in our debates, so that this grave problem may be solved as soon as possible.
80.	My country maintains that in devising formulas for the financing of economic development programmes the utmost importance should be attached to savings created by the efforts of the country concerned, and that public and private capital from outside should not be regarded as substitutes for natural sources of income but as a complementary resource to accelerate the process.
81.	Hence the need to increase the volume and value of exports and to put into effect the recommendations and agreements on the liberation of international trade, so that countries may increase their financial capacity and use it to expand their industries, thereby raising their level of living.
82.	We trust that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development convened by the Economic and Social Council (resolution 917 (XXXIV)) will establish the necessary conditions to enable effective solutions to be reached, on the basis of realistic and highly technical plan B, for the problems which beset international trade in general, particularly those which prevent the expansion of commodity trade, with special emphasis, of course, on the need to stabilize commodity prices.
83.	Fortunately we can also point to some international aspects which justify a certain cautious optimism in regard to the future. In the capital of my country an international conference has just been held, the Second Meeting of the Antarctic Treaty, which was characterized by the high Spirit of co-operation which prevailed at all its debates and was reflected in the recommendations approved. There was no diversion between East and West, or between North and South. I am glad to mention this pleasing fact as an example of what can be achieved when the spirit of mutual understanding prevails over individual selfishness.
84.	This spirit of co-operation between twelve nations is equally possible between 109. Those who are dominated by fear and pressure proclaim that this is impossible and that the United Nations has failed in its mission of achieving world peace. We do not share that pessimistic opinion and are more inclined to agree with the view expressed by Mr. Stevenson, our eminent colleague, when he pointed out [1125th meeting] that although the United Nations had not succeeded in bringing the great Powers together, it had often succeeded in keeping them apart. That in itself is a great success, even more so if, as he added, it has prepared the way for the peaceful evolution of an international order.
85.	Let us begin by admitting in all humility that the United Nations is an imperfect work. It is logical that this should be so. It is a human creation, conceived and brought into being in the midst of great passions and in the face of deep distrust of its possibilities. Imperfect as it is, however, it is the best the world has known so far. On the other hand, its imperfection should not encourage us to get rid of it or to sabotage its action, but on the contrary should prompt us to maintain, support and improve it. In the task of making certain necessary changes in its machinery, integrity in procedure and uprightness in purpose should be the keynote. We must maintain the efficiency of its organs by giving them authority, not taking it away from them. Let us keep to the system of one single authority that will enable us to adopt practical and effective measures in times of trouble. The Argentine delegation is opposed to any proposal which would diminish the powers of the Secretary-General or fetter his action by subjecting it directly or indirectly to the veto of other officials.
86.	We consider it right and proper to increase the number of members of United Nations bodies so as to give adequate representation to all areas, a step which the Argentine Republic advocated in the General Assembly some years ago. These bodies were planned when the United Nations had only about fifty Members. It now has 109. It is therefore logical to take this fact into consideration and to increase the composition of these bodies. We do not recommend that the number of their members should be doubled — because an excessive increase might decrease their efficiency — but we are in favour of a modest increase. Other delegations have advocated a similar course and we are happy to be in good company.
87.	Those who have been Members since the first session of the General Assembly and those who have joined later should participate alike in this work of improvement.
88.	After the very considerable increase in membership in recent years, we now welcome with particular satisfaction the admission of Jamaica and of Trinidad and Tobago, the first American countries to achieve independence after the creation of the United Nations. We also extend a friendly welcome to Rwanda and Burundi, formerly dependent territories but now proud independent States. Finally, we should like to extend a special welcome to the new-born State of Algeria, which joined our ranks only yesterday, to the applause of all representatives. Now that the struggle — in which both sides showed great valour — is over, the wounds are healed and the pact of friendship between the former metropolitan country and the newly independent solon has been signed and sealed, it is time to forget the past and to face the present.
89.	I am sure that all the new Members of the United Nations will be valuable collaborators in the task of peace and concord which is our guiding star. I should like to take this opportunity of pointing out, with every hope that it will always be so, how moderation and prudence have characterized the actions of these new Members, proving once more that wisdom and common sense are not the heritage of the old and powerful nations and that weak young nations can give a magnificent example by their conduct and can serve as a fruitful lesson to all.
90.	The work of decolonization, one of the objectives of the United Nations, is thus reaching a gradual but certain end. Nevertheless, it is well to remember that to facilitate the achievement of independence is not everything. New nations that have emerged recently in the free world have found themselves in most cases with a skeleton of administrative and social organization and confronted with the very serious problem of lack of money, technicians and even capable officials, since hand in hand with emancipation there is usually a flight of capital as also of former residents and metropolitan officials, all afraid of the chaos which sometimes accompanies these emancipatory movements.
91.	It must in all fairness be acknowledged that in many cases the metropolitan countries have endeavoured to solve these problems and have effectively helped the new States in their first steps, which are often difficult and sometimes turbulent. The fact is that nobody learns to walk without having a few falls. In this way it has been possible to prevent the old ties from being broken altogether and the links of dependence have been replaced by others based on equality in both the political and the financial, economic and cultural spheres.
92.	This is where the technical assistance of the United Nations can play an, effective part. This work will be necessary for many, many years to come. Let us not deceive ourselves. When the display of fireworks in the independence celebrations is over, the new States have in front of them a very difficult and, above all, very long task in which they will need to rely on the co-operation which the United Nations can give them. My country has not held aloof from that work. From the beginning we have contributed a contingent, of our air force in the Congo and an Argentine trade mission has just made a tour of African countries establishing contacts which should result in extensive trade with our country.
93.	In conclusion, let me say that my country is seriously concerned with the future of the United Nations, appreciates its efforts and feels at one with its world. The ideals of peace and harmony inscribed in the Charter are also our ideals, as they always have been and always will be.


===== Session 18 - 1963 =====
Mr. President, I wish, first, to convey to you my warmest congratulations on your election to the high post you occupy. I am convinced that the outstanding qualities, of which you have given proof in the course of your many years of international endeavour, will make you a brilliant leader and an admirable President of the General Assembly. Latin America cannot fail to be proud that one of its prominent sons now directs our debates. In this happy circumstance I see an augury for success. Our America, a continent of peace and the friendly settlement of international differences, today directs the business of an Assembly which we all trust will go down in the annals of the United Nations as the session that opened the gates to a new period of coexistence among the peoples of the world.

24. This moment is doubly important to my country. In a few days, with the handing Over of power to the new authorities, a difficult chapter in our internal affairs will have ended and another under the sign of national concord will have begun. The deeper meaning of the period now drawing to its close has been the ending of apparent dissension, allowing expression to the underlying realities of the truly democratic tendencies of our people. Their voice was heard during the last elections, whose results rewarded the constancy of the men who, from the seat of government, had led the country to this expression of popular will.

25. Today Argentina, with renewed faith, adds its endeavours to those of all the Members of this Organization to achieve co-operation, peace and collective security, for my country knows that it is the common responsibility of all to strive for the fulfilment of the purposes and principles of the Charter.

26. The specific problems to be dealt with in our deliberations clearly point the way for us to follow. To their solution we must bend every effort and thus satisfy the desires of the world's people who, with growing hopefulness are watching the progress of this important session of the General Assembly.

27. Our century, especially in its recent decades, has witnessed vast and astounding changes in the international picture. Those changes have obeyed the impulse of dynamic and irresistible forces set in motion by circumstances that make our epoch unique in history. Perhaps at the very heart of this process of change lie the unprecedented technical advances which are growing in a geometrical progression. Its effects, however, have made themselves felt in the extremely important moral and psychological phenomena it has engendered. Mankind as a whole has reacted to the impact of the new concepts now placed in the service of ancient ideals, and today we witness their repercussions on the relations among States.

28. Two salient features stand out in this tide of change in the affairs of nations. One is the progress of co-operation among countries in all fields, especially those of economic and technical development, and the other is the relatively speedy fulfilment of the lofty principle of self-determination, which tolls the knell of the colonial system. Both these are prime movers in man's evolution towards the higher reaches of his destiny, reaches whose grandeur can only be glimpsed today.

29. There is no doubt that the spirit of international solidarity which is the hallmark of our time has evolved through economic and technical co-operation, and indicates the realization, on the part of the more advanced countries, of the responsibility incumbent upon them in the common task. To deny this would be unfair, but perhaps it would be even worse to overlook the shortcomings and flaws which have marred the programmes put into operation, particularly in the post-war period. These plans have, to a certain extent, proved unable to provide adequate solutions to the problems of development, and the tangible result is that no way has been found to prevent me steady widening of the gap, due to the difference m the degree of control over the means of production, that separates the developed from the more backward nations.

30. What economists call the "demonstration effect" has deep and upsetting social repercussions and serves to reduce mutual understanding among nations. Thus, there is a feeling of impatience and unrest among the great masses of the world, a feeling which will not allow them to accept long-range formulas or delayed solutions. Hence, a new responsibility rests on all Governments, and particularly on those of the highly developed countries, to find adequate ways of solving these problems. These countries are not unaware of the influence exercised by their economic policies on the rest of the world, nor how far we still are from the goals unanimously set at the sixteenth session of the General Assembly.

31. That sense of urgency signifies that we have passed the stage of diagnosis and that what is required today is vigorous international action. The United Nations recognized this when it inaugurated its programmes for the Development Decade, but we cannot hide our concern at the fact that, while almost one third of the Decade has elapsed, we still have not progressed beyond the organizational and preparatory period either on a regional or on the world level. We cannot forget that under-development means hunger, ignorance, lack of decent dwellings, disease and suffering for millions of human beings whom it is our duty to help.

32. I am not trying to place the responsibility on some and to exempt others. The analytical studies show that a large part of the effort must come from the under-developed countries themselves. It is for them to forge that spirit of national enterprise, of order and stability, which alone will permit them to attain their economic goals. The vigour of these countries will manifest itself in the requisite preparatory work, and success will crown those which are able to carry it out successfully. Nothing lasting can be built save on the firm foundations of a country's own efforts. My country does not believe that the required co-operation means maintaining economies in permanent dependence, for such aid would be fictitious and destructive of the national spirit. But a nation's efforts must be carried out in circumstances in which they can be successful; hence it must be understood once and for all that the present international trade structure must be altered.

33. The structural changes which we advocate correspond to a new concept of international division of labour. This will allow the less developed countries to lay new economic foundations and promote their industrialization, so that they will be able to supply increasing quantities of manufactured and semi-manufactured goods to the world market. This new concept is based on a more equitable interpretation of the principle of reciprocity than hitherto. Remunerative and stable prices for basic commodities must obviously be guaranteed, and to that end quantitative tariff restrictions must be eliminated and the policy of subsidies gradually done away with. Instead, perfectly feasible economic adjustments can be made to protect the more exposed sectors in the industrialized countries. Furthermore, obstacles to trade among all areas of the world must also be removed.

34. There is no doubt that from this point of view the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Trade and Development is of decisive importance. It is for this reason that Argentina strongly supports it; we do not wish it to be a mere forum for an exchange of opinions, but a new and eminently serviceable framework within which the basic problems of trade can be considered and solved. It would be desirable therefore —and my country has repeatedly stressed this— that the decisions taken by the Conference should be based on consent and conciliation rather than on simple majority votes, for only in that atmosphere will present restrictions be eliminated.

35. We are entering into a period of decisive importance, since 1964 will witness not only the Conference to which I have just referred, but also important discussions and agreements already planned for. The "Kennedy negotiations" on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the reconstruction of the British market for agricultural products, the agrarian policy of the European Economic Community and the possibility of a world organization of markets —which last plan still has too many unknown factors— are all events of major significance.

36. There is no telling how disastrous the consequences of failure would be, at a time we consider to be as vital as the present, and we do not hesitate to say so in this Assembly, the most universal forum that exists for the consideration of problems so deeply affecting the world community. This Assembly is the witness to the fact that we live in a world where economic solidarity is not achieving its objectives, and is losing ground because of the gradual limitations placed upon plans for financial assistance and because of the existence of distorted and selfish trade structures. The events which are to take place during the forthcoming year will determine to a large extent whether or not the unforeseeable disastrous consequences I have mentioned are produced.

37. The other distinctive feature of our time, to which I have already referred, is the notable phenomenon of the attainment of independence by the new States which are now making their valuable contribution to the work of this Organization. This new blood which in the past few years has been injected into the United Nations has given it that universality which is so necessary if it is to be truly representative of the world community of nations.

38. Argentina has always been a stout defender of the principle of self-determination of peoples, which is the heart and soul of the process of independence taking place in recent times. It has welcomed joyfully the friendly countries of Africa, Asia and our own continent which now sit among us in the conclave of sovereign States. We believe that this age of freedom in which we are living will put an end to colonialism in all its forms and manifestations, even in the case of small territories. Thus we regard the occupation of the Malvinas Islands, a crude violation of our sovereignty originally perpetrated during the period of imperialist expansion, when our own country was in the early stages of its independence, as a phenomenon which should not continue, in the interest of mutual understanding and friendship between two nations which are linked by many ties. The anachronistic presence of the United Kingdom in these islands, which are very sparsely populated, is pointless. We hope that our friend of so many years standing, which has acted so fairly in other parts of the world, will make yet another magnanimous gesture in this very special case.

39. Argentina realizes that the principle of self- determination laid down in the Charter must be considered in the context in which the right is to be exercised; i.e., there are factors which might limit its range when other principles, such as that of the territorial integrity of a State, or the special situation of disputed territories call for careful examination. Thus we think that the principle cannot be applied indiscriminately to situations where a territory has been separated by force from an independent State without any subsequent international agreement legalizing this de facto situation, and most especially when the indigenous population has been dispersed and groups of colonists who are nationals of the occupying Power have settled in the territory. For instance, if the principle of self-determination was indiscriminately applied to very sparsely populated territories, the destiny of those territories would be placed in the hands of a very small group of settlers who had established themselves there by force in contravention of the most elementary principles of international law, and the principle of self-determination would then be used as a screen to legalize a transfer of sovereignty under the protection of the United Nations. Nor do we believe that the principle of self-determination would be wholly applicable in a situation where the personality of a nation had not been respected and methods of penetration destructive of genuine independence had been used.

40. My country will continue to work for the universal application of human rights, a signal achievement of the United Nations and of the regional organizations. One of the most hateful blots on human relations, an obstruction which the international community has thus far been unable to remove, is racial discrimination, whatever its type or form. This is the reason why we are concerned when we see that in some parts of the world there is continued violation of this fundamental human right to equal treatment. We can do no less than reiterate our regret at this circumstance and, through the intermediary of the General Assembly, urge that this state of affairs should cease as soon as possible. On the other hand, in all fairness, we shall be no less emphatic in our sincere praise for Governments which are making genuine and vigorous efforts to abolish racial discrimination.

41. The United Nations has now been in existence for eighteen years. This session of the Assembly looks very different from the sessions of some years back. Certain reforms are urgently needed, including an expansion of the membership of certain United Nations organs, so that universal representation, one of the Organization's guiding principles, may be achieved. The Latin American States proposed such a step some time ago, but hitherto the problem raised has not been settled despite the fact that the steady increase in the number of Members has made it even more pressing.

42. In this connexion, I cannot refrain from referring to our regional organization, the Organization of American States which, in its own sphere, has been steadily endeavouring to put into effect the purposes and principles of the Charter and those of the Americas.

43. One constant feature in my country's international life is the strengthening of its ties with the sister republics of America. Above all, we claim for Latin America the role which is its due in the great world debates and we recognize the need to close our ranks in order to achieve the co-ordinated action which is the best means of attaining that universal welfare which is one of the purposes of our Organization. We cannot forget that Latin America has been the cradle of great principles of international political life, some of which have achieved the status of rules of international law. Our America must live up to its historic heritage and renew its endeavours to promote coexistence among nations. My country will spare no effort to support the action of the Organization of American States as a natural source of measures applicable to our continent, because we believe that it is with the framework of that body that the far-reaching aims expressed in its charter can be achieved.

44. As matters stand in the world today, it is more necessary than ever for us to unite in joint action. All Members of the United Nations should make their contribution to ensure that good sense shall govern the world, taking advantage of the present unusually favourable climate of international relations.

45. I do not want to be guilty of unfounded optimism; reality will always damp any excessive enthusiasm. But it is true that in the world today there is a relaxation of tension which should encourage us to persevere on our course. The conclusion of the nuclear test ban treaty, which my country signed is a first step and a sign that the great dialogue has begun. We think that the arms race is only the outward sign of deeply hidden motives, at the root of which lie fear and distrust. If those are overcome, the apparently impossible will be achieved; the Geneva talks may lead to that ideal situation of general disarmament under effective international control which Argentina has so fervently advocated. All of us, whether Members of the United Nations or not, must assume responsibility for the success of this first step, so that we may avoid any possibility of the world's so much as thinking of the use of nuclear weapons.

46. In concluding this statement on behalf of Argentina, I should like to appeal to the high humanitarian ideals and the goodwill of the men upon whose shoulders lies the heavy responsibility of this task. May the hope of their peoples guide them in the maze of diplomatic negotiations, so that the General Assembly at its succeeding sessions may carry out its work in an atmosphere of peace and mutual understanding, in the certainty that promises and undertakings will be fulfilled, and in that spirit of comradeship, not to say utopianism, that presided at the birth of the United Nations at a time when the last echoes of the great disaster, whose repetition we were anxious to avoid, had not yet died away.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
1.	Mr. President, the Argentine delegation has the honour to congratulate you on your brilliant election to the presidency of this Assembly. We regard it as a recognition of your forceful personality and of your experience in the United Nations as representative of Ghana. We also regard it as an expression of full confidence in the moral authority and serenity with which you will preside over the Assembly in circumstances attended by so many issues of general concern. But your election should also be seen as a tribute to your country and your continent, whose support of the purposes and principles of the United Nations is daily more thoroughgoing.
2.	At the same time, we should like to pay a tribute to Ambassador Sosa Rodriguez. His tact and devotion as President enhanced the prestige of Latin America, which at a particularly significant stage in the Organization's history we had called upon him to represent.
3.	We extend our best wishes for the early recovery of the Secretary-General, U Thant, so that he may resume as soon as possible his diligent and dedicated meditation in the task of preserving harmony among the nations.
4.	We welcome with pleasure and great expectations the entry into the United Nations of three new States —Malawi, Malta and Zambia. Their admission emphasizes the growing universality of the Organization and brings new national contributions to its experience and its councils.
5.	The event which we have welcomed reminds us, however, of the omissions which still have to be remedied if the United Nations is to be truly representative of all national communities and if it is to arrive at a permanent solution of the questions, left over from the war, which are still pending.
6.	Peaceful reconciliation, and the decision to preserve it; good repute universally earned through devotion to law, democracy, justice and well-being — such is the basis on which the past can profitably be erased. In 1964, Argentina repeats what it said in 1920: namely, that an organization called upon to ensure future peace between the nations cannot afford to differentiate between belligerents and neutrals, so far as its members are concerned, and that it must admit to membership, on an equal footing, all sovereign States recognized as such by the international community.
7.	We therefore say that the right of the German people to decide freely in regard to its country's reunification, and of the Federal Republic of Germany to be admitted to the Organization with its international entity undiminished, should be recognized.
8.	Argentina brings no problems to the United Nations, except for one to which I shall refer later. Nor has it any international problems as such. Convinced of the Organization's vital importance to mankind, Argentina stands ready at all times to help by fulfilling the obligations prescribed by the United Nations, carrying out its purposes, complying with its recommendations, deferring to the will of its majority, accepting fully the consequences of the Charter, respecting each and every Member and supporting the collective effort to build a world free from war, dedicated to freedom and drawing upon all goods and services to preserve men from poverty, insecurity and exploitation.
9.	Argentina fulfils that task, on the national level by its decisions and on the international level by its conduct. With the help of all its citizens, who enjoy equal rights to universal and compulsory suffrage and the secret ballot, as well as the right to think, write, trade, work and associate in trade unions, it is steadily building social democracy. We feel more secure with a system which permits peaceful access to power by any sector of the population, and the periodic correction of mistakes, with a system relying on the infallibility of government or of ruling classes. Our democracy is not wedded to any economic dogma. It is pledged to justice, efficiency and development. It sets the basic targets of the economy, but leaves it to private initiative, in principle, to attain them.
10.	Internationally, our country has remained faithful to the principles evolved when it became a nation early in the nineteenth century. It believes in the equality of States. As President Illia has said, it believes, not that there are big nations to which it owes obedience or small nations which it can rule, but that all peoples and nations merit its equal respect.
11.	We have consistently adhered to the principle of non-intervention in the affairs of other States, and we have jealously guarded our own nation from outside intervention. In all our international relations, we have always dealt with Governments, never with peoples — precisely in order that we should not, even inadvertently, be guilty of intervention. But all our dealings with Governments are in the interest of the peoples. As Argentines, proud of Calvo and Drago who formulated the principle of non-intervention at the beginning of this century, we could never depart from their hallowed doctrine.
12.	We want to keep our old friends and make all the new friends we can, with no qualification except mutual respect. We have a deep rational and human interest in establishing closer relations with the new countries of Asia and Africa, with which we have so far had little opportunity for contact. We are sure that we shall find basic areas of agreement and shall be able to join forces with them in achieving solutions satisfactory to our peoples. Argentina has no enemies among the countries of the world, for the simple reason that it does not regard itself as the enemy of any one of them.
13.	Resuming the mandate handed down by its national heroes, Argentina, like all its sister nations in America, is committed to the unity of the continent. Many elements in that unity have always existed — geographical continuity, language, emancipation, ideals and common beliefs, not to speak of age-old sympathies. The other elements are being forged by the need for collective security, economic integration and preservation of a common culture.
14.	Much has already been achieved in that direction — an organization of American States founded on the principles of the United Nations Charter, a Latin American common market, a Central American common market, the Charter of Alta Gracia. At the same time, each country is continuing to contribute to that unity. Argentina, for example, has opened its rivers to two Hand-locked countries and made its ports available to those countries for the purpose or their access to the sea.
15.	Despite distortions and institutional instability, America has shown itself to be extraordinarily consistent in its democratic ideals. No other concept has. succeeded in supplanting them in the hearts of Americans — neither poverty, nor tyranny, nor economic exploitation. Fortunately, democracy has never been incriminated in America. The faults, if faults there were, have always lain elsewhere. Universal humanism and the dual contribution of an indigenous and a Western culture have kept the Continent free from resentment. America is free of hatred, both externally and internally. Precisely for that reason, it is a magnificent terrain for reconciliation.
16.	For a long time, America was forgotten — thrown back on its own efforts, and its own meagre resources. There can be no denying that it has served others more than others have served it. If a balance-sheet of international financial aid in recent years were drawn up, it would be found that America was the area of the world which had received the least. We believe that due correction of this situation has begun.
17.	The unity of the American continent is not designed for separation from the rest of the world. Rather is it designed to constitute a contribution to the unity of the world, to the cause of peace, to the development effort, to the equality of peoples and to the security of the human person.
18.	In the belief that the national territory constitutes the geographical area for the effective expression of the national will and the individual will of each Argentine citizen, the Argentine Government has taken special pains to preserve the country's territorial integrity. We would draw the attention of the United Nations to our views, because the Organization will have to approve our ideas which, in the last analysis, are based on the principles of international justice.
19.	Territorial sovereignty cannot be made conditional upon capacity to defend it or to take full advantage of it; it can be conditional only on the right of sovereignty itself. That right cannot be made contingent upon force, for in that event only strong nations would enjoy it. Fortunately, the world has progressed so far in its recognition of justice and morality that the time has come to erase the vicious theory that "might makes right" from all documents and legislation.
20.	Argentina has stated that the continental shelf and the sea above it constitute an integral part of its national territory. It has confirmed its sovereignty over the Antarctic territory encompassed by its national territory, and it considers it necessary, in virtue of its sovereignty over its air space and its rights in- outer space, to make the relevant reservations without prejudice to its endorsement of the idea that such space should be used for the good of Argentina and of all mankind.
21.	It was in defence of its sovereignty that Argentina was moved to raise the problem which it has brought before the United Nations. In the Committee on decolonization, the so-called Special Committee of Twenty- Four, Argentina has claimed its inalienable and inviolable rights to the Malvinas Islands, occupied by the United Kingdom since 1833, when the latter seized it by violence in time of peace from a country which had just begun life as an independent nation.
22.	At that time we, as Spain's successors, were in legitimate occupation of the Malvinas Archipelago. The first establishment had been founded in 1764 by France, which later ceded it to Spain. In 1766 Great Britain founded Port Egmont on Saunders Island. In 1770 the English were evicted by the Spanish Navy, but in 1771 they reoccupied Port Egmont in implementation of an offer of reparations from Spain — the latter expressly reserving its sovereignty, which was not challenged. The English voluntarily abandoned Fort Egmont in 1774, and until 1829 made no reservation or protest despite occupation first by Spain and later by Argentina. It was only in 1829, four years before taking them by force, that England showed a renewed interest in the Islands and protested against administrative acts by Argentina. In those days there was a revival of imperialist ambitions in every corner of the globe. We were unable to defend ourselves against violence. The existing population was dispersed, and on 3 January 1833 one more act of nineteenth-century imperialism was consummated. That act of force is the reason for Great Britain’s presence in the Malvinas Islands.
23.	When historical research and the facts of law laid bare the precarious nature of the claims whereby the occupying Power had sought to justify its action, and when Olympian silence had to make room for self-justification, that Power invoked, in contradiction to its own case, the argument of self-determination. We returned a full and detailed reply. We would, however, recall a time-honoured principle to the effect that no one can improve his title to anything. Anyone taking possession of something unlawfully retains possession of it unlawfully — cannot, in other words, exonerate himself by means of repentance, apologies or time. Nor can he improve title by transferring it to another quarter: the recipient receives it with its original defect, since no one can transfer rights better than those which he holds.
24.	If we regard self-determination as the exercise of already existing sovereignty, it cannot be recognised in the present case, because what is at issue is not a sovereign State but a colony. Nor can the settlors’ right of self-determination be recognized, because they are themselves an integral part of the colonial machinery. Self-determination can be applied to existing sovereignty or nascent independence, but not to the continuation of colonialism. It can be applied, moreover, only when the territory involved is not in dispute.
25.	We shall be more specific in regard to this subject when it comes up for discussion in the appropriate Committee and in the Assembly. For the present I will only add that, while Argentina has the right to claim its Malvinas because they are an integral and intrinsic part of its national' territory, the United Nations has a duty to terminate colonialism even when it seeks to pose as self-determination, which is reserved for peoples that wish to retain or achieve real independence, Argentina does not and never will forget its right. It is prepared to negotiate with Great Britain the return of the Malvinas Islands, with due regard to the interests of the handful of settlers inhabiting the Archipelago. The conclusions of the Special Committee of Twenty-Four contain a recommendation that such bilateral talks be held and recognize as legitimate the application to the to the islands of the name Malvinas, the historic and Argentine appellation given to the Territory.
26.	Like the rest of mankind, Argentina believes in peace and in its creative opportunities. It also believes that peace is attainable. While the world has so contracted as to seem small and dangers once remote have consequently come nearer, friendship, integration, solidarity, mutual assistance and collective defence have also been brought within closer range. Nevertheless, we know that many dangers lurk and are exploited for selfish purposes. Not by opposing such a state of affairs, but only by seeking its complete abolition, can we attain our objective.
27.	For defence, we provide our solidarity with like- minded friends; for peace, we supply our determination to live with all other peoples in peace and mutual respect. We repeat: we are not indifferent; we too have a militant spirit; we believe in a system of ethics, a way of life, a humanitarian and democratic ideal. But we do not try to impose our views on others, nor would we allow them to impose theirs on us. Coexistence is not abdication, submission to contagion, or self-complication. It simply means accepting a reality which facts have permanently or temporarily imposed upon us, but which none of us is entitled to change by violent methods.
28.	The peoples of the world, more sensible than their ideologists, will find, in friendly discussion of their ideas and problems, Opportunities to improve the truth. The problem lies not in ideologies as such. Reality has drained the colour from fanaticism, failure has toppled infallibility, and performance has muted the boastful tone of promises. The problem resides in what lies behind ideologies. The distribution of military, economic and moral power makes it impossible for any particular nationalism to impose itself on the world through any one of those sectors of power. On the other hand, an ideology opens doors, windows and cracks through which to infiltrate into other countries. In assessing the dangers to peace, a great mistake has been to regard as ideological conflicts what are really conflicts provoked by expansionist nationalism in ideological disguise.
29.	Our peoples believe in nationalism that exalts love of country, stimulates the overcoming of problems and mobilizes the effort, capacity and zeal required for the achievement of national unity. Our peoples, moreover, have learnt how to combine this unity with effort on the regional and on the world plane. That is why they detest any exclusive or expansionist nationalism, whatever its guise, colour or slogan.	
30.	With this concern for peace, Argentina draws attention to the compelling and urgent need for machinery which, improving on that established by Chapter V of the Charter, will make it possible to find a peaceful solution for all latent or actual disputes between nations. Until such machinery is perfected and applied to all disputes, war will continue to present itself as a solution, especially to those who are in the wrong. At the very least, the cold war will continue to waste energies, resources and opportunities for the peace and well-being of mankind.
31.	Time and again in the name of sovereignty the compulsory settlement of disputes by reference to the appropriate machinery has been postponed, at great risk. Though jealous of its sovereignty, Argentina has always favoured the settlement of problems by peaceful means* It has taken this stand, with its sister nations of America* ever since the last century. In the League of Nations Assembly on 17 November 192O Mr. Pueyrreddon, the Argentine Foreign Minister, on instructions from President Yrigoyen said: «we are in favour of the principle of compulsory arbitration in all disputes except in questions affecting the political construction of States, and we declare ourselves partisans of a Court of Justice equipped with judicial powers."
32.	Argentina has only two outstanding territorial problems; and acting in concert with the sister Republic of Chile, it submitted one to an arbitrator appointed early in the present century, and the other to the International Court of Justice.
33.	Sovereignty runs no risk when confronted with right, because it is itself the basic right and the essence of all other rights. On the other hand, it runs a risk when faced by naked force and intemperate foreign demands. If sovereignty had to rely on its own strength, it would become a privilege of the strong and would cease to be the most sacred right of all nations. Furthermore, no one has a right to war. War is nowadays, morally and materially, a world-embracing phenomenon. Only mankind as a whole can consent to it.
34.	There is another circumstance which I would mention. The annihilating power of nuclear weapons has, of course, bred fear m all men and sharpened an instinctive desire for peace and self-preservation; but it has created a tendency to tolerate, or disregard, conventional war. The position has become so confused that conventional war might easily come to be regarded as blameless war, given its relatively minor power of destruction. We do not want merely to dilute war; we wish to abolish it. We cannot agree to nuclear pacifism becoming active toleration of conventional war. We do not want the dove of peace to be equipped with conventional arms and ammunition. We cannot leave responsibility for peace solely in the hands of those countries which possess atomic weapons; responsibility for world peace must be assumed by all nations. Moreover, experts have given us ample warning that no war today can be completely free from the haunting possibility of the use of nuclear weapons, or be confined to limited nuclear hostilities, if only because the inexperience of armies and the incalculable range of any war's effects leave the way open for fatal mistakes.
35.	Our agenda for peace must also include other forms of warfare, such as revolutionary war, permanent revolution and subversive aggression. Conventional war may possibly be an attack not directed against a country's sovereignty. But revolutionary war is primarily an attack insidiously directed against the sovereignty, the right to freedom from interference, and the right to self-determination, of peoples. Revolution cannot be exported. It is possible to do everything on a world basis, except replace the national will. An imported revolution is a command from abroad. The world would have gained very little if it passed from colonialism to "satellitism".
36.	The Argentine people respects, and has faith in, all races. Our national entity, which is a compound of the most varied ethnic ingredients, is an instance of the unifying power of tolerance, mutual respect and humanism. Hardly had our revolution begun, in the last century, when the Argentine nation proclaimed that all men living on Argentine soil, whatever their Origin, were born free and equal. We are happy to have been born and to have grown up in that belief. We regard racism as destructive of national unity and as potentially aggressive. For that reason, Argentine penal law prescribes severe penalties for all forms of racial and religious discrimination.
37.	Racism, however, has not disappeared from the world, since some believe in it and others use it. We feel bound to state that racism may take on a new lease of life, either because there are those who believe that the so-called dominant races must remain dominant, or because there are some who are interested in propagating the belief that the oppressed races must take revenge. Either way the result would be a cataclysm, and that must be avoided. Any struggle to destroy God's creation — and man is His noblest creature — would be savage; but, more than that, it would be futile. No race would predominate, because only man, with the help of truth and justice, can predominate. Human cruelty can destroy, lay waste and kill; but it cannot create a void. Man cannot destroy man altogether. God, in His merciful persistence, would rebuild. Nations and races would rise again, for they are not built of distinctions, differences and inequalities. They are varieties of a common, universal beauty.
38.	Another of man's preoccupations, apart from peace, is development. All countries are anxious for development. It has assumed such political importance that some have made an ideology of it, while others regard it as an idea with its own motive force optimism is buttressed by statistics. This is because estimates are prepared for each economic unit with reference to the past. If, however, development were measured comparatively, by world standards, we should find that differences between countries and between peoples, far from being reduced, have in some cases been intensified. Development was chosen as a preferred short-cut to the reducing of differences and to the securing of approximate equality of enjoyment, security and well-being for all human beings. The concept of "one world" has eliminated the domestic yardstick and compelled the adoption of an international yardstick. Moreover, no one is attracted by the idea of a national distribution of poverty and need.
39.	All the same, the developing countries listened to the recommendations addressed to them for national readjustments designed to enable them to make proper use of their means of production, with the encouragement of a measure of financial assistance. No great economic change resulted therefrom. Financial aid, despite the goodwill with which it was supplied to them, did not solve the problem but rather increased their external indebtedness. There seemed to be a reluctance to recognize that if structural readjustments had to be made in the developing countries, similar readjustments would be necessary in the developed countries, simply because the two categories were economically interdependent. Development, in its economic processes, is a problem of income and markets. If the already low income of developing countries is withheld or taken back by the industrialized countries, the formers' capital development becomes impossible. Income is withheld when a fair price is not paid for a primary product. Income is taken back when the price charged for 
40.	At the same time, development is economic expansion through market growth. For this, markets in industrialized countries are essential. The Charter of Alta Gracia, framed by the countries of Latin America and supported by seventy-seven countries at Geneva, pointed with exemplary objectivity to the problems and their solutions.
41.	It was, of course, highly gratifying that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development-^/ examined for the first time in history the problems of primary materials, manufactures and financing linked to development, as well as the institutional machinery to deal with them in the future. But none of the problems was resolved. None of the economic systems accepted responsibility for a solution. At Geneva the world was not seen to be divided ideologically between countries with market economies and countries with centrally- planned economies. This time the division was between rich and poor countries, between satisfied and needy countries. We have, however, not lost faith. We have faith in the industrialized countries' sense of fair play. We have faith in the solidarity of the seventy-seven countries. The latter not only constitute the most powerful group — as regards numbers, universality and human content — ever to have been formed within the United Nations family; they have shown maturity and judgement in their attitude. This was seen in the discussion of a system of voting which was designed to reconcile all the interests at stake, without prejudice to the effectiveness of the new institutional machinery contemplated, or to the principle of "one State, one vote".
42.	Argentina is prepared to continue its firm support for the principles of the Alta Gracia Charter and the Geneva decisions, its resulting solidarity with the group of seventy-seven countries, and its wholehearted efforts for the elimination of inequalities between nations and peoples through the process of development.
43.	I have thus explained to you Argentina's anxious concern for the future of mankind. I would merely add that we are fully determined, even at the cost of national sacrifices, to discharge our responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations. We are sure that no country will evade its obligations. If obligations are not fulfilled within the Organization, they are unlikely to be fulfilled outside it and the United Nations will have lost, vis-a-vis the world, that power of persuasion which, when all is said and done, is the only effective guarantee of world peace.

===== Session 20 - 1965 =====
147. It is an honour and a pleasure for the Argentine delegation to offer its congratulations to the President on his appointment to preside over the General Assembly, from which mankind is anxiously awaiting constructive decisions in the interests of peace. We are delighted that the Assembly has once again made a wise choice. It has elected a President who, like his predecessors, is a model of intelligence, experience, diplomatic wisdom and militancy in the cause of freedom. I have no doubt, however, that the Assembly also wished to give this leading place in the international community to his country, Italy — a country so dear to all Argentinians — and to Western Europe, whose historic influence upon the world is constantly being added to as a result of the individuality of its nations and the maturity of its peoples.
148. We cordially welcome into the international family the Gambia, Singapore and the Maldive Islands, countries which, having won the independence to which they are entitled, are honouring us by joining the United Nations. Their arrival among us is a heartwarming event in a world which abounds in
injustices. For we should recognize that, while independence achieved without war is a national triumph, it is also a victory for the universal movement in favour of freedom. The power of justice often brings such victories, and we must strengthen it in order to win many other victories which have long been awaited. For this reason, we regret that the emancipating force of justice has not yet reached certain American lands where the colonial system still anachronistically survives.
149. Even in Latin America there are territories which have been subjected by foreign Powers to colonial régimes and which are consequently the subject of study by the Committee of Twenty-Four under General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV).
150. In the Organization of American States, a fundamental distinction has been made with regard to these territories. During the discussion of the admission of new members at the First Special Inter-American Conference, resolution I, entitled the "Act of Washington", was adopted; that resolution opens the doors to new States which attain their independence but expressly lays down in operative paragraph 3:
"That the Council of the Organization shall not take any decisions with respect to a request for admission on the part of a political entity whose territory, in whole or in part, is subject, prior to the date of this resolution, to litigation or claim between an extra-continental country and one or more member states of the Organization of American States, until the dispute has been ended by some peaceful procedure." 
151. As the United Nations is well aware, this is the case of our Malvinas Islands. There, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is illegally administering an integral part of our national territory, which it occupied by violence after it had evicted the Argentine authorities peacefully exercising the right of sovereignty there as the indisputable heirs to the territorial rights of the Spanish mother country.
152. In other words, the Malvinas Islands never formed part of the territory of the United Kingdom. Nor can they ever have constituted a colony, in the conventional sense of the term, since no legal rights could be created which would give validity to occupation of the Islands or affect Argentina's right to the restoration of its territorial integrity.
153. In these circumstances, there is no legal basis for speaking of self-determination; Argentina has always recognized that all the peoples of the world have that right, but it is a pre-condition of self- determination that it takes place in one's own territory and not in territory obtained by dispossessing others. To allow the future of the Malvinas archipelago to be decided by those occupying it would mean leaving it in the hands of people who were placed there by the United Kingdom. It would mean leaving it exclusively to the United Kingdom to resolve the problem. It would be as if one were to allow a person who had dispossessed another to confirm his own rights of ownership. For, clearly, the settlers are representatives of British power. Why so? Simply because Britain drove out the original population, replaced it and isolated the Islands. It fenced them off from the world. It placed them out of bounds, behind a British padlock.
154. The Committee of Twenty-Four duly considered the problem and, after hearing the parties, recognized the existence of a dispute. Sub-paragraph (c) of its recommendations to the General Assembly reads:
"The Special Committee notes the existence of a dispute between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Island and that of Argentina concerning sovereignty over the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)".
Sub-paragraph (d) adds:
"The Special Committee invites the Governments of the United Kingdom and Argentina to enter into negotiations with a view to finding a peaceful solution to this problem …”.
155. Argentina hopes to provide the Assembly with all the evidence required to prove the soundness of this recommendation and the validity of our claim. It will do so at the appropriate time before the Committee concerned. However, in conformity with the spirit of the recommendation and with its traditional belief in the peaceful solution of problems, Argentina has invited the United Kingdom to enter into conversations aimed at settling the dispute. It hopes that the United Kingdom is in agreement with this approach.
156. The Argentine Government is ready to continue to co-operate fully in fulfilling the noble purpose of the United Nations and implementing its decisions. We believe that the United Nations is the essential and the most suitable instrument for bringing about an international legal order regulated by justice and strengthened by security and by mutual respect among all nations.
157. We do not deny the difficulties. It will not mean simply reaching agreement among a few countries, but regulating a world in which there are a multitude of nations, of needs and of aspirations. It was formerly thought that all problems should be resolved at the national level. Consequently the thing most prized and protected by the international organization of the time was sovereignty. How, however, national objectives cannot be achieved within the boundaries of nations and are pursued in a wider context at the regional or world level. Consequently, without prejudice to sovereignty, the object which we are seeking and which constitutes a necessity at the international level is collective security.
158. It is no simple task, of course, to harmonize as rapidly as we would wish all the varied nationals, social and human demands which characterize the modern world. It is all the mere difficult when, despite its claims to universality, the United Nations does not encompass the whole earth. I drew attention last year to the fact that, even though we are building for peace and leaving the past behind, countries as important as the Federal Republic of Germany are not Members of the Organization. Other countries, both large and small, are also outside the membership. The universality of the United Nations requires us to ensure that it includes all countries, provided they are ready, as we who belong to it are ready, to accept its goals, to respect its decisions and to shoulder their responsibilities. The United Nations should avoid a situation in which a rival to it would be set up, for there is no doubt that the world would then be fatally split asunder.
159. Nor is it easy to unify our world while there remain in the Charter certain privileges that violate the principle of the legal equality of Member States.
160. In spite of all these difficulties and frustrations, Argentina has faith in the United Nations. For it has faith in justice, in morality, in friendship and in mutual respect among nations. We need to show patience and tolerance. God made man, but man made the world with its varied opportunities, inclinations and potentialities. To unite all this, we need the faith which God implanted in us.
161. We should all welcome the success of the United Nations in bringing about an agreement to halt the tragic confrontation of two proud nations, India and Pakistan, and the conciliatory and respectful willingness shown by the Governments of those two countries to reach a provisional solution. My Government has no doubt that this same goodwill and desire for peace will be helpful in the quest for a permanent solution. It warmly congratulates the Organization and is confident that the Governments of Pakistan and India will do their best to comply with the cease-fire decision.
162. Argentina, which has co-operated in the past in peace operations, has placed ten officers at the disposal of the Organization to assist in supervising the cease-fire in Kashmir, and it has made the necessary arrangements for them to travel to their duty station as soon as possible.
163. If the United Nations is to achieve its purposes, a definitive solution to the problem of the financing of its peace-keeping operations must be found. We hope that the goodwill shown by all countries in finding an emergency solution, which has made it possible for us to consider in this Assembly fundamental issues of world concern, will continue to be forthcoming so that this problem may be entirely resolved.
164. We consider that the United Nations should make proper use of regional organizations. The universal scope of the Organization's Jurisdiction is very clearly affirmed by both the letter and the spirit of the Charter. Moreover, the unity of the world, the inter-relation between its problems and the fact that events occurring anywhere have repercussions throughout the globe make such universality essential.
165. The Charter has also provided, however, for the regional distribution of responsibility, perhaps because it was rightly thought that problems could thus be resolved more rapidly and less publicly. For it is undeniable that a problem seems to assume greater gravity once it comes before the United Nations. The fact that the United Nations is in the public eye attracts attention to the problem and, because of this, the positions of the parties harden. In a regional organization, on the other hand, there is a more intimate atmosphere, in which tensions are eased. There is also another element, the existence of a regional consciousness, which facilitates the search for a solution. This circumstance coincides, on a broader plane, with the movement towards regional integration which is taking place and which should be aided and encouraged; the Argentine Government is working confidently to promote such integration.
166. For all these reasons, we believe that we should not speak of conflicts of competence or priorities of competence, but should try to devise procedures which will enable the purposes of the Charter to be achieved efficiently and rapidly.
167. There cannot be jurisdictional jealousies within the United Nations, for it represents the entire world. Consequently, the Argentine Government would never advocate no join in an attempt to oppose a regional competence to that of the Organization. It believes, however, that conflicts can be solved more rapidly, and in a context more free from the effects of the cold war, by regional bodies in the first instance. Naturally, we regard the regional approach not as a goal but as a stage. We know that the world is one, but just as there are independent and sovereign nations within the world so we must recognize also that there are regions anxious to preserve their own characters.
168. On analysing the international situation objectively, we find that, alongside other factors which are sufficiently well known and accepted, there are ‘three main sources of threats to and breaches of the peace. Thus our first conclusion is; we must not suppose that there is only one single cause or that we are faced with a simple conflict between good and evil. For this reason, we feel that to place all the fault on one side is to approach the solution wrongly.
169. As a tactic, it may seem good to lay the blame always on the same party, but if we are to treat the problem honestly we must recognize that all of us bear our share of responsibility although, of course, some bear a heavier responsibility and have less excuse than others, for in some cases it may be a question of mistakes or negligence and in other cases of deliberate aggressiveness.
170. The three principal sources of disturbance of peace, which may exist together or separately, are subversive aggression or revolutionary war, failure to refer conflicts to appropriate machinery in order to resolve them by peaceful means, and the underdevelopment of a large part of the world. For example, Viet-Nam, that noble and brave nation, is suffering the combined effects of these three causes of disturbance, because the conditions of a profound state of under-development, subversive aggression and the failure to refer the conflict to appropriate machinery are all undoubtedly present. It is highly unfortunate that account is not taken of the fact that conflicts spread, and that if the dangerous factors are not removed immediately the world may find itself involved in a tragic situation. Our naivety or apathy may lead us to believe that we are far away from the danger, but the aggressors know well that we are all within their reach.
171. In historic circumstances, in which the peoples, with their own ideals and motivations, have decided to bring about their emancipation and their political, economic and social transformation, subversive aggression is taking advantage of authentic national movements in order to infect revolutions with the ideological ingredients and alien impulses of revolutionary war. Revolution is national or it is not revolution. A so-called international revolution is no more than a foreign invasion carried out by political means, which may or may not be assisted by military means.
172. As has been pointed out on many occasions, this type of war is not waged in the conventional manner of open warfare with flags unfurled. It is waged in more subtle ways and with all the variety of methods which modern political, military and social techniques make possible. It is waged not by warfare as such but by revolution. It is waged not through invasion by foreign armies but through the organization of armies within nations. It is waged not by attacking the nation as a state, but by attacking, undermining and sabotaging the nation as a system, as an organization, as an institutional order and as an organized community.
173. People desiring to carry out their own revolution must therefore either refrain from doing so in order to prevent intervention by foreign forces or carry it out in a manner acceptable to foreigners. This shows the extremely reactionary effect of subversive aggression, since it tends to frustrate the true revolutionary impulse of peoples and to impose political forms and institutions not chosen by them.
174. Furthermore, revolutionary war inevitably provokes war itself. Thus far it has been conventional warfare, but no one can say what it will be tomorrow. What is always certain, however, is that it leads to one kind of warfare or another. But if it is clear that no one has the right to carry revolution to another country, then it must be equally clear that no one has the right to prevent a national revolution from being carried out. If one is tantamount to aggressive intervention that unleashes an international war, the other is an illegal intervention that provokes national rebellion.
175. Only the United Nations or the regional bodies are competent to assess the situation and to decide what action should be taken. Any unilateral intervention, no matter how well-intentioned, would run counter to the principles and guarantees essential to international security.
176. We have already said, and we reiterate, that Argentina believes in peaceful coexistence. But such coexistence is a deceit if it is accompanied by subversive aggression. In other words, coexistence must be based on an identity of views and must not be one-sided. To maintain that coexistence will follow the armed struggle — or to use the former to bring about the latter — is to show in advance that one believes neither in coexistence nor in peace. We are unfortunately witnessing a division of the world into those who wish to respect one another and those who wish to impose their will.
177. The Argentine nation coexists peacefully within its national borders. Views are respected and beliefs are freely professed. Although over 90 per cent of the population is Catholic, there are churches of a great variety of faiths. Our nationality has been woven from the threads of all races, who have found respect, security and equality in our country. All human rights are fully respected in Argentina.
178. We are therefore ready for friendly international coexistence, but we are also prepared to defend our way of life, to improve it and to affirm our national sovereignty with firmness and determination. We have no enemies. We do not wish to have any. We expect friendship from everyone, or at least respect for our independence and respect for the sovereignty of others.
179. This question of the historical vocation of the Americas, and consequently of Argentina, leads me to the subject of the peaceful settlement of conflicts. At the nineteenth session of the General Assembly [1292nd meeting] I spoke of the compelling and urgent need for machinery which, improving on that established by Chapter VI of the Charter, would make it possible to find a peaceful solution for all latent or actual disputes between nations.
180. I should like to repeat the proposal my delegation made at the nineteenth session of the General Assembly. We recognize that some problems are political while others are legal; but if they cause international conflicts, then they must all come under some jurisdiction which may be distributed among the political and judicial organs of the United Nations or of the regional organizations.	
181. In our view, the problems facing the world today arise from the need to adapt the United Nations to the new situation which prevails, a situation that differs greatly from that envisaged when the Charter was signed at San Francisco. We endorsed the requirement that the United Nations should be universal in character. We are equally convinced that the Charter should be amended in order to adapt it to this new situation. In the meantime, however, we feel that it is imperative that all necessary steps be taken to prevent the uncontrolled action of disturbing forces from shattering the precarious and fragile balance of peace and security that has thus far been achieved and maintained with so much difficulty. To that end, we propose that all conflicts should be subject to an international jurisdiction which may be either political or juridical.
182. For this, it will obviously be necessary to set up a highly flexible system which will be adaptable to circumstances. For example, with regard to Argentina, the first steps towards a settlement of its dispute with the United Kingdom over the Malvinas (Falkland Islands) are being taken in the Committee of Twenty-Four.
183. Sovereignty should have less to fear from law than from force, from the international community than from international disorder, particularly in a society where there is an individualistic distribution of power. How then can a settlement with the strong be reached? Peaceful settlement is not only a means of protecting the weak, it is also a practical means of placing on an equal footing nations that are unequal in power.
184. Accordingly, we consider it desirable to make a specific proposal concerning judicial jurisdiction. Under Article 93, paragraph 1, of the Charter, "all Members of the United Nations are ipso facto parties to the Statute of the International Court of Justice". However, of the large number of Member States, as of 16 June 1964 — when the latest Yearbook of the Court was published — only thirty-eight had recognized as compulsory the jurisdiction of the Court. In addition, only thirty-eight cases were submitted to the Court between 1946 and 1964.
185. There is obviously a reluctance to submit disputes to the International Court. The Organization cannot, however, allow such a situation to continue. Therefore, my Government is proposing a treaty that will deal with certain reservations expressed by States in accepting as compulsory the jurisdiction of the Court under Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statue. This was the method adopted in the proposals put forward by New Zealand and Venezuela at the United Nations Conference on International Organization, held at San Francisco in 1945.
186. The draft treaty could be prepared on the following lines: the States parties to the treaty would recognize as compulsory the jurisdiction of the Court in all legal disputes concerning:
(a) The interpretation of a treaty;
(b) Any question of international law;
(c) The existence of any fact which, if established, would constitute a breach of an international obligation;
(d) The nature of extent of the reparation to be made for the breach of an international obligation.
187. Unless expressly recognized by the parties in respect of each dispute, such jurisdiction would not be exercised in the following cases:
(1) Disputes concerning questions which, in accordance with international law, come within the domestic jurisdiction of States.
(2) Disputes where the parties have agreed or are about to agree to have recourse to one or other of the means of peaceful settlement provided for in Article 33 of the Charter of the United Nations.
(3) Disputes in respect of which the Security Council or the General Assembly of the United Nations is exercising the functions provided for in the Charter.
(4) Disputes arising prior to the signing of the treaty or those relating to facts or situations antedating the treaty.
188. For this reason, we warmly welcomed the United Kingdom's request [A/5964] this year for the inclusion in the agenda of an item entitled "Peaceful settlement of disputes", calling for abroad study of the problem,, whose programme should be established in the light of the discussion of the item by the General Assembly.
189. Once again the attention of the Assembly is drawn to economic problems. In spite of all hopes and efforts, we have not made much progress in the economic development of countries, which has been described as one of the most urgent and fundamental objectives. This leads to the belief that there is still some lack of interest in the development of countries and that attention has been concentrated instead on the prevention of military conflicts. In other words, it would appear that some are of the opinion that under-development is not an active factor that can lead to aggression and breach of the peace, although it is well known that it is.
190. We are concerned at the continuing economic and social imbalances in vast areas of the world, but we are even more concerned at the fact that in recent years these differences have become more marked in both absolute and relative terms. This trend can be seen in the evolution of international and national events and is substantiated by statistics, although the latter must of necessity be incomplete since they refer to a very recent period. There are of course some happy exceptions. Argentina may be one of them, but my Government does not view the problem selfishly from the standpoint of its own interests but rather with concern for the interests of all.
191. As I said, the problem of development has become more serious. I would be remiss in performing my duty arising from my Government concern for peace and justice in the world if I failed to assure the General Assembly of the Argentine people's solidarity with those peoples and to appeal to the Organization to redouble its efforts of national and international co-operation in the economic and social fields.
192. Let us look at the figures and compare the situation of the developing countries during the first five years of the United Nations Development Decade with the 1950-1960 decade and with the developed countries’ figures. As regards production, in terms of the rate of increase in gross product, per capita, the outlook is even more unfavourable owing to the growth of population of the developing countries. Between 1955 and 1960, the demographic growth rate was 2.3 per cent, but in the last few years the figure has risen to 2.5 per cent. In the developed countries, on the other hand, the figure has remained constant at 1.3 per cent. In other words, whereas during the second half of the 1950-1960 decade the rate of increase in gross product per capita in both groups of countries was 2 per cent, it has recently risen to 3 per cent in the developed countries, while it has dropped to 1.5 per cent in the developing countries.
193. As regards agricultural production, in the case of the developing countries the increase was less in the first half of the present decade than in the second half of the 1950-1960 decade, despite a slight improvement in 1963-1964. There is thus an increasing discrepancy between the world's food needs — which increase as the population increases — and its food production.
194. I would remind you that when the post-war international system was being planned, the first meeting to be held, on the original initiative of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, was the one which met in May 1943, at Hot Springs, to establish the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), because of the importance which the President of the United States attached to food production.
195. The World Food Programme clearly has not solved any of the outstanding problems. The conclusions of FAO as published in a recent report may be summarized as follows:
(a) Within a few years, a large section of mankind will lack adequate nutrition;
(b) An increasing amount of the world’s food production will not be distributed through normal channels, owing to insufficient purchasing power in the developing countries;
(c) For essentially technological reasons and as a result of economic under-development, the domestic production of a large number of developing countries will be incapable of meeting those needs which will increase considerably, owing to population growth; it is estimated that the population of those countries will have increased by 56 per cent by the end of 1980.
196. All those considerations have led the Argentine Government to reorient its policies. In recent years, Argentina, an efficient food-producing country, has constantly had to face protectionism, subsidies and unfair competition from other countries. It has therefore been fully justified in calling upon all concerned, and the developed countries in particular, at every possible opportunity, to take steps to ensure that their agricultural policies do not impede the expansion of the agricultural production of the temperate-zone countries. It does so not only because it knows that such methods are incompatible with the principles of international trade so frequently cited in GATT, but also because of its concern that the continuation of such practices will discourage an expansion of the agricultural economies of the temperate-zone countries, for that will lead, sooner or later, to a reduction in the world's supply of essential foodstuffs.
197. While continuing to uphold these views, the Argentine Government put forward at the Alta Gracia meeting convened in March 1964 by the Inter- American Economic and Social Council, and again at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, a proposal for a world food fund to replace the World Food Programme. This proposal is intended primarily to solve the problem of hunger that affects countless millions of human beings. The basic principles of the fund would be as follows:
(a) The activities undertaken would be multilateral in character. The fund would assume the responsibilities now borne by those countries granting bilateral food aid. Any continuing bilateral aid would have to be co-ordinated with the fund’s activities.
(b) Participation in the fund would be universal. For this purpose, the participating countries would be divided into four groups: first, developing countries that lack adequate food supplies and have inadequate purchasing power; secondly, developing countries able to export foodstuffs; thirdly, industrial countries with food surpluses; and fourthly, industrial countries which import food.
(c) The resources of the fund would consist of contributions in cash or kind, depending on the group to which the country in question belonged.
(d) To achieve its aim of large-scale operations, the fund would be considerably larger than the present Programme.
(e) The fund’s activities on behalf of a recipient country would come to an end when the country's level of economic development allowed it to satisfy its needs by market means.
(f) The system would be reviewed in five-years' time.
198. Turning to other comparative data, I might mention that in industrial production a more marked advance has taken place in the developing countries, compensation for the agricultural situation. At the same time it should be noted that while a growth rate of 8.1 per cent was recorded in the second half of the 1950-1960 decade, the corresponding figure for the period 1960-1964 was only 7 per cent. Meanwhile, the advanced countries have shown an increase in both fields by comparison with the figures for the previous decade.
199. The trade picture is no brighter. The total value of exports from the developing countries rose from $27,400 million in 1960 to $34,000 million in 1964 — a growth rate of 5.6 per cent, which is almost double the rate for the period 1955-1960. However, during the same period, the developed market economy countries showed a growth rate of 8.3 per cent, while the countries with planned economies achieved a rate of 7.5 per cent.
200. The developed market economy countries increased their trade from $82,800 million in 1960 to $113,000 million in 1964 while the planned economies increased theirs from $15,000 million to $20,000 million during the same period. Thus in world trade the growth of the developing countries fell below the average for other areas, and their share in over-all trade declined from 26 per cent in 1955 to 22 per cent in 1960, and to a bare 20 per cent in 1964.
201. With regard to financial assistance, according to information supplied by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the flow of long-term private capital to the developing countries had flowed down by the end of the 1950-1960 decade in relation to the early post-war years. Although such assistance picked up a little in 1964, it is still considerably below the 1961 level.
202. The flow of public capital increased from an average of $1,900 million during the period 1950-1955 to $2,800 million in 1956 and to over $5,600 million in 1961. Since then, however, the figure has levelled off and even declined. Although, according to the same source, contributions from the international financial organizations help to improve this situation, since their disbursements exceed the contributions received from the developed countries, it should also be pointed out that the flow in the opposite direction has increased more rapidly as a result of the growing rate of payment on bilateral and multilateral debts.
203. It should be noted that the total servicing of public and private foreign debts, together with other private capital earnings but excluding capital exported by nationals of the developing countries, accounts for one-third of the financial resources transferred to those countries. It may also be worth pointing out that capital exports by nationals of the developing countries are currently estimated to amount to one quarter of the new investment funds received.
204. Furthermore, in view of the fact that the economy of the advanced countries has constantly expanded, the flow of public capital from them to the developing countries has declined in relation to their gross national product from 0.75 per cent in 1961 to 0.59 per cent in 1964; in other words, it is moving further and further away from the 1 per cent goal set for the decade.
205. From the institutional standpoint, it may be said that, in the last few years—despite the progress which has been made and the untiring efforts of Mr. Prebish, Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development — the hopes of the developing countries have not been realized.
206. A new approach to trade and development, consisting of a minimum adaptation of GATT to the needs of the developing countries, was approved by that body and has now been submitted for ratification by the parliaments of Member States. The "Kennedy Hound", on the other hand, is progressing extremely slowly. In agricultural production, the industrial countries, and particularly the members of the European Economic Community, have not changed their attitude towards protectionism, which is unjust and harmful to the legitimate interests of the efficient food-producing countries. In the industrial field it is still not clear whether the developing countries will receive preferential treatment in accordance with the Principles approved by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
207. The fact that the institutions approved at the last session of the General Assembly, following the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, are not progressing as rapidly as had been hoped, has given rise to concern. Greater co-operation is needed from the advanced countries. We were greatly encouraged by the remarks made by the Secretary-General, U Thant, at the opening of the second session of the Trade and Development Board.
208. The meetings so far held of the Special Committee on Preferences, the Committee on Commodities, and the expert groups on trade in commodities and manufactures have had little practical effect in view of the continuing apathy of the developed countries.
209. The Argentine Government considers that in order to make their work more practical and to prepare more efficiently for the next Conference, the Trade and Development Board and its Committees should, during 1966, prepare a draft trade and development charter to fill the vacuum left in international economic co-operation since the Havana Charter was virtually abandoned. The new charter should, logically, take into account the latest ideas on which a fairer system of economic co-operation between all countries of the world must be based.
210. However, while it is essential to bring about a more equitable distribution of world income and a better system of international trade, it is no less important to revise the monetary system in order to take due account of the pathetic realities of underdevelopment.
211. Consequently, if the monetary system is to be revised, both the views of the advanced countries and those of the developing countries must be taken into consideration. It would be a grave mistake to attempt to dictate monetary laws for the entire world from within a small group of countries. It would be even more misguided to think that the developing economies should obey monetary doctrines which the advanced economies did; not follow in their own initial stages. It should also be borne in mind that the developing countries are not so much concerned with deciding which should be the reserve currencies as with their own ability to obtain them at any time. Obviously if non-liquidity is maintained for this purpose, the question of which reserve instruments are used is of no account.
212. The situation I have outlined clearly shows that not only have living conditions for more than 1,500 million human beings afflicted with poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy not improved; they have in fact further deteriorated. Furthermore, this social situation clearly gives rise to a political insecurity which is spreading throughout the world. Thus the efforts made to secure international and regional military protection against aggression will prove inadequate unless we also make a resolute attempt to ensure the economic and social security of each national community.
213. As President Illia stated when he took over the reins of government, in order to universalize peace we must universalize development. Under-development is to subversion, whether internal or external, as fuel is to flames. This is why the Argentine Government has suggested the institutionalization, on an American regional basis of economic and social security. We believe that the United Nations can make a world-wide and regional contribution to this end.
214. We regard economic security as that combination of policies, actions and measures which will bring about conditions for the free economic development of the State. That security is based on such factors as a sustained increase in the gross national product, national capital formation, an adequate level of exports, a flow of public and private capital to complement national savings, the development of basic industries and an economic infra-structure, and access to the latest advances in science and technology.
215. When, for reasons unrelated to the national effort, all or some of these factors are affected in such a way as to endanger conditions for the free development of a State’s economy, its economic security would be regarded as threatened and it would be entitled to ask for collective assistance from the appropriate regional body.
216. All Member States would undertake to grant the assistance required of them and to comply with the decisions adopted by the competent body. They would also undertake not to adopt policies which might jeopardize the economic security of other Member States.
217. With the active sense of responsibility of a country committed to the cause of democracy, to the cause of its continent and to the cause of the world, my Government wishes, through me to voice its concern. At the same time it has sought to cooperate with the United Nations in the search for ways to solve all our problems. We have made certain suggestions, but I emphasize our readiness to serve the United Nations in any other way.
218. We have been told that in dealing with the troubled situation confronting us at the present session we shall be assisted by the devout and unprecedented presence in our midst of His Holiness Pope Paul VI. With the enlightenment of his faith, the experience of his sanctity and the authority of his Oecumenical Pontificate, we shall be strengthened invincibly in our work, which he will surely bless and for whose ultimate triumph he will intercede with God.

===== Session 21 - 1966 =====

117.     Mr. President, let me begin by congratulating you on your unanimous election to the office of President and by wishing you every success In your conduct of the debates at this important session of the General Assembly.

118.    Argentina Is attending the present session of the United Nations General Assembly at a very crucial juncture in its history. A nation which Is unswervingly dedicated to peace and liberty has decided to become the master of Its own destiny. This means the modernization of its institutions and a firm determination to avail itself of the most up-to-date facilities in order to achieve a high level of technological development and the greatest possible economic efficiency, It also requires a profound social sense which will enable all Argentinians to share In the material well-being and in the benefits of knowledge and culture. This genuinely revolutionary process epitomizes the will of a people which is prepared to change the present in order to build a more prosperous and befitting future.

119.    For many long years we beheld our homeland threatened with prostration as the legitimate hopes of many of its children were being frustrated. Meanwhile, around us, by contrast other nations were successfully healing their wounds, forging ahead or vigorously attaining their independence. The sole reason for the Argentine revolution — and its sole purpose — is to raise our country to a level of development commensurate with its responsibilities and with the opportunities that the contemporary world has to offer, to reaffirm the principle of authority, to restore order, to establish an efficient, modern and dynamic administration and, above all, to ensure that all the Inhabitants of its territory enjoy the benefits of freedom and security,

120.    The Government which sent me here is well aware that public Institutions must be the genuine product of the society which they are intended to govern. The more truly rooted they are in the nation's life, the more lasting they will be and the more capable of upholding and consolidating civil liberty.

121.    My country, as an integral part of the western world, Is determined to defend the values of a civilization based on respect for man as a being whose liberty is inalienable. The defence of this principle will always unite us with those countries which, within their own frontiers and In the world at large, are striving to create conditions which will ensure that liberty and respect for the human person, regardless of race or creed, do not remain empty words but become an every-day reality.

122.    The different human communities must be Independent if our civilization Is to be sound. This independence finds expression, at the Individual level, in man's freedom, and also in the free play of intermediate communities and of families within the State, and, at the international level, in national self-determination. That is why Argentina reaffirms once again its freedom to determine its own foreign policy as a sovereign and autonomous nation. It also believes that the world Organization must recognize the existence of intermediate groupings of States, such as the regional associations in which the nations directly concerned may try to find solutions to regional problems as countries sharing common features and linked by special historical and cultural bonds of long standing. Any action in this regard, however, clearly must be carried out under the United Nations Charter.

123.    These principles of liberty and international solidarity faithfully reflect the concerns and beliefs of our people. They are clearly proclaimed and recognized in the United Nations Charter. The Argentine Government reaffirms its allegiance to them and is convinced that If they are properly applied they can serve as a basis for closer international cooperation and the maintenance of a sure and lasting peace.

124.    International peace and security are the prime objectives of the United Nations, but peace will not come from weakness or cowardice but from strength and courage in defending the principles which make it possible.

125.    I now wish to refer to some of the questions on which the interest and attention of this session of the General Assembly are focused.

126.    But before doing so, I wish, on behalf of my country, to welcome a new State which has recently become a Member of the United Nations: Guyana. This is a particular pleasure for me since Argentina had the honour to co-sponsor, in the Security Council, the resolution recommending the entry of this American country.

127.    This session will have to deal with the serious problem created by the fact that the end of the Secretary-General's term of office is drawing nigh. U Thant recently made public Ms views on this matter, especially In his statement of 1 September. My Government sincerely hopes that our Secretary-General, who has given ample proof of his skill in guiding this complex international Organization, will remain in his post. He deserves the unconditional endorsement of all Member States. We trust that such manifest and express support will have a favourable effect on his final decision.

128.    Argentina is awestruck by the course that the armed conflict in South-East Asia is taking. This tragic conflagration, kindled by ambitions which are opposed to the emergence of a society based on respect for human dignity and freedom, constitutes a dangerous threat to International, peace. It is therefore a particular pleasure for my country to welcome the urgent appeal made by His Holiness Pope Paul VI in a recent Encyclical which brings him Into our midst here once again. The Encyclical Christi Matri Rosary has clearly shown how very pressing Is the moral obligation incumbent upon Governments to maintain the peace and security of the human family.

129.    In this Assembly we have already heard voices raised in response to this appeal from Rome, Because of the role played by his country in the conflict, we attribute particular importance to the statement made by the representative of the United States, Ambassador Goldberg, putting forward very specific proposals in the search for peace. Countries which, like mine, anxiously hope for the solution of this problem, consider these proposals to be a definite step forward.

130.    We hope that in the course of the present debate we will hear many other constructive opinions and proposals, especially from those Governments which bear prime responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, and from the countries of the region for which the peaceful settlement of the present dispute is a matter of life and death. The Argentine Government, for its part, accepts this responsibility and is prepared to contribute to this great endeavour which is one of the most urgent confronting mankind at the present time.

131.    The international situation, which the Secretary-General describes so accurately and dramatically in the introduction to his annual report [A/6301/Add.1], prompts us to reaffirm our conviction that it is the duty of the United Nations to make a very definite contribution towards the maintenance of international peace and security.

132.    To attain this aim, we need a strong Organization, supported by all Member States, efficient in its work and respectful of the San Francisco Charter, which, in spite of the passage of time, is as much in force today as it was in 1945.

133.    Many international problems have changed since then, but there is one which has been with us for two decades and which I cannot fail to mention: the existence of a divided Germany, We support the right of the Federal Republic of Germany to represent the entire German people as an indivisible nation,

134.    There is one subject to which my country attributes cardinal and decisive importance: the Malvinas Islands, And this is the proper time to express our gratitude for the massive support given in the United Nations to the Argentine position on this matter.

135.    The report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples was adopted by General Assembly resolution 2105 (XX) without a dissenting vote. The same thing happened at the twentieth plenary session of the General Assembly with the adoption of resolution 2065 (XX) which, on the basis of resolution 1514 (XV), reaffirms the aim of "bringing to an end everywhere colonialism in all Its forms, one of which covers the case of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)".

136.    The General Assembly, noting the existence of a dispute between Argentina and the United Kingdom concerning sovereignty over the said islands, Invited the Government of both countries to proceed with negotiations with a view to finding a peaceful solution to the problem.

137.    The visit paid by the Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom, Mr. Michael Stewart, to my country this year provided an opportunity for the formal opening of talks. On that occasion it was agreed to proceed immediately with the negotiations, using either the diplomatic channel or any other methods to be agreed upon in order to fulfil this important purpose.

138.    During the month of July the negotiations continued through the diplomatic channel, and during these negotiations my Government submitted to the United Kingdom a note claiming that this territory should be returned and placing on record our earnest desire to guarantee and protect the interests of the inhabitants of the Islands by affording them particularly favourable conditions for their future.

139.    The notes submitted by Argentina [A/6261 and Add.l] and the United Kingdom [A/6262 and Add.1] to the Secretary-General describe these talks and indicate that it is intended to continue them in October of this year,

140.    My country is confident that this dispute will be definitively settled in the shortest possible time and that we can soon inform the General Assembly that the peaceful and permanent solution called for in resolution 2065 (XX) has been reached. The question of the Malvinas Islands is of a substantive nature for Argentina because it involves its sovereignty over part of its territory, and this explains certain individual attitudes which have repercussions in the media of information. But despite this Argentina, faithful to Its historic tradition, is endeavouring to solve the problem by peaceful means and through negotiations.

141.    The Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples continues to be progressively implemented and the results already achieved, or to be achieved in the immediate future, constitute one of the most constructive accomplishments of the United Nations. The work in this field is of a continuing nature; sometimes it consists of assisting new countries to attain independence, at other times of setting forth the problems on the road to independence, and at still other times of promoting the peaceful settlement of disputes or claims over territories under colonial rule, In this regard, we would like to recall resolution 2070 (XX) on Gibraltar because of the close bonds that unite my country with Spain, whose causes are our causes and whose legitimate rights we therefore support.

142.    Argentina reaffirms its support of the process of decolonization on which the United Nations has embarked and is ready to offer its contribution for its complete success. We wish, however, to point out our hope that careful attention will be given to certain elementary conditions for the effective existence of these new nations.

143.    World organizations are devoting increasing attention to economic matters. All aspects of international economic co-operation are particularly important to Argentina. And this is so for two main reasons. The first is that our country is situated in the temperate zone of the southern hemisphere and its great capacity to produce the items peculiar to that climate make it particularly vulnerable to anything which disturbs the smooth operation of the buying and selling markets. The second is the fact that we are in the midst of an industrialization process which we must continue, consolidate and raise to a high level of efficiency so that we can integrate our economy and participate more fully in international trade in manufactured goods.

144.    It must be borne in mind that every process of international collaboration and co-operation in this field — and, moreover, every attempt at economic integration among States — should be undertaken in such a way as not to interfere with the attainment of each nation's own goals, which are inalienable.

145.    There are four aspects which demand special attention: reform of the international monetary system, financial assistance to the developing countries, international trade, and food aid.

146.    Argentina is in favour of an immediate increase in the number of experts who are now engaged in discussing the reform of the international monetary system. It is urgently necessary to ensure that countries in the same position as Argentina participate in meetings of concern to them as members of the monetary system now in force. We are gratified to note that this view is shared by the International Monetary Fund and, very recently, by some developed countries.

147.    We also deem it essential, as regards financial assistance to the developing countries, to accelerate and increase the flow of long-term public and private investment capital. It is noteworthy that the coefficients of investment have remained at a standstill, as compared with those of previous years, and that they have declined in relation to the levels of the period 1955-1961.

148.    The third subject — international trade — is certainly of major importance if genuine and fruitful international economic co-operation is to become a reality.

149.    In spite of the effort involved in the creation of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, we cannot fail to note and recognize that the objectives originally set up for the Conference have not been fulfilled.

150.    It will be for this session of the General Assembly to determine the date and place of the second United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. This will be a further attempt to find solutions, a new opportunity to put to test the political will of States to take practical and constructive steps.

151.    In undertaking this new responsibility, it is essential to make sure that the preparations and programme for the Conference are focused on a limited number of questions so that the practical solutions which we earnestly desire may be forthcoming.

152.    The result of the second Conference will depend on the effort devoted to this preparatory work. If this work is not done properly, the Argentine Government doubts whether the conclusions that may be
reached will be of any value and, indeed, whether there will be any point in convening the Conference.

153.    Again with respect to this question of trade relations at the international level, brief reference should be made to other equally important aspects of the problem.

154.    The series of trade negotiations conducted under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade — GATT — the so-called "Kennedy Round" — has entered its last lap. Argentina in playing an active part in this meeting, believes it to be highly important and hopes to become a full member of GATT.

155.    We note with alarm the strong protectionist trend which is becoming more marked in the industrialized countries, especially as regards the agricultural sector. This — and let it be clearly understood — does not imply that we are questioning the right of every country to look after its own interests. What we advocate is that an effort should be directed towards combining these interests with those of other countries.

156.    We will spare no effort to initiate a fruitful phase of negotiations with the industrialized countries in general, and with the European Economic Community in particular, so that all interests at stake can be taken into account and suitable co-ordination achieved.

157.    This analysis of the main aspects of international economic co-operation would not be complete if I omitted to mention the fact, in connexion with the World Food Programme, that it was Argentina which proposed, at the appropriate time, the establishment of a World Food Fund. This initiative of ours led to recommendation A.II.6 of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, and subsequently to General Assembly resolution 2096 (XX). The latter provides for the preparation of a report on multilateral food aid which, as the Secretary-General pointed out at the forty-first session of the Economic and Social Council, is certainly one of the most expedient and challenging mandates ever assigned to him by the Organization, The problem of hunger in the world distresses Argentina as it distresses other countries and, being aware of our responsibility, we intend to do our utmost to find a solution.

158.    We trust that these subjects will lead to studies and decisions that are free from the prejudices which have hitherto seriously impeded multilateral action and that, when the time comes to take specific action, the international community can count on the firm resolve of its members to find constructive solutions to the increasingly pressing problems of hunger in the world. The Argentine Republic looks forward to the time when it can gear its enormous food production capacity to meet the needs of the hungry areas under a system which guarantees adequate incentives.

159.    Argentina has a legal tradition of long standing which dates back to the early years of its independence. The fight for the organization of our nation may be construed as the search for a juridical structure consonant with our country's needs

160.    This faith in the law has spread beyond our frontiers into the world at large. Argentine jurists like Amancio Aloorta, Luis Marfa Drago and Carlos Calvo, have, through their knowledge and intelligence, helped to establish the rule of law in our continent and have formulated doctrines and principles which have guided the international relations of our peoples,

161.    Argentina strongly supports the United Kingdom initiative on the peaceful settlement of disputes on the basis of the fundamental principles of international law.

162.    Argentina has every confidence and will lend its support to any effort to maintain peace through law. We have faith in the triumph of intelligence because we have faith in man. All our efforts to progress technologically and to harness nature rationally will be meaningless if we forget man, with all his limitations but with all the spiritual wealth he naturally enjoys as an ontologically free being, as the all-important being, capable of overcoming the circumstances of his environment and of thus determining his own destiny.

163.    We open our doors to all the triumphs of technology, because we know that the harnessing of nature, the continuing process of "humanizing" it, is a sine qua non of modern Living. But we also try not to be the victims of a depersonalized technology, in which the means become the end. And just as, in the case of man, no radical distinction can be made between the purely material and the purely spiritual because each human being has both his intelligence and his senses, we are also convinced that no lasting form of culture can exist unless the use It makes of material things has a spiritual basis.

164.    We Argentinians believe that we have shown ourselves to be a nation with a deep sense of spiritual values, a nation whose conduct therefore has always been characterized by friendly co-operation, the desire for peaceful and harmonious relations with all peoples of the globe. We wish faithfully to fulfil our nation's need to promote the well-being and greatness of the human family and to make available to it the benefits of our peace, of our technical and scientific progress, and of a culture which has enriched mankind.

165.    It could be said that the Argentina of today, to quote the words of Tacitus, is "res olim dissociabiles miscuit principatum ad libertatem".

===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
1. Mr. President, I must first of all congratulate you on your unanimous election to the office of President of the twenty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly and wish you every success in your work at this important session of the General Assembly.
2. I should like to say once again how satisfied and pleased my delegation was with the intelligent and objective way in which Mr. Pazhwak, of Afghanistan, conducted the difficult discussions in this General Assembly during its last sessions.
3. Argentina is attending this General Assembly imbued with the best spirit of collaboration and is prepared to take part in the various discussions with the firm determination to show solidarity and understanding in connexion with the various problems that, to a greater or lesser extent, are causing the Members of our Organization concern. Some of these questions are of such a serious nature that they have endangered world peace throughout the past year and are still doing so. I refer not only to the armed struggle going on in various parts of the world, but also to the incitement to violence and subversion which is trying to undermine the stability of the international order. It is true that the balance among the nations has always been precarious and unstable, but today there is more danger than ever that this precarious balance will degenerate into universal frustration.
4. I should like to speak first about the items that are of most interest to international public opinion and that are more relevant for my country's foreign policy and I shall leave the question of the Malvinas, whose importance for my Government and my people is obvious, to the last.
5. Viet-Nam has lived under the shadow of war for twenty-five years and has become a centre of confrontation of international political interests. In the present phase, this confrontation goes beyond the strict geographical and national limits within which the events are taking place and has given rise to a military conflict so serious as to endanger the peace of the world.
6. While the leaders of certain countries persist in their subversive action and incite and encourage violence, movements of force, which are no other than the defensive reaction to this attitude, will be the logical and inevitable consequence. In these circumstances, my delegation supports all the efforts designed to bring peace to the region, founded on sound political bases that will enable the peoples of South-East Asia to live free from threats.
7. The consideration of this problem by the United Nations will offer a new opportunity to find ways leading to a final settlement of this long conflict. Moreover, we think that in the present circumstances it would not be reasonable for the world Organization that was especially created to preserve international peace and security to stand aloof from what is so obviously a breakdown of peace and security. Lastly, my delegation thinks that the basic objective should be to establish a balance in South-East Asia and that to do so it is necessary to bring about a progressive limitation of the area of armed confrontation through mutual de-escalation.
8. The problem of the Middle East has caused, and still causes, the Argentine delegation much concern. The course of the discussions that took place during the recent emergency special session of the General Assembly and the scanty agreement that was reached there allows us to think that this problem is at a particularly critical stage of its evolution. It is true that all Member States, and more especially those directly concerned, are making a real effort to find an effective way of bringing the situation to an end. Such a situation not only imperils the tranquility of an extraordinarily complete geographical area but is a challenge to the ability of our Organization as an instrument for bringing about a peaceful international order, based on law and justice.
9. In short, it is a twofold problem: on the one hand, we find the Assembly sharply divided on the question and consequently going through a particularly difficult period; on the other hand, the situation in the area in which the confrontation took place is so precarious and unstable that it is not difficult to predict that at any moment there could be fresh armed clashes there.
10. The picture that I have painted is certainly gloomy and should cause pessimistic reflections. Nevertheless, we think that the geographical characteristics and the political and racial circumstances of the region must necessarily dissuade either of the parties from trying to gain supremacy and should, on the contrary, encourage them to seek a suitable system of balance of interests, which implies a balance of mutual concessions.
11. As we have already said, it would be possible to achieve peace, starting with the withdrawal of troops from the occupied zones and the termination of the state of belligerency. This is the first step on the way to final peace. We also, and consequently, think that it is necessary for the General Assembly to make a fresh study of the question, with a view to adopting effective decisions along these lines that will make it possible to bring the various interests into harmony and to lay the foundations for final peace.
12. From the moment that hostilities broke out, my country in particular, as a member of the Security Council, and the group of Latin American countries in general have been working hard to obtain a ceasefire, first of all, and then an agreement to work out a true peace. The position taken by the Latin American group was both morally and legally sound. It acted calmly and objectively and did not ask either of the parties to make any undue concessions, nor did it make any demands of them that were not consistent with the normal requirements for post-war settlements. We reaffirm once again our faith in the Latin American position and we persist in that position, because we think that through it the parties could attain the goal that they are seeking. This position was always designed to obtain reciprocal military and spiritual disarmament. And we still think that that is the only sure basis for future understanding.
13. The situation of Jerusalem is of particular concern to us, for reasons that I explained in the General Assembly at the appropriate time. The resolutions adopted by the General Assembly must be respected by Member States. We hope that Israel will repeal the measures it enacted on the status of that city and will refrain from any other action in that direction, as was asked of it in General Assembly resolutions 2253 (ES-V) and 2254 (ES-V).
14. We also wish to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for the assiduity with which he concerned himself, through the despatch of a special representative, with the protection, well-being and security of the inhabitants of the zones which had been the scene of military operations, as also with the scrupulous respect for the humanitarian principles governing the treatment of prisoners of war, as was requested of him in Security Council resolution 237 (1967) and in General Assembly resolution 2252 (ES-V), which my delegation had the honour to sponsor.
15. There is one problem that has existed since the end of the Second World War and that we cannot fail to mention, since it creates international tension and concerns the happiness and the future of a whole people. The division of Germany, which has not been overcome in the last two decades, has estranged the members of one and the same family and has artificially imposed a state of affairs that runs counter to the most genuine desires of a nation. It must be recognized that the Federal Republic of Germany has made every effort both to facilitate a solution to this specific problem and to diminish the general tension in the world, and in these efforts it has sacrificed doctrinary principles that up to a few years ago were the foundations of its international policy. Argentina urges the peace-loving nations to give their support in the quest for a final solution to this problem.
16. In the economic sphere, Argentina has set itself a basic objective: the establishment of an economic and social system that will stimulate and develop individual initiative, efforts and freedoms and thus promote the competence and progress of the whole community, Argentina wants to achieve an increasingly intensive development of its commercial, industrial and financial relations in an atmosphere of solidarity that will make it possible to attain the common good of all nations.
17. The resolute, lively and vigorous activity of the industrial nations from the year 1945 onwards in laying the foundations of international co-operation was undoubtedly the most outstanding feature of the post-war period. Now that this first stage of international co-operation has been completed with the recovery of the European nations that had been devastated by the war, the backward condition and increasing weakness of the countries which have become known as the developing countries has begun to acquire dramatic significance.
18. The specific object of the Development Decade proclaimed by the United Nations is to eliminate the inequality in the wealth and the rate of progress among nations. Our country has supported this movement of international solidarity with faith and enthusiasm. Nevertheless, we do not think it is going too far to say that today, when the Development Decade is entering its last stage, the gap between the industrialized countries and the developing countries, in all the matters by which economic progress is measured, is tending to increase and not to diminish. The Argentine Republic is well aware that the main effort to close this gap and to overcome backwardness must be made by the developing countries themselves. The Argentine Republic is well aware that, in the last resort, it is each State that has the major responsibility and the most specific obligation.
19. The Argentine Government has adopted a series of economic, social and educational measures designed to modernize its structures and thus to make it possible to speed up its growth rate. But within this activity my country is giving as much importance to adjusting the machinery for improving the terms of its foreign trade as to the amendment and improvement of the provisions that affect the sources of the resources that help its balance of payments, such as freightage, insurance and tourism.
20. But this national effort, which each country can and must make, needs to be supplemented by international co-operation. His Holiness Pope Paul VI rightly drew attention to this, in unequivocal terms, when he stated in the Encyclical Populorum Progressio that it is necessary to seek concrete and practical means of organization and co-operation in order to make the existing resources available to all and thus to achieve a true communion among the nations. This duty, said Pope Paul VI, concerns primarily the most privileged of the nations. And this co-operation must include, in the first place, the promotion of more equitable opportunities in order to allow of a suitable expansion of the foreign trade of the developing countries. Such expansion is a necessary condition for increasing the growth rate of those countries. The intensification of the transfer of financial and technological resources is a complementary, but very important, aspect of that co-operation.
21. The present situation shows how little has been achieved, both in the matter of trade and in financial and technical matters. Even admitting the benefits that have been received within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (QATT) through the Kennedy Round, many highly industrialized countries still have tariff walls and other qualitative restrictions which are an obstacle to the entry of raw materials from the developing countries.
22. This situation runs counter to the fundamental standards upon which the process of liberalization of trade should rest. For this purpose, the establishment of a realistic system of preferences to promote the export of manufactures and semi-manufactures from the developing countries to the consumer markets of the highly industrialized countries would be of great advantage for improving the situation of the developing countries.
23. More than three years after the first United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the nations are preparing to attend the second session of UNCTAD, to be held at New Delhi in 1968, where they will have an opportunity for a joint discussion of matters of economic, commercial and financial importance. Argentina hopes that on this occasion it will be possible to arrive at effective formulas or principles for the solution of various aspects of the many problems that may be included in the agenda.
24. Technological development is today perhaps the subject that is of supreme and genuine interest to the world. There can be no progress without technology. There can be no development without technology. There can be no possibility of genuine and complete well-being without technical knowledge. Scientific research and technological development are advancing at an exceptionally rapid rate these days and it is therefore necessary here and now to formulate the plans and adopt the necessary decisions to ensure that this development of science and technology is co-ordinated among the countries of different levels of living in order to prevent its becoming a new source of disputes instead of bringing welfare and progress. We consequently think that we should try to bring about the transfer of scientific knowledge in all urgency and should see that the exchange of technological knowledge is speeded up.
25. All this, however, is not enough. It is also necessary to form new nuclei of research and new centres for the promotion of technology in the areas which are becoming industrially conscious. The United Nations has a fundamental mission in this field which may be decisive. It has four instruments for the task: the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, the United Nations Institute for Training and Research and the Advisory Committee on the Application of Science and Technology to Development.
26. It is impossible to over-emphasize the Importance of this item today for my delegation and for all the countries in the same situation as mine. For that reason I think that it is the duty of the highly industrialized countries to make a great effort to enable those organizations to fulfil the functions that were assigned to them in the instruments setting them up.
27. Argentina is prepared to play an active part in this fundamental part of modern life. Hence it cannot agree that nuclear research, and above all the exploitation of the atom for peaceful purposes, is the exclusive right of a few countries. The Argentine Republic wishes to reaffirm once again its firm support of any instrument preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons which is properly drawn up and which reflects an acceptable balance of mutual responsibilities and obligations between nuclear and non-nuclear Powers. And on this subject I have the honour to inform the Assembly today that Argentina has adhered to the Treaty of Tlatelolco on this subject, which was signed by the Latin American nations at Mexico City. No agreement on this subject, however, can restrict the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. If our countries were to renounce this possibility, it would mean that they wore accepting a new type of dependence and subordination.
28. Lastly, I wish to refer to two items that are of special concern to my delegation and that I could not fail to mention before this Assembly. Throughout the history of its foreign policy, Argentina has been particularly emphatic in upholding the principle of nonintervention. It has supported and defended that principle vigorously and has obeyed it punctiliously. In the United Nations, my country supported and voted in favour of General Assembly resolutions 2131 (XX) and 2225 (XXI) and has complied with them.
29. To my great regret, however, I must refer today, in this Assembly, to the violations of that principle that there have been since the last session. In recent days we have witnessed specific and definite violations of this principle which, having been duly confirmed, were severely condemned at the Twelfth Meeting of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Organization of American States, held at Washington in June 1967. These violations consisted in the instigation and organization of subversive activities, terrorism and other forms of intervention designed to change the regime of another State by violence.
30. Argentina feels obliged to express once more the concern with which it views these violations and to draw attention vigorously to the extent to which they are disturbing the peace of America and obstructing the normal course of the tasks and activities necessary for the attainment of general well-being and the progress of its nations. Argentina has not tolerated and will not tolerate these violations and will denounce them whenever it deems necessary in the forums that it considers competent.

31. There is one objective of Argentine policy that has permanent and undisputed priority: to procure as soon as possible the full exercise of Argentine sovereignty in the Malvinas. No subject is of more importance to us, there is no objective that stirs my people more, no task that can call forth greater sacrifices from them. The unification of the territory of the Republic is a national imperative and the present Argentine Government is prepared to secure its full realization. In keeping with a tradition of our foreign policy which has never been denied, we have decided to use peaceful means to obtain the settlement of this dispute with the United Kingdom. Having brought the question before the United Nations, we have placed our faith and our hopes in its authority and its ability.
32. The process of decolonization should embrace not only the countries which were the victims of colonial policy hut also those territories which were part of other States and which were occupied by force, their population being replaced by a nucleus of settlers belonging to the occupying Power. This population, which was foreign to the territory, was a cloak for military and political objectives of the great Powers in the nineteenth century.
33. The Argentine Government will in due course provide information on the progress of the negotiations with the United Kingdom, as it told the Secretary-General in its note of 15 December 1966. In any case, Argentina will not relax its efforts until the islands are returned to it.
34. Mutual consideration and respect among States, the absence of any discrimination between men, races or nations and the full exercise of human rights — these are the very basis of peaceful and organized International coexistence and the very essence of the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter, In striving to ensure that these principles are put into effect, we are fighting not only for the life of our Organization but also for the national independence of each one of our States and for the full development of man, Argentina today proclaims these principles once again because it knows that it can only attain the great national objectives through a life of full co-operation in the international community.

===== Session 23 - 1968 =====
107. May I first of all offer a word of greeting to Mr. Emilio Arenales Catalan, whose absence we deeply regret and to whom we sincerely wish a speedy recovery.

108. An eminent Latin American is now President, the highest post in this General Assembly. We all know his intellectual and personal qualifications and so are sure that we shall all receive fair and proper treatment from the Chair. 

109. I am also happy to express the appreciation of my country for the work done by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Romania, Mr. Corneliu Manescu, the President of the twenty-second session of the Assembly, whom we shall very soon have the pleasure of welcoming in Argentina.

110. I should also like to express, on behalf of my Government and my country, our gratification at the admission of the Kingdom of Swaziland to membership of the United Nations and to extend to that country friendly greetings and our best wishes for its independent life.

111. This session is opening in an atmosphere of tension and despondency. The number of problems afflicting the international community is growing continually. Critical situations become chronic and others, just as grave or even more so, follow hard on them. The despondency arises from a marked tendency for countries to forget the principles of the Charter or to proclaim a formal adherence to them with which their subsequent political behaviour is inconsistent.

112. Many of those who have spoken before me have expressed similar concern over the international situation. Now to some extent, that is an encouraging sign. Realization of the problems is the first step in the search for a solution and a clear sign of the concern of Member States to revitalize an organization which, in the difficult post-war years, has rendered invaluable service in preserving the world from fresh general conflict. But today that is not enough and it is becoming increasingly necessary to reflect on the principles that should guide international action.

113. A lot of people have told us recently that the world is now moving towards a reduction in tension, a détente that will safeguard international peace and security permanently. The truth is that, at least until now, all these retrograde attitudes which I have mentioned certainly offer no real basis for true coexistence among nations.

114. For a reduction in tension to be effective, to lead to positive steps towards peace, it must not mean just limited understandings between the great Powers in their own interests. It means, or should mean, the adoption of a standard of international conduct applicable in the general framework of international relations. It is certainly not easy to establish such an attitude, but it is not impossible. First of all, it means respecting the principles and machinery of the United Nations Charter that have so often been forgotten in recent times.

115. But it is not enough merely to recall them, just as the good intention to comply with them is not enough. Good intentions, to have any real moral relevance and practical effect, must be accompanied by a genuine determination to put them into effect.

116. The peace which we need is not a respite between great Power conflicts, a natural consequence of the nuclear equilibrium. Nor is it the mere absence of a conflagration, the sole outcome of which would be the total destruction of the human race. We cannot accept a negative conception of peace, which is all the more deceptive at this time when the only step which appears to be excluded is the possibility of collective suicide.

117. We cannot speak of peace while the principles of our Charter remain a dead letter or old incantations which many take leave to doubt, since peace is incompatible with ignorance, with economic misery, with the blatant imbalance between Member States, with the exclusion of the smaller countries from political responsibility, with the cynical concept of a theoretical equality that is seldom practised, with the monopoly of the benefits of modern science and technology. Détente is, without any doubt, a pressing need for the international community. The fundamental point is that it should not be obtained at the expense of the independence of the countries which are not in the forefront of the process.

118. The nations which form the international community wish to live by their own decisions. This statement is as simple as it is human, as clear as it is easy to prove in practice. Although it may seem superfluous to mention it, it is the very basis of all political action in the international system.

119. Every people wishes to realize its own values, to fulfil its own destiny, to carry through the enterprises it plans, and whatever criticisms may be levelled against this attitude, or however out-of-date it may be declared, it is an undeniable truth that it is a part of the very nature of man.

120. But, the international community obviously cannot be based solely on the desire to safeguard the individual characteristics of Member States. This natural tendency must be harmonized with an active and creative solidarity welded together by the fundamental principle of mutual respect among nations.

121. To a large extent, the United Nations should be the body for channelling efforts to achieve the lasting and close international co-operation which this spirit of solidarity demands. The Organization’s ability to put these principles into practice basically depends on the support it receives from Member States, particularly those which, by virtue of their power, have a greater responsibility. But we specifically wish to point out that all Members should play a dynamic role. It would distort the real meaning of the
Organization and conflict with the purposes proclaimed in the Charter if the role of some states were limited to that of mere onlookers and only the strategic schemes of the great powers were to prevail.

122. Only if we accept these fundamental principles - national diversity and international solidarity — will we be able to tackle the thorny problems of the world of today.

123. International life poses two kinds of problems.

124. The first reflects situations which generate serious international tensions as a consequence of the disregard of the basic principles of coexistence or of a refusal to recognize the great renovating currents flowing through the international community.

125. The second comprises a variety of problems which can only be solved by a genuine joint effort to lay lasting foundations for co-operation between States. And an effort will undoubtedly provide the constituent elements of a new international system. 

126. Both kinds are closely linked. It will be impossible to build the world of tomorrow if we do not solve the problems of today. On the other hand we cannot be satisfied with finding answers to current problems because that would mean abandoning any vision of the future — and our hope of improving the international community.

127. Among problems of the first kind — those which bring tension to the international world — we must mention the situation that has been created in Czechoslovakia. No state may claim the two-fold advantage of security of the juridical order and the indiscriminate use of force for the exclusive benefit of its national interests.

128. In endeavouring to impose its own systems on the development of other national entities, the Soviet Union has attempted to reverse the lessons of history, an attempt which is doomed to failure.

129. In the light of these recent events, we must once again vigorously proclaim the principle of the sovereign equality of all States. This principle continues to be the best guarantee of full and active participation of our peoples in the present-day world. Another principle equal in importance and dear to the hearts of Latin-Americans, provides it natural complement, is the principle of non-intervention. The Soviet Union, which supported General Assembly resolution 2131 (XX), has flagrantly violated the rules therein laid down.

130. The curious dogma of the infallibility of the Soviet concept of socialism — based on strategic ideas rather than political theory — seems to underlie a new theology and we have no doubt that, if Marx came back to life he would find it hard to adjust to this latest orthodoxy. The liberalization of socialism and the need to adapt it to the peculiar characteristics of each country are a necessary consequence of national aspirations which will not be suppressed. The tanks which invaded Czechoslovakia have merely delayed a
process which cannot be halted, and have done so through the application of policies based on obsolete ideas about spheres of influence.

131. There is no necessity to dwell on the analysis of a situation which violates the principles of the Charter and impairs the authority and prestige of the Organization. I must, however, underline once again the need to give lasting effect to the principles of non-intervention, independence and national sovereignty. If a group of States, parties to a multilateral arrangement, assented to the future abandonment of their own jurisdiction to the most powerful State, they would have totally alienated their national potential, and international life would unquestionably thereby lose strength, richness and, above all, security.

132. The situation created in central Europe has brought into relief a problem which is of particular importance for the peace and stability of the area. This is the problem of the dismemberment of one of its countries. The Federal Republic of Germany has spared no efforts to facilitate national reunification. Unfortunately it has not been successful, Common values unite a people which today is artificially divided. What is more, ideological barriers have been erected to restrain this natural process and the
legitimate desire for reunification of a people that has been systematically denied the right to self-determination has been quite wrongly described as "revanchism”. 

133. On earlier occasions, from this platform I have set out Argentina’s position with regard to the tragic conflict in Viet-Nam. I should now like to express my Government’s satisfaction at the opening of diplomatic contacts in Paris. Even though the results up to now have not been encouraging, we nevertheless hope that in the future appropriate solutions will be found or that at least conditions conducive to early solutions will be created. The solutions will only be lasting if they ensure that the Viet-Namese people obtain the right to self-determination in a climate of freedom, and of the proclamation and defence of human values.

134. The problem of the Middle East continues to be of concern to the Argentine delegation. Today, as last year, we appeal to those directly involved to make an honest effort to achieve stable coexistence in the area. This means faithful compliance with all the provisions of Security Council resolution 242 (1967) and all possible support for Ambassador Jarring, Special Representative of the Secretary-General, by the international community. The gravity of the conflict and its repercussions on world peace must make the parties concerned realize that they too have a duty to demonstrate their solidarity and willingness to co-operate with the rest of the international community.

135. One of the most significant movements in the present-day world is the process of decolonization. Argentina has pledged its fullest support to the guiding principles of that process and will continue to do so in the future. We should also like to express our gratitude to the United Nations and in particular, to the Committee of Twenty-Four for the work they have done in that field.

136. Nevertheless, we must express our concern at the continued existence of certain colonial situations which show no signs of evolving favourably, situations such as those in Angola, Mozambique and so-called Portuguese Guinea and that of the régime which illegally holds power in Southern Rhodesia. The maintenance in Namibia of an administration outlawed by General Assembly resolutions and illegal occupation of the Territory is unacceptable to my Government, especially when under that administration attempts are made to introduce a system of local governments which openly violates the principle of territorial integrity set forth in paragraph 6 of General Assembly resolution 1514 (IV).

137. The same principle of -territorial integrity, among others, justifies Spain’s legitimate claim, for the immediate restoration of Gibraltar to Spanish hands. Argentina fully supports this claim.

138. There is one item on the agenda that is linked to these matters and which affects us immediately and directly, and that is the question of the Malvinas Islands. The titles on which Argentine sovereignty over these Islands is founded are well known and do not need repeating here. The position of the Argentine people and Government is therefore clear and irrevocable: we claim the restoration to the Republic of a part of our national heritage which was wrested from us by force.

139. And while on this matter I feel bound to recall the resolution which proclaimed the international community’s interest in the elimination of colonial situations and affirmed respect for national unity and territorial integrity as one of the basic principles of the decolonization process.

140. This principle is the justification for my government’s bringing the problem of the recovery of the Malvinas before the United Nations. The international community is aware that amputated territories can never be relinquished by the country injured. That is why my Government voted in favour of General Assembly resolution 2353 (XXII) which states that:

“any colonial situation which partially or completely destroys the national unity and territorial integrity of a country is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter".

141. Argentina therefore demands that its undeniable sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands be recognized. Nevertheless it has agreed to negotiate such recognition with the United Kingdom in accordance with the provisions of General Assembly resolution 2065 (XX) and in so doing it has remained faithful to the tradition of seeking peaceful solutions to international disputes.

142. Again faithful to the provisions of that resolution, my Government has affirmed that the interests of the population of the Islands are its greatest concern. It would not be consistent with fundamental laws and its international tradition if Argentina did not affirm its irreversible decision to treat them with absolute equity and justice.

143. All the aspects we have mentioned here are receiving our careful consideration. We must also make it perfectly clear that in the course of those negotiations we shall not accept any solution which departs from the basic principles set forth by the United Nations concerning either the protection of the interests of the inhabitants or the restoration of national territory.

144. The second kind of problem facing the international community-problem whose solution will constitute the starting point for the establishment of a new system of inter-State relations in accordance with the needs of the age in which we live—represents a challenge to our will to mould a more worthy future for mankind and to our ability to maintain a strict observance of the principles on which coexistence must of necessity be based. It is essential that we should recognize this because on it depend our chances of success.

145. The great attempts of the past to organize a stable international system failed not through any lack of means but through lack of a true spirit of solidarity. It is this co-operation which is needed today to ensure both general peace and peace within nations.

146. As I have said, the peace we aspire to is not mere peaceful coexistence based exclusively on what has been called the “balance of terror”, which is the result of the deadlock produced by the confrontation of great strategic nuclear forces. If we accepted this system as the only basis for coexistence between nations, it is obvious that all power relationships other than nuclear would continue. The precarious strategic balance would lead to a dangerous conformity and a false sense of security which, through some error of calculation, could plunge us into a conflict of catastrophic dimensions. 

147. In order to prevent these attitudes from gaining ground, it is essential to make progress with measures of general and complete disarmament under strict international control. In this direction we are bound to note that the results up to now are far from satisfactory. We hope that the Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament may take some positive decisions which will go beyond mere declarations.

148. The Argentine delegation’s position on the question of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons has been both clear and consistent. We are opposed to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We believe, however, that the principle is not yet sufficiently safeguarded by legal instruments. Recent experience has shown us conclusively that the smaller countries need a system of guarantees properly adapted to their requirements and — I emphasize this particularly — need also and especially an assurance that they can count on a wide measure of freedom for their technological progress. If this were not forthcoming, we should be helping to crystallize the status quo and to establish indefinitely a system of political and technological dependence with gloomy and unacceptable consequences.

149. It was concern with these questions that dominated the recent conference of non-nuclear States. The importance of the matters dealt with and their implications for the future structure of the international system make it essential to keep the subject open to allow of more detailed analysis of it.

150. The international community is now concerned with the question of the peaceful uses of the sea-bed and the ocean floor beyond national jurisdiction. We are strongly in favour of legal regulation of this question which will allow the abyssal plain to be exploited for the benefit of civilization, and we are prepared to continue our co-operation, as we have done, in the task being carried out by the Special Committee established pursuant to General Assembly resolution 2340 (XXII).

151. But while pledging our support, we wish at the same time to place on record that studies by the United Nations should be restricted to the areas specified in that resolution, for reasons of elementary respect for domestic jurisdiction. Any approach liable to infringe domestic jurisdiction would not provide a real solution and would only create new international tension.

152. Economic affairs require our analysis and constant attention. The Argentine Minister of Economy and Labour, speaking on behalf of Latin America at the meeting of the governing bodies of the specialized economic and financial agencies, drew attention to the marked discrepancy between the levels achieved in international monetary co-operation and the results obtained in world trade.

153. Our country has co-operated to the utmost, so far as its resources allow, in ensuring the stability of the international financial system and is also prepared to contribute to the growth of international trade. International trade has created such a state of interdependence between the different peoples of the world that it is becoming increasingly essential to create a harmonious and balanced structure for it.

154. International solidarity and peace also need free, intense and active trade. Regional discrimination, attempts to introduce an international division of labour, the refusal of the industrial countries to pay fair and proper prices for the manufactured products or raw materials of the less developed countries, and the refusal to recognize their quality, all seriously circumscribe national independence and create serious tensions among States.

155. But it is also true that we all have an equal responsibility in this matter. The solidarity we call for of course requires the contribution of the more industrialized countries. This contribution, however, would not be enough unless it were accompanied by a firm determination on the part of the other countries to make serious and constant efforts to promote their own development.

156. At this point we must also point out that it is this approach of mutual co-operation that offers the best possibilities of achieving satisfactory progress. We should beware of the fallacy that new international machinery can make up for the lack of will to undertake concerted action. The last few years have produced an astonishing number of agencies which are already a heavy burden on national budgets and a stimulant to the growth of international bureaucracy. Because of the difficulty of reaching effective agreement at intergovernmental level, the activities of the new agencies are usually confined to drawing up abstract plans which can never be put into effect.

157. The session of the General Assembly is taking place just after the Economic and Social Council has completed its analysis, at its forty-fifth session, of the problems connected with the Second United Nations Development Decade Argentina is gratified to note that the Economic Committee has been entrusted with the task of drawing up an outline of the international development strategy for the Decade, as we suggested. It is precisely the Economic and Social Council, as one of the principal organs of the United Nations, which is competent to consider questions of such importance as the one we are considering. It is at that level — technical, but at the same time of obvious political authority — that the targets should be fixed.

158. To speak of problems of economic development without considering the role of technology in contemporary society would be to forget one of the key factors in fruitful international co-operation. Disparity in the opportunity to utilize the knowledge offered by modern technology may constitute an insuperable obstacle to bridging the gap between the industrialized countries and the developing countries, as well as a threat to political peace in the world. That is why at the various international meetings we have stressed the need to face the problem resolutely, and prepare programmes of action which will meet the existing needs.

159. In this connexion we should note the work accomplished by those United Nations bodies operating in the field of technical assistance and investment. In particular I should like to express our satisfaction at the important work being carried out by the United Nations Development Programme.

160. Consistently with the importance we attach to these activities, it is a pleasure for me to announce that Argentina’s contribution to the Development Programme will be increased this year by a third and that, taken with our contributions to the United Nations Industrial Development Organization’s programmes and the United Nations Capital Development Fund, this will increase our financial contribution to technical assistance, pre-investment and investment activities by approximately 50 per cent in comparison with the previous year.

161. Neither the liberalization of international trade, which we have urged, nor co-operation and assistance for technical development, would be sufficient unless they were accompanied by a sustained and systematic will to solve social problems at the international level. There will be no economic progress without social peace. The United Nations’ justifiable concern in this regard is fully endorsed by my Government.

162. Argentina is following and taking an active part in all the studies which have been made in this field, and the Draft Declaration on Social Development [agenda item 50] which is today being considered by the Assembly was based on an Argentine proposal. However, we must take care that no ideological notes are introduced into the Declaration which would be foreign to the nature of the instrument and to the purposes which inspired its drafting.

163. Lastly, my delegation wishes to emphasize one auspicious event whose importance will not, I am sure, escape this Assembly. I refer to the report which has been submitted, for the first time, by the International Court of Justice [A/7217]. It is important to mention this because the Court is the body prescribed by the Charter for the settlement of legal disputes and, as is specifically stated in Article 92, is the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. For the Argentine Republic, whose legal tradition in the international field is well known, it is particularly gratifying that this General Assembly, fully representative of the international community, should take note of the activities of an organ which is so qualified to provide peaceful solutions to disputes between States. We also hope that this report will remind all the nations gathered together here of the valuable contribution which the Court can make to the solution of existing differences.

164. This then, in broad outline, is the position of the Argentine Republic on the great problems facing the international community. We have not been sparing in our criticism because we believe that an understanding of the world situation is an essential prerequisite in the search for effective solutions. The military intervention in Czechoslovakia, the long conflict in Viet-Nam, the situation in the Middle East, the attempts to maintain colonial situations despite the will of the international community, the lack of real progress on the problem of disarmament and the precarious strategic situation in Central Europe, are negative factors whose importance and consequences we must underline if we wish to advance along the road to peace and security for all.

165. We recognize that it is a difficult road to follow unless we abandon dangerous practices and show sufficient imagination to realize that the international situation is essentially changing, and that therefore it is not possible to apply criteria and formulas which are not adapted to the facts of contemporary political life.

166. But the basic questions of our time also offer great opportunities for laying the foundations of harmonious coexistence in which national objectives could be met in a framework of international co-operation if we would look at our problems from a different angle and not lose sight of our goals. The United Nations can and should make a decisive contribution to the fulfilment of this task and my country solemnly pledges itself to make every effort to achieve that aim.

===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
29. Madam President, it is a matter of particular satisfaction to
my delegation that our deliberations are being presided over
today by a woman of such outstanding merits and one who,
at the same time, represents Africa, whose new States have
contributed so much to the present shape of this Organization.
On behalf of the Argentine Government, and personally,
I wish first of all to congratulate you on your
election to the highest office in the General Assembly. We
are confident that you will carry out this difficult task
successfully, for we are aware of your background and your
vast experience of the United Nations.

30. I wish also to pay a tribute to the memory of
Dr. Emilio Arenales Catalan, a Latin American who, while
still young, had attained the highest posts both in his own
country and on the international stage, and who presided
over the work of General Assembly at its last session with
so much tact and impartiality. His premature death has
deprived the international community of one of its most
outstanding figures.

31. The Argentine Republic wishes once again to reaffirm
its deep faith in the principles which are enshrined in the
Charter of the United Nations, The sovereign equality of
States, the self-determination of peoples, the peaceful
settlement of international disputes, respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms without racial, religious or
any other form of distinction, respect for the territorial
integrity of States, non-intervention and international
co-operation constitute the basic rules of an international
order designed to ensure peace among nations. My own
country bases its international conduct on these principles,
for it believes that unqualified observance of them by all
Members of this Organization is the sole guarantee for
lasting peace and international harmony.

32. The United Nations has played a key role in preventing,
thus far, the outbreak of a generalized war. The process of 
decolonization — an achievement of the Organization — which 
has given to the quarter-century following the Second World 
War one of its most outstanding features,
has been carried out in accordance with the Charter and
with the determined co-operation of the majority of
Member States. I feel it my duty to stress the constant
support given to this process by the Latin American
countries.

33. The programmes of technical and educational assistance,
the studies sponsored by the Organization and the
international co-operation which it promotes through an
extensive system of specialized agencies are also achievements
which justify the faith placed in the United Nations
by countries, such as my own, whose will to co-operate in
the common task remains intact. However, the world
situation this year does not seem any more encouraging
than it was at the previous session. In the introduction to
his annual report on the work of the Organization, the
Secretary-General paints an alarming picture, and opens
with a sentence which sums up the gravity of the present
moment: “During the past twelve months, the deterioration
of the international situation, which I noted in the
introduction to the annual report last year, has continued.”
[A/7601/Add.1, para. 1.]

34. Argentina is following with deep concern the deterioration
of the situation in the Near East, where present
tensions could at any moment unleash a war with major
and irreparable consequences. This disturbing situation,
with its successive crises, affects the authority of the United
Nations and, in particular, of the Security Council.

35. We are aware of the complexity of the problem; we
know what legacies of the past and passions of the present
are constantly weighing upon the populations concerned
and their leaders. We are, however, convinced that nothing
can be gained unless the facts are faced; we are absolutely
convinced that only a true act of political will can open up
prospects of peace for the Middle East, and this act must be
strict compliance with Security Council resolution
242 (1967) of 22 November 1967. Argentina, then a
member of the Security Council, worked with zeal and
hope, first to achieve a cease-fire and then in the drafting of
a resolution that might make it possible to eliminate the
real and deep-seated causes that had led to the conflict.

36. The situation in Viet-Nam, where the glimmerings of
peace have been extinguished by the recrudescence of the
struggle, shows no signs of improvement either. The Paris
talks go on without apparent progress of prospects of
change. Yet we must emphasize that the measures recently
adopted by the Government of the United States increase
our hopes that the atmosphere of negotiation can be
improved, and that seems to be the only possible way of
solving this tragic conflict.

37. Although the problems I have mentioned are allegedly
localized, they are involving powers from outside the region
and are endangering the security of all States.

38. In Latin America we witnessed very recently the
development of a situation which brought two neighbouring
countries into confrontation. Fortunately, as happens in
our region, which has always been noted for the exemplary
way in which it has been able to settle disputes, the rule of
law and the spirit of the inter-American agreements drawn
up in OAS ultimately prevailed.

39. Through the frank and determined co-operation of the
Governments concerned, peace and harmony were restored,
although economic problems still remain which not only
affect the countries directly involved in the dispute, but,
because of their nature and extent, also concern and affect
Latin America as a whole. We shall have to spend some time
on these problems because of their implications for our
people and for the world. We trust that what has been
achieved so far in dealing with this dispute will provide the
basis for a final settlement. However, we are aware that if
this problem is to be completely solved, methods of
improving the economic situation of these countries must
be devised.

40. I should like to sound another note of hope in my
review of international affairs. The untiring efforts of His
Holiness Pope Paul VI for peace, his dramatic and fervent
championing of the equality of men — the essence of
Christianity — and his condemnation of discrimination and
prejudice on account of differences in race, belief and
wealth, give invaluable support to the Organization’s
efforts.

41. Of the Supreme Pontiff’s many activities, I must stress
the importance of his historic visit to Africa. In that
continent the Holy Father’s message met with a wide
response and symbolically affirmed the universal brotherhood
of man. But we deplore the fact that in part of that
same continent a pitiless struggle still rages which has
claimed thousands of victims through military action or
hunger. My Government fervently hopes that wisdom will
prevail in this conflict between brothers and will bring
about the peace and progress the continent deserves.

42. Unsettled regional disputes, ideological strife and
frustration all give rise to acts which affect the entire
international community. We observe with increasing
anxiety the commission of acts which threaten the safety of
air transport and gravely compromise world public order.
I refer to the frequent hijacking of aircraft by violent means
and to other forms of illegal interference with international
civil aviation.

43. Argentina was a sponsor of a proposal in the International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), which culminated
in a weaker resolution than it had in mind. That
recommendation and the provisions of the Tokyo Convention,
which will come into force on 4 December this year,
are the only instruments available for combating what has
come to be known as “air piracy”. For this reason, my
delegation will support any proposal for a study of this
problem that may be put before the General Assembly.

44. Argentina accepted the invitation to become a
member of the enlarged Committee on Disarmament with
the firm intention of collaborating in the search for
substantive agreements on one of the gravest problems of
our time. I wish to take this opportunity of expressing our
thanks to His Excellency the Foreign Minister of Brazil for
his remarks regarding our admission to that Committee. We
hope to continue to work as closely with his country there
as is the tradition in all international bodies of which Brazil
and Argentina are members.

45. It is no exaggeration to say that the Committee has
before it, in the form of the technical reports and studies
already prepared, alarming evidence of the destructive
capacity man has created. Since the scientific and technological
progress cannot be checked and since the adoption
of real disarmament measures has not yet begun, it is not
difficult to see that this severe reality will worsen in the
near future with the development of new and still more
powerful weapons and means of destruction.

46. In this connexion, it is only necessary to read the
Secretary-General’s report on chemical and bacteriological
weapons to appreciate how terrifying the prospects are.
My country repudiates the use of such weapons in any
circumstances whatsoever.

47. The Committee is, therefore, faced with two equally
urgent problems: one is to slow down the arms race and
prevent the appearance of complex arms systems which can
only make the “balance of terror“ more precarious, and the
other is the pressing need to go beyond such “non-armament”
measures and to promote really meaningful agreements
with a view to securing substantial and general
arms reductions.

48. My Government welcomes the efforts so far made by
the Committee on Disarmament, but of course realizes that
the progress made has been on collateral matters which
have only an indirect bearing on this basic issue. We must
not lose sight of the fact that the Committee’s goal is
general and complete disarmament under strict international
control. The recent increase in its membership will
undoubtedly give a new impetus to the search for suitable
ways of achieving that objective.

49. During the last two years, the General Assembly has
been dealing with the question of the sea-bed and the ocean
floor beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. My country
attaches particular importance to this subject and intends
to continue participating in the work of the competent
bodies in order to contribute to the establishment of an
international régime which, while duly respecting the
legitimate rights of the coastal States, will ensure a rapid
expansion of scientific research in the areas outside national
jurisdiction, the use of those areas for exclusively peaceful
purposes and the exploitation of their resources for the
benefit of mankind as a whole, bearing in mind particularly
the needs of the developing countries.

50. I have already spoken of the Organization’s work in
the field of decolonization. Although it was on the African
continent that its most resounding successes were achieved,
it is also on that same continent that it is now being
threatened with its greatest failures. The case of Namibia
not only attests to the persistence of an intolerable colonial
situation, but is also a threat to the authority of the whole
Organization. I do not need to list the resolutions subsequent
to General Assembly resolution 2145 (XXI) which
have gone unheeded. The latest development is that the
resolution adopted this year by the Security Council
[resolution 264 (1969)] seems also to have fallen on deaf
ears. My country contends that the resolutions of the
Security Council cannot be disregarded by signatories to
the Charter.

51. The situation in Southern Rhodesia has been aggravated
by the adoption by the illegal régime of a constitution
based on the principle of racial inequality. I wish,
incidentally, to reiterate our categorical condemnation of
all forms of racial discrimination, which we regard as a
retrogressive manifestation without whose elimination no
attempt at peaceful international coexistence can succeed.

52. Since 1966 my country has strictly implemented the
sanctions imposed on Rhodesia by Security Council resolutions
232 (1966) and 254 (1968). We realize that the effect
of the sanctions which have been applied has not been as
rapid as could have been wished, but we are confident of
their final success and consequently welcome the activities
of the Committee set up under Security Council resolution
253 (1968).

53. In this case — and this has been reiterated in a number
of resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security
Council — we consider that the responsibility for resolving
the colonial situation rests first and foremost with the
administering Power. Year after year, we have expressed
our concern, and do so again, at the lack of change in the
decolonization process in Angola, Mozambique and so-called
Portuguese Guinea.

54. Almost ten years after the adoption of the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples [resolution 1514 (XV)], we reaffirm our conviction
that the process of decolonization must be fully and
inexorably implemented. It is for this reason that my
country is following the work of the Special Committee of
Twenty-Four very closely and is giving this Committee its
firm support.

55. In the introduction to his annual report, the
Secretary-General refers to colonial problems involving
conflicting claims to sovereignty. He states:

“Here, too, the United Nations can play an important
role in helping to achieve the objectives laid down in the
Declaration, but only if it receives the full co-operation of
the Governments concerned.” [A/7601/Add.1, para.172.]

56. In the three cases of this kind which have been
discussed in the United, Nations, the questions of the Islas
Malvinas, Gibraltar and Belize, there are two similarities:
the administering Power is the same, and the other States
involved have expressed their willingness to negotiate.
Although the approach to negotiation has differed in each
case, we regret to say that in none does a final solution
seem very close.

57. Every year from this rostrum my country repeats that
it is a primary objective of its foreign policy to ensure the
full exercise of its sovereignty over the Islas Malvinas, a
sovereignty based on legitimate rights with which this
Assembly is fully familiar.

58. Operative paragraph 6 of General Assembly resolution
1514 (XV) reaffirms the principle of territorial integrity.
Argentina has advocated, and will continue to advocate, full
compliance with that principle.

59. We repeat what we have already said many times
before, namely, that if we treat our dispute strictly in
accordance with the terms of resolution 2065 (XX) and if
the United Kingdom agrees to consider this question
without prejudice, taking full account of the material
conditions prevailing in the Islas Malvinas, it will be easy to
find a definitive solution which will also satisfy the
population of the islands and safeguard their interests. As
the Assembly is aware, my country has continued the
negotiations which were initiated with the United Kingdom
following the General Assembly’s adoption of resolution
2065 (XX) concerning the question of the Islas Malvinas,
and it hopes to be able to report to the Assembly on the
progress of these negotiations during the present session.

60. One of the characteristics of our time is the sincere
desire of men and peoples to reach a social and economic
level which would fully meet their needs and open up new
prospects of material and cultural progress, free of individual
restrictions or privileges.

61. It is well known that the last few decades have seen a
rapid widening of the gap between the advanced and the
less developed countries. Despite the impressive scientific
and technical progress which we have witnessed during
these years, it can be established that two thirds of the
human race have remained untouched by its benefits and
are struggling with illiteracy, hunger and disease. It is one of
the moral and social obligations of our time to rectify this
deficiency by legal and economic measures leading to a
better distribution of the fruits of technical civilization
among individuals and peoples.

62. Argentina is gratified that the United Nations, through
some of its organs and specialized agencies, has already
considered this problem of the transfer of scientific and
technical knowledge from the more advanced to the less
advanced countries. As we are well aware of the vital
importance of this development for harmonious economic
and social growth, we have established bodies at the
national level to co-ordinate all activities in science and
technology, administration and policy-making being
centralized in the recently established National Council for
Science and Technology.

63. Despite the efforts being made both nationally and
internationally to close the gap which technological progress
has created between the highly developed and the
developing countries, we must emphasize, as before, that no
positive results can be achieved unless a solution is first
found to the problem of the economic dependence of the
latter countries on the former.

64. It is well known that a common characteristic of
developing nations is their heavy dependence on other
countries. Latin America, for example, has to finance its
industrial and technical development from the sale of a
small number of raw materials which constitute the bulk of
its exports and which are purchased by a small group of
buyers. It is these buyers who are ultimately in a position
to establish prices and methods of payment, and their
action therefore has a decisive influence on the possibilities
of growth throughout the continent.

65. This vulnerability and external dependence of the
developing countries’ economics have, as their logical
consequence, the need for international co-operation in the
regulation of foreign trade and the responsibility of those
countries and regions which exert a greater influence on
account of their larger share of world trade. Unfortunately,
international trade is passing through a critical period as a
result of restrictive trends in the policies of the developed
States and their regional organizations. The progress of the
developing countries is being unjustly delayed as a result of
high customs duties, prohibitive import surcharges, quotas
and other non-tariff and para-tariff barriers, overt and
covert export subsidies, purported health regulations which
do not always correspond to scientific standards and are
not objectively applied, and the permanent threat of new
restrictions.

66. Facts of this kind, which are difficult to refute, make
it clear that an improvement in trading conditions is more
important to these countries than the receipt of assistance,
necessary though this may be as a complementary factor.
The improvement in these conditions should take two
forms, firstly, remunerative prices and access to markets for
commodities, and secondly, opportunities for imports of
manufactures from developing countries. This is the only
way in which we can break the vicious circle and finance
the industrial development of our countries from our own
resources.

67. The experience gained during the First United Nations
Development Decade shows that the modest objectives
established in General Assembly resolution 1710 (XVI)
have not been achieved. Argentina is aware of the complexities
of the problems which will have to be faced in the
next ten years and has therefore participated actively, and
intends to continue to do so in the work of the Preparatory
Committee for the Second United Nations Development
Decade on the preparation of a global development
strategy, a task which is now in progress and on whose
satisfactory accomplishment the success of the decade of
the seventies must largely depend.

68. My Government informed the Secretary-General of its
views at the beginning of this year, and at the three
previous sessions it expressed its opinions very clearly on
the establishment of global and sectoral objectives and on
the policy measures which it considered necessary for their
attainment. It is important that the Preparatory Committee
should not slacken the efforts it has been making. We
consider, indeed, that the time for statements has now
passed in the Committee’s work and. that it should now
embark on the stage of negotiations on policy measures.

69. With respect to financial co-operation, we think that it
is necessary to modernize the concepts and methods
hitherto used. The flow of public and private international
resources to the developing countries is not sufficient to
supplement the domestic investment designed to reduce the
income differences between the different groups of countries
which make up the world community. Arrangements
must be found which will ensure the continuation of aid
and compensatory financing, but on terms compatible with
the payment capacity of each country. This will avoid the
paradox of the need to finance external financing.

70. We contend that aid should not be subject to political
conditions, since this accentuates inequalities and
discrimination. We also believe that the steps taken by the large
countries to improve their balance of payments position
should not be to the detriment of the less developed
countries.

71. In granting loans to developing countries, the international
financial bodies should adopt a more flexible attitude
with regard to the use of such funds for the purchase of
local industrial products, since the price margin for the
granting of preference to such products is very small. It
would be desirable for the World Bank to increase the
margins for these countries, since this would have the result
of increasing their industrial capacity.

72. Compensatory financing and the flow of private
capital are additional means of expansion which benefit all
the parties concerned. Recognizing the reciprocal benefits,
we support the idea that, as part of a new policy of
co-operation, the developing countries should, in their turn,
assist the least developed countries among them. To the
extent of its possibilities and in a wide range of fields, the
Argentine Republic constantly practises this type of co-operation.

73. As the Assembly is well aware, there is another subject
to which our Government attaches high priority, namely,
multilateral aid. The Argentine Republic has submitted a
proposal to convert the present World Food Programme
into a truly effective instrument for the elimination of
hunger through the establishment of a world food fund.
Changes in current bilateral programmes and the World
Food Programme should be largely based on multilateral
solutions that will not damage the trade of the efficient
exporting countries.

74. Men cannot be subordinated to things. For that
reason, recalling the words of His Holiness Pope Paul VI, we
should not reduce the number of guests at the banquet of
life but rather increase the food on the table. Today, given
technological progress and the resources of economic
organization, man has it within his power to eliminate
malnutrition for once and for all. Instead of using the
negative approach of birth control, we advocate the positive
approach of increasing production.

75. I am certain that all the Governments represented here
are aware of the need for a change in the standards that
govern political, economic and financial relations among
States, a change which should be carried out jointly and
peacefully and should meet the imperative need for the
economic and social transformation of the modern world.
Only thus will we be able to achieve the aims of the Charter
drawn up at San Francisco.

76. Consequently, my Government attaches particular
importance to the Draft Declaration on Social Progress and
Development [A/7643]. Our purpose in taking this initiative
was to contribute to international co-operation in the
social sphere. We regret the various amendments submitted
to the original draft, particularly in matters relating to
social policy, since they are not in keeping with the spirit of
the proposal and are not universally accepted.

77. So far as the Argentine Government is concerned, it
has embarked on a process of change with a view to
promoting the welfare and security of its people, a process
being brought about by methods adopted in the belief that
domestic effort is the key to the achievement of these
goals. Much hard work has been directed to this end with
the result that there has been a substantial increase in the
gross national product, an equally significant increase in
domestic investment, a better distribution of income, and a
monetary stability which led to the application to
Argentina of Article VII of the Articles of Agreement of
the International Monetary Fund and to the initiation of
some major public and social projects. During this period
our educational, health, social welfare and housing facilities
have been considerably improved.

78. At the regional level, Argentina continues to play an
active role in implementing the principles that led to the
foundation of the Latin American Free Trade Association
(LAFTA) and in drawing up new instruments for mutual
assistance and co-operation in the region.

79. On 23 April 1969, the River Plate Basin Treaty was
signed in the city of Brasilia to record the determination of
Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay to co-ordinate
their efforts to achieve the physical integration
and the harmonious and balanced development of one of
the potentially richest regions in the world. The Argentine
Republic, in whose capital this process was initiated,
pledges its full support for the attainment of the goals of
the Treaty.

80. The River Plate Basin Programme has many aspects, all
of the utmost importance for the future of the region.
Among these the Argentine Government attaches particular
importance, together with the study of technical problems,
to the conclusion of a legal instrument to govern the
rational and equitable use of water resources. Since the
rivers form the backbone of a water basin such as that of
the River Plate, it is essential that their waters should be
used for the benefit of all the riparian countries in
accordance with a policy of regional solidarity.

81. The United Nations was founded in the last days of
the Second World War to safeguard international peace.
After nearly twenty-five years of rapid change and historic
achievements, our faith in the Organization has not
faltered. But if we genuinely wish to perfect the institution
which brings us together, it is necessary to be completely
frank. I must therefore say that certain practices must be
changed, if we are to prevent the United Nations from
being relegated to second place in the interplay of the
major political and economic factors of today’s world.

82. In the political field, we feel obliged to point out that
the principles underlying and inspiring the Charter of the
United Nations are sometimes forgotten, and that some
resolutions of the Organization are not implemented. We
have only to study the agenda of the present session to
realize that some of the most important issues in the world
today are not being submitted for our consideration.

83. The United Nations can be only what its members
decide that it should be. The great Powers bear the heaviest
burden in this respect because of the responsibilities
devolving on them as a result of their vast resources and
political influence. But agreements between them will not
suffice unless they serve as a foundation for erecting a
structure of peaceful coexistence which must take the
interests and opinions of the smaller countries into account.
If we do not view the problem in this light, there is a risk
that those very foundations of peace so far achieved,
foundations which we believe to be solid, will be undermined
and endangered.

84. From its beginnings in 1945, the Organization has
grown into a large administrative machine, entrusted with a
programme in which important questions are too often
combined with others that are less important or that do not
require the dedicated attention of an Organization of this
calibre. An analysis of the programmes and projects in
progress justifies our concern: we find matters that have
dragged on from session to session, having been taken up
and shelved owing to lack of interest or the impossibility of
finding a solution, others that are of a purely academic
character with no apparent practical prospects; the duplication
of activities with other international organizations in
spheres in which they possess specific competence; important
questions left in abeyance through lack of agreement
between the blocs and spheres of influence which are
notoriously active in this field.

85. In this attempt at constructive criticism, we wish to
express our concern at the increase in the Organization’s
budget in the last few years, which does not seem to have
led to a corresponding improvement in international co-operation
or to concrete results of benefit to Member
States. We are also concerned that organizations set up to
deal with important problems are on the verge of financial
collapse.

86. My country will not support the establishment of new
international bodies unless there is evidence that they are
useful for the purposes of co-operation and necessary as a
means of directing the efforts of members of the international
community. Nor shall we support any programme
that does not hold out definite promise or that does not
faithfully reflect the spirit and stature of the United
Nations.

87. We consider that a careful review of the budget is both
necessary and urgent in order to reduce its total, not only
through the cancellation of programmes that are not
demonstrably practical and appropriate, but also through
an overhaul of the actual machinery of the United Nations.

88. The smaller Powers have to make very heavy outlays
in relation to their financial capacity both for the payment
of contributions to international bodies and for other forms
of co-operation.

89. We are all certain that the headlong speed of scientific
and technological progress will be maintained during the
next few years. It is difficult to foresee the precise form of
its enormous impact on social and political structures, both
domestic and international, but easy to appreciate its
magnitude. For the moment, what is clear is that the
technological revolution of our times faces us with the
imperative need to extend its benefits to the vast masses
living on the margin of that revolution and also to enable
the developing countries to.share in the wealth and to
utilize the resources of this science and technology that we
consider revolutionary.

90. This is the only orderly, progressive and fruitful way
to modernize our structures effectively. If we are not
prepared to adopt this course, we shall have to face the
possibility of violence, with the frustration, suffering and
failures it entails.

91. The United Nations is confronted with a vital task:
that of establishing conditions to ensure that the impending
change can take place peacefully through close international
co-operation. Unless the United Nations appreciates
the scope of the responsibility involved in this task, the fate
of mankind may pass all too soon into the hands of those
who are more impatient and less mature. In the light of the
guiding principles that inspired its foundation and which
are expressed in the admirable Preamble to the Charter, we
reiterate our faith in the fundamental values of man and in
his transcendent destiny.

===== Session 25 - 1970 =====
177.	 : It is a fortunate coincidence that precisely at a time when the United Nations is celebrating its first twenty-five years of existence, an eminent jurist so closely linked to our Organization should have been elected to preside over the General Assembly. On behalf of the Argentine Government, it is a pleasure for me to congratulate Your Excellency, Mr. President, on this felicitous choice.
178.	Through you I should also like to express the appreciation of the Argentine delegation to Mrs. Angie BrooksRandolph of Liberia, for the work she performed as President of the twenty-fourth session.
179.	From this rostrum, the Argentine Government wishes to express to the delegation of the United Arab Republic its regret and sympathy upon the recent death of His Excellency President Gamal Abdel Nasser. The loss of this outstanding statesman has not only plunged the Arab world into mourning, but has also deeply grieved all those who greatly valued his capacity to contribute actively to the establishment of peace in the Middle East.
180.	When the Organization of the United Nations was created in 1945, its founders had two fundamental purposes in mind: on the one hand, solemnly to formulate the basic principles of the international system and, on the other, to establish a legal framework in keeping with the political and social needs of the immediate postwar era. Both objectives were the result of the historical experience of mankind and of the interests and aspirations which all civilized nations can in no way renounce. The enunciation of the purposes and principles of the United Nations was thus considered as a sign of moral evolution and maturity of peoples.
181.	The need to rely upon a stable management of international relations is also deeply rooted in the history of nations. In the course of time, a number of philosophical and legal-political currents proposed guiding principles that went beyond State limits. Up to the beginning of the twentieth century, for more or less lengthy periods, international peace had been ensured by means of treaties signed among the great Powers. These laid the groundwork for peace and de facto established conditions for international stability. The so-called "European concert" is good proof of this concept which restricted the active access of the nonEuropean states to international life.
182.	The growing democratization of the international society and the part played in the solution of controversies by the small countries contributed to the crumbling of that restricted concept of the system and to laying the foundations for a legal-political structure of worldwide scope resting upon the consent and equality of States based on a distribution of responsibilities. This was precisely what the League of Nations sought to accomplish. The catastrophe of the Second World War is the clearest proof of the way in which that organization had to yield to the trends that finally proved it incapable of maintaining peace among States.
183.	However, the need for an international normative system was summed up in a number of international instruments and conferences, from the Atlantic Charter in 1941 to Dumbarton Oaks in 1944. It was the San Francisco Conference, however, which was ultimately to adopt the Charter of the United Nations, thus taking those historic aspirations up again and embarking upon a new era in the management of international affairs.
184.	It might justifiably have been felt at that time that, when the United Nations linked the ideals of peace and security with the existence of adequate legal machinery that it had thereby ensured international stability and harmony among nations.
185.	Today it is not difficult to prove that, although the principles may still be valid, the actual force of many of them is relative. Future historians of this quarter-century will no doubt use as a guiding thread the listings of constant violations of those principles in almost all areas of the world. They will also be able to show the lack of efficiency of many measures, the existence of which seemed to end at the time of their adoption.
186.	There is a notorious maladjustment between institution and reality. We are not referring here to the discrepancy that may exist between what should be and what factually is. We know that ideals always precede their practical fulfillment. History has shown to what extent ideas that at one time were deemed Utopian gradually became specific and indispensable factors of our everyday life.
187.	The discrepancy between the normative framework and reality to which we refer here is of a different nature. We have drawn away from the empiric possibilities that existed, and we sometimes tend to forget that our Organization is supported by the political will of the Member States. Proclaiming principles does not in itself make them realities, and it is not sufficient to multiply the legal machinery when the latter is not based upon the social reality it is intended to regulate.
188.	Furthermore, if we are fully aware of the difficulties that our Organization faces in settling important questions bearing on international peace and security, it is difficult to understand how year after year we are willing to allow the agenda of the United Nations to be swollen by secondary items which consume so much time and money and are doomed to remain without solution. The bureaucratic and budgetary growth of our Organization and the useless waste of effort are unavoidable consequences of such an attitude.
189.	Mention has been made of the need to revise the Charter. Theoretically speaking we cannot but support such a measure, but from the practical point of view we are fully aware of the almost insuperable problems that such a step implies. Perhaps it might be more worthwhile to make an effort to try to use to the utmost those resources provided for and authorized by the Charter, instead of undertaking a scarcely possible revision, particularly with regard to the peaceful settlement of disputes. If, furthermore, we wish to act with a practical awareness, we must bear in mind that some of the measures approved by this General Assembly or by the Security Council require adequate financial resources for full implementation. Very often extremely serious functional maladjustments are due to the fact that this elementary circumstance has been overlooked.
190.	The United Nations will be what its Member States wish it to be. What is most serious is that as we pare down our active participation or neglect the consideration of our possibilities it becomes more difficult to put into practice the Purposes and Principles of the Charter, thus endangering international peace and security.
191.	The skepticism and discouragement with which many of our contemporaries gauge the actions of the
United Nations are understandable. We, as representatives of the States Members of the Organization, have the duty to be honest with ourselves and to adopt a critical stand that will permit us to judge both our successes and our failures objectively.
192.	In order to carry out such an analysis, we might establish a threefold division of problems. First of all, there are those that have been practically or entirely settled, and in this case our satisfaction at what has been accomplished is justified. Secondly, there are those problems that have acquired a chronic degree of gravity and have been awaiting solution for years. In this case discouragement is well founded, and it is urgent that we adopt effective measures to correct the structural and operational flaws in our Organization. Thirdly, there are the new problems created by the emergence of facts that have changed the world situation. In this last case we should act with sufficient determination so that these matters will become part of the first of this series and not swell the ranks of the second group.
193.	Decolonization belongs in the first group of problems. This has surely been one of the outstanding phenomena of our day. New States in full enjoyment of their sovereignty, have become active participants in the international system. The principle of the self determination of peoples has thus found its true application, and its observance has helped to enrich the international political situation. Resolution 1514 (XV), the tenth anniversary of which we shall soon be marking, served to hasten the winding-up process of the colonialist regimes and to ensure a greater equality, at least in the political field, among the peoples of the world. The Argentine Republic is firmly convinced that decolonization must be totally carried out.
194.	For that reason we continue to be concerned over the situation of the Territories of southern Africa which still remain under colonial administration. Within this context, the atmosphere is further troubled by the existence of a Government which illegally holds power in Southern Rhodesia, by the racial discrimination that is represented by apartheid and by the non recognition of the authority of the United Nations of which we are witnesses in Namibia.
195.	In this context I wish to refer to a matter of vital importance to the Argentine Republic: the question of the Malvinas Islands. True to its diplomatic traditions, my Government agreed to negotiate with the United Kingdom regarding the dispute over the sovereignty of the islands. In so doing, we were interpreting the spirit and the letter of resolution 2065 (XX) and, at the same time, we declared our irrevocable decision shared by all the people of Argentina to have the Malvinas Islands restored to our territorial, heritage. Since the end of the last session of this General Assembly negotiations have continued on the diplomatic level. It was with great interest that we pursued the talks regarding the problem of communications between the Islands and the Argentine mainland, for we believe that these are the first steps towards the solution of the dispute. In due course, we shall report on the results of these talks.
196.	Those whose votes have made it possible for Argentina and the United Kingdom to begin their talks with a view to ending a situation which is incompatible with the terms of resolution 1514 (XV) did so because they considered that decolonization is an irreversible process that brooks no exceptions. There can, furthermore, be no doubt that the question of the Malvinas Islands is an obstacle to the development of the ties that should link Argentina with the United Kingdom increasingly closely. Therefore, the solution to this problem cannot be unduly delayed. My Government reaffirms is right to raise the matter again in this Assembly if the talks fail or if they are excessively prolonged.
197.	We believe it urgent that these cases should be solved so that they will not remain to swell the number of problems in the second of the groups I have mentioned, that is, the problems pending solution.
198.	The question of general and complete disarmament also belongs in this category. If we consider the consequences of the qualitative development of the new systems of weaponry on the life of international society, it is difficult to presume that the efforts to achieve an easing of political tension within the system can possibly show lasting results while the arsenals of the great Powers remain at their present levels or are increased.
199.	For this reason my Government attaches considerable importance to the strategic arms limitation talks which are taking place bilaterally between the United States and the Soviet Union, but we feel it necessary to recall the fact that urgent measures should be adopted for nuclear disarmament within the context of general and complete disarmament under effective international control.
200.	Argentina continues to participate actively in the deliberations of the Conference of the Committee, on disarmament convinced as it is of the vital importance of seeking an understanding that might help to dissipate the threat of a nuclear catastrophe.
201.	That Conference has submitted to this present session a draft treaty prohibiting the emplacement of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction on the seabed and ocean floors and on the subsoil thereof . The document on which we are now to take a stand contains significant changes compared to the one that was considered at the twenty-fourth session of the General Assembly. Some of these tend to protect the legitimate interests of the coastal States and at the same time prevent those provisions covering verification from prejudging matters touching upon the law of the sea. Argentina attaches special relevance to all of these principles, as is attested to by our active participation in the amendment of the previous draft. The text, such as it has been presented to the General
Assembly, has our support and we hope that it will be approved by a widespread majority of Member States.
202.	The Conference of the Committee on Disarmament has continued the examination of the question of chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons on the basis of the two draft conventions and other proposals which were submitted to it. The Committee has dedicated itself to the treatment of both types of armaments and has seriously considered the political and technical aspects pertaining to the subject. My Government attaches special significance to the problem of verification procedures which it might be necessary to adopt. It is to be hoped that the General Assembly will recommend that the Committee should continue this task which, although difficult, is nevertheless most necessary.
203.	With regard to the elaboration of a detailed program on general and complete disarmament, the report submitted by the Committee shows that this matter was one of its main concerns. We deem it advisable to reiterate that the aim of the program must be the achieving of general and complete disarmament under effective international control. On various occasions we had already warned about the negative consequences of collateral measures which, because of their discriminatory character, actually constitute the "disarmament of the unarmed" and do not signify a true contribution to the achievement of a true general armaments reduction.
204.	There can be no doubt that the conflict in the Middle East is one of the typical cases that has not as yet found a settlement within the framework of the United Nations. It is to be hoped that the encouraging symptoms noticed lately will help to allay the suspicions that have been felt by both parties. Thus the first steps may then be taken towards the effective implementation of resolution 242 (1967) of the Security Council, in the drafting of which Argentina played a significant part. We believe that this resolution points to the right road to peace. Furthermore, my Government reaffirms its faith in the Jarring mission as a means towards understanding and, through the participation of Argentine officers, will continue to cooperate in the supervision of the ceasefire in the Suez Canal area.
205.	SouthEast Asia is also a source of serious concern. That grave problem can be settled only if negotiations among those directly involved are pursued in a spirit in keeping with the Charter. The continuous delays which hinder the elimination of this permanent breach of the peace are contrary to the purposes of the United Nations.
206.	We cannot in this context overlook the constant danger being run by those who, in their capacity as news correspondents, are present in the zone of conflict in order to carry out their difficult task of keeping world public opinion informed of the battles more efficiently and accurately. Respect for human rights during armed conflicts requires special observance in the case of news correspondents during hostilities. My own country is prepared to consider measures to guarantee greater security to those engaged in this important work.
207.	Both the situation in the Middle East and that of SouthEast Asia are of concern to the community of nations not only because of the constant losses in human lives, but also because, despite their apparently regional nature, they may endanger the security of the entire system. We know full well that the interests at stake in this case go beyond the direct participants in the struggle. Reference to these cases is necessary in a statement made before this Assembly. The trouble with periodic repetitions is that the problems we are analyzing tend to become Commonplace. Nothing could be more grave and serious than to accustom ourselves to living with war and destruction and to think that both are inevitable at a given time in history. Our insistence therefore in referring to these conflicts must not be interpreted as a repetition of just another rhetorical sentence, but as the proof of a deeply felt concern.
208.	Among the third group of problems mentioned, that is, those that have emerged recently, must be listed a question that warrants special attention because it seriously bears upon international peace and security. I refer to the committing of acts of violence and terrorism that constitute true crimes in terms of international criminal law. Violence and subversion, especially in Latin America, have acquired such a scope and magnitude in certain cases as to affect the very basis of international order. If we truly wish to practice tolerance as a fundamental attribute of democracy in our continent, we cannot permit indiscriminate violence, alleging pretexts of confused political ideals in order to convert crimes offensive to human conscience into instruments of social transformation. The Argentine people categorically rejects the committing of those crimes, which are completely alien to its way of life and to the philosophy of freedom which supports it.
209.	In the Organization of American States the Republic of Argentina has pointed out the need to define and then to prevent and to punish this type of crime. The Argentine Government understands that it js incumbent upon each State to adopt those measures it deems necessary to repress acts that violate order and security within its own territory. Yet the knowledge that in many cases terrorists and kidnappers receive some kind of foreign assistance in the form of money, weapons or training forces us to consider the need to encourage concerted action on a worldwide scale so that those individuals will not escape justice. Within the regional framework, the InterAmerican Juridical Committee four days ago, on 26 September, approved a draft convention on terrorism and kidnapping of persons with a view to extortion, which will be submitted for the consideration of members of the Organization of American States. It should be pointed out that article 10 of that draft provides that the Convention will remain open "for signature by the member States of the Organization of American States, as well as any other State Member of the United Nations or any other State invited to do so by the General Assembly of the Organization of American States".
210.	The increasing frequency of acts of hijacking deserves unanimous condemnation by all States Members of the Organization. Argentina considers that the United Nations should adopt adequate measures to prevent recurrence of this crime.
211.	I wish now to refer to one of the subjects of greatest significance on the agenda of this twenty-fifth session of the General Assembly, namely, the Second United Nations Development Decade and the plan for a global strategy which we are to set in motion during the commemorative period of the present session. Lengthy has been the road covered in the last few years in order to put into practice the principles of the Charter in matters of international cooperation for economic and social progress of all peoples. A clear example of this is what took place during the decade of the 1960s when, for the first time, an effort was made to establish equal opportunities for countries at different levels of development, through a systematization of efforts to achieve specific growth objectives. During those years the aspirations of the developing countries were clearly seen and intense multilateral activity took place.
212.	In the various United Nations specialized agencies, in the Economic and Social Council and in the General Assembly, we have in the last few years succeeded in identifying the elements on which to base national efforts and international cooperation. Those elements have been embodied in a considerable number of documents on global and sectoral objectives for economic and social development. With regard to these objectives, there exists an almost unanimous agreement on the part of the different sectors, or at least a sound and honest will to reach a compromise.
213.	The study of the final form the agreements on political measures for the fulfillment of those objectives should have is at present in the last stage of negotiation, and it is a promising sign that those talks are not on the substance of the problem but only on a timetable for implementation. This fact alone renders obvious the spirit in which the international community is entering the decade of the seventies, a decade which will be called upon to put into practice agreed measures for the achievement of the objectives of development.
214.	In the implementation of those measures an equal share of responsibility will be borne by both the developed and the developing countries. It is a matter of uniting efforts and of adding to the solidarity of the more industrialized nations, as well as the determination of the other countries to make serious and continuous progress along the road of their own development. Sterile confrontations or the complacency of the recipients of aid can only delay solutions and benefit those who thrive on inertia. For this reason we believe in conciliating interests. Our strategy must consist in promoting a range of positive solutions which, by gradually including new measures or widening the scope of already adopted instruments, will raise to an increasingly high and efficient level economic cooperation among all Members of the Organization. Only thus will we reach the targets set for the Second United Nations Development Decade.
215.	One of the factors that has had the greatest impact on the history of the last twenty-five years has been the astounding progress of science and technology. Ours has been called the era of the scientific civilization. That description is not an arbitrary one. Never before has the destiny of mankind depended so much on the rational conquest of nature. Never before have discoveries in the field of science and their immediate application through technology so substantially altered human and interstate relations. Those countries which lack adequate means in order to utilize science and technology fully will be left outside the flow of history. The intellectual power has today become the fourth sector of the economy. The advanced communities are in fact "study societies".
216.	The Argentine Republic is ready to intensify further the policy of achieving agreements with other States for cooperation and mutual assistance in the field of science and technology. Within the United Nations we shall support as we do in the Organization of American States any proposals designed to encourage basic research and the transfer of applied technology. We believe that if this transfer is not carried out and if international sharing of the burdens of research is not increased, all other efforts made to bridge the gaps between countries at different levels of development will be in vain.
217.	We firmly believe that multilateral cooperation, such as that carried out in the specialized agencies and bodies, particularly in the United Nations Development program, is a proof of what the United Nations can achieve when there is apolitical will of commitment in the field of assistance.
218.	When modern science and technology became a decisive factor in international life, new fields were opened up for the legal regulation or settlement of relations among States. One of these was that of the seabed and ocean floor. Argentina considers that the seabed and ocean floor beyond the limits of national jurisdiction should be considered the common heritage of mankind. It is unfortunate that the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the SeaBed and the Ocean Floor beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction has not yet reached an agreement on a declaration of principles to be submitted to the General Assembly, in accordance with the terms of resolution 2574 B (XXIV). The Republic of Argentina believes that the Declaration of principles should reflect the necessary adaptation of the law to the changes that occur in international life.
219.	Once the Committee has drafted the regime applicable to the seabed and ocean floor beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, the time will have come for the convening of a comprehensive conference on the law of the sea. That conference will have, to deal with all those aspects that may require revision or establishment due to the appearance of interests or situations calling for new international legal regulation. Thus, the criteria set forth by the General Assembly in resolution 2574 B (XXIV) will be complied with.
220.	Argentina wishes to express its satisfaction at the work done by the Special Committee on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States. My country has had the honor of participating in the work of the Special Committee since its creation in 1964 and has endeavored at all times to make a most constructive contribution to its deliberations. We consider that the draft declaration [A18082, para. 8] that has finally been prepared is a valuable document for the codification and progressive development of fundamental principles of international law and we are ready to give it our full support when it is considered by the General Assembly.
221.	When the Charter of the United Nations was signed in the city of San Francisco twenty-five years ago, precisely 150 years had elapsed since publication of a short essay of prophetic intuition. In his native city of Konigsberg, Emmanuel Kant, in 1795, published his "Essay on perpetual peace". In it he attempted to show that universal peace was not only desirable and conceivable, but necessary and inevitable. In order to achieve it, there had to exist an international order based on a law consented to by all nations. Thus:' 'each State, even the smallest, could expect respect for its security and its rights, not through its own power or its own definition of the law, but simply as the result of the existence of a great society of nations, all abiding by laws adopted through their united will".
222.	The important fact in our day is that this united will for peace, considered as an indivisible entity, should be universal in scope. Perhaps the very stability of our international system as a conditioning factor requires that we do not set aside the undeniable factual realities of the world of today. If this be the case, then we have the right to wonder how this concern can be rendered compatible with a restricted universalization of the United Nations.
223.	In the course of this statement we have mentioned a series of facts that are of concern to us as they affect peace or hamper the effective achievement of international cooperation. I do not believe it difficult to agree with this analysis. But this would not be complete without mentioning, as one of the undeniable achievements of the Organization, the fact that it has localized and solved some of the conflicts that might have had serious effects on international peace and security. The United Nations has effectively contributed to keeping alive our awareness of the danger to all mankind of a generalized conflict. It is this very awareness which leads us to view with interest the signing of the recent Treaty between the Federal Republic of Germany and the USSR which will contribute to detente in Europe.
224.	A hundred years ago, a great Argentine thinker, Juan Bautista Alberdi, wrote that:
"War is the justice every one works out for himself failing world justice. World justice is lacking because the world is deprived of unity and does not as yet constitute an international society. Therefore, the way to abolish war is to help the consolidation of the world into a State of States, a society of societies, a nation of nations, as a type of entity to work out a justice that, today, everyone works out for himself, by means of war."
225.	In 1970, we now have this "nation of nations". If justice is to be imposed by the threat or use of force, and if man, in all areas, has not yet achieved the dignity he deserves, the future will hold us responsible.
226.	The .Argentine Republic, within the framework of its international commitments, will maintain the principle of freedom of action of its foreign policy in an ever increasingly interdependent world and pledges all its efforts to fulfill the desire for peace and cooperation which twenty-five years ago was embodied in the Charter of the United Nations.


===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
33.	 On behalf of the Argentine Government I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly. We know that with your well-known ability you will guide the discussions of the Assembly successfully. I should appreciate your conveying to Edvard Hambro the appreciation of the Argentine delegation for the efficient and successful way in which he presided over the twenty-fifth session.
34.	My delegation is happy to welcome the three countries that have joined the Organization at this twenty-sixth session. From its seat in the Security Council, Argentina has already had the chance to support their admission and to express its satisfaction at the fact that the United Nations was very soon to benefit from the active participation of Bahrain, Bhutan and Qatar.
35.	The Secretary-General has expressed his decision not to continue to perform the tasks that he has been so wisely and devotedly carrying out for the United Nations. The Argentine Republic is still hoping he will reconsider that decision. But if that is not the case, we should like, from this rostrum, to express our thanks to U Thant for the efforts he has made over the years he has dedicated to our Organization. Much of the success achieved has been due to his will to strive and his concern to put into practice the principles of the Charter. For that reason, his voluntary retirement spells a loss that will be felt by those of us who believe that the United Nations can come closer to a fulfillment of its goals if it has a Secretary-General who not only carries out resolutions of our Organization but also possesses sufficient political sensitivity to be able to co-operate in the analysis of and search for solutions to world problems. Since this exactly describes U Thant we can do nothing other than pay a tribute to him for his worthy and fruitful performance.
36.	The United Nations, like any other valid normative system, can be considered form two different points of view. On the one hand, it is possible to assess this Organization bearing in mind the principles on which it rests under the rules that constitute it. On the other hand, one may use as a yardstick of its effectiveness the degree of adaptation it shows to the reality it is designed to regulate.
37.	From a strictly legal point of view the United Nations represents the most significant model of the establishment of a universal system in the history of mankind.
38.	By its very nature the United Nations has always aspired to constitute a complete and coherent regulation of international relations. But in its fulfillment that ambition has been conditioned by the actual reality of the world.
39.	The characteristic features of the normative model of the United Nations are the scope of its criteria, its adaptability to a changing world and the capability of incorporating in its framework new actors on the inter-national scene. If peace, security and the promotion of human rights were and are the guiding principles of our Organization, it is also obvious that their maintenance in 1971 calls for the adoption of measures that cannot be the same as those of 1945.
40.	During the last quarter-century the world has multi plied its possibilities of economic, political and cultural development. Not only has the political structure of the world changed with the appearance of new States that have brought with them new concepts of life and have enriched the international dialog, but at the same time the progress of science has created a greater interdependence among the different regions of the world. This means that the implementation of the principles of the Charter demands new methods in order to ensure its efficacy and to prevent it from resting solely on mere declarations. Therefore any evaluation of the tasks that the United Nations performs presupposes an analysis of those conditions of international life that have been changed since 1945.
41.	Twenty-five years ago the world was divided into three large groups: that of the victorious Powers that drafted our Charter, that of the vanquished nations, and that of those other countries that had somehow not been involved in the conflict. The war that was drawing to an end had not only been the result of economic or political factors. Ideological factors also were involved. It was only natural that ideologies should continue to play a preponderant role even after the war, especially if we bear in mind the existence of a strong opposition between the political and social conceptions held by the victorious Powers themselves.
42.	It would be false to deny the importance of ideologies as a factor in the transformation of national and international realities. There can be no doubt that the most radical changes of the last two centuries have, to a great extent, been brought about by ideological factors. The belief in the dynamic power of certain principles many of which were considered Utopian when first formulated has led people to bend serious efforts to modify the situation of their respective countries or regions. Furthermore, these ideologies have been the lenses through which reality has been viewed. But since ideologies themselves are swayed by historical conditioning, it is obvious that with time they too must change and that their validity is dependent on outside factors.
43.	We can at present discern the inverse relation that exists between reason and political maturity, on the one hand, and ideology on the other. As the former grow so the latter seems to shrink in importance, particularly in the field of international relations. While from the seventeenth to the middle of the twentieth centuries ideological conceptions were above political decisions and defined the goals of the State, today they have become explanations, justifications of what purely and objectively must inevitably happen. For that reason political theoreticians have very often without knowing it become the deviser of justifications for what must happen. The technical argument carries weight non-ideologically; it works regardless of the political regime and eliminates fields of decisions that were at one time the purview of ideologies.
44.	This fact is the direct result of another basic factor: the growth of the importance of science and technology in human relations. The rational control of nature has reached such a degree that it has substantially altered relations among men and between them and the things that surround them. The scientific and technical yield has become one of the most accurate yardsticks with which to measure the development of a country. Brain-power is now a decisive element in the independence and sovereignty of nations. Those countries that are not able to keep up with the increasing speed of scientific and technical discoveries risk falling into a type of subjection that is incomparably more complete than was classical colonialism. Control over the future will depend on science and technology. A race began some time ago to win dominion over scientific civilization. Contrary to the typical forms of state hegemony, this new type no longer aspires to extend itself in territorial space, but is measured rather by the intensity of the scientific and technical yield of the competing countries, Since the free availability of the means for scientific and technical innovation has become the basic criterion whereby to measure the sovereign power of a State, it is obvious that the dependence of some countries on others is conditioned by their real or potential capability in this field. It is also obvious that no country can renounce its participation in the possibilities opened up by science and technology.
45.	Our Organization has already begun a process of adaptation to these requirements of the present day. The establishment, within the Economic and Social Council, of a standing Committee on science and technology to advise and recommend on the application of science and technology to development is a measure with which my Government agrees. The membership of the Advisory Committee on the Application of Science and Technology to Development has also been increased, and we belie is necessary to widen the spectrum of specialization 'is members in accordance with the requests and interest of the countries that are still at a stage of insufficient scientific and technological development.
46.	My country has followed with interest the creation of an Inter-Governmental Group on Transfer of Technology, in 'he United Nations Conference on Trade and Development /UNCTADJ. We understand that this Group, of which Argentina is a member, will perform important tasks during the present decade within UNCTAD'S sphere of action.
47.	But scientific progress, together with growing industrialization and the increase in demographic density, has brought into being certain negative aspects that threaten to alter the biological balance in practically all regions of the world. This is not a necessary and therefore unavoidable result of progress. Contamination of the human environment is a consequence that can be rationally controlled. There is no incompatibility between economic development and conservation of the environment. They can both exist concurrently. What is needed is a way to ensure their reconciliation.
48.	International collaboration is also imperative in this field. The environment-not only its most obvious aspects such as the air and the seas, but also the aspects of the great waterways and their river-basins, the underground water resources, the reserves of natural resources, the conservation and improvement of animal and vegetable life-are all the heritage of mankind. Therefore mankind must ensure their preservation and their recovery where they have been modified and the ecological balance thus shattered. For this reason, the Argentine Republic attaches great importance to the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment to be held in Stockholm in 1972. We are taking an active part in the Preparatory Committee of the Conference and we were present at the Latin American regional seminar on problems of the environment, held in Mexico in September of this year.
49.	It is a known fact that the so-called law of human environment or international law of environment is today a pragmatic and rather non-formalistic branch of international economic law. In that area, a preponderant role is
played by the principle of good neighborliness which appears in the Preamble and in Article 74 of the Charter. The same holds true for the principle of international 1 solidarity; for the avoidance of the improper application of laws; for reparations for damage caused; for care to avoid injury to the interests of other States, even when exercising a legitimate right. Argentina has endeavored to put these basic principles into practice in the recently signed agreements with Chile, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.
50.	Together with this process which surpasses the ideological barrier and stresses the scientific and technological aspect of the relations among peoples, there has appeared an increasingly clear tendency to reject what is purely formal and to replace it with concrete programs permitting the effective development of nations. There no longer is any people that can be satisfied with the mere voicing of the principles of justice, equality and liberty. What is needed at present is to strengthen the principle of legal equality with measures that take into account the real needs of each country. That principle is an irrevocable postulate of any organized society. But when legal equality is limited only to the granting of a more or less conditioned vote or a seat in the international organs, there is a risk of justifying or formalizing a notorious injustice. Equality , among States must today be understood as meaning that each country shall have the same possibilities for development; that Is to say, the possibility of utilizing to the maximum its own human and material resources.
51.	This concern with concrete matters is also a characteristic feature o.f our day. International co-operation can no longer be a mere expression of desires. Feasible and realistic plans must be carried through, plans that will take into account the needs of the various peoples. Thus, the Second United Nations Development Decade and the plan for an International Development Strategy offer a means and open up an opportunity for achieving the highest degree of international co-operation in a world at peace. The goals set in the International Development Strategy [resolution 2626 (XXV)] for achievement during the present decade can be reached only through close co-operation between the developing and the developed nations, regardless of their political structure and their social and economic levels.
52.	Argentina views the Development Decade within the general framework of international co-operation, and not merely as an isolated fact or a program of individual action within the United Nations. There can be no development in a world that lacks political harmony, and there can be no peace in a world without economic and social harmony.
53.	We have successfully identified the elements upon which efforts by nations themselves and international co-operation are to be based. Through unanimous agreements in some cases and a determined desire to compromise in others, we have adopted the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade. Now we have to undertake the practical implementation of what we have agreed to, and there, the success of the project depends on us.
54.	In a constant effort to promote development, the work of the United Nations Development Program is worthy of praise from Member States. Argentina believes that the reorganization that was begun last year should be completed along lines dictated by experience. This will ensure the necessary flexibility for the Program. Moreover, it is evident that without the financial support from States the targets set cannot be reached. To this end, we think it advisable that the contributions of countries be increased during the next five years.
55.	As a legal organization, the United Nations is also a political institution endeavoring to carry out the ideals of coexistence. The resolutions adopted are in many cases adequate guidelines for the settlement of conflicts that affect the international community. But to contend that peace is necessary and to adopt resolutions to maintain it, and then to fail to implement them , would be to assume an inconsistent and therefore untenable position. Turning the formal into the real is also a requirement of our day.
56.	For this reason Argentina calls for the implementation of Security Council resolution 242(1967), unanimously adopted on 22 November 1967, in whose drafting the Argentine delegation took an active part.
57.	That resolution is still the instrument most likely to solve the crisis in the Middle East, one which is of very deep concern to my country since it pits against one another countries with which we enjoy ties of cordial friendship. The principles and obligations contained in Security Council resolution 242 (1967) must be complied with and carried out unreservedly. Neither side can expect the other to fulfill some or all of the obligations incumbent upon it if it, in turn, does not fulfill its own duties. The Argentine delegation fully shares and endorses the views expressed by the Secretary-General on this matter in his last report dated 5 March 1971.2
58.	We are all aware of the fact that in this conflict time is not necessarily an aid to a peaceful solution. Passivity and lack of progress may well lead to a renewal of hostilities. Therefore it is necessary that the mission entrusted to Ambassador Gunnar Jarring, whose efforts deserve the appreciation of the Organization, should be resumed.
59.	Peace is also threatened in a region of the world that is inhabited by tens of millions of human beings. The events taking place in the Indian subcontinent are a source of deep concern to the Government of my country.
60.	For the moment, and for humanitarian reasons, we believe the United Nations should continue, as at present, carrying out as effectively as possible the tasks of assistance
to the victims of the events that are taking place there.
61.	With this end in view the Argentine Government decided some time ago to donate 4,000 tons of wheat in order to co-operate in the endeavor to relieve the sufferings of the displaced persons who find themselves in India.
62.	But, as the Secretary-General pointed out in the memorandum to the Security Council of 20 July 1971, we, too, believe that:
2 See Official Records of the Security Council, Twenty-sixth Year, Supplement for January, February and March 1971, document SI 10070/ Add.2.
.. the United Nations, with its long experience in peace-keeping and its varied resources for conciliation and persuasion, must, and should now play a more forthright role in attempting both to mitigate the human tragedy which has already taken place and to avert the further deterioration of the situation."
63.	An Organization such as ours that has solemnly proclaimed its determination to reaffirm its faith "in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person" cannot be indifferent to the existence of relics of a form of domination by one people over another that repels the human conscience and flouts the most elementary rules of coexistence. I refer specifically to the colonialism that still exists in certain parts of the world.
64.	From the time of our entry into the Organization, Argentina has held a clearly anti-colonial position which I once again reaffirm.
65.	There can be no doubt that General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) has been a useful instrument in accelerating the process of decolonization and that the bodies dealing with these questions constitute one of the main sources of pride and faith in the work of the United Nations. Yet there still exist colonial situations which engender constant friction and tensions.
66.	That is why my country is redoubling its efforts to ensure the most scrupulous compliance by all with the United Nations decisions in this field. To this end, my Government informed the Secretary-General in a note of 2 December 1970 that it had officially notified the Government of South Africa that the Argentine Republic does not recognize any South African authority over Namibia.
67.	My Government attaches the greatest importance to the activities of the United Nations Council for Namibia as well as to those of the Sub-Committee of the Security Council  whose vice-chairmanship we now hold with full awareness of the responsibilities that such a position implies.
68.	Furthermore, it is to be hoped that the recent advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Legal Consequences for States of the Continued Presence of South Africa in Namibia (South West Africa) notwithstanding Security Council Resolution 276 (1970) will have an influence on the satisfactory solution of the problem.
69.	We also hope for a peaceful solution of the question of Rhodesia through United Nations participation. In this matter my Government has endeavored to contribute actively to the successful work of the Committee established in pursuance of Security Council resolution 253 (1968).
70.	There is one question which is particularly close to the Argentine Republic and whose solution is also of importance to the Organization: I refer specifically to the situation of the Malvinas Islands.
71.	In my statement of 30 September 1970 [1859th meeting], when speaking of this matter, I stated that conversations at a diplomatic level were continuing with the United Kingdom in order to open up two-way communications between the Argentine mainland and the Malvinas Islands.
72.	Those talks have resulted in the approval of a joint declaration [see A/8368 and A/8369] covering different aspects of the exchange of peoples and goods, and are to continue at Port Stanley during the next year.
73.	The Argentine Government recognizes the value of the results attained. But this does not, however, close the chapter of negotiations. These negotiations should continue until full implementation is achieved of the terms of General Assembly resolution 2065 (XX) and the objectives of the process of decolonization of the United Nations are fully obtained.
74.	We are linked to the United Kingdom by traditional and close ties of friendship. Argentina will continue its endeavors with a spirit in keeping with this long relation-ship, in the assurance that the self-same spirit is shared by the United Kingdom and that, in an atmosphere of mutual understanding, the problem will soon be definitively solved with the restoration of the Malvinas to the national territory of the Argentine Republic, Thus, we will have cleared away the only obstacle to excellent relations between our two countries.
75.	It would be simplistic to believe that the international system is a homogeneous entity as far as the norms that constitute it are concerned, and the States or political bodies that compose it. We are witnesses to the simultaneous existence of different types of subsystems which also have their own different rules. But the common denominator is the shared concern also within the regional boundaries with the strengthening of peace and security and with ensuring the welfare of all.
76.	The Argentine Republic is part of a continent that has been characterized by its universal approach and its concern to ensure international peace and coexistence. The peoples of Latin America have also achieved a high degree of political maturity. The fraternal ties that have linked us since our beginnings as independent States have been constantly brought up to date with events that tend to make our interdependence more effective. Our countries are increasingly the masters of their own fates and are not to be satisfied with any situation which might leave us outside the current of the universal historic process. We are determined to carry out a dynamic and up-to-date policy that will not be hampered by ideological differences as long as respect is assured for the domestic jurisdiction of every State and their forms of life and political philosophies.
77.	Not long ago, Argentina and Chile gave evidence of their freedom of views and political wisdom when they strengthened their ties and laid the solid groundwork for a solution to the last of their border problems. Faith in the law and the conviction that frontier problems can, in our day, be settled peacefully have led Argentina and Chile to submit pending questions concerning our 3,COO kilometers of border to arbitration. I believe that this is one case that deserves mention at this time and place because it stands as a patent example of how positive results can be attained when the principles of peace and international cooperation, on which our Organization rests, are put into practice. We are thus proving that the Charter has living validity as long as the Member States are really willing to fulfill it.
78.	We wish to carry out specific projects with the other sister republics of the region, to allow a reasonable utilization of our natural resources and to take into account the needs and interests of the different countries in the area.
79.	With reference to international economic relations, my country wishes to outline, from this lofty rostrum, the importance that the recent agreement with the European communities has for the commercialization of our products. This document, which is the fruit of a political decision on the part of the contracting parties, will open up a new era in the relations with countries with which Argentina has been traditionally linked by its origins and culture.
80.	The United Nations has far too often been considered a Utopian organization or a normative luxury that exists outside the margin of the great problems that beset the world. In the first instance, it would then appear to be a desirable, albeit useless, institution, and in the second, an expendable legal framework. It is up to us to see that it is neither the one nor the other.
81.	I ha- ; referred to the determining factors of the present international situation because I believe that they are the elements on which any realistic assessment of the United Nations must rest. It is not difficult to see that there is a universal feeling that the United Nations cannot be a legal superstructure, satisfied with merely approving more or less vague resolutions that evade the demands and requirements of Member States. There is a known tendency to dwell on the purported universality of the system which, thus far, despite having admitted a large number of countries that have acceded to independence since the Second World War, has nevertheless ignored political realities of decisive importance in our days. There can be no challenge to the need to adopt concrete measures in the field of international co-operation, for it can no longer be just another way of securing historically untenable privileges. It is also obvious that all forms of colonialism or discrimination have been rejected, and it is finally also evident that as a determining factor in the relations among countries, ideologies have lost their sway. And so today, international life is characterized by such elements as the rejection of normative formalism, of the restrictive nature of the system, of disguised or open forms of imperialism, colonialism or discrimination as well as the repudiation of ideological criteria.
82.	This negative listing, a contrario sensu, allows us to deduce the positive consequences of measures or principles that must be adopted to keep our Organization viable and up to date. The Organization cannot adopt multilateral measures which, to a certain extent, are anachronistic compared with those adopted bilaterally.
83.	I wish to point out that, pursuant to this view, at the beginning of September in Bucharest, representatives of the
Argentine Republic met with representatives of the People's Republic of China in order to explore the possibilities of normalizing diplomatic and trade relations between our two countries, This position is the logical consequence of a consistent historical stand adopted by Argentina regarding our respect for the principle of universality in international relations. I referred to it from this same rostrum during the twenty-fifth session of the General Assembly. On 16 March 1970, the Argentine representative to the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament asked for the participation of the People's Republic of China in the negotiations on disarmament. In his turn, when referring to President Nixon's projected visit to Peking, the President of the Argentine Republic stated:
"I believe that by accepting an invitation to visit the People's Republic of China, President Nixon is giving a clear example of the scope and flexibility with which international problems and relations must be dealt. I feel that President Nixon's decision shows that in these days, foreign relations must be conducted without prejudices, strings, preconceptions or taboos although, at the same time, without yielding any of the principles that define our way of life and our philosophy."
84.	To a large extent, the history of man is a chronicle of his efforts to unmask myths and to progress in a rational interpretation of the world. But paradoxically, the trend to turn reality into a myth seems ever latent and very often serves to disguise failures and to cover up problems we would prefer not to face squarely. Thus, the most serious danger confronting our Organization would be to fall into this myth-making. The more we refuse to act realistically, the greater that risk becomes. This realism requires that we bear in mind the needs of the present historical moment. The United Nations must subject itself to a constant and empiric stock-taking so that it will not lose sight of the real elements that condition international relations: elements which, no doubt, are different from those of 1945.
85.	The responsibility for keeping the United Nations up to date is not the exclusive privilege of the great Powers. We all have a task to perform in this endeavor to achieve the ideal of the legal and political universal regulation to which we all aspire. Those States which for historical or geographical reasons have already attained the benefits of modern civilization are in duty bound to share its advantages. Those which are still at other stages of development must become aware that welfare is not achieved merely by defining needs but by separate and joint efforts. Some of all this was already hinted at by one of the founders of international law, Francisco deVitoria, who contended that, because of the varied distribution of productive resources, the very nature of things dictated the consideration of the unity of mankind as the basis for the freedom of world access to such resources, setting aside man's differences of belief; and, mutatis mutandi, the teachings of that master are still valid in our day.
86.	More than ever before, man today stands in need of peace and security, precisely because the risks of losing them are greater than ever before. Two possible attitudes can be adopted in the face of this danger: fear of failure or hope for success. I prefer the second. There is in it a dynamism and an impulse towards the future that have always been present in the great achievements of man. Those who drafted our Charter and also the Member States which contribute to the achievement of its principles are imbued with the firm hope that in this way they are promoting the welfare and happiness of man on earth. When all is said and done, this is the utmost that a normative system can hope for.
87.	Because we believe that the United Nations is a good instrument to achieve that goal, we are ready to continue to support it.


===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
Mr. President, on behalf of the Argentine Government, I am pleased to offer you our congratulations on the election as President of the General Assembly of an outstanding son of Poland, a nation with which Argentina enjoys close ties of friendship. We are convinced that your ability and your experience in international problems will ensure success in the deliberations of the Assembly. May I request you to transmit to Mr. Adam Malik, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Indonesia, the appreciation of the Argentine delegation for the brilliant way in which he guided the work of the twenty-sixth session.
2.	At the end of that session, U Thant relinquished his post and we elected a new Secretary-General; at that time the Argentine delegation expressed from the rostrum [2031st meeting] its appreciation to U Thant for his untiring work in the service of our Organization. The efforts made by Mr. Kurt Waldheim in the course of this year strengthen our conviction that his election was well advised and that his talents and ability will contribute effectively to the fulfillment of the goals of the United Nations.
3.	There seems to be no disagreement that the present international system is a multi-polar one, whose various centers of political, economic and socio-cultural power have imposed a dynamism on present-day events that had not been experienced in the post-war years. There can be no doubt that all types of relations among States have become more fluid and articulate and that our Organization has achieved a degree of universality which was unknown during earlier decades. It is also evident that ideological differences have given way to a more pragmatic and realistic approach to problems affecting international life,
4.	We cannot but express our satisfaction that the cold- war stance has been abandoned and that dialog and negotiations have been accepted as a way of achieving peaceful solutions to the controversies among States. Long-divided countries have managed to approach their reunification or have devised procedures permitting more intensive economic, social and cultural relations. All these are also signs of the gradual disappearance of the bipolar system and a relaxation of tensions which have always been encouraged by my country.
5.	However, the existence of these events must not lead us to lose sight of the need to watch very closely the development of trends within the system itself. Despite the multi-polarity, it is undeniable that the medium and smaller nations remain only marginally involved in the adoption of decisions that affect them directly.
6.	In his introduction to the report on the work of the Organization submitted to the Assembly, the Secretary- General has very rightly pointed out that, "the interests, the wisdom and the importance of the vast majority of medium and smaller Powers cannot, at this point in history, be ignored in any durable system of world order" [A/ 8701/Add.l, p. 2]. Pursuant to this line of thought, nothing would be more dangerous than to convert the present multi-polarity into a static system of balance of power. This would spell a new division of the world into spheres of influence by the super-Powers and the larger nations, with the obvious exclusion of a large number of States. The peace and security to which we aspire are not those leading to a rigid situation which would curtail development possibilities, because they could alter the balance achieved. Stability in peace does not mean the freezing of acquired positions, but rather the opening up of new possibilities to ensure a more just and worthy world.
7.	In the decade of the 1970s, the United Nations cannot confine itself to endorsing the acts of the great Powers. It has often been alleged that voting at the United Nations is the performance of a mere ritual. It well may be that this forum has served on numerous occasions to offer the great Powers a way out -a fitting way of saving face at times when, had they continued to follow a selfish or mistaken policy, they might have plunged our world into new and serious conflicts.
8.	This role played by the United Nations should not be disdained. In recent times, however, the membership of the United Nations has altered considerably due to the admission of a majority of countries that either became in-dependent after the Second World War or were not direct contenders in that conflict. Those countries are confronting serious problems of all types and are endeavoring to narrow the gap that separates them from the great Powers as rapidly as possible. Perhaps precisely because of this development lag, their views may differ from those of the great Powers with regard to the analysis of and solutions to their problems and presumably they may consider foreign any approach to them that does not take into account their own needs.
9.	All this leads us to believe that, if the United Nations is to live up to the purposes that dictated its creation, it must assume new functions more in keeping with the present day reality. It is a fact, for example, that the policy of great-Power confrontation has yielded, at least in many cases, to a policy of co-operation; talks have started on fundamental matters; substantive agreements have been arrived at on questions of concern to all. We hope that this attitude of co-operation can be extended to embrace all the countries of the system. But the Organization should also give increasing attention to the problems and the needs of each and every one of its Members. The world of today is an indivisible unit, and the conflicts, problems or situations afflicting one State or one region not only interest, but also affect, all the others.
10.	The Security Council bears an enormous responsibility for the analysis and proposal of solutions to conflicts among States. We do not believe that there are universal prescriptions; we believe that each case must be considered on its own merits, and the onus of implementing measures recommended by the Security Council falls on the parties concerned. While serving as a member of the Security Council, Argentina has maintained a position of strict independence in dealing with the different questions raised and has at all times endeavored to contribute in a constructive way to the solution of the problems examined by that organ.
11.	We attach singular importance to the meetings of the Security Council held in Addis Ababa at the beginning of this year. The positive results obtained proved the wisdom of the initiative taken by the three African members of the Council who proposed that the Council should hold meetings away from Headquarters.
12.	Latin America is the natural framework for Argentine foreign policy affairs, and my country has concentrated its efforts within that area. The various visits by the President of Argentina to other countries of South America bespeak clearly the priority attached by my Government to the ties with the sister Republics of the continent. Through these visits and the presidential talks held on Argentine soil, we have established procedures for consultation and co-ordination in order to ensure greater success in our joint efforts to solve our common problems. This policy has led to solid achievements aimed at enhancing our physical, economic, scientific and cultural integration.
13.	The countries of Latin America are not only linked by a common historical tradition, but they are also part of a community of necessary interdependence., We are all protagonists in a process where the fate of each one affects that of the others and where all are called upon to play a major role.
14.	Within the United Nations the Latin American countries have performed and continue to perform a vital function. We have been unswerving defenders of the Charter and of the principles of international law and advocates of peaceful settlement of disputes. We have made common cause with the new nations that have emerged into independent life since 1945 and we have always given support to all measures designed to end colonialism, eliminate racial discrimination and do away with economic differences among peoples. In this way we have been true to the principles that are deeply rooted in the national character of each of our countries, whose populations comprise all races of the world. This is a matter of particular pride and deserves special mention in a parliament that does in fact represent the international community as a whole.
15.	We wish to express our agreement with the comments on the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment made by Mr. Waldheim in the introduction to his report on the work of the Organization [A/8701/Add.l, p. 5] and with your own words, Mr. President, in your opening statement of this session [2032nd meeting]. The problems of the environment have been a constant concern to my country and that is why, when the item was first discussed in the Economic and Social Council, Argentina was one of the first countries to support the holding of the Stockholm Conference and participated actively in the preparatory work for it.
16.	The most constructive element that emerges from the report of the Conference  is the establishment of international co-operation in the field of the human environment. In accordance with its recommendations and its Declaration, this co-operation is carried out through an exchange of information and collaboration among States. The Conference reflects what experience and practice, science and technology, doctrine and jurisprudence have been teaching us for a long time.
17.	In this field Latin America was ahead of the Stockholm achievements by including in joint declarations of its Presidents and Foreign Ministers the principles which were later approved by the Conference.v
18.	In this, as in any other questions touching the international community, the Argentine Republic upholds the principle of the exercise of sovereignty whereby States perform any acts necessary within their own territory to carry out their national policies. Argentina also maintains that modern States must exercise this sovereignty in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law, respecting therefore the same sovereign rights of other States.
19.	In order to achieve a harmonious interplay of this simultaneous exercise of sovereignty on the part of different States, a system of exchange of information is necessary to comply, effectively and appropriately, with the principles of good neighborliness. Without it, international co-operation as advocated by the Stockholm Conference would be difficult if not impossible to achieve.
20.	Argentina attaches special significance to the problems relating to the law of the sea. We have participated actively in the work of the sea-bed Committee  and, together with other countries of Latin America, we have upheld the right of the coastal State to extend its sovereignty over the sea adjacent to its shores to a distance of 200 maritime miles and we have reaffirmed its sovereign rights over the continental shelf. This position is based on the provisions of international law and on the imperative need to protect and defend the resources that lie close to our coasts. The Declarations of Montevideo  and Lima and more recently that of Santo Domingo - clearly reflect the responsibility assumed by the majority of the countries of Latin America. Many countries of Africa and Asia that have also had to face the need to adopt measures within the framework of contemporary' international law are joining in this process, to preserve and protect the resources of the sea, the sea-bed and the subsoil of the maritime areas within their jurisdiction and adjacent to their costs.
21.	The task of the future United Nations conference on the law of the sea is to harmonize these rights and interests with those of the international community; its results should bring the benefits of juridical security and justice of a new and more equitable order to this important area of international relations. Therefore, careful study should be given to the preparatory work of the Conference that will be convened, we understand, when the general lines of agreement have been reached and when the enlarged Committee on the sea-bed has fulfilled its mandate. These preparatory efforts and the careful timing of the conference should ensure its positive outcome.
22.	The Argentine Republic continues to follow with increased interest the evolution of events in the Middle East. Our logical concern over the state of affairs prevailing in that region is due to our conviction that international peace is indivisible. For this reason it is imperative that a just and lasting peace be established in that area. We repeat that the strict implementation of the principles and obligations set forth in resolution 242(1967) of the Security Council - to whose adoption the Argentine delegation contributed significantly - is still the basic point of departure to achieve that goal. The conflict has lasted far too long and the different stages that mark its development have left many wounds that are difficult to heal, but they have also taught lessons and given much experience that must not be wasted.
23.	To conclude peace, the highest gifts of statesmanship are required from all.; They must manifest themselves not only in the sincere will to negotiate and to moderate their positions, but also in their sense of timing, which, I would venture to say, is a trait of fundamental importance. The tragedy of opportunities missed haunts peoples for generations and the Argentine Government is ready to continue contributing actively to avoid such a tragedy occurring in the Middle East.
24.	The Argentine Republic has always stated from this rostrum that it totally and unconditionally rejects all types of discrimination and colonialism. For this reason we note with concern that forms of domination still exist that are incompatible with human dignity and with the clear awareness of present day man, who does not accept so-called racial superiorities.
25.	It is a commonplace to state today that colonialism has been overcome. It is a fact that a wide majority of the territories that suffered foreign domination have now acceded to independent life and have taken their place in this Organization. But the unfortunate fact is that a number of colonial situations still exist and it is our duty not to waver for a single moment in our efforts until the last vestige of that unjust and anachronistic dependence has been totally and forever eradicated.
26.	Namibia is a typical example, among others. Solely and exclusively to obtain self-determination, and independence for Namibia as soon as possible a step too long postponed-Argentina has proposed legal and political formulas that were given unanimous support by the voting members of the Security Council in February and August of this year [Council resolutions 309 (1972) and 319 (1972)]. We prefer to believe in the evolution of governments, governments that cannot forever turn their backs on the realities surrounding them. Therefore, we still trust that good sense will prevail and that the aspirations of the peoples of Namibia and of the international community, endorsed by a decision of the International Court of Justice,  will be satisfied, and that this will take place immediately in a peaceful and orderly manner.
27.	The unwavering anti-colonialist stand of the Argentine Republic, which I reaffirm now, is not the simple expression of a feeling that we share with the vast majority of nations represented here. In our view, colonialism is not a historical phenomenon whose consequences afflict others nor is it a problem of which we have acquired vicarious knowledge. It is an actual fact that we ourselves are experiencing.
28.	At present, after more than a century and a half of independent life, there still subsists on Argentine soil a residue of that outgrown stage of imperial expansion. It is precisely in order to wipe out that negative vestige of an obsolete past that the Argentine Government is conducting negotiations with the Government of the United Kingdom within the framework of General Assembly resolution 2065 (XX) in order to find a final solution to the dispute over the sovereignty of the Malvinas Islands.
29.	In order to encourage ties between the Malvinas Islands and the mainland and as a result of instruments approved by both countries, efforts have been made which facilitate communications, increase mutual knowledge and benefit the population of the Malvinas. In May of this year, notes were signed and exchanged in Buenos Aires which provided for the construction in the islands, by the Argentine Republic, of an airport which will be capable of dealing with the regular transport of passengers, cargo and mail and which will begin to operate in the next few weeks to replace the amphibious aircraft at present being used.
30.	Despite these practical steps of undisputed importance, there still remain differences between the two Governments regarding the circumstances required for a final solution of the question of sovereignty. Further talks on the matter are to be held and we trust that they will be fruitful. The final outcome can be none other than the return of the Malvinas Islands to the Argentine territorial heritage.
31.	The United Kingdom is a country to which we are linked by traditional and cordial ties of friendship and one which has given repeated proof of its clear-sighted approach to the realities of the present day world. We are therefore confident that this case will be no exception. We reiterate that only thus can the obstacle affecting good relations between our two countries be removed for once and for all.
32.	The Argentine Government, which has given proof of reflection and moderation throughout these negotiations in the search for a peaceful solution to the question, hopes that it will not be delayed without justification. We shall thus have fully complied with the terms of paragraph 1 of resolution 2065 (XX), which, furthermore, coincides with the universal desire to put a speedy end to colonial situations all over the world.
33.	Disarmament still continues to be one of the most urgent and important questions of the day. During the last two sessions of the General Assembly, the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament submitted for our consideration the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and Other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction, which were subsequently adopted [resolutions 2660 (XXV) and 2826 (XXVI)]. My Government has subscribed to both, since they were instruments that had been the subject of delicate multilateral negotiations in which all parties acted with the greatest care and flexibility in order to arrive at balanced formulas which undoubtedly contribute to the strengthening of international peace and security.
34.	With regard to chemical weapons, the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament is not, this year, submitting to the General Assembly an agreed draft convention on weapons of mass destruction of this type, whose dangers are obvious and whose elimination is imperative. We must remember that, because of the relatively low costs of these weapons, they can be developed and produced by many countries. Therefore an agreement on chemical weapons should be acceptable to all States, not only to the great Powers. The negotiations are thus much more complex, since so many views reflecting well-founded concerns must be brought together.
35.	Thanks to the patient work of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, the international community has made some progress in the prohibition of weapons of mass destruction. Little enough has been achieved, how-ever, in regard to nuclear weapons, apart from some collateral measures of dubious practical effectiveness and, in some ways, of a discriminatory nature.
36.	Within the more restricted framework of bilateral talks on strategic arms, the agreements signed in Moscow are a first step in the right direction; yet these are not measures of nuclear disarmament but efforts to stabilize a precarious military balance between the super-Powers. In other words, they are not enough to stem and turn back the nuclear arms race.
37.	In this discouraging picture of the field of nuclear disarmament, new life must be given to the negotiations, and, in order to do so, the competent organ must ensure the participation of all the nuclear Powers, in a manner satisfactory to all the States concerned. So we note with pleasure that, for the first time in its history, the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament has given this problem special attention and that its report [A/8818] shows a certain degree of flexibility regarding possible alterations in its organization. My delegation has been particularly interested in this important matter and we venture to hope that this will be the starting-point for informal consultations to rectify an anomaly that is prejudicial to the development of the international community.
38.	Argentina has supported the idea that this General Assembly should deal with measures to prevent international terrorism that endangers innocent human lives, costs lives or threatens fundamental freedoms. Elsewhere, and at different times, my country has condemned irrational violence and has appealed for reflection in the face of the wave of hatred and destruction that has swept the world of today. This phenomenon constitutes a serious affront to mankind and to our civilization. Therefore, the United Nations must not and cannot remain indifferent to the danger it implies for peaceful coexistence among men.
39.	In matters of economic co-operation, the international community will have a new and significant opportunity during the rest of 1972 and particularly in 1973 to make progress in the improvement of relations among States of differing degrees of development, through a more just and effective regulation.
40.	The reform of the international monetary system and the planned multilateral trade negotiations are important occasions for those countries that bear the major responsibility to turn their sights beyond their own strictly national interests and allow these new efforts to be fitted into the provisions of the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade.
41.	We believe that the third session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development [UNCTAD], held in Santiago, Chile, in April and May of this year, constituted a promising point of departure for that international undertaking. During the course of that session the convergence of the policies for co-operation in that field reached new heights.
42.	Both at that session of UNCTAD and at other international and regional meetings on economic and financial matters, Argentina has pledged its determined support so that such initiatives will achieve the success that the international community is eagerly seeking.
43.	In the fields of science and technology, Argentina is determined to make rapid advances in a dynamic process of modernization through the maximum use of the resources offered by these branches of knowledge in order to secure better standards of living for its population.
44.	We are disturbed over the prevalence of certain views in the United Nations Development Program [UNDP] which, ignoring the multiplying effect of the efforts of co-operation made by peoples at different stages of development, are trying to change the present system of distribution of resources, reserving them almost exclusively for extreme cases of optimum development.
45.	At the same time as Argentina makes use of UNDP as a helpful instrument to complement its needs in that area, we must stress that we also contribute a considerable number of national experts who service projects in different parts of the world and that we welcome yearly more than a hundred fellowship holders from other countries for training in our country.
46.	At the beginning I pointed out the dangers for the medium and small nations of being left on the fringes of a multi-polar system based on the balance of power among the great Powers. We are also disturbed over any attempts to slow down the process of updating the economies of the developing countries by limiting the transfer of science and technology to them.
47.	To concede that growth must be stemmed would be tantamount to admitting that there are countries doomed to remain halfway on the road to civilization and would further imply a frustration of man's capacity for permanent creation. As was the case in economic matters, in the fields of culture and the preservation of the environment, here too active international co-operation is imperative.
48.	If we wish to achieve international peace and security, which are fundamental objectives of our Charter, then we shall have to make real the aspirations to a better life for which all peoples yearn. There can be no peace without international justice, and there will be no justice until each and every country assumes fully its responsibilities. In 1945 our Organization was born to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. Man's survival is still paramount today, but there is a clear awareness that it must rest on the firm foundations of freedom and the dignity of the human person so that he can develop to the utmost his creative potential. These drives, which are the features of our day and our society, must be reflected in the action of the United Nations.

===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿210.	 Mr. President, your unanimous election to preside over this new session of the General Assembly is a token of recognition of your qualities as a diplomat, your competence in international affairs, and of the zeal and interest that you have always shown in your participation in dealing with the complex problems that confront our Organization. Thus, I wish my first words before this General Assembly to go beyond the mere ritualistic dictates of the usual courtesy, and serve to pay the tribute of my delegation to one who for so long has been an honour to his country, to Latin America and to the United Nations itself.
211.	This election, futhermore, fills us with personal satisfaction, since we know of the great affection that Mr. Benites — the man of the Pacific — feels for the land of the River Plate, where he served for so long and left the indelible mark of his friendship and his brilliant work. I whole-heartedly trust that success will continue to crown your endeavours in the delicate duties that you have assumed, and I am happy to assure you of the full cooperation of my delegation in your important task.
212.	I am vested with the representation of a Government that is the result of the express will of a people that has recently, and by an overwhelming majority, endorsed the three banners of social justice, economic independence and political sovereignty. That firm determination bespeaks the irreversible commitment to eliminate for all time the socio-political systems of dependency.
213.	My country is going through an unprecedented historic period whose starting point lies in the union of all Argentineans around the objective of national liberation. By means of the effective exercise of representative democracy, the Government and the people of Argentina have set out, at one and together, on the road that is to lead us to the establishment of a social order in which man may fulfil himself wholly, safeguarded by law against any form of exploitation. His rights and aspirations to a happy life will thus merge with those of the community.
214.	All have a place in this great undertaking, from those who resolutely embrace the cause of justicialismo to those who advocate other tendencies, but who, in an atmosphere of peace and legality, are ready to be partners in the common effort.
215.	Argentina is fully aware that respect for the plurality of ideas and obedience to the popular will are indispensable conditions in which to build a community organized on the basis of solid and lasting values.
216.	In this spirit, my Government has decided to carry out a peaceful revolution — one that will profoundly change the Argentine society in order to meet the desires for justice and liberation that imbue our people.
217.	This new orientation which guides the Argentine Government within our borders is also projected beyond
them and will govern our conduct within the framework of our international relations.
218.	Our foreign thoughts, when crossing our borders, must be directed first of all to our own Latin America. We are convinced that in the future, we shall have to unite our forces and our resources in order to confront the difficulties that lie in wait for any who seek to ensure their freedom of action in a world beset by new imperialist threats. That convergence of efforts must logically start with those of us that possess the most obviously similar characteristics; and despite their powerful national personalities, our countries of Latin America do, in fact, possess a significant and real highest common denominator.
219.	Since the very dawn of our emancipation we have been divided by varied outside interests in order that they might more easily obtain supplies of the raw materials so necessary for the progress of more advanced societies. I am most disturbed to have to state here that that quest for profit has not been abandoned and that certain power centres —  Governments and multinational corporations — still have their sights set on the vast region which our countries make up.
220.	For that reason, now more than ever, union is a categorical imperative today. We must labour without flagging with one idea in mind: a single and indissoluble Latin America. We know that that cannot be achieved overnight, but we also know that if that is not our aim the end result will be an even greater splintering and thus a weakening that will render us unable to defend ourselves against any form of ambition on the part of foreign Powers.
221.	Each must play his vital role in this process. It was in Latin America itself that the legal principle of the sovereign equality of States gained the fullest respect, but unfortunately that very principle has far too often been set aside. On the strength of mature awareness we can today reaffirm that all the States of Latin America must contribute to the common cause on a footing of absolute parity.
222.	We share similar needs and identical hopes. Nor are the obstacles to our progress different, We are all players in the same drama: that of living with searing needs unsatisfied in a continent flowing with resources. Thus it is hard to imagine individual solutions, unless we are ready to make do with mere palliatives. Faced by common problems, our solutions must be general and for the whole and framed by the ideas of international social justice to which all the peoples meeting here aspire.
223.	Very possibly some country may alone manage a beginning of liberation. But it can never secure it if it is isolated from the rest. That is why we see the process of Latin American liberation as a joint undertaking intended to benefit all.
224.	No ideological barrier must be allowed to prevail over motives sprung from the very roots of our peoples. We can assume our role in world affairs only through pluralist understanding and union.
225.	There can be no doubt that we are heading towards an international system possessing continental features, and
to reach our goal we must fulfil our responsibilities with faith and optimism and by bringing to bear all the energies and reserves of the Latin American people. It is only thus that we shall all together approach our target, which has been defined for us by our common origin and an inevitable historical imperative. On this road we are prepared to cooperate with those who understand our yearnings and desires and wish to make their open and sincere contribution to the building of a politically, economically and socially just continent.
226.	Our concern over the future of Latin America fits squarely within the wider concept of the third world.
227.	We are deeply convinced that the peoples of Africa, Asia and Latin America are basically facing the same problems.
228.	"Nations rich or poor"; "developed or developing countries"; "advanced or backward nations"; "the haves and the have-nots" — all are similar ways of disguising a single, crude and dramatic reality: domination or dependency.
229.	But to shatter that alternative and obtain more just and equitable conditions the third world does possess a powerful instrument — solidarity. Numerically we are many, and we are imbued with principles that arm us with unchallengeable moral strength. But we must counteract our own lack of individual power by bringing to bear the vitality of our unity.
230.	That process is already under way. It must now be extended and consolidated in all fields. But the struggle is not and will not be simple. Powerful interests will continue to fan futile divisions and to create artificial antagonisms.
231.	It would be paradoxical for our countries to lose their united stand precisely at the time when the great Powers are strengthening their understandings to preserve their privileges.
232.	To think exclusively in terms of individual interests would be to open the way to the designs of those who oppose our progress. It would be even worse to conspire against the common interest, preservation of which is our sole guarantee of survival as truly independent States.
233.	The profound changes taking place in the political, economic and social structures of nations point, to the threshold of a new stage in the development of mankind.
234.	To be worthy of the evolution that is altering the concept of modern life to its very foundations, we must muster all our energies to create the kind of society that our national, regional and cultural idiosyncrasies require, rejecting the foreign patterns foisted on us from outside, which are nothing but the refurbished attempts of certain Powers to fulfil their own desires of economic or ideological domination.
235.	That possibility was foreseen by the leader of justicialismo, Lieutenant-General Juan Peron, when, three decades ahead of today's reality, he defined the humanistic and revolutionary doctrine of the "third position", which,
apart from depicting a special plan for the organization of the Argentine community, represented the first open confrontation on an international level of the imperialisms of the left and of the right.
236.	Fortunately, today, a number of nations share this viewpoint, and proof was clearly given at the historic meeting recently held in Algiers, the Fourth Conference of Heads of State and Government of Non-Aligned Countries, where the non-aligned nations reiterated their unwavering determination to continue and to strengthen that movement, based on principles that are very comparable to those of the "third position".
237.	The Government of the people of Argentina did not want to remain outside that undertaking which constitutes one of the greatest joint movements for liberation, cooperation and solidarity of this century. And so it brought the Argentine Republic into the movement of the non-aligned nations as a full member, and pledged all its efforts to contribute to the triumph of its objectives.
238.	This is a good opportunity to reiterate our appreciation for the warm welcome given and the many signs of friendship shown to the Argentine delegation on the occasion of its admission to the movement. We should also like to place on record our thanks for the unanimous understanding and support shown on a number of questions which my country raised for examination by that great gathering.
239.	In the field of shared natural resources and the human environment, to which my country attaches special importance, that support was particularly significant. Guided by noble motives of solidarity and co-operation, while it reaffirmed the principle of sovereignty over nations' own natural resources, the Conference recognized the principle of solidarity and of co-ordinated and joint action in the exploitation and use of the natural resources shared by two or more States. Thus the Algiers Declaration  sets forth the principle that co-operation between countries in the exploitation of their common resources shall be on the basis of a system of information and prior consultation, all within the framework of the normal relations existing between the States concerned.
240.	The spirit of Algiers led also to the establishment of the rights of the coastal State to the exploitation of the natural resources of its seas and the protection of other related interests to a distance of 200 miles. For the first time, a group composed of the majority of the international community has proclaimed this important root of an agreement, which is in turn complemented by the recognition of the need to legislate on the regime of the continental shelf beyond the 200-mile limit in accordance with existing international law.
241.	In Algiers, Argentina felt it was among brothers. But even more, it felt that it was understood, and in turn felt that it understood, in their diversity, the aspirations of all the other non-aligned nations. And yet, above even that, Argentina felt that it was a partner in an integrating current that was destined to change the future of the world.
242. But, to conclude these pleasant reminiscences, may I publicly express our thanks to the Government and the people of Algeria for the generous hospitality they showed us and for their untiring efforts to ensure the success of that outstanding Conference.
,243. The bipolar world, which was the main characteristic of the last decades, ceased to exist with the appearance of new centres of power in Europe and Asia. The agreements recently concluded among the great Powers are further positive elements that have contributed greatly to clarifying the world picture. We were among the first to welcome those events that put an end once and for all to the cold war, charged as it was with so many threats to mankind, and mark the beginning of a new and constructive era in the life of peoples. Convergence and co-operation among those who until yesterday had seemed irreconcilable antagonists are doubtless an indispensable condition for the reduction of tensions in the world.
244.	However, for the atmosphere of peace to be stable and to benefit all, this convergence must not be achieved behind the backs or at the expense of the other countries. World opinion today could not tolerate it if, under the guise of a sound policy of detente, the great Powers were to be hammering out an up-to-date version of Yalta — in other words, if they were readying themselves for a new distribution of spheres of influence over which to wield their respective hegemonies.
245.	The third world cannot be left out when the great Powers adopt their decisions, for those decisions must, obviously, affect it either directly or indirectly. In order to clarify the doubts and disquiet felt by many Governments it is essential to allow them to play their true role in the search for solutions to various problems.
246.	And this participation can best be played out within the United Nations. But it must be a United Nations that is revitalized and strengthened in order fully to carry out its noble and worthy objectives. It is an irrefutable fact that the body created in 1945 does not meet the needs of the present day. And this can be clearly understood from the excellent introduction to the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization submitted by the Secretary-General. This outstanding document also makes clear that the Organization can be improved in many of its aspects, so that it may achieve, in the words of Mr. Waldheim, "a potential unmatched by any human institution which has existed before".
247.	Personally, we consider that very soon it will be necessary to make certain changes in order to achieve a true democratization that will be more consonant with its growing universality. Among others, there is the basic change of eliminating the privileges that the five great Powers assumed in San Francisco.
248.	This desire to democratize and update the Organization is particularly timely when the German Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany have just joined our ranks — surely a significant event that is a source of satisfaction to those of us who have always advocated the universality of the United Nations.
249.	We most cordially welcome the two representatives of the German people, with whom we are tied by a deep and traditional friendship. I also wish to welcome among us the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, a new independent State that is now added to our Latin American family.
250.	We have asserted that we are now entering on a stage of international relations that is lit with the sign of cooperation and understanding. We are gratified at the promising atmosphere thus engendered and would hope that it might be extended to all corners of the earth. Yet we are very much afraid that the continuation of certain existing conflicts may jeopardize the encouraging prospects before us.
251.	Our first concern is over the continued existence of anachronistic colonial issues that still upset world peace. The situation is particularly serious in the African continent where, in some areas, colonial oppression at its worst is still being practised. The eradication of colonialism — to use Mr. Waldheim's words again — is "painfully slow" [ibid., p. 4].
252.	In the Territories under Portuguese domination, the obstinacy of the colonial Power has created an arena for a harsh war — gestated over many years because of the unyielding attitude of those possessing the duty to assist those peoples to achieve their destiny of independence and sovereign integration in the community of nations.
253.	This same picture is seen in Southern Rhodesia and in Namibia, where the minorities refuse to yield to the legitimate rights of the subjected peoples.
254.	At a time when man is working under the sign of a spirit of liberation, the peoples of those Territories must be guaranteed the unconditional exercise of their right to self-determination in order to put an end to a cruelly anachronistic situation, whose anti-historic subsistence is an affront to the very essence of all human beings.
255.	The practices of apartheid in southern Africa add one of the most reprehensible aspects to colonialism: that of an inhuman racism that is obsolete and yet has been raised to the level of an institution. In this way the Government of South Africa is showing utter contempt for the most basic human rights that this world Organization has advocated since its very inception.
256.	The doctrine of justicialismo of my Government, interpreting the deepest essence of the Argentine community, most vehemently rejects any type of discrimination which, although always unacceptable, becomes inconceivable when made the official policy of the State, to the detriment of the majority of the population.
257.	The Argentine Government sympathizes with all the millions of victims of apartheid and with those who fight to eradicate it. We shall take every appropriate opportunity to give proof of our will to co-operate actively in the international effort to put an end to such a situation.
258.	Our concern ranges over the entire gamut of colonial situations that still persist in the world and overshadow relations among States. Within this context, the attention of the Argentine Republic is centred on the question of the Malvinas Islands.
259.	In a note addressed to the Secretary-General by the Argentine Government on 15 August 1973 [A/9121 and Corr.11, we described the prevailing state of the question and the stagnation in which the matter finds itself due to the stand adopted by the British Government on the negotiations urged by General Assembly resolution 2065 (XX) between the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, in order that they might settle the dispute between our two countries over the sovereignty of the islands. Those negotiations, for whose renewal we have always been ready, must take into account the special nature of the problem and the unique characteristics of the issue which make it impossible for generalizations or for analogies to be invoked.
260.	When a country sees its territorial integrity dismembered by an act of pure aggression typically imperialist in style, when the authorities of a Territory first, and then the population itself, are ousted and the State to which the Territory belongs has never at any moment accepted that usurpation, then it becomes impossible for anyone to tolerate the subsistence, at a time when the United Nations is in full spate, of a remnant of the nineteenth century power-politics as typical as is that of the Malvinas Islands.
261.	No one is unaware of the subterfuge indulged in to pretend to consolidate the colonial aggression by evicting the original population and replacing them by others brought in by the imperialist Power. The tragic experience of the past and what is today taking place in southern Africa and the Middle East are present-day examples of those reprehensible practices,
262.	It is thus paradoxical for the Government of the United Kingdom, after its criticisms of resolution 1514 (XV), which spelt the culmination of the process of the elimination of colonialism, today to invoke it in part and with ulterior motives, for no other purpose than to support one of the many episodes of colonial expansion of that country.
263.	Despite the obstacles that the United Kingdom may try to place in the road to the decolonization of the Malvinas Islands, our position towards the population of the islands has not varied and is always fully consonant with the decisions of the United Nations. The interests of the persons at present inhabiting the islands will be fully taken into account, according to the spirit and the letter of General Assembly resolution 2065 (XX), as well as of the recent resolution unanimously adopted by the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples on 21 August 1973 [see A/9023/Rev.l, chap. XXVII, sect. E], The Argentine Government has already given valid proof of its policy by means of a series of measures that ease the communications and contribute to the welfare of the settlers on the Islands, and reiterates, from this rostrum, its desire to give wide and adequate guarantees for the interests of those settlers once the islands have been returned to the national heritage of the Argentine Republic.
264.	My country has adhered — and continues to adhere —  to the path of negotiation with the occupying Power, but is forced to state that the procedure cannot be indefinitely
prolonged, thus serving as a means of maintaining the present situation. If the negative stance of the United Kingdom leads us into a stalemate, the Argentine Government will be forced to re-examine the policy which thus far has been based on goodwill and on respect for the principles of the Charter and of the resolutions of our Organization. If that be the case, it will be up to the United Nations to determine the way in which the terms of resolution 2065 (XX) have been vitiated due to the lack of real willingness on the part of one of the parties to negotiate.
265.	Once again it is my duty to state that the Argentine Government and people, more at one in this than ever before, will not retreat in their determination to recover that part of our national territory that was wrested from us in an act of imperialism by the United Kingdom, an act that history has condemned. The survival of such a situation at this stage of the twentieth century, when the process of decolonization is reaching its end, is both inexplicable and indefensible. To put an end to such an intolerable anachronism is a matter that brooks no delay, and it can be achieved only through the full restoration of the islands to the land from which they were torn and of which they are and always will be an integral part.
266.	Another source of concern to us is the continuation of the crisis in the Middle East, which continues to be the most serious threat to international peace and security.
267.	We believe it to be indispensable that, within the next few months, and in connexion with the visit of the Secretary-General to the countries in the region, efforts should be redoubled to solve this delicate question. We have often stated before, and reiterate now, that in this case time is not the best ally for a peaceful settlement.
268.	On the contrary, the lack of a solution to a conflict can at any moment generate frustration that may, in turn, light the fuse of a new armed conflict.
269.	We have stated and reaffirmed our conviction that Security Council resolution 242 (1967) offers the best means of an honourable settlement for both parties. We continue to hold that same view. Yet, quite frankly and impartially, we believe that Israel must understand that the balance that that resolution advocated cannot be achieved while the Arab territories are still occupied by force.
270.	Seven years after the adoption of that resolution, it is not a matter of trying further to interpret its meaning or to analyse its terms, it is a question of opting between establishing the just and lasting peace it advocates or maintaining an unyielding stand which, sooner or later, must lead to another armed confrontation.
271.	We trust that common sense will prevail. And common sense clearly indicates that it is far better to achieve today an agreement acceptable to all parties than to count on indefinitely retaining the fruits of a military conquest.
272.	During the debate on the important question of Korea, the Argentine delegation will make known its views in detail. However, I do feel constrained to state in advance that we shall not support any resolution of this Assembly
which, directly or indirectly, may affect the territorial integrity of that country or that may deprive the Korean people of its right to self-determination — in other words, to decide on its destiny for itself and without any form of outside interference.
273.	I could not conclude my statement without reaffirming our faith in the permanent values of man, our hopes for the establishment of a just human society and our determination to work with dedication so that the United Nations will be able to play its role today on the road to the universalist world of tomorrow.

===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
On behalf of the Government and the people of Argentina, I should like first of all solemnly to express in this august Assembly our most profound solidarity with our sister republic of Honduras and its people in these hours of trial and sorrow. The Government of Argentina has already taken the necessary steps to bring Honduras evidence of our moral support and of our specific material help in order to contribute with our means to the alleviation of so tragic a situation, which we all feel as if it were our own. On this very day, aircraft of our air force are leaving for that sister republic, carrying the first aid which we can offer in these hours of tribulation. We have also committed ourselves to delivering 5,000 tons of wheat, or its equivalent in flour, to meet the first needs of the population which has been the victim of the catastrophe.
55.	The President of the Republic of Argentina, Mrs. Maria Estela Martinez de Peron, has called the Ambassador of Honduras to Argentina to her office, so as to make available to our sister republic all the assistance that it may need. I trust that all countries represented here will also be mobilized so as to help the Republic of Honduras.
56.	It is a most happy coincidence that as I address this General Assembly, our debates are now being guided by an illustrious representative of the great nation of Mexico, with which my country maintains the most cordial and brotherly ties of friendship.
57.	The election which has conferred on Mr. Bouteflika the lofty position of President of this session of the General Assembly not only implies recognition of his personal qualifications and his ability as a representative of the great nation of Algeria but is also a tribute to the vigorous policy which that country has been developing with the non-aligned countries.
58.	Thus, a personality of the third world is today responsible for guiding an Assembly which faces problems of vital interest to mankind. Among them we emphasize in particular the quest for means that will make it possible from many directions to approach that international understanding and that meeting of minds that we all desire and advocate. To extend the area of peace, to lessen the gulf between the developed and the developing countries and to bring dignity to man constitute the main challenges that the world must answer in order to achieve its objectives of understanding and unity.
59.	At last year's session [2139th meeting] I emphasized that I was representing a people which by an overwhelming electoral majority had just definitely identified itself with the ideals of social justice, economic independence and political sovereignty. Since then, Argentina has made substantial headway along this course, consolidating its successes and adopting a far more positive political personality in the community of nations. In faith and serenity Argentina has whole-heartedly and without reserve embraced the cause of mankind, which is the real cause of the twentieth century, devoting its greatest efforts to the individual and collective well-being of the people. At the same time, it has maintained its historical traditions, which allow it the rather exceptional privilege in the world today of granting equal rights to all men throughout the world who wish to live in our land, without distinction of race or nationality.
60.	In the past year, the Republic of Argentina suffered the great loss of its leader, Juan Peron. Great statesmen live on beyond their lifetime because their principles and their objectives remain in force, and it is my duty to emphasize here that those we inherited from General Peron have been deeply rooted in the hearts of the people of Argentina. His prophetic ideas transformed him into the precursor of universalism and of a "third position" which are today recognized as being essential means for inter-national coexistence. His death deeply moved the entire nation, but his thinking and his guidance constitute inalterable goals for the march of our Republic towards the future. And the people of Argentina firmly maintains the policy of international co-operation which he established and, in its relations with all the countries of the world, it ratifies his purpose of achieving a genuine international social justice. Among the ideas put forth in his message to the Fourth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, which met in Algiers from 5 to 9 September 1973, he expressed total support for the cause of the countries of the third world, indicating the imperative need for a "change in social and productive structures, because incontinent luxury and waste cannot continue to be the basic motive force of any society.
61.	These expressions and this ideology, of profound philosophical and humanist content, are the ones T wish to recall here with the utmost solemnity, reiterating the Argentine commitment of solidarity with the non-aligned countries. The future will see us still standing in their ranks and sympathizing with their aspirations, Nothing can better describe the attitudes of a numerous and outstanding group of countries -among which we are honored to be-than their desire for truth and justice, their complete respect for the dignity of man and their rapid and decided march towards the liberation of their people. I therefore reiterate our position as expressed at the Algiers Conference in regard to the Political Declaration,  which recommends support for decolonization and the liberation of territories occupied by force, as well as in regard to the Economic Declaration which, together with the Action Program for Economic Co-operation, is intended to enable the members of the group to develop with equality of opportunity with regard to the terms of trade with other countries of the world so that there will be a better and more just distribution of resources that will in turn contribute to greater harmony in international coexistence
62.	The destiny of my country is today in the hands of Mrs. Maria Estela Martinez de Peron, who has the massive support of the citizens and of all the power factors of the nation, and she is energetically proceeding along the course set by General Peron, implementing the same ideas and seeking the attainment of identical objectives. The community of ideas and ideals between both ensure the historical continuity of Peron's thinking and the lasting character of his great design for Latin American integration, the inalterable validity of which I am pleased to reaffirm now.
63.	The delegation of Argentina attends this great meeting at times which are particularly crucial for the future of the world, The combination of factors of economic and monetary tension, of generalized inflation, of the multiplicity of international political crises in various continents and the shortage and waste of natural resources, together with disease and hunger, the reduction in food reserves and the growing wave of violence throughout the world, have meant that, as our President has said, the times in which we live must be described as "the era of insecurity".
64.	This disquieting picture appears paradoxical when we consider the high degree of technical and scientific development achieved by mankind. There are space trips and the breaking down of the atom; and still hunger, poor health and ignorance remain, whereas they should have been distant memories of superseded stages.
65.	One of the solutions is clear: to unite our most determined efforts so as to achieve an equitable and just distribution of goods. If that is not rapidly achieved, tensions between human beings will increase in an accelerated manner and will increasingly acquire the apocalyptic shape of armed conflict.
66.	The future demands special efforts from the United Nations, which must adopt the decisions which are indispensable to contributing to understanding among peoples and nations, to seeking the well-being of all and to avoiding the harmful predominance of some over others.
67.	On the one hand, we have to review the problem of ensuring equity in the treatment of human beings in the world: of those who suffer serious poverty while there is infinite wealth; of the man with great spiritual worth, with great ideals and purposes, which all the religions and philosophies have emphasized, and of the man who is subjected to the physical limitations of the material world in which he has to live, and where frequently he is humiliated and subjected to deprivations of all kinds. Thus, rebellions are born, and sometimes they break out at odd times so that it becomes difficult to correlate them with their genuine causes. This diagnosis of the dramatic circumstances in which the world is living is, I believe, part of the conscience of all representatives, thus constituting a problem of responsibility towards others and towards ourselves.
68.	On the other hand, the speed of change is such that we observe that neither persons, nor States, nor international organizations manage to keep up with an evolution which, because of the multiplicity of new discoveries and the growing interdependence among nations, creates a very dangerous delay between the adoption of decisions and their implementation. This then is yet another challenge which the United Nations faces.
69.	It was Peron who was a true precursor of this universality which has today become a fact and who anticipated by almost two decades the problems that we now confront. He then stated the "third position". He clearly foresaw that a merciless dispute between the mighty would only contribute to a mass impoverishment of the world and, in particular, of the peoples who are today united under the principles and ideals of the "non-aligned".
70.	The leader of the Argentine people said in February 1972:
"We believe that the time has come when all peoples and Governments of the world must become aware of the suicidal march of mankind through the pollution of the environment and the biosphere, and the waste of natural resources. It is no less serious that the social systems of waste of the technologically most advanced countries operate through the consumption of vast amounts of natural resources contributed by the third world."
And he added:
"All these problems are indissolubly linked to the relaxation of international tension and the extension of international co-operation.
"In the defense of their interests, countries must move towards regional integrations and action based on solidarity."
71.	It is to solve these problems that we are meeting today. No one can allege that he has not at this stage heard the anxious appeals of the dispossessed. The calls for help must be heeded, without verbal demagoguery; with just and realistic action, with respect for all and with magnanimity, particularly for the humble, and fundamentally by becoming aware of the fact that the time has come when the peoples of the world must go through life in understanding and solidarity toward a common destiny of greatness; otherwise, through selfishness and intolerance they will fall into the abyss of pain and poverty.
72.	At the recent sixth special session, the General Assembly dealt with some of the underlying causes of the ills of mankind. But some of the objectives set were not achieved. Natural resources are still being wasted; it is maintained that industrialized products are unattainable for the majority; the price and wage race continues, causing inflation which shakes the general economy; and protectionist trade retains its pernicious rigidity for the socio-economic situation of the world.
73.	It has been repeated insistently and it was proclaimed by the General Assembly at its sixth special session, in the Program of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order [resolution 3202 (S-K/J]- that it is necessary to facilitate the access of the developing countries to the markets of the developed by the gradual elimination of tariff barriers and other restrictive practices which hamper trade.
74.	Only if the developing countries have a substantially greater share in international trade will it be possible to bring about a profound structural change and arrive at a just and permanent solution to present problems, thus consolidating a genuine process of development of our economies,
75.	Those objectives have been rendered null. In this respect, a most significant example is provided by the measures taken since April last by the European Communities to limit the importation of beef, measures which culminated last June with the total cessation of beef importation until I November 1974. That decision, taken without consultation, jeopardizes agreements that are linked to the economies of the developing countries which export meat to that market.
76.	Obviously, it may be argued that those measures are caused by internal difficulties in the sector, but they arise from production and marketing policies and mechanisms that are highly protectionist, that have notoriously unfavorable repercussions upon international trade and are certainly not in accord with the repeated declarations of the European Communities in various international forums in favor of greater freedom in world exchanges.
77.	Peace, freedom, co-operation and friendship: those are big words which have been heard thousands of times in this Hall. Let us not again make the mistake of repeating them when they are devoid of practical content.
78.	Time and space are already too limited. We pride ourselves on the honorable, albeit demanding, title of plenipotentiaries of mankind, which desires order, well-being and justice. Were this Organization to prove unable to perfect itself as a sound instrument to bring about the common well-being of peoples, its authority would be seriously jeopardized and hopes for understanding among States would suffer a hard blow.
79.	The interests of Argentina are not isolated; all peoples are with us in our ideals -in particular, the peoples of the third world. Our fundamental objective must be peace. Nevertheless, that peace does not depend solely on the silence of arms among nations. It depends also upon whether human beings are satisfied with the circumstances in which they happen to live. That depends on security of feelings and brotherly assistance, on the balance between needs and resources; it depends on the access of all to food, education and health. Thus peace, as has been said many times by His Holiness the Pope, cannot be based upon selfishness, poverty or moral degradation, be it internationally or at the level of the individual contact of human beings in each organized community.
80.	May I quote a statesman? He said, "If the strong try to impose their points of view, they will do so at the expense of justice and will bring about uprisings; if the weak resort to pressures, they will do so at the peril of world prosperity and bring about despair", and, "No nation or group of nations stands to gain anything by making claims in excess of the limits the economic growth of the world can bear."
81.	That is a wise formula. But where will we find the just balance to apply it? Can we avoid the pressure of the strong? Can we do away with the despair of the weak, who constitute ever-growing multitudes and are afflicted by all kinds of needs? Important are the rules of the game we shall set so as to encourage what is best in human nature. And so the Republic of Argentina comes here once again with the greatest willingness to co-operate in the search for equitable but urgent formulas, ideals and practices which will respect the dignity of mankind and lead it to prosperity and confidence. We do not wish to yield to the temptation to make rhetorical allegations removed from the raw realities of the daily existence of millions of human beings. Accordingly, it is necessary that the spirit of co-operation become part of every conscience. We must respect each other's rights and share our efforts to achieve the progress and prosperity of the world.
82.	Taking into account that supreme aspiration and the constant and growing preoccupation of the vast majority of mankind, my delegation once again pronounces itself decisively and firmly against any policy of apartheid, and we state in advance that Argentina will support the resolutions this Assembly will adopt definitively to eradicate such practices, which degrade the inalienable dignity of the human person.
83.	New practical procedures must be added to those already adopted by the United Nations. Such developments as greater communications, communications by satellite and the inevitable coming together of the world means that what is happening elsewhere is felt to be happening to oneself, Any event that affects one region or country has a palpable and almost immediate effect even in the most remote continents. More than ever, the world is one unit -one unit of events and thoughts, one social and economic unit. We face an irresistible force of cohesion.
84.	Let us, therefore, increase the effectiveness of the United Nations, which has won so much praise and rendered so much service as the only wise and viable mechanism so far developed for an exchange of views and for joint efforts by mankind.
85.	To that end a first, and very efficient, method would be the strengthening of bonds between similar geographical zones. Here I believe it desirable to emphasize the ideals we pursue. We are applying a policy of co-operation and complementarity with neighboring countries, because universality must logically start at the regional level.
86.	It is fitting to emphasize here that "universality-" means a total plurality of subjects or objects, each part acquiring its consistency in reference to the whole but without losing its sovereign individuality. That is the philosophical interpretation of the concept, and thus also we clarify the significance -primarily national, although with world-wide repercussions- of the doctrines we profess.
87.	As a doctrine, we believe that to build a world society it is necessary to pass through a stage of continentalism. Countries must unite progressively on the basis of geographical neighborhood. This is Argentina's vision for Latin America: one that is just, open, generous and above all sincere. At the national level, no one can find fulfillment in a country that has none. The same holds true at the continental level. We wish to work jointly so as to build Latin America within the concept of an organized community. Its triumph will be ours, and it will also be that of the brotherhood of the third world, and it will be the triumph of unity among all States.
88.	The Republic of Argentina therefore wants to place its resources and its potential above all at the service of its sister republics of America, without in the least overlooking the brotherhood we profess towards all other nations and in particular towards the nations of the third world.
89.	We must go on uniting our efforts so that the vast natural resources of our American continent may be exploited for the benefit of the peoples that inhabit that soil and also may contribute to alleviating the penury of food, commodities and industrial goods in other areas of the world.
90.	In particular, Latin America is living through an era of integration sustained by great spiritual vigor. We have a common strength which comes to us from the beginning of our history rooted in our origins and our similarities of character. The Republic of Argentina takes pride in being part of a continent which has so many potentialities and whose peoples hold aloft the banner of their legitimate claims, claims which include such basic and natural rights as the right to be able to trade among themselves in accordance with complete national sovereignty, to keep their territories free from any intruder or invader and to apply their own laws to their own acts; a continent which affirms justice and respect for ideologies, a continent, finally, which shares heroes who are revered as a common heritage.
91.	As Peron stated:
"Latin America belongs to the Latin Americans. We have lived a history. The history of the future will not forgive us if we fail to be faithful to our past ... We Argentinians feel a strong Latin American conscience ... We are firm advocates of an effective spiritual closeness for the peoples of America and reciprocal co-operation at the economic level. It is unacceptable that in the name of the interests of the continent anyone should interfere in our internal economy and external policies ... In our Latin American continent many popular leaders are working for this brotherhood, and the results achieved so far are very rewarding."
92.	Thus it is undoubted that the exercise of political sovereignty, whatever the historical circumstances, is not negotiable. This guiding principle multiplied in the national conscience of every Latin American country creates a total regional conscience, which accordingly is not negotiable either.
93.	The Republic of Argentina now as never before feels that its ties with its sister republics in Latin America are deep. We feel at one with the sufferings and the just claims of the peoples which constitute the third world, and we consider that we are thereby also serving the cause of all human beings who want union and not hatred, love and not division.
94.	In referring to this need for understanding and justice, Argentina cannot fail to point out that without doubt the United Nations General Assembly expressed itself to that effect when it adopted resolution 3160 (XXVIII) urging that negotiations proceed without delay with the United Kingdom in regard to the Malvinas Islands.
95.	Our country still has to bear the occupation of part of our territory by an extra-continental Power, a situation which is not in accordance with the direction and the ideals of the world today, and the Republic of Argentina considers that this continuing situation is inadmissible. It is true that, as my Government communicated to the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contacts do exist for resuming these negotiations. A solution, however, has not yet been reached, and I must accordingly reiterate here the unalterable sovereignty of Argentina over the territory of the Malvinas Islands and point out that this just claim will of necessity condition our international relations in any circumstances in which our right may be discussed,
96.	As I said not long ago at the Atlanta Conference of the Organization of American States "The decision to achieve the final eradication of this anachronistic colonial situation is one which is shared by all the people of Argentina, and their Government recognizes it as a mandate that cannot be renounced." I reiterate my confidence that, in seeking a solution, we shall be able to count on the necessary understanding and political decision of the present Government of the United Kingdom so as to put an end to this problem.
97.	As proof of our concern in regard to the matters involved, I declare once again that the Republic of Argentina will do everything in its power to protect the interests of the inhabitants of the Islands and to increase their well-being, thus enabling them to accede to the benefits and progress enjoyed by the people of Argentina. Therefore I am pleased to announce here that a few days ago I had the satisfaction of signing, together with the representative of the United Kingdom in Buenos Aires, separate notes in which an enlargement of the fuel plant installed by my Government on the Islands is envisaged as well as other measures intended to facilitate trade between the continental territory of Argentina and the Malvinas Islands.
98.	We know that international policy is not a goal in itself but a means of contributing to the happiness of man and the greatness of States; but international policy is also a duty for Governments in order to fulfill the destiny of each people. From its very inception Argentina, in attaining political independence, placed everything it possessed at the service of the peoples of the continent. That has been our guideline. That is our objective for greatness, and under our present decisions both in the United Nations and in the inter-American system we shall continue to follow that historic mandate and achieve and strengthen hemispheric brotherhood.
99.	I do not believe it would be idle to emphasize once again here the importance which the Republic of Argentina attaches to the principle of non-intervention. That principle, which has no limitations, must be applied without exception and must once and for all become a sacrosanct norm of the external policy of States. Only four years ago this very Assembly so decided in unequivocal provisions of resolutions 2625 (XXV) and 2627 (XXV).
100.	As integral members of the Latin American community we are bound to express our satisfaction that a noble nation, albeit far removed from Latin America, has ensured the study by this Assembly of a legal political institution which was inherited from our own motherland, Spain, and which is typically Latin American. I refer to the item on diplomatic asylum, included in the agenda Of this session at Australia's request [see A19704]. Diplomatic asylum is but a humanitarian rule to give shelter to those who are persecuted for political and not criminal reasons. In Latin America asylum in diplomatic missions has been an unbroken tradition maintained by almost every Government at all times, even when there was no obligation to provide political asylum. Argentina signed the initial multilateral treaty at the Latin American level in Montevideo in 1880s and has had the opportunity of applying its generous principles not only in America but in other hemispheres.
101.	The seventh special session to be held in September 1975 in the two weeks preceding the thirtieth session of the General Assembly acquires particular significance in the light of the results achieved since the sixth special session, on raw materials and development. Argentina shares the general feeling that the seventh special session must provide a unique opportunity for achieving the objectives incorporated in the Declaration [resolution 3201 (S-Vl)} and the Program of Action [resolution 3202 (S-VI)] on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order, since the sixth special session was but a transcendental point of departure in a particularly dynamic process, the goal of which is the establishment of a new international economic order which will be more just and equitable. Possibly one of the means of achieving more practical results in the deliberations might consist in some change in the administrative structure of the United Nations to adapt it better to quick changes, particularly in the economic and social fields, so that the developing countries could be better represented in executive posts in that administrative structure.
102.	On the other hand, the Republic of Argentina is keenly interested, in accordance with its governmental and political philosophy, in everything relating to the quality of life, because that is tied to the very future of mankind. We therefore pay particular attention to problems relating to natural resources and the environment, and we consider it timely for the United Nations to continue to deal with those far-reaching items with special emphasis.
103.	In particular, my country is interested in those and other aspects which deserve further study and solution in this General Assembly. I am referring to "collective ecological security", that is to say the cooperation which must exist between States in order to maintain an equitable balance in regard to certain elements which cover or involve more than one country and action in solidarity when the acts of one Government might run counter to that concept. Thus, in principle, we might consider as being in contradiction with the collective ecological security of nations such acts which, to an extent that is not normal, disturb health conditions, the climate, their own or shared natural resources or the purity of waters that flow from one nation to another, or such measures as might affect the natural existence of forests, rivers, the fauna and flora of land, seas or rivers or those which could contaminate the atmosphere.
104.	My country reaffirms the inalienable right of peoples and nations to permanent sovereignty over their own natural resources and wealth, whether they be removable or non-removable, living or nonliving. That is a principle which we practice to the full, in particular as regards energy resources.
105.	In accordance with the characteristics of shared natural resources for use and exploitation we seek the establishment of general and universal policies on the basis of recognition and reaffirmation of principles and practices which have been sanctioned by use, doctrine and international jurisprudence, Along that line of thinking the General Assembly established, in resolution 3129 (XXVIII), a mechanism for prior consultation and the exchange of information, so that the exploration, exploitation and development of shared natural resources might be carried out in close co-operation between the parties concerned and in a rational manner so as to obtain optimum yields.
106.	With regard to the results of the second session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, my Government deems them to have been positive, Undoubtedly, the international community has lent broad support to the maritime claims of the Latin American countries.
107.	It is the hope of Argentina that agreement will be reached on a convention which will finally provide adequate political solutions to the difficult maritime and oceanic problems. In the first place, with the establishment of a territorial sea of 12 miles and an adjacent exclusive economic zone up to a distance of 200 miles, within which there would be freedom of navigation and overflight and freedom to place submarine cables, the coastal State would exercise sovereign rights in regard to fishing, the regulation and control of scientific research and the preservation of the marine environment,
108.	That position prevailed at the Caracas session. We hope it will be strengthened in Geneva and finally enshrined in the future convention. And yet we believe it is fitting to warn of the dangers of some proposals which apparently recognize the 200-mile zone, but with so many conditions attached as to distort its essence. This claim by some great Powers, which cannot resign themselves to losing their privileges, is unacceptable to the developing countries,
109.	Likewise, the Convention cannot affect the rights acquired by the coastal State over its continental shelf beyond the 200 miles since the continental shelf, in accordance with existing inter-national law, constitutes the natural prolongation of its territory under the sea. In other words, no acceptable political solution can affect the sovereignty of the coastal State over its submerged territory, which extends to the external lower edge of the continental margin, My country hopes that this position will be finally accepted at the next session of the Conference, since this mechanism will prevent the renewal of international injustices on the sea international injustices which have characterized the appropriation of natural resources on land.
110.	It has been the purpose of the Government which I represent to intensify to the utmost the links of the Republic of Argentina with the other countries of the international community. The last decades have been witness to fundamental changes in the world community, with the inclusion of many nations which have emerged to independent life and the resurgence of others which, although having a glorious past, had been subject to long periods of subordination or isolation, To those States, which constitute a large part of the third world, the diplomatic activity of Argentina was specially directed so as to seek their presence when it had been absent and to strengthen it where it existed.
111.	That policy was not due merely to a desire to create or to intensify relations. It was the response to a profound motivation, to a sincere and open feeling of solidarity with the peoples of the third world,
112.	At this difficult and. complex stage of substantial and rapid alterations in relations among States, the need for close and frank co-operation is imperative for those who are not at the center of power. In this way we prevent the fundamental decisions of world policy being adopted in our absence or without taking into account the interests of those who represent two thirds of mankind.
113.	This act of solidarity of the Republic of Argentina has been made manifest in various international forums and has led to the recognition of new States and the establishment of diplomatic relations with numerous countries in every latitude. This is eloquent testimony of our will to expand our international panorama to the utmost and to create a constructive dialog with all geographical and political entities, once and for all going beyond the ideological and partial schemes or omissions of the past.
114.	The most recent event of this new approach of our foreign policy, which faithfully reflects the aspirations of the Argentine people, has been the establishment of diplomatic relations with the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. We thus supplemented the first step which we took several months ago when the Government of Argentina recognized that new State in the midst of difficulties which still hampered its fully independent life. Today I am most happy to welcome among us that country whose struggle for emancipation evokes in our memory the emancipation battles of Latin American countries in different times and circumstances but with the inspiration of the same ideals of freedom and justice.
115.	We sincerely hope that the process of liberation of the Portuguese colonies will continue at an accelerated rate. The policy implemented by the new Government of Portugal deserves our respect and we express the hope that other events will rapidly take place which will assist in ending once and for all vestiges of a colonialism which history has superseded.
116.	Because of our proven anti-colonialist vocation, we add the voice of the Republic of Argentina to that of the Secretary-General, who, in the introduction to his report on the work of the Organization [Al960IIAdd.I], emphasizes the positive and valuable aspects of the new policy of Portugal in regard to its former colonies. The change has a transcendental projection within the framework of the United Nations, whose constant struggle to eradicate those chronic situations of injustice had the active support of my country. Now our Organization must be the main channel whereby opinions and actions of the international community will be guided in this question,
117.	We also welcome the other two new Members of the United Nations, Bangladesh and Grenada. With regard to the latter country, may I in particular mention the special satisfaction of the Government and people of Argentina at its admission; the Latin American group has gained a valuable representative which, together with the other English-speaking countries in the hemisphere, will help in increasing their over-all contribution to the 
important questions that are before the Assembly at this session.
118.	My words are a message of brotherhood towards all nations and they express in brief the feeling of the people of Argentina which, with its willingness to serve, endeavors to contribute with what is best in itself so that by achieving spiritual and material progress for every human being we will give effect to our aspiration to build a better world.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====

210. In the first place, Sir, I should like to express the satisfaction of the Government of the Republic of Argentina and my own personal satisfaction at your election to the position of President of the thirtieth session of the General Assembly. You represent an area of the world with which my country maintains traditional relations. I am happy to emphasize that your personal qualities reflect a valuable culture which has enriched my country and the legacy of which is still alive today.
211.	We wish to express our great appreciation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Algeria, Mr. Abdel- aziz Bouteflika, from whose dynamism and ability we benefited in the course of two intense sessions of the General Assembly and with whom I recently had the privilege of sharing the historic days of the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non- Aligned Countries, held at Lima.
212.	I also wish to express our deep satisfaction at the entry into the United Nations of the Republic of Cape Verde, the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe and the People's Republic of Mozambique new countries with which Argentina will maintain ties of friendship and close co-operation within its policy of maintaining active relations with Africa. Their presence in this Assembly brings us closer to the ideal of universality which we have always advocated, and of which I shall have an opportunity to speak at greater length at another time.
213.	We are living at a very special time in history. The irreconcilable enemies of the past meet today, setting aside their own ideological divergences, to find common paths which will make it possible to consolidate the future of their peoples. Detente has brought about a basic state of peace which has undoubtedly transformed relations among countries, but we are still far from the world of peace, idealism, justice and order to which the United Nations Charter points.
214.	That is why there still continue to exist serious hot-beds of conflict which, tragically, lead to armed confrontation, with all its sequel of irreparable damage. That is why there are still oppressed peoples who must await their turn to exercise their right to self-determination. That is why there are still enclaves of occupation which infringe the territorial integrity of nations on various continents. War, colonialism and territorial usurpation are thus an everyday component of international reality.
215.	But, at the same time, it is fair to maintain that that atmosphere of detente has made it possible to start new and fruitful courses of exchange which are the very basis of our frequently mentioned interdependence. Economic co-operation, which does not imply that anyone accepts given political ideas, grows daily, possibly because we have at last realized, with all its implications, the significance of the limited area of the earth which we share.
Mr. Rinchin (Mongolia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
216.	In the hope of encouraging the trend towards positive dialog, the United Nations was established. In 1945 nobody thought that confrontations would disappear merely because a group of countries established an organization with universal purposes and goals. That consideration, valid at the outset, still applies, but the course of 30 years of life and experience shows us, in 1975, that on many occasions important agreements have been reached owing fundamentally to the vitality and political resources of the United Nations.
217.	Therefore, it is only just to recall the achievements of the United Nations and from them to draw the strength to weave the pattern for the future. To that end no organization can serve us better than the United Nations, which today is celebrating its thirtieth year of existence. The United Nations, whose majorities and minorities have faced each other on historic occasions is the only instrument that we have for mutual understanding and common progress.
218.	May this sounding-box serve so that all States Members can state their views frankly, however divergent. May this august Assembly serve in the search for means of understanding and joint action in all those fields in which it is possible to arrive at a compromise. May it serve to hold on high for all time the essential standards which govern international coexistence.
219.	Let us be fully aware of our own strength, both individually and collectively, so as to alter unjust situations with which we are all concerned. Let us therefore seek to build with specific elements a more secure structure so that we may not feel we are sheltering under a non-existent ceiling. In sum, let us do everything within our power, without sacrificing our own principles, to reconcile our ideas and act jointly.
220.	It is in this spirit that the Republic of Argentina, in these difficult moments, renews its support for the United Nations. We shall always be ready to give our support to our common task, which we all know is the irrevocable mandate with which mankind must sooner or later comply.
221.	Since the time of the League of Nations we have consistently maintained that the principle of universality must be applied in integrating the world. This approach, which is closely connected to a rejection of ideological barriers in international relations, is a basic component of the foreign policy of Argentina.
222.	The universality of the United Nations is an essential condition for achieving the purposes of the Charter.
223.	Our delegation will therefore support the admission of all peace-loving States, as laid down in Article 4 of the Charter, and we shall oppose any measures in that field which might mean a weakening of the Organization.
224.	Argentina is proud to form part of a group of States within the United Nations which meets under the name of the Latin American group. We have in it heirs of the most diverse races and cultures on earth as well as representatives of different systems of government. My country, without abandoning its national convictions, realizes that it is on a secure and real basis of primary union that we will be able to forge a better future and co-operate effectively to create a better international system.
225.	Regional integration is a model which daily acquires greater vigor. On every continent we see the emergence, with difficulties and varying degrees of success, of this new design of co-participation.
226.	Statesmen of the old Europe to which you belong, Mr. President, with clear foresight set the example after the last world war by rising above traditional antagonisms and bloody confrontations to channel a handful of Powers along the fruitful path of co-operation and complementarity.
227.	The fact is that the-shortening of distances and the pressing need for resources of every kind force us to come together. Only in that gathering of nations, which, we reiterate, we know to be very complex indeed in its realization, would it be possible for us to maintain our independence as sovereign entities capable of defending the vital interests of our own peoples.
228.	But we have not wished only to seek understanding on the basis of geography and history. That is why we belong to the movement of non-aligned countries, in which the motives for association include very different components. I need hardly say that there, too, we maintain our beliefs and will not endorse criteria which differ from those inspired by our national traditions. At the same time, we are determined to associate ourselves in clear and decisive fashion with ideas active in the world of today and shared by distant and dissimilar countries under the mantle of non- alignment, and that is because the search for agreements among countries that have no capacity to destroy the world is an imperative that stems from our very origin.
229.	It was precisely because of that independent and sovereign vocation of a young State which, from its own beginnings, had to battle against the powerful, that General Juan Peron brought into being the third- world position, which he introduced into the world at the most critical moment of the cold war. The courage and vision he demonstrated in those days serve to inspire and sustain the Argentina of today.
230.	We have before us a full agenda, with many important and varied items of a political , economic, social and legal nature. The position of Argentina on these items has been stated repeatedly at this very rostrum. I therefore deem it unnecessary to repeat them here again. Suffice it once more to reaffirm, in the awareness that I speak for all the people of Argentina, the validity of the principles of the United Nations Charter, which we shall continue to strive to bring to life.
231.	For this to be possible, we shall have to eradicate injustice and domination from every corner of the earth; we must do away with the scourge of discrimination and colonialism, and bring to a halt the arms race, for which the great nuclear Powers are responsible but which also is felt at the regional level, generating the consequent tensions and resulting in an unnecessary waste of resources that should be used for promoting development. Lastly, subject peoples should be given assistance to enable them freely to decide the destiny of their countries.
232.	In this connexion, we cannot fail to express our satisfaction at the signing of the recent agreement between Egypt and Israel, achieved through the expectation and decision of two sovereign States which are seeking a solution to their long-standing problems by the arduous path of negotiation. We appreciate the efforts made by both sides to bring about a happy conclusion. Everything that is done to maintain peace in that so sensitive area through the use of peaceful means should be able to count on widespread support. We realize that this step is only a beginning and that many more steps must be taken in order to reach the final goal of establishing a just and lasting peace, with recognition of the legitimate rights of the peoples concerned.
233.	We consider that the balanced set of principles and reciprocal obligations laid down in Security Council resolution 242 (1967) is still the principal basis for the attainment of that objective.
234.	We are a people convinced of the merits of negotiation. We apply this to what concerns us most directly. As is well known, my country suffers from the usurpation by a foreign Power of a part of its territory, namely the Malvinas Islands. For that question to be settled, there is no solution other than the return of those islands to the territorial patrimony of the Republic, since their occupation by force was carried out against every law and was never consented to by our country.
235.	In tilth respect, I reaffirm the will of my Government to negotiate with the Government of the United Kingdom in accordance with the provisions of the resolutions and agreements adopted by the General Assembly.
236.	In this connexion, I trust that the United Kingdom will finally decide to comply with the United Nations resolutions and negotiate, as early as possible, a definitive settlement of this dispute.
237.	The Republic of Argentina is reassured by the recent decision taken at Lima at the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries with regard to the Malvinas Islands. The solidarity in our cause is proof of the identity of interests that binds all its members together.
238.	In the Lima Program for Mutual Assistance and Solidarity [AII0217 and Corr.l] the right of my country was clearly recognized and the application, in this specific case, of the principle of self-determination was excluded, in view of the fact that the British occupation constitutes a violation of the principle of territorial integrity specifically laid down in resolution 1514 (XV).
239.	The Lima Declaration strengthens the purpose of Argentina to secure, in the briefest possible time, a return of the Malvinas Islands to the national patrimony by the course indicated in resolutions 2065 (XX) and 3160 (XXVIII).
240.	My delegation wishes to express its satisfaction at the results of the work of the seventh special session, devoted to development and international economic co-operation. That session was a significant milestone because of the undoubted progress made in the areas covered by its agenda. What is even more important is that that progress was achieved through a dialog that made it possible to determine more accurately where we are and where we want to go.
241.	The developing countries evinced a desire to reduce areas of friction and concentrated their efforts on specific items that offer opportunities for effective international co-operation with the industrialized world.
242.	The developed countries, for their part, demonstrated a praiseworthy capacity to adjust to new conditions through a renewal of ideas and a constructive spirit, all of which leads us to believe that we shall be able to proceed from words to deeds.
243.	Much needs to be done to bring us closer to the rule of international social and economic justice, which is a permanent objective of the foreign policy of my country. But we must clearly understand that only to the extent that we go forward to greater justice in international economic relations will it be possible for us to go beyond a policy of sterile confrontation to one of fruitful co-operation.
244.	For us, the idea of co-operation is not incompatible with acceptance of the conflicting nature of relationships between the developed world and the developing countries. What is more, recent experience shows that we can move forward in the direction of co-operation on the basis of a recognition of the diversity of interests, and even of the fact that confrontation is not sterile when it engenders positive attitudes leading to solutions that benefit all.
245.	In that context what is necessary is to do away with the distorting factors as a result of which those who have the most receive not only the products of their own efforts but also additional benefits that accrue because the rules of the game accentuate the structural disadvantages that are typical of the developing countries. These rules basically include the mechanisms which determine international prices, the monetary and financial system, the transfer of technology, and external debt servicing. Those factors cause the developing countries with alarming frequency to receive less for their efforts than their real value.
246.	The world economic recession imposes excessive burdens on the economies of the developing countries which, unlike the developed countries, lack the resources and means to correct these imbalances. It is the urgent duty of the international community to find measures to assist the developing countries in eliminating the bottlenecks from which they suffer in the external sector of their economies and which the world crisis has aggravated. We are studying the various proposals which have recently been made in regard to an increase in foreign private investment, the important role of which in the integral development of our peoples we are the first to recognize. Furthermore, without any ideological pre-conceptions, we are open to any positive contribution to our development.
247.	And now I should like to bring before the Assembly a concern which I am sure is shared by many of those who are listening to me: it relates to a growing tendency to accord less and less attention in international organizations for financial and technical cooperation and assistance to those States which have reached a certain relative degree of development. In mentioning this concern we are certainly not objecting to the justified efforts being made in these forums for the benefit of the neediest, still less trying to undermine them. Argentina has always supported, and will continue to support, special measures in favor of these countries. But what we do insist on is that those which have reached a certain degree of development, as is typically the case in Latin America, should not be left out in the activities of these organizations in which many times our continent led the way on the paths now followed by the international community.
248.	Latin America is in a position to assist not only with ideas but also, as we have proved, with specific contributions within the concept of an essentially dynamic and multiplying international co-operation. Proof of this is the initiative taken to give a new dimension to technical co-operation whereby the abilities and experience of the developing countries could be used to the full. We are very happy that, for the first time within the framework of the United Nations, provision has been made for an intergovernmental meeting on a world scale to promote this new form of co-operation.
249.	The world has become aware that resources are limited and that it is therefore necessary to avoid their waste by using them rationally. The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, held at Stockholm in 1972, represented official recognition of this new state of affairs and offered solutions on the basis of the fruitful principles of co-operation. Given the problem of a scarcity of resources, cooperation is no longer an alternative but the only way, since it is only by joint effort on the part of the international community that we shall arrive at an effective solution.
250.	The United Nations Water Conference, to be held in 1977, will be an important opportunity for the international community to put to the test the principles which were defined at Stockholm. My country trusts that it will be successful and will represent another milestone in this process of growing co-operation.
251.	Thirty years of activity by the United Nations in the economic and social fields provide us with sufficient perspective for judging the effectiveness of the units which constitute it in this regard. We have observed with some anxiety that greater efforts have been invested in creating new bodies than in solving old problems. We must adjust the structure of the system to present needs, which in turn will constitute the focus of the concerns of the international community in the remainder of this century. We believe that the time has come to make the objective of economic and social development the central concern of the United Nations, because increasingly the reduction of the existing disparity between the developed and the developing worlds will represent the best guarantee for the maintenance of international peace and security.
252.	The same determination and effectiveness which the system has shown in pursuing the objective of eliminating colonialism as a political phenomenon must from now on be displayed in the work of liberating peoples from the less obvious but no less pernicious forms of economic dependence.
253.	The almost unanimous recognition by Member States of the need to advance slowly but surely towards the establishment of a new international economic order allows us to hope that this process of liberation is already under way.
254.	For it to become a reality we must clearly be aware that no reordering or restructuring of the system can make up for an absence of political will which is indispensable if we wish to make this Organization serve the cause that cannot but respond to the needs of this critical-time in the history of mankind.

===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
May I begin my statement by congratulating Mr. Amerasinghe most warmly on his unanimous election to the presidency of the thirty-first session of the General Assembly. His broad and fruitful activities not only as the Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka in our Organization but also at the head of the delicate tasks of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea are outstanding qualifications for his difficult task.
128.	I wish also to express my gratitude to the outgoing President, Mr. Gaston Thorn, for his effective and constructive discharge of his duties during the last session.
129.	Argentina is pleased at the admission of the Republic of Seychelles to our Organization, and we most sincerely wish to co-operate with it,
130.	The Argentine Government considers that the United Nations has a role of paramount importance in the international system. It is so because the Charter has combined, developed and put into effect principles which are basic and irrevocable axioms of Argentina's foreign policy, and because in recent years, our Organization has formulated other principles which, although novel, are nonetheless important since they lay foundations from which Argentina hopes to see arise a legal framework that will enable us to tackle the solution with possibilities of success.
131.	With the admission of new States at the current session, the United Nations has taken one of the final steps towards achieving the earnestly desired aim of universality. No doubt, this fact marks the end of one stage and the beginning of another of equal or greater importance, because universality is not and could never be an end in itself but is rather the indispensable means of achieving, completely and comprehensively, the aims and ideals which led to the foundation of the United Nations thirty-one years ago.
132.	The time is, therefore, propitious to pause and objectively examine the road we have traveled so far and, what is even more fundamental, to take an inquiring look at the road we will have to travel together if we want to turn a dangerously uncertain future into a promising reality.
133.	It is undeniable that, in recent times, and for the most varied reasons, the Organization has been the target of unfavorable criticism and judgments, either for its actions or for its lack of action. These judgments did not come exclusively from a particular group or sector and in some cases they have been the result of excessive skepticism because of the changes of all kinds that have occurred since 1945; in other cases they have been due to a failure to perceive or accept the reality of the moment and the profound changes that have taken place in the world.
134.	These disappointments probably have, to some extent, a common origin, namely, the fact that misguided or exaggerated expectations have been placed in what the Organization should do to fulfill particular aspirations. But, if we accept the premise that, in the final analysis, the Organization will be what its Members want it to be, it is obvious that, if the political will exists to reconcile individual interests in furtherance of the general interest, we may be able to forge it into an effective instrument of co-operation to solve the pressing problems we face. This is a task that brooks no delay.
135.	The multiplicity of approaches created by these problems, far from discouraging Us, represents an additional challenge in overcoming a temporarily difficult situation, whose greatest ally is immobility.
136.	It has been said, and rightly so, that the United Nations is the mirror of the world. With its shortcomings and its virtues it constitutes the institutional framework which reflects the reality of a dynamic society in a state of constant evolution. What is more, we should be pleased that it has not only been sensitive to changes but has, in many cases, also carried them resolutely forward and legitimized their existence.
137.	Such has been, for example, its history in all matters relating to decolonization. In a process which posterity will recognize as one of its most positive achievements, the Organization was a decisive factor in hastening the end of colonial domination. Resolution 1514 (XV), one of the General Assembly's greatest achievements, was the catalyst which mobilized the efforts to promote decolonization. Its provisions embrace guidelines for dealing with different situations and make them adaptable to each particular case, whether it is the monitoring of self-determination or ensuring the inviolability of a country's territorial integrity.
138.	It is within this latter context that Argentina hopes that an early solution will be found to the problem of the Malvinas, a remnant of colonial expansion in America, which has for so long obstructed the relations between my country and the United Kingdom. The justness of our claim, so often recognized by an overwhelming majority of the States Members of this Organization, with the support of the Latin American countries, reaffirmed in the Inter- American Juridical Committee Declaration of 16 January 1976 [see A/31/23/Rev.l, chap. XXX, annex II] and more recently at Colombo by the Foreign Ministers and Heads of State and Government of 85 countries [see A/311197, annex I, para. 199], was further endorsed by the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in its resolution of 17 September last [see A/31/23/Rev.l, chap. XXX, para. 8], in which it reiterated the appeal to the Governments of Argentina and the United Kingdom to expedite the solution to this dispute over sovereignty.
139.	This encourages us to persevere in our efforts through bilateral negotiations, as urged in General Assembly resolutions 2065 (XX) and 3160 (XXVIII). In this connexion the Argentine Republic constantly bears in mind the interests of the present inhabitants of the islands, whose well-being it guarantees and will continue to guarantee, having shown already specific evidence of this concern which, furthermore, has been acknowledged by this Organization. But it goes without saying that our action cannot be unilateral. Similar determination must be forthcoming on the part of the United Kingdom to enable us to decide together on the measures for ending this dispute and thus cementing the friendship which has predominated in our traditional relationship.
140.	Through the full implementation of the Charter, the United Nations in a few years assisted in the orderly and peaceful transition of numerous peoples and territories from the status of dependence in which they had been for centuries to the status of free and sovereign nations. The very membership of this Assembly is the best permanent tribute to what has so far been done in this field.
141.	The accession of almost a hundred countries to independence entailed some other fundamental consequences also affecting our Organization. First, it promoted the democratization of international relations by enabling all States, regardless of their political, economic or military potential, to express their views and hopes. Secondly, it enabled the new Members to participate on an equal footing in the adoption of decisions likely to have a decisive impact on world events. More important still, it encouraged the emergence of new common areas of interest and created the conditions for a more just and balanced distribution of power. Lastly, a better and broader knowledge of each other's positions has gradually fostered the awareness among States that co-operation and understanding are the only viable means of maintaining peace.
142.	In discharging this primary responsibility of maintaining peace under the Charter the record of the United Nations is not consistent. Although it was unable to set up the machinery of collective security, based on the harmonious collaboration of the great Powers, it can be stated without any doubt whatsoever that, directly or indirectly, it has helped to avert a third world conflagration which would have endangered man's survival. Certainly, on not infrequent occasions it has been powerless to prevent the outbreak of local wars but even so, in many cases, its intervention has served to limit the extent or duration of the conflict. By offering a forum for venting grievances and passions, it has managed, to a significant extent, to ward off situations which in the past would inevitably have led to armed confrontations.
143.	The presence of United Nations forces in different areas of the world where serious possibilities of conflict exist; besides being one of the most instructive examples of what international co-operation can mean, has been and continues to be a vital element for ensuring peace. Once minds were set in the conviction that a nuclear war would entail mutual destruction and the disappearance of every vestige of civilization, the United Nations promoted and welcomed with hope the emergence of a new climate of understanding among the great Powers. Of course, much still remains to be done before the ideal proclaimed at San Francisco of saving "succeeding generations from the scourge of war" is completely fulfilled. The tragic events in the Middle East and the critical situation in southern Africa are a constant reminder of the fact that this effort must be continuous and unflagging.
144,	Nevertheless, it is discouraging that spiritual values are still failing to guide the world along a path which would lead to the elimination of hunger, violence and injustice.
145.	With the decline of colonialism in its traditional form, the problems of development became one of the key concerns of the system. In response to urgent needs, and to the actual precepts of the Charter whose Preamble includes the pledge "to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples, the United Nations is devoting increasing efforts to this task. A first stage, whose main feature was the identification of the problems and the formulation of the strategy for overcoming them, has slowed down after performing the crucial function of awakening the world's conscience to the problems of development and to their importance for the maintenance of international peace and security.
146,	Now, as is clearly evident from the conclusions of the sixth and seventh special sessions of the General Assembly, we are well into another stage which ought to be characterized by joint action to achieve a more equitable balance between the developed and the developing countries. It is here that most practical opportunities open up for the so frequently mentioned co-operation between Governments and peoples. It is here that the United Nations can also play a key role in reconciling and concording the legitimate interests and needs of both before the gap dividing them assumes dangerous proportions. It is here, finally, that.the real capacity of the Organization to conclude and implement comprehensive agreements reached through a genuine process of negotiation will be put to a severe test.
147.	Every success in this endeavor will set a meaningful course that may well promote consultations in other fields, such as disarmament, which continues to require urgent and categorical decisions. Despite the numerous resolutions adopted and the incessant urging of the great majority of countries, the armaments race has assumed steadily growing proportions both in terms of the astronomical budgets allocated to it and of the dangerous and sophisticated nature of the weapons themselves. The United Nations has exerted tremendous efforts, by all the means at its command, to check the pace of the competitive armaments race among the great Powers. Hence, it is the latter which must assume the essential responsibility of devoting greater efforts to achieve agreement on effective disarmament measures, giving priority to nuclear disarmament.
148.	The objective of the inescapable negotiation process to be faced and developed in economic relations and disarmament is to devise practical solutions to the global problems now confronting the international community, such as ensuring man's subsistence and guaranteeing his dignity and respect for his essential rights, the production and distribution of food, protection of the environment, the rational and balanced use of resources, population growth, the establishment of a legal regime for the sea, the use of outer space for peaceful purposes and for the benefit of mankind, the application of science and technology to development, trade, and the international monetary system: all these questions must be tackled and solved not by one nation or group of nations, however powerful they may be, but by the whole organized community.
149.	This brings us to a matter that attracts increasing attention, namely, interdependence. Only a relatively short time ago this was a topic deserving academic treatment in the same manner as any working hypothesis is analyzed. The circumstances that I have previously mentioned have radically changed this state of affairs. Nowadays the interdependence of nations and peoples is a fact allowing of no discussion. What can and must be discussed are the guidelines for achieving it, for determining the community of interests it involves and for reactivating the machinery that would foster better international co-operation while respecting and reconciling the identities of the different countries.
150.	Interdependence implies, first of all, recognition of the existence of different cultures, policies, ideologies, and legal and economic structures, it entails above all the obligation not to try to impose any system at the expense of another by force, by coercion or by any other form of outside intervention. Interdependence presupposes the sovereign equality of all States and their right to participate in the adoption of decisions that may affect their interests. Interdependence also means the need to conserve the resources of this planet, in order to guarantee our children and our neighbors' children a world worth living in. Interdependence is also the commitment by all States not to jeopardize unilaterally the biological and natural balance of an ecosystem by actions which might affect other countries.
151.	In this connexion I take the liberty of drawing attention to the permanent and effective action taken by various bodies of the United Nations system to ensure compliance with customary and positive norms pertaining to the environment and to improve them on a continuing basis.
152.	There is no doubt that the attitude of the permanent members of the Security Council had a categorical impact on the decisions adopted at San Francisco and, ultimately, on the shape that the Organization would take. The same can now be said regarding the vital questions of peace and war. But what is singularly striking is the ever-increasing role being played by all the other countries, large or small, strong or weak, in the shaping of world events. This growing strength which the great majority of States have been acquiring through their active presence on the international scene must be accompanied by a comparable degree of responsibility and maturity because, in the final analysis, this majority can benefit more from the United Nations in the furtherance of its rightful claims. It is not rash to state that the very existence of the Organization depends on that fact.
153.	The recent significant reduction in the tensions between the super-Powers, the crisis of colonialism and its immediate aftermath and the emergence of new independent countries on the international scene are contributing factors which must help to revitalize the United Nations so that, with renewed impetus, it becomes the forge in which the new formula of understanding are to be molded or, to use the words of the Charter, so that it serves as a center for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of. .. common ends".
154.	This difficult assignment is both urgent and possible. One prerequisite is the conviction that from confrontation no one will gain and all will suffer; that no sector can prosper in isolation, ignoring the legitimate demands of the rest; that, in order to reconcile conflicting interests and secure shared benefits, it is indispensable to act with realism and to make mutual concessions, especially for those better able to grant them.
155.	In some cases it is absolutely indispensable to define the feeling of the international community accurately in matters involving the protection of high moral values or principles that are fundamental for nations and peoples. There cannot and must not be any compromise when resolutions of this nature are adopted. Would it in any case be justified to soften the condemnation deserved by apartheid and all forms of racial discrimination, with the sole objective of getting the support of a few more countries for a draft resolution? To do so would mean evading a solemn responsibility and distorting the spirit of the Charter.
156.	There are areas in which the majorities, and, of course, the minorities, must show greater flexibility and willingness to compromise. I refer to those action-oriented areas in which the success or failure of a decision depends on the general will to carry it out. It cannot be claimed that certain sectors will docilely comply with resolutions of this kind if their opinions have not been sought or duly reflected in the texts prepared.
157.	In order to strengthen the role of the United Nations as an instrument of co-operation it is essential to reverse certain trends which militate against its authority, prestige and effectiveness. Without assigning priorities, I shall name some of them in order to emphasize the singular importance of the task: holding consultations and reaching agreements outside the Organization on essential matters such as peace, security and development when the interests of all Member States are at stake; failing to consider certain questions which are strictly within the competence of the United Nations-a salient example of this is the passivity so far shown towards the serious crisis afflicting Lebanon; applying selective and partial criteria, for political purposes that cannot be concealed, in judging actions and omissions with regard to some problems while ignoring similar situations in other countries; substituting procedural expedients of very doubtful legality for strict compliance with the Charter; ignoring the decisions adopted by the bodies of the system, a large number of which have not begun to be implemented, or obstructing international conferences convened to deal with specific items, by introducing political controversies which can only be analysed and settled by this General Assembly or the Security Council; stressing the importance of problems that are of unquestionable current interest or. of real or potential concern to all countries, while allowing sectional interpretations to intervene in the search for solutions,
158.	I must pause here to refer, in this context, to a tragic scourge afflicting the whole world, independently of ideologies and economic systems, namely, international terrorism.
159.	As a contribution to this Assembly, I wish to refer to our unhappy experience. Impelled by its nihilistic motives and in pursuit of its disruptive objectives, terrorism began to creep into our country through the cracks that the free operation of unwary democracy leaves open. The Argentine Government has therefore had to contend with intense and strongly entrenched terrorist activity. The cruelty with which the terrorists act and the suffering they have inflicted and are inflicting on the country are common knowledge. Personal security and the most elementary human rights are constantly threatened by indiscriminate terrorist action, It is obvious that the ultimate aim of the terrorist groups is to destroy the State and undermine the political institutions. My Government is resolutely and firmly determined to take whatever action the situation may dictate to maintain peace and security.
160.	Recently some international forums have been showing a dedicated concern for the exercise of human rights in Argentina. In these forums it is forgotten that the Argentine Republic has a tradition and well-deserved reputation as a country that respects the rights and fundamental freedoms of the human person and that it has been a pioneer in developing the right of asylum. Its population is composed of all those who came from other continents in search of peace and liberty, so necessary for the progress offered them under the system and the political organization oT our generous and open land without distinction as to nationality, race or creed. This is the political system which international terrorism is seeking to destroy in Argentina, invoking for the purpose alleged socio-political claims and the enjoyment of human rights.
161.	We Argentinians know that we live in a land of hope for the world; we know the rights we enjoy and we do not shirk our responsibilities vis-a-vis the just causes of mankind. My Government appeals in this honorable Assembly to the Member countries to take cognizance of the dangers which this scourge of the modern world creates for mankind, of the manifold and complex forms in which it manifests itself and operates in the different regions of the world. We realize that distance may make difficult the understanding of the true state of affairs, particularly when information does not reflect it objectively.
162.	In this endeavor, the mass media, which constitute an indivisible part of the international community, and therefore share the responsibility incumbent on all in the effort to create an ever-improving world, are called upon to play a fundamental role in presenting daily events with sincerity so as to provide the world with a true picture of the problems and of their magnitude and thus help solve them.
163, In his statement to this Assembly a few days ago [7th meeting], the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, suggested that we should undertake a partial study of the matter regarding the taking of hostages for purposes of extortion. While we support this idea, we think it does not fully cover all the complex forms in which international terrorism manifests itself these days. We therefore consider that we should resume the work started by the Ad Hoc Committee on International Terrorism established by resolution 3034 (XXVII) of 18 December 1972, and try to reach an understanding of the broad and general context in which terrorism regularly and tragically appears, with a view to deciding, on the basis of consensus, what international action ought to be taken to solve the problem as a whole. We say this with all the deep conviction of people who are suffering its indiscriminate effects and consequences. We therefore cannot but join the Secretary-General in urging that once and for all the United Nations should address itself with determination to finding a solution to the tragic scourge of international terrorism.
164.	In addition to its universality aspect, Argentina's foreign policy has pursued, is pursuing and always will unswervingly pursue one mandatory concern, namely, America. One of the essential features of our international policy is the.priority we give to America, a priority which is subject to our respect for the principle of national sovereignty. This principle does not involve restrictions, but is on the contrary a clear premise for our firm advance towards continental union.
165.	The Argentine Republic pursues this objective consistently, following in a rational manner a geographical and historical plan that obliges it to phase its activities, which extend all the way from intensive trade with the countries sharing its borders to the continuing search for circumstances conducive to strengthening the bilateral and multilateral links in the region.
166.	We are stout defenders of peace in the continent based on mutual agreement aimed at progress and our contribution to this end is practical and specific. We know we are not alone in this endeavor, that American solidarity is a constantly improving reality and that the day is not far off when our geographical continuity will reflect an outlook based on liberty, democracy and human and community development.
167.	I also wish to reiterate, in this forum, my country's renewed commitment to the objectives of co-operation and physical integration on which the joint program of the Rio de la Plata basin has been and continues to be based. In this region, defined as such for its dependence on one hydrographic basin which is possibly one of the world's richest, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Argentina continue to develop joint projects and enterprises both in the field of hydroelectrical power and in the planning of bridges, thoroughfares, roads and communications net-works, thus strengthening the links forged by the geography they share.
168.	Although differing opinion still exists as regards the best utilization of the resources shared by the region, we are convinced that a new spirit of co-operation will soon emerge for the purpose of carrying out all the scheduled projects on an equitable and rational basis. To that end my Government will take all the necessary steps to clear the way in the assurance that all the other nations of the basin will show a similar will for joint action. Our country has assigned special priority in its foreign policy to the integrated and joint development by all the countries of the Rio de la Plata basin and believes that co-operation in the region can develop on such a scale and acquire such a degree of exemplary effectiveness that its impact will spread to other areas of the world.
169.	With this knowledge and in the conviction that the water problems confronting my country today are of a universal nature, it is opportune that Argentina should have offered to be the venue of the United Nations Water Conference to be held at Mar del Plata in March 1977, in respect of which our Government has already committed itself. In this connexion, I wish to extend to all the countries and organizations here present the wannest of welcomes to Argentina. I am sure that this first international meeting on one of the world's most important resources will enable us to sharpen our critical awareness and at the same time nurture our hopes regarding the possibilities of international co-operation.
170.	The thoughts which I have had the privilege of expressing are motivated by the fervent desire to make a constructive contribution to the progress of our Organization.
171.	The Argentine Government wishes thus to affirm its deep-rooted faith in the United Nations, because it is completely convinced that this Organization is man's most consummate effort to build a future of peace and concord; because, with its long list of successes and mistakes, it is still the only effective means of establishing civilized norms for the coexistence of peoples; because, in it and thanks to it, Argentina has been able to extend its friendly relations to all countries of the world on a basis of mutual respect, thus fulfilling one of the basic precepts underlying its foreign policy; and, finally, because the triumph of the ideals that inspired its creation, with which we fully identify ourselves, is not just an option but a most categorical necessity if reason is to prevail over force, understanding over confrontation, and co-operation over selfishness.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿190.	Mr. President, let me first congratulate you most warmly on behalf of the Government of Argentina on your unanimous election to the presidency of this General Assembly. This lofty distinction is a deserved recognition of your human and professional qualities and of your profound knowledge of the problems debated in this Organization. We are certain that under your serene guidance our work will be crowned with success. We wish to assure you now of the full co-operation of the delegation of Argentina.
191.	You are a prominent citizen of a country with which Argentina maintains the most cordial ties of friendship and understanding. On the basis of mutual respect for our national identities, in the course of the years we have cemented positive relations at both the bilateral and multilateral levels. In the latter, I am most happy to mention the constructive role which Yugoslavia plays in the movement of non-aligned countries, in its striving for genuinely balanced positions consistent with the tenets which led to its creation.
192.	I would also avail myself of this opportunity to place on record our gratitude to Mr. Hamfston Shirley Amerainghe of Sri Lanka for his productive and wise actions in guiding the intense labours of the last session.
193.	We continue to believe that the goal of universality must be achieved. Consistent with that unalterable principle, we greet and welcome today in this hall the Republic of Djibouti and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, which now join our Organization; and to Papua-New Guinea and Angola, who became Members last year, we extend our best wishes for prosperity.
194.	As we infer from the contents of the annual report of the Secretary-General on the work of the United Nations, the events registered since the last general debate do not allow for an unduly sanguine assessment of the world situation. International peace and security, the maintenance of which is still the primary responsibility of the United Nations, have again been threatened by a renewal of tensions in some of the political processes which are of concern to all of us.
195.	Within the world picture, which is not very encouraging, I should like to emphasize here, because of the contrast it represents, an event that is positive from every point of view, an event that is an important milestone in inter-American relations. I am referring to the conclusion of the Panama Canal Treaties that was signed on 7 September 1977 in the presence of the majority of the Heads of State or Government of the countries of the Americas. Argentina, whose first priority in its foreign policy is directed toward Latin America, within which it is firmly integrated, was represented at that solemn ceremony by its President so as to highlight in the most eloquent manner possible its enthusiasm, support for and satisfaction with the happy outcome of this ancient injustice.
196.	Panama and the United States have tangibly shown, with clear perception of reality, that a conflict can be solved peacefully and adequately through negotiations, provided the necessary political determination and goodwill exist between the parties. Dialogue and co-operation prevailing over confrontation have thus removed an obstacle which hindered continental friendship.
197.	My country has had to endure the curtailment of its territorial integrity for almost a century and a half, and it sincerely hopes that the United Kingdom will follow the example set by the United States. We are convinced that, with the same political will, we can also arrive at a satisfactory solution to the dispute regarding sovereignty over the Islas Malvinas, thus putting an end to one of the last vestiges of colonialism in America.
198.	In compliance with resolution 31/49, adopted by the General Assembly in 1976, which ratifies prior pronouncements and clearly sets forth the position of the United Nations on this dispute, we have again gone to a negotiating table with the United Kingdom. We have done so in good faith and with the firm intention of advancing along this course, but without losing sight of the legitimate rights which support our claim. During November we shall have another meeting and shall report on its results in due course. We wish to reiterate once again our hope that the
United Kingdom will realize the opportunities and perspectives that a just solution to the problem would unlock.
199.	Argentina, through me, wishes to place on record its gratitude to this General Assembly for its full understanding of the problem, as evidenced in successive resolutions, and for the solidarity we have received in the voting of the overwhelming majority of its Member States. On this occasion, I particularly wish to mention the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, which was responsible for drafting the principles applicable to decolonization and seeing to it that they were in keeping with the particular characteristics of each case.
200.	The first talks among Brazil, Paraguay and the Argentine Republic to harmonize the interests and rights of the three countries with regard to the utilization of the resources of the Upper Parana may constitute an important chapter for understanding among States which share the same natural resource, further demonstrating that dialogue and co-operation are the appropriate means in relations in Latin America.
201.	The Argentine Republic has traditionally defended the utilization of shared natural resources on a rational basis and with lasting understandings, allowing for conciliation of the objectives and needs of all the countries concerned.
202.	The international community has already taken significant steps for the elaboration of suitable guidelines regarding the utilization of these resources embodying principles to cement harmonious coexistence among nations. It is therefore the responsibility of our Governments to base that co-operation upon practical and reasonable norms, including also in that process all the useful experience gained up to the present time.
203.	Among the critical areas which require most attention in this General Assembly there is no denying that the Middle East question must be in the forefront. This is so because, as we have repeatedly pointed out in this forum, in that region there is a series of dangerous circumstances which, if not promptly faced up to, can transform the scaffolding of a precarious truce-one which was not easily obtained-into another armed confrontation of unforeseeable consequences. Indeed it is disquieting to note that, despite the efforts made to smooth out the obstacles on the way to peace, intransigent attitudes persist which do not meet the aspirations of the international community nor the specific recommendations of the United Nations.
204.	My Government believes that the most tangible contribution that the parties involved in the conflict can make at this time, if they seriously desire a just and lasting peace, is to put an end to or refrain from carrying out any act which could directly or indirectly mean an impediment to negotiations.
205.	Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338(1973) constitute a viable point of departure for reaching that goal. The balanced set of reciprocal rights and duties they contain can be supplemented with all the other elements which flow from the prevailing situation in the Middle East.
206.	But however adequate those texts might be, they will remain a mere dead letter-in this case too-in the absence of the determination to proceed with flexibility and a constructive spirit so as to make it easier to bring about the beginning of an understanding. Those who adhere to rigid positions, trying to overlook the facts around them, and who aspire to the consolidation of transitory territorial conquests by means of measures that have been condemned even by their allies are conspiring against their own interests by postponing and making more difficult an integral solution to the crisis.
207.	The Argentine Republic, now as always, sincerely wishes a swift solution of the Middle East problem. This wish is not of recent date nor is it founded on fluctuating strategic factors, or on speculations on economic facts which have become important lately. Likewise, it goes beyond the natural obligation we have as a Member of the United Nations to promote ways and means for a peaceful solution. This wish is prompted by intimate and fundamental reasons bearing on the substantial human contributions of Arab and Jewish origin which have been integrated with the large flows of immigration of our people. They have a major share in the formation of our national being.
208.	Because of this and because we can show an experience with a wealth of positive aspects, sustained by the harmonious social togetherness of Argentines of different creeds and races, we would be able to offer our goodwill to solve this agonizing conflict. The friendly relations which we maintain equally with the Arab States and with Israel enable us to grasp the avid desire for peace and progress felt by both.
209.	The Argentine Government considers that now, before it is too late, the Geneva Peace Conference should be convened so that negotiations might be started there which would lead to definite peace. We urge the Arabs and the Israelis, with all due respect for their respective positions, to rise above circumstantial objections so as to make that meeting possible and, together, take the first steps towards co-operation in the Middle East.
210.	In southern Africa the situation is not encouraging either. Rhodesia, Namibia and the consequences of the practice of apartheid have brought that important region to a critical' point where any delay might prevent suitable arrangements within the framework of the Charter.
211.	In this matter, as in others, United Nations action has anticipated events and their consequences. We said a year ago that our Organization not only was sensitive to changes but had in many cases also carried them resolutely forward and legitimized their existence.11 The example we mentioned then was decolonization, because it was in this field that our Organization created a body of doctrine which gave an impetus to the accession to independence of a goodly number of dependent territories which are now sovereign nations. But this is no less true in the problem we
are analyzing. The United Nations has in many instances charted the course for meeting the legitimate aspirations of peoples who still await their independence.
212.	With the African continent we share an ocean which is the only outlet for our economic potential. It is therefore an objective of our foreign policy to keep it free of any conflict. It goes without saying, then, that we can never remain indifferent to what happens in Africa. It was in this spirit that Argentina participated fully at the World Conference for Action against Apartheid, held in Nigeria in August. We are very pleased with the propitious climate that prevailed in its deliberations,- and which made possible the adoption of a final Declaration by consensus.
213.	The imperative need to halt and reverse the direction of the arms race reflects the express demand of all the peoples of the world. The great Powers, which have the monopoly and responsibility of destructive power, must undertake the unavoidable task of discharging their responsibilities towards the international community. To try to shift that responsibility to medium-sized or small States, whose basic security and defence needs must be clearly accepted, would only have the effect of feeding the suspicion that the world's attention is being distracted with side issues in order to avert the adoption of measures in the priority field of nuclear disarmament.
214.	The eighth special session of the General Assembly will provide both a forum and an opportunity that are unique, thus allowing the will of Governments to be unequivocally expressed in peremptory terms. For the first time the United Nations, so broadly representative of the world situation with its 149 Members, will hold a session with the sole objective of examining in depth and debating all items related to disarmament. It will face the difficult but stimulating challenge of establishing new guidelines and priorities for future negotiations.
215.	Argentina received the great distinction of presiding over the preparatory work for that special session. We accepted that post with full awareness of all the efforts involved in carrying out that mandate. Now we should like to confirm our most resolute determination to continue to co-operate with the countries present here so that the special session is given in advance the best guarantees and possibilities for success.
216.	The Argentine Government is deeply concerned about two major questions, respecting which, it is painful to note, certain methods have failed to bring about understanding; on the contrary, there are even various forms of confrontation or disagreement.
217.	These two items are human rights and economic co-operation. They are set forth in the Charter of our Organization because the world community was conscious of the fact that, to sustain them, the United Nations could be content with playing a preventive role, but must also encourage States to co-operate in developing both principles, so as to ensure respect for human rights and satisfaction of man's most basic needs.
218.	For the first of these items, human rights, there is one approach which is not in accord with reality, as it prefers to dwell on imprecise denunciations of violations while ignoring the phenomenon which is more typically an affront to human rights and, at the same time, is invariably the source of their violations: terrorism.
219.	Although there are isolated voices that warn us and alert us about this scourge, others choose to make little of it because of political affinities or from naiveté. The favourite argument is to describe terrorist acts as mere political or common crimes.
220.	In fact, these are illegal acts which can in no case be defined as common crimes, because of the political motives involved, and do not fit within the traditional limits of political crimes because of their brutality. This is a freak crime, a crime against humanity, a crime of terrorism which, while it shares some of the features of political and common crimes, goes far beyond the boundaries of those crimes.
221.	News reports inform us almost daily about new crimes, hijackings and assaults committed by terrorists. My predecessor, who addressed the Assembly from this rostrum a year ago, was the victim of a criminal attack which brought him to the brink of death. There is no end to the list, and in almost every case we would find that terrorism is the common element in those tragic events of our times.
222.	Within this context, I shall, by your leave, quote what the Secretary-General said in a message addressed to the United Nations Correspondents Association on 15 September, because it reflects with striking acumen a view which my country fully shares on this subject:
 There is another phenomenon of our times which is now assuming sinister proportions... I refer to the increase of criminal terrorism.
 Some of the most pernicious examples of this form of violence appear to have their origins not in acute poverty or in physical or spiritual deprivation, but rather in .. sections of human society where a mixture of affluence, permissiveness and self-disgust has generated a ruthless and destructive arrogance ....
 There is widespread controversy over the roots of this social and political disease. ... Whatever its origins, I believe that this problem is grave enough and has sufficient potential international implications to be discussed most seriously among the Members of the United Nations. 
That is an accurate description of the facts.
223.	Even today, when terrorist subversion is definitely receding, Argentina bears the scars of its evil actions. There still remain isolated extremist groups ready to spread terror and some of them, fleeing from justice, surface in the major capitals of Europe, where police organizations uncover their clandestine hide-outs and their attempts to obtain additional funds by criminal means.
224.	Terrorism is not of one kind for a given nation or region of the world. Terrorism is the expression of a vast conspiracy which selects a country as an experimental field, to isolate it from the rest of the international community and to destroy its social and economic structure by means of its usual tactics of intimidation. Terrorist groups, using as their shield an alleged campaign for the defence of human rights, resort to deliberate accusations so as to make those countries appear to be violating those rights. It is a bitter irony that this arbitrary campaign has been given more attention in some international sectors than the repeated manifestations of terrorist violence.
225.	The concept of human rights violations is the object in our days of a distortion which places it beyond the bounds of realism. Let us recall that according to the internationally accepted definition, violations of human rights occur when there is a persistent and systematic pattern, following a deliberate policy.
226.	When we laid the structure for the international system, the violation of a human right could be foreseen only as an act committed by one wielding political power, that is, as an act of a Government to the detriment of those governed; whereas today new realities and new pressure factors are in operation, embodied mainly in the international subversive groups, which warrant our speaking of a modern form of human rights violation and compel us to recognize that none of the instruments provided for in the international system cover this new type of violation.
227.	Failure to understand this changed set of circumstances has meant a partial facing of the problem and, accordingly, that its approach is still exclusively centered on government acts while overlooking the fact that the sole source of this violence comes from terrorist cells which, by their destructive actions, bring into question not only the effectiveness of individual guarantees but the very survival of man.
228.	It is for that reason that the peoples, through their Governments, must be able to exercise the legitimate right of self-defence when confronted with the aggression of terrorism, without pressures aimed at limiting their sovereignty.
229.	As a positive response to the Secretary-General's appeal, the Argentine Government is determined to cooperate fully in any initiative which takes into account the real situation and counters the existence of terrorism with an effective action of solidarity. We appeal to the rest of the international community to proceed likewise and to lend a helping hand to the countries affected so as to make it possible to return to the genuine and full enjoyment of individual guarantees and freedoms.
230.	We said that the second item in regard to which our Organization seems to encounter barriers that are difficult to scale is the one bearing on international economic co-operation. Irrefutable proof of this is to be found in the meagre results obtained at the Paris Conference on International Economic Co-operation, which, during the last 18 months focused negotiations on the international economic area. The Conference did not attain its objectives nor did it live up to the expectations placed in it by its participants, who sought to bring about the structural changes needed for the present context of international economic relations.
231.. These relations are characterized by profound imbalances. Inflation, the crisis in the balance-of-payments, the spectacular rise in external indebtedness, massive unemployment in the industrialized countries, the slowdown in the economic growth-rate everywhere, monetary disarray, all these are but the symptoms of causes which have been at work throughout the last decades.
232.	There are numerous areas through which a policy of international co-operation can be directed. A particularly appropriate field in which this can be implemented is that connected with the integration of developing countries which have the following distinctive features shared by all of them: too little and the wrong kind of geographical integration within their countries and between them and other neighbouring territories under a different political sovereignty; too little and the wrong kind of involvement of broad social groups in the training required to assimilate and recreate the knowledge generated by scientific progress; and too little and the wrong kind of integration of spearhead technology into their economic structures.
233.	All of this weakens subregional or regional integration processes, mutilates their growth potential and makes it difficult to adjust their economies to the rhythm and needs of world economic evolution.
234.	In the past the predominant concerns of our Organization were linked to problems among the highly industrialized countries, or between them and the developing ones. Present circumstances have made it necessary to negotiate on a third front by exploring the ways and means of effecting the integration of and between developing countries, the impact of this development on the industrialized Powers and their participation in the attainment of these objectives.
235.	This new development in international economic co-operation, which is based on the interaction of individual and collective efforts by the developing countries among themselves, has been endorsed by our Organization and constitutes one of the most dynamic fields in the process of change aimed at bringing about the reordering of the international economic order in which the members of the international community are engaged.
236.	The initiative of Argentina in the field of horizontal technical co-operation is well known. We come to this Assembly with new concerns about finding, in co-operation with all, the kinds of mechanisms and institutional machinery which will give fresh impetus to the integration of the developing world.
237.	As a consequence of this, there is an urgent need for the developing countries to determine among themselves, by regions or subregions, areas of economic preferences which, together with physical integration and a programme for the integration of human resources, will make it possible for these countries to join the mainstream of world economy.
238.	Many key problems of food, population and politics, would change substantially in kind and magnitude if the developing countries could rely on suitable plans and the essential financial means to undertake a policy of massive integration of their human resources which would be capable of building high-efficiency productive structures.
239.	The highly industrialized countries and the creditor countries must realize that here is an opportunity of the very first order to channel surplus resources to the developing countries. This must be acknowledged to be a realistic policy since it is designed to ensure their own future prosperity through the growth of other nations.
240.	Setting up restrictive rules to technological pluralism would constitute an irritating injustice by the most powerful and affluent countries, going against those who are struggling in difficult circumstances to rise above the formidable obstacles to their development.
241.	We wish to emphasize that the search by the developing countries for appropriate, unorthodox integration formulas must of necessity be considered by the international community with all the seriousness it deserves, and these formulas must needs be accepted on a par with the classical ones, as exceptions to the universal principle of the most-favoured-nation clause.
242.	We believe that a wide-ranging and open dialogue between multinational integration groups and GATT might not only yield reciprocal benefits but also abundantly enrich the norms of that international organization.
243.	We also wish that in the countries which generate and supply spearhead technology the political will might emerge to enable access to that technology by the developing countries, by means of clear, fair and egalitarian international rules.
244.	Financial support is also needed for integration in order to attain the objectives set. The magnitude of existing financial surpluses leads us to hope that it will be possible to establish a flow of funds to finance the form of co-operation advocated.
245.	We believe it to be important, therefore, for the international community to undertake a study of existing mechanisms and institutions, so that they may smoothly link these new funds with projects for integration. These institutions are already rendering signal service, but the magnitude of the resources needed for integration will require specialized treatment, of a different conception.
246.	The Argentine Government feels authorized to request wide support from the international community for the concept it advocates because it is prepared to assume the new responsibilities, which would be its share among those which it accepts in the context of international economic co-operation, and in particular as regards the relatively least developed countries. Furthermore, it does so backed by the results of its own efforts which enabled it to surmount, in a little more than a year, the gravest and most difficult economic stage in its history. It is clearly aware of the problems which remain to be solved, but it is confident of final success because it is assisted by the understanding and sacrifice of the Argentinean people.
247.	This irrevocable attitude bears witness once again to the high value we attach to the universality of the United Nations as an Organization open to the contributions of all but, likewise, where exclusions are inconceivable. Accordingly, we cannot fail to register our apprehension—a feeling shared by Latin America—at a trend which in fact makes for the progressive alienation of countries of intermediate growth from important mechanisms of international co-operation. This approach, which seems to penalize the fruits of the efforts if not the sacrifices of our people, cannot but count on our most categorical rebuff.
248.	We believe that position to be- shared by the developing countries as a whole. It is not by chance that the bases of a more fruitful and systematic technical and economic co-operation among them are being set up. That, inter alia, will promote a constructive and meaningful integration.
249.	The Government I represent is proud that Argentina was chosen as host to the first United Nations Conference on Technical Co-operation among Developing Countries, to be held in Buenos Aires in March and April 1978. As at the beginning of this year, for what was also the first United Nations Water Conference, my Government offers its liberal hospitality to all the participants at that new gathering and is pleased to welcome representatives most cordially and assure them of its closest co-operation towards success. 

===== Session 33 - 1978 =====
﻿













128.	Mr. President, it giver me great satisfaction to congratulate you most warmly on behalf of the Government of Argentina on your unanimous election to the presidency of this General Assembly. Your election, which is a clear recognition of your personal and professional
qualifications, has a special significance for Argentina, since you belong to and are an outstanding representative of a country bound to my own by close links of brotherhood and understanding. We are certain that your presidency will be an important factor in the advancement of our work and the achievement of the best results. My delegation wishes to extend to you the assurance of its fullest co-operation in your difficult task.
129.	I wish to take this opportunity to express our profound gratitude to Mr. Lazar Mojsov, of Yugoslavia, for his excellent and hard work during the last regular session and this year's three special sessions of the General Assembly.
130.	I should also like to emphasize my Government's satisfaction concerning the official visit that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, paid to my country. His opening address to the United Nations Conference on Technical Co-operation among Developing Countries enhanced the prestige of that significant event and contributed to its success.
131.	The spirit of universality that inspires our Organization is evident now with the presence of Solomon Islands, a new Member of the United Nations to which we extend a heartfelt welcome.
132.	The intense work of the Organization, as summed up in the Secretary-General's report on the work of the Organization [A/33/1], and a review of the matters that concern us show a picture of the world situation that is hardly encouraging.
133.	We are again called upon to examine international situations in which the United Nations plays a preponderant role, particularly in relation to one of its fundamental purposes, the maintenance of international peace and security.
134.	As we review the events that have taken place since the previous general debate, we cannot help noticing the seriousness of certain situations and the existence of growing tensions in critical areas, the persistence of which threatens world peace. In this context, we are concerned by the turn taken in relations between the super-Powers, in which elements characteristic of the cold war era have reappeared, thus slowing down the process of detente initiated not long ago. Judging from the bilateral negotiations on the limitation of strategic arms, we could say that it has not yet been possible to achieve an agreement that would warrant the hope of lasting peaceful coexistence. But this assessment is applicable not only to the strict framework of relations between the most powerful States, but also to other bilateral relations, where certain Powers follow conditional and restrictive practices, particularly when they deal with developing countries.
135.	In our review of the critical areas of the world, we are prompted to start with the question of the Middle East, where a complex set of circumstances combines to pose one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.
136- We remain convinced that the principles contained in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973)
provide the guidelines that inevitably will have to be followed as the basis for negotiations leading to the establishment of peace in the area.
137.	The initiative of the President of the United States seems to have opened new ways to the negotiations. We can but hope now that the arrangements to be concluded will adequately take into account the rights and interests of all the peoples of the Middle East, in an effort to make possible a comprehensive, just and lasting peace.
138.	Argentina, which maintains with Lebanon close links of blood and culture, cannot fail to express its deep concern for the human and material losses that unbridled violence has provoked, with no end in sight. We solemnly call on all the parties involved in the conflict to do everything in their power to put an end to this sad bloodshed.
139.	In southern Africa, the situation has alarming features, particularly if we consider the difficulties faced by our Organization as a consequence of non-compliance with its resolutions by those who rule the territories there.
140.	The situation in Namibia gives rise to doubts even now as to the future of that Territory. Firm in our conviction that colonial questions have to be solved through negotiations, and firmly believing in support for the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, we reiterate our hope that goodwill and a sense of responsibility will prevail among the parties, so that this problem may be solved peacefully and in accordance with those decisions.
141.	We particularly wish to see the prompt realization of those adjustments that are indispensable for the implementation of the proposals of the five Western members of the Security Council, proposals that embody an initiative that was endorsed by that body.
142.	Argentina wishes expressly to state its intention, if these proposals are actually carried out, directly to cooperate in the actions to be undertaken by our Organization in the process of Namibian independence. Those actions will need the support of all the parties directly involved and that of the international community as a whole.
143.	A last, unavoidable reference to the situation prevailing in southern Africa leads us to mention one serious problem outstanding in the area. I speak of the persistence of discriminatory practices that are an offence not only to the peoples of Africa, but to the conscience of all mankind.
144.	The Argentine Republic, which has invariably rejected racism and discrimination in all its forms, cannot but express once again its concern over the continuation of the policy of apartheid, and therefore we reiterate the call to put an end to a system incompatible with contemporary ethical and social values.
145.	It was because of this concern that we participated in the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, which was held in Geneva last August.
146.	In our time, it is very difficult seriously to think of a secure and lasting peace when the efforts to halt the arms race continue to be hampered by barriers erected with senseless blindness.
147.	It is premature as yet to make a full evaluation of the results of the tenth special session of the General Assembly, which was devoted to disarmament. Yet it is possible to identify some positive elements in its proceedings and decisions. Among the assets, we can essentially point to its sound conceptualization of the principle of non-proliferation and to the fact that, as a result, it put the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) on the same plane with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. However, it must be pointed out that while the former is not of a discriminatory nature, the latter is.
148.	The full participation in the deliberations at the special session of the People's Republic of China and of France opens up a new era in the disarmament negotiations, and warrants our fervent hope that in this field, too, the United Nations will achieve universality, which is a necessary pre-condition for its effectiveness.
149.	The composition and organization of the new Committee on Disarmament in Geneva, as well as the reactivation of the United Nations Disarmament Commission, are in themselves no substitute for the indispensable political will that the big Powers should display in order to start on the road towards nuclear disarmament, but they do create a suitable framework, so that if that will exists it can be channelled in accordance with the interests of other nations.
150.	The support given by the Assembly to the inalienable right of developing countries to acquire nuclear technology for peaceful purposes and to carry out their national programmes in this field according to their national priorities, interests and needs, constitutes a step on the road to the elimination of restrictive and discriminator practices that, unfortunately, have characterized international co-operation in this sphere.
151.	Argentina has recently been designated one of the co-ordinating non-aligned countries on questions related to the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. We will exert our efforts to the best of our ability and capacity so that co-operation in this field among developing countries may be as efficient as possible and be smooth and flexible enough to ensure mutual benefits.
152.	The outline and consolidation of the declared principles that should govern international relations have made it possible to achieve better coexistence in the world. However, new obstacles seem to emerge periodically, threatening the march along the road to peace and solidarity.
153.	In this context, I cannot but refer to the unscrupulous and formidable menace which the world now faces: that of criminal terrorism.
154.	This phenomenon constitutes one of the greatest perils threatening the modern State: the irrational violation
of the citizen's right to life and the permanent threat to collective security.
155.	The international community must categorically condemn this indiscriminate violence, channelled through criminals under no flag, who are thus clearly unconnected with the struggle for freedom and national independence waged by peoples affected by various forms of colonialism, with whose struggle they claim to be identified.
156.	Argentina has suffered, and is still sporadically suffering, from the bitter consequences of this display of violence, and in the exercise of their right to self-defence, my Government and people have striven to re-establish order and guarantee the existence of full security.
157.	Unfortunately, other sectors in the world do not react appropriately to terrorist minorities that perpetrate criminal acts, depriving innocent people of their freedom of their lives. On the contrary, they seem to be welcomed in some European capitals as if they were the victims of an unjust social order. This indicates an overt and deliberate, politically motivated lack of understanding.
158.	It is high time that the principles of law became actual practice. We should not limit ourselves to establishing elaborate mechanisms for faits accomplis. That is why I appeal to the universal conscience to recognize the need to establish suitable bases for ending this scourge. In this connexion, we recall the proposal of a European country according to which "States have an obligation not to tolerate on their territory those terrorist associations which premeditate and carry out such acts. We cannot ignore the danger to the normal development of relations between States that the presence of these groups on their territories entails.
159.	Equally serious is the attitude adopted by some States which, being totally unaware of the problems of others, arrogate to themselves the right to stand in judgement of the behaviour of other States and of realities which they do not understand, seeking to monopolize the cause of human rights. Reluctant to respect the basic principles of international law, such as that concerning the internal sovereignty of a State, they point an accusing finger and resort to methods of political and economic coercion on the basis of subjective selectivity.
160.	In such cases, as we have said on other occasions, the international community is faced with a deplorable abuse of power the consequences of which cannot be ignored, for its danger lies not only in the resentment it provokes, but also in the great damage it can cause to entire populations for the moral responsibility awakened by those acts should be no less important than that evoked in the defence of human rights.
161.	Argentina considers this question to be of special significance. But I hasten to reiterate that our country feels that the genuine defence of those rights can only be carried out if we begin by abandoning sterile recriminations and strive together to undertake an exercise in honesty and mutual respect.
162.	With regard to the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, we view with concern the attempts
to reopen questions that have already settled, which only serves to hold up negotiations.
163.	One threat to the negotiating process, though not the least, lies in the present drafts of unilateral legislation which would allow certain industrialized countries to exploit the international sea-bed, in total disregard of the resolutions of this General Assembly, which expressly provide for the exploitation of the sea and ocean areas by an international regime for the benefit of the entire community of nations.
164.	It is encouraging to see that the United Nations has directed its most vigorous and positive action to the field of decolonization. This was not an easy task. In the first place, we must remember that the fact that each Territory is a separate entity with its own distinctive features made it advisable not to adopt a fixed set of rules for mechanisms and principles to govern the actual decolonization process.
165.	The fact that those very specific features of each Territory have been adequately dealt with in the decisions of the General Assembly and the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples constitutes definite proof of the seriousness and efficiency with which this work has been conducted.
166.	The Republic of Argentina, true to its origin as a country born to full independence after a long struggle, has invariably given its firm support to those decisions of United Nations bodies aimed at putting an end to colonialism. This position is compatible with its status as a country still suffering from the usurpation of part of its territory by a foreign country.
167.	Argentina reaffirms its sovereign rights over the Malvinas Islands, and reiterates its firm determination to secure their effective restitution. It also reaffirms its political will to solve the problem created by the illegal British occupation of the islands through the peaceful means of negotiation.
168.	Negotiation is, moreover, the means chosen by General Assembly resolutions on the Malvinas Islands, which, it should be recalled, were adopted by an overwhelming majority of votes.
169.	On the basis of our attachment to the principle of negotiation and to the recommendations of the General Assembly as contained in resolutions 2065 (XX), 3160 (XXVIII) and 31/49 the Government of Argentina has undertaken bilateral negotiations with the British Government. These negotiations began in Buenos Aires in February 1977 and have continued through three new rounds, which have revealed some areas of understanding.
170.	I cannot help mentioning that they follow a pace that is not in step with the importance that my country attaches to this question, and are far from responding to the sense of urgency given it by the General Assembly. However, we are confident that with the good sense and political vision shown by the United Kingdom in other instances we shall be able to arrive at a just settlement of this conflict, which is now more than a century old. Still on
this question, we must make a final and very special reference to the non-aligned movement which, at the Belgrade Conference, once again reiterated its firm support for the just Argentine claim to those islands and urged the parties to continue negotiations with a view to reaching an early solution to the dispute. My country expresses its gratitude for this new show of support for its position and trusts that such a categorical pronouncement, coming as it does from a group representing practically two thirds of the international community, will not be ignored by the British Government.
171.	My country is deeply concerned about the way the economic components of international relations have been evolving recently. Inflation, accompanied by a regressive process, affects not only developed but also developing countries and the measures taken by the former to combat some of its consequences have created a new source of world-wide tension.
172.	While the economically powerful countries try to bolster the employment levels of their countries by applying protectionist measures to their foreign trade, the weaker countries, thus prevented from increasing or even maintaining their export earnings, have to resort to a greater degree to foreign indebtedness.
173.	The ever more apparent trend of the industrialized countries to resort to import limitations is a sad feature of the present times and it is aggravated by the fact that such protectionist measures are rarely applied among those countries themselves for fear of launching a trade war, so that the whole burden is unloaded mainly on the least economically developed countries. They, because of their inherent weakness and lack of joint action, cannot take reprisals to defend their legitimate interests, or, if they do take them, they are not significant for the industrialized countries.
174.	Thus, those countries, while proclaiming in every forum their spirit of solidarity, the need to help the underprivileged nations and their support for criteria that take into account the power and national wealth imbalances in international economic relations, in fact apply a policy devoid of all those considerations and vitiated by the mistaken belief that in a closely interrelated world they can overcome the economic crisis by exclusively taking care of interests within their borders.
175.	That is why Argentina considers that it is necessary firmly to reject this protectionist trend among the developed countries. Naturally my country hopes that what was a fact a few years ago, the practice of a gradually wider and freer world trade, which has apparently been partially discarded now, will be re-established, because we deem it to be most appropriate to the interests of every nation, irrespective of its degree of development.
176.	Another fact that worries Argentina is the recent failure of the negotiations conducted in the Committee Established under General Assembly Resolution 32/174, which resulted in the adjournment of the session. That prompted a feeling of general frustration which does not augur well for the dialogue between developed and developing countries.
177, The economic relations established on a world-wide level in the post-war period played a significant role in the evolution and development of all countries. However, if we consider the present condition of those relations and the problems besetting them it is possible to conclude that the life cycle of many of the elements in that framework of relations has come to an end and that therefore it is necessary to readjust the structure of international economic relations to present-day realities. That aim is nothing other than the establishment of a new international economic order, and that entails the need to undertake progressive and profound reforms.
178.	A definitive failure of the negotiations in the Committee would constitute a serious blow to the prospect of substantive understandings among nations in different stages of development. Argentina will continue to participate actively in the decision-making process with a view to reactivating the dialogue among all nations because we consider it to be the sole valid system to solve the problems that the present situation poses for international co-operation.
179.	In May 1979 the fifth session of UNCTAD will be held in Manila. This uniquely important event will constitute a significant stage in the negotiations directed to the establishment of a new international economic order, and in those leading to the formulation of the international development strategy for the decade of the 1980s. My country will do its utmost to see to it that the meeting does not disappoint the developing countries, which expect a great deal from that international gathering, and to ensure that it shall produce the guidelines needed to solve the serious problems which affect trade and development today.
180.	To that effect we consider it necessary that all States at Manila should strive with clear political determination to achieve positive results and prevent the resolutions to be adopted from becoming mere expressions of good will.
181.	We believe that that is possible. We consider that world conditions, albeit difficult, can lead to a consensus that can be implemented in practice. This position does not reflect an empty optimism. Only a few days ago, at the United Nations Conference on Technical Co-operation among Developing Countries, of which my country had the honour to be the host, we found that a consensus of that kind could be achieved.
182.	In the course of that Conference the countries of the developing world had the opportunity to establish mechanisms to extend the links that existed among them already in part with a view to co-operating in the fields of technology and, therefore, in culture and economics, as an expression of a sovereign assertion of individual and collective self-reliance as the basis for development. I will not now review the results of that Conference in detail; suffice it to say that the quality of the debates, the political and intellectual stature of the delegations that participated and the intensity of the negotiations which led to positive and satisfactory results for all countries, irrespective of their stage of development, must be a source of satisfaction to all
participants. In fact, the Buenos Aires Plan of Action - as it came to be known -represents significant progress for the entire international community since it proves the existence of a genuine interest in making of the United Nations system an effective instrument for the well-being of. the developing countries.
183.	We consider that the unanimous support of the developed countries for the decisions taken is proof of their awareness of the global benefits that this new dimension of international co-operation can generate.
184.	I would not wish to end this brief review of the main economic factors of international relations without referring to a practice which my country wishes to condemn once again on this occasion.
185.	I am speaking of a powerful new weapon by which certain industrialized countries try to exert pressure bilaterally as well as at the multilateral level, namely, the tying of financial operations to the circumstances of the domestic policy of recipient countries.
186.	My country maintains that international credit which, after export earnings is the second source of development financing, should be free from political ties of whatever kind, and that the only acceptable parameters for granting or refusing development aid should be purely economic. To admit other factors would simply mean to legitimise the use of economic power to serve the ends of political hegemony.
187.	The international community must consider that there are no conflicts or disputes that cannot be solved through co-operation and an open exchange of ideas if there is real political will.
188.	That is why, on behalf of my Government, I wish to reaffirm before this Assembly our conviction that peace among men and nations will be attained only when we are ready for a free and open dialogue based on the principles of justice, equality and mutual respect, which are the pillars on which the Argentine Republic has built it actions throughout all its history.


===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿First of all, I wish to convey to Mr. Salim our profound satisfaction at seeing him occupying the high post of President of this session of the General Assembly. His vast and important experience in this Organization, the intelligence and efficiency with which he has for so long directed the work of the Special Committee on decolonization, and his recognized personal and professional qualifications are all elements that ensure that his performance will contribute positively and significantly to the success of this session. Moreover, he represents the United Republic of Tanzania, a country with which Argentina maintains cordial relations.
283.	I believe it unnecessary to underline the important and positive role that the United Republic of Tanzania, as well as its African sister republics, plays at present in the international community. That important role constitutes one of the most characteristic events of the post-war era, and has contributed to stabilization and democratization in international relations. My Government is convinced that the growing and active participation of Africa in international life is an indispensable factor for an adequate solution of the grave political, social and economic conflicts that preoccupy the world and endanger peaceful and orderly coexistence among nations.
284.	My Government wishes to hail and congratulate also Mr. Salim's predecessor, Mr. Indalecio Lievano Aguirre, who so efficiently discharged his duties as President of the Assembly during the thirty-third regular session and with whose country, Colombia, the Argentine Republic is bound by so many close ties.
285.	The General Assembly, loyal to its adherence to the principle of universality, a few days ago admitted as a new Member of the Organization a young Latin American nation, Saint Lucia, whose recent independence and present inclusion in the comity of nations we celebrate greatly. We extend to the Government and people of Saint Lucia our warmest congratulations, and to its delegation we wish to convey our sentiments of goodwill for the development of close and fruitful cooperation within the United Nations.
286.	Peace, the preservation of which is the main objective that has brought together here the representatives of 152 countries, neither can nor should be considered the mere absence of armed conflict. The strengthening of peace and the consolidation of international security presuppose much more. Peace means a state of affairs in which conflicts, rivalries, distrust and attempts to impose political, economic or ideological supremacies are abandoned in order to open the way to understanding, harmony and co-operation. It means widening and deepening the incipient process of detente, which began to emerge a few years ago. It means, in other words, the realization of the purposes and the principles sanctioned by the United Nations Charter.
287.	Seen from this perspective, the review of the major world events since the preceding general debate does not allow us to draw very optimistic conclusions. Those conditions are far from having materialized; instead new hotbeds of tension that have appeared in-various regions increasing the possibilities of confrontation which are always latent. 
288.	Subtle methods of penetration and destabilization, used for perfectly obvious purposes, are constancy being applied, thus rendering meaningless the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of States that is so often proclaimed and as often violated. Nihilistic violence, which aims at the destruction of free societies incapable of reacting, has continued to manifest itself and affect even those who, having given refuge to those terrorists defeated in other countries, believed that they were immune to their criminal attacks.
289.	This last aspect of a rather discouraging overview is also linked to the subject of human rights, the distorted treatment of which is adding to the list of disturbing factors. Indeed, the noble cause served by the protection of those rights is being inadmissibly exploited as a political weapon in order to affect relations between States. The good faith and credibility of States are challenged, while accusations levelled at them by exiled groups dealing in terror are accepted at face value. Furthermore, official opinions, tinged with subjectivity, are frequently broadcast by those who lack a thorough understanding of things alien to them, about sovereign decisions adopted by other countries in their domestic affairs. This violates the most elementary norms of international coexistence.
290.	Curiously enough, many other countries which have appointed themselves prosecutors of the behaviour of others conveniently resort to amnesia when it comes to flagrant violations of human rights that they committed only a few years ago. If we were to start a trial here and assign responsibilities, recent events would supply us with more than enough examples to turn those who accuse us today into the accused.
291.	We wish to be very clear in stating our points of view. We believe that the protection of human rights is one of the fundamental achievements of the entire civilized world and not the questionable patrimony of one country or group of countries in particular. Consequently, we declare our most firm support for any measures which by common consent might be approved by the United Nations in order to strengthen those rights and make uninterrupted progress in this field. But with equal firmness, we reject any attempt to take advantage of the exalted feelings aroused by the invocation of those rights when this is done for minor political ends.
292.	Having conceived of the protection of human rights as a common endeavour by the community of nations represented here, we must recall the approach taken by General Assembly resolution 32/130. Quite correctly, this resolution maintains that it is necessary to look for global solutions to those problems, taking into account both the over-all context of the various societies in which they present themselves, as well as the need for the promotion of the full dignity of the human person, which is closely linked to the political, economic and social development of each country. To isolate the individual from this reality, to deny the special circumstances of each community or to pretend to see human rights as an abstraction detached from other rights and duties essential to nations would be tantamount to dooming to failure in advance the efforts which must be made to achieve progress in this field.
293.	These concepts, to which Argentina adheres, were welcomed and endorsed a few days ago by the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Havana from 3 to 9 September 1979. Their reiteration continues to be indispensable every time certain countries stubbornly ignore the universal demand contained in General Assembly resolution 32/130 and fail to co-operate in the creation of the political and economic conditions which would make for a better life for all mankind. The various organs of the United Nations, including the Secretariat, must apply that resolution in its spirit and its letter as soon as possible, if we wish to preserve the credibility and authority of our Organization.
294.	Functioning indisputably as the underlying cause in the majority of problems and localized international crises, competition among the centres of Power to maintain, acquire and increase their spheres of influence and hegemony plays a significant role. This situation has direct repercussions on the arms race being perpetrated by the super-Powers, which has reached unheard-of proportions quantitatively as well as qualitatively.
295.	Argentina welcomed the signing of the second SALT Treaty between the United States and the Soviet Union. We nevertheless believe it is necessary to emphasize that its positive side lies mainly in the fact that its implementation could lead to the improvement of the political climate between the two countries and their respective allies. From the point of view of the reduction of nuclear arsenals, the results are unfortunately very poor and fall far short of the logical expectations generated by the lengthy negotiation for the agreement. This short-coming transcends the bounds of bilateral relations since, as we maintained on 26 May 1978, at the special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament:
" .. .in any generalized nuclear conflict between the two super-Powers there would be no possibility for any nation to proclaim itself neutral, or for innocent peoples to remain passive spectators. They would all, without exception, willingly or not, find themselves involved in the holocaust and suffer its consequences.'
296.	At the same time, the increase in recent years of conventional forces deployed in certain critical areas in the world creates permanent security imbalances in a play of balances and counter-balances which give rise to justified anxiety. I refer in particular to Central Europe, the Middle East and the Indian Ocean. Here again, the special responsibility of the United States and the Soviet Union becomes apparent. Detente should therefore also manifest itself in these and other areas of the world through restraint and self-limitation of military expenditures and simultaneously through the development of maximum efforts to solve political problems which may become more complex because of the increase in armaments.
297.	While the great Powers continue to accumulate weapons of every description at a speed that exceeds by far any reasonable level of legitimate self-defence, some of the industrialized countries persistently raise secondary issues in order to shift attention from the grave threat posed by vertical proliferation. The need to avoid the emergence of additional nuclear-weapon States is given as a pretext and is emphasized in order to protect the monopoly of nuclear technology for peaceful purposes through discriminatory practices that endanger international co-operation on this subject. The General Assembly clearly stated in its resolution 32/50 the inalienable right of developing countries to develop or to acquire such a technology in conformity with their national priorities, interests and economic and social needs.
298.	The tenth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to disarmament, later reiterated those ideas and recommended that new efforts be undertaken to achieve an international consensus on non-discriminatory and universal ways of checking the proliferation of nuclear weapons, In the pursuit of these goals, both the nuclear Powers and those countries which need atomic technology to increase their sources of energy and accelerate their progress bear a joint responsibility. Therefore, as an essential quid pro quo for non-proliferation, restrictive and collective practices that give rise to legitimate mistrust and hinder the development of the least developed countries should cease to exist.
299.	We consider that a greater democratization of international relations would at least contribute to alleviating some of the problems that we are discussing here. The unity of human destiny and, in the long run, the community of interests of all nations are facts the understanding of which no one can evade. To try to achieve peace and security on a global scale without undertaking the balanced development of all peoples is to pursue a myth that our century cannot afford. To accept an error of such magnitude would be tantamount to believing that injustice can endure and that at present the well-being of the few can stand on solid foundations at the expense of others.
300.	Hunger, destitution, disease and the exodus of refugees in different parts of the world undoubtedly have profound humanitarian undertones, but the implications of those situations transcend those areas and, under certain circumstances, provoke political tensions with the attendant deterioration in international relations,
301.	Such is the case of the millions of Palestinians who have been displaced from their homes in the Middle East and whose situation is of fundamental importance in the search for any just and lasting solution of the area's serious problems. That is why today my Government once again states its conviction that, until the rights of the Palestinian people are recognized and implemented, the idea of a comprehensive peace in the Middle East will continue to be Utopian and all the peoples in the area would suffer the painful consequences of such a reality,
302.	Another serious problem that has a direct bearing on the maintenance of international peace and security is the situation obtaining in southern Africa, where the questions of Namibia and Southern Rhodesia, as well as the persistence of apartheid, combine to form a pattern of conflicts of seriousness too obvious to require reiteration. My country, whose position In this matter is well known and, moreover, is in accord with that of the Organization, is confident that the parties involved will make all the necessary efforts so that those questions may be solved in a peaceful, speedy and just manner through negotiation and in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council.
303.	When referring to the ordeal of the refugees, I cannot fail to mention that Argentina does not content itself with expressing solidarity in mere declarations devoid of any real content, but makes it tangible by means of practical action. The painful predicament sustained under such varied circumstances by hundreds of thousands of refugees from South-East Asia has moved Argentina to open its doors to numerous groups of families, the first of which have already arrived in our country. Surrounded by the hospitable affection of our people in a climate of freedom and order, they will be able to forget all their past suffering and fully enjoy a better life. This is yet another tangible contribution we make to a well-understood protection of human rights.
304.	For many decades, Latin America has kept itself apart, physically as well as mentally, from the serious conflicts that have played havoc in other parts of the globe. The States of our region, after having fought for the achievement of their independence and the establishment of their national identity, very early on began a long process towards integration, a process that was favoured by the common historical and cultural legacy of their peoples and decisively led by illustrious statesmen from all parts of the continent who saw unity as the best possible defence in the preservation of a patrimony that was won at such a costly price.
305.	Many and arduous efforts were made to establish the inter-American system, which has a place in history as being the first case in which sovereign countries laid the foundations of organized coexistence in order to regulate the harmonious development of their relations and to preserve their freedom and independence. We proudly claim for the Latin American republics the privilege of having been the first ever to proclaim and practise the fundamental principles that lead to international law and justice and that have been incorporated into the United Nations Charter. Suffice it to mention, inter alia, those of the juridical equality of States, respect for their sovereignty and territorial integrity, non-interference in their internal affairs and the pacific settlement of disputes.
306.	But Latin America, in spite of its own organization and uniqueness, is part of a world reality and, like other regions, is exposed today to fluctuations in international policy, foreign interference, compromises arrived at outside it and the consequences of a generalized economic crisis that is already showing its menacing traits.
307.	We are aware of the growing interdependence of nations and of the unity of the larger destiny of mankind. We are, however, certain that, in order to play an outstanding role in the common enterprise of forging a decent and acceptable future, Latin America can make its best contribution by acting in unison, closing ranks and offering its experiences and achievements while also demanding that its rights and aspirations not be curtailed.
308.	Now, more than ever, we have to unite all our forces and conjure the ideals inherited from our forefathers and the profound feelings of brotherly friendship that bind us together, in order to overcome temporary differences and to serve those permanent interests that are common to all of us.
309.	At times one loses sight of those permanent interests for merely circumstantial reasons or sacrifices them on the altar of certain political currents, which, after all, serve only interests that are completely alien to our region. But we trust that those values that are unique to the American peoples will inevitably lead to the reality of regional integration that will consolidate our structures and erect the best possible barrier to foreign ambitions of penetration.
310.	As regards its relations with neighbouring countries, Argentina wishes to express from this forum its deepest gratitude to His Holiness Pope John Paul II for having accepted the request that, together with the Republic of Chile, it addressed to him pursuant to the Montevideo Agreement of 8 January of this year,'' that he act as mediator to guide both countries in the negotiations they maintain with regard to the southern region of the American continent. Our gratitude goes also to the Holy See for the activity displayed at a higher level with advice, suggestions, and ideas in order that a rapprochement might be achieved between the two countries in the search for an equitable and honourable solution of that dispute.
311.	The most recent meeting of the non-aligned countries at the highest level of political representation took place only weeks ago, and for the first time on our continent.
312.	Fully aware of the responsibility implied by full membership in the non-aligned movement, we went to Havana to explain Argentina's position on the main items of the heavy agenda and, in particular, with a view to contributing frankly to the examination of the movement's structure and of the role it should play in world affairs.
313.	We took the opportunity to reaffirm our conviction that the non-aligned movement should continue substantially to use its influence in world affairs, which requires that it remain faithful to the basic concepts which led to its creation. This implies, in essence, a reaffirmation of its total independence and flat rejection of the strategy of those Powers or blocs which try to impose their systems or ideologies on others.
314.	The movement is made up of nations which have diverse political, economic and social regimes, but which are of one mind in their decision to preserve their national identities and retain their freedom of action in the face of any overt or covert attempt at domination or influence by the most powerful. This unity of purpose in diversity and plurality is its raison d'etre and the source Of its power and authority to guide the never-ending search for the solution to the serious problems faced by mankind.
315.	If for any reason the movement should abandon—even momentarily—its non-aligned stance and identify itself with the interests or objectives of any Power, its very existence would lose all meaning.
316.	We believe that the exchange of views which took place at the Sixth Conference had positive results. We hope that the principles which inspire and nurture the common endeavours of the non-aligned countries will be strengthened, as that would have favourable repercussions as a factor for rapprochement, cooperation and peace in the United Nations.
317.	The Republic of Argentina, like other Latin American countries, has suffered and resisted, throughout its history as an independent country, all sorts of attempts to encroach on its territorial integrity, to determine its domestic policies and to modify its behaviour in the field of international relations. We have faced embargoes, blockades, subversion, campaigns to discredit us, and the occupation of our national territory.
318.	Even today, we continue to be the victim of the illegal occupation of an inseparable part of our territory, the Malvinas Islands, which in 1833 were usurped by force, thus giving rise to the dispute on sovereignty which since that time we have continued with the United Kingdom.
319.	The United Nations has discussed this problem on many occasions. As is known, the question of the Malvinas Islands has appeared on the agenda of the General Assembly and of the Special Committee on decolonization for many years and both organs have adopted important decisions on the question. The most recent of these calls on the parties to the dispute—the Governments of Argentina and the United Kingdom—to pursue negotiations without delay in order to put to an end the colonial situation prevailing in the Islands.
320.	On the basis of that resolution, the two Governments have already held four rounds of negotiations, the results of which have been promptly communicated to this Organization.
321.	My Government, which has repeatedly expressed its conviction that direct negotiation between the parties constitutes the best way to settle disputes, reiterates its firm determination to persevere in the search for a prompt and just solution to this problem. But Argentina's decision cannot be unilateral. It has to be matched by a similar spirit on the part of the British authorities, so that with a view to the future we might jointly eliminate the only obstacle still standing in the way of our traditional links of friendship and resume our common effort for broad co-operation in every field. This reference to the question of the Malvinas Islands would be incomplete if we did not express here our gratitude to the non-aligned movement, which has consistently and firmly supported my country in its legitimate claims. The recent Conference in Havana adopted the following declaration on the issue:
' 'In the special and particular case of the Malvinas Islands, the Heads of State or Government firmly reiterated their support for the Argentine Republic's right to the restitution of that territory and sovereignty over it and requested that the negotiations in this regard be speeded up."
322.	With respect to the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, I should like to state that we are concerned by the intention of some industrialized States to enact unilateral legislation on the mining of the sea bed. Such action would seriously hamper the conclusion of the Conference and would jeopardize the very future of the convention, at a time when the General Committee of the Conference has already decided to adopt it at the next session.
323.	Moreover, and as we have done repeatedly in the past, we wish to reaffirm our full rights in the maritime areas subject to our national sovereignty, and our firm determination to ensure respect for them in all their implications, including that concerning the innocent passage of warships.
324.	In conclusion I should like to state that the disturbing situation I have tried to describe—and by no means exhaustively—adversely affects the search for solutions to the global problems which should spur the imagination and the joint efforts of all the Members of this Organization.
325.	Many are the questions requiring urgent attention which could be solved if we decided to use to the full measure of its potential the invaluable instrument of co-operation that is the United Nations.
326.	This General Assembly, in particular, should continue to seek to reflect the problems of the world and at the same time act as a catalyst for the changes that our times require. For this to happen, it is essential that the Member States agree on an order of priorities and concentrate on those items which, because of their importance and urgency, can be entrusted to no other forum. This role, assigned to the Organization by its Charter, of being a centre for the harmonization of the efforts of the international community, calls for a process of selection, for our resources and our time are limited. Questions which, because of their nature, could be entrusted to other organizations, should yield to those which, because of their impact on peace, security and development, require the political will of all the nations represented here.
327.	If we do not urgently undertake the procedural and substantive rationalization of the General Assembly, we run the risk of distorting its true function. We would become entangled in the enormous bureaucratic machinery that is already apparent today, and we would see a blurring of the dividing line between the principal and the secondary, between the vital and that which is a mere academic exercise or an item of lesser political or economic significance.
328.	The principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter form a cohesive whole which has been developed and supplemented by numerous declarations and resolutions of the General Assembly, the most representative political body in the international community. On many occasions consensus has proved to be an effective means for decision-making, since it commits all Member States to make their positions compatible with a common objective. On other occasions the principles involved were not, by their very nature, susceptible of compromise. But in every case, the taking of decisions should be preceded by a process of negotiation, accommodation and flexibility, marked by the mutual respect which would be a guarantee, not only of the effectiveness of the results, but of full knowledge and understanding of the viewpoints of those who do not share the same ideas,
329.	This negotiating process demands time and goodwill. In order for time to be available and for the necessary goodwill to materialize, we feel that the General Assembly should concentrate its work on a limited number of priority questions and should entrust the rest to other agencies of the system. Only in this way shall we be able to transform the Organization into an efficient tool and silence those who argue that the really important problems are not brought to this forum because it lacks the means of achieving adequate results with a guarantee of implementation.
330.	These are some ideas which we wish to submit to the consideration of our fellow representatives in this Organization. As always, we are inspired by the desire to contribute to the effective unity of the nations here assembled, with a sense of active militancy for the high ideals that led us to San Francisco 34 years ago.


===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿Mr. President, I should like to begin my statement by congratulating you most sincerely on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session. This Assembly's good judgement in choosing you as its President will undoubtedly be rewarded by success in the tasks stemming from our heavy agenda and, in particular, in reinforcing the aims of the United Nations Charter concerning peace, security and progress for ail peoples. The Federal Republic of Germany, your noble country of origin, is a nation with which the Argentine Republic maintains firm relations of friendship and cooperation. We also congratulate the Federal Republic on the honour conferred upon it by your presidency of this Assembly.
31.	It is equally appropriate to recall the distinguished services rendered by Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, who carried out brilliantly and effectively the tasks of the presidency of the thirty-fourth session and the subsequent special sessions of the General Assembly.
32.	Just as in 1979 the United Nations rejoiced in the admission of Saint Lucia as a new Member of the Organization, on this occasion we wish to reiterate the welcome we gave during the eleventh special session of the General Assembly to Zimbabwe, its Government and its people and to extend to them our best wishes for peace and prosperity.
33.	Similarly, we also wish to express our warmest esteem for Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, the American country which has just been welcomed as a full Member of our Organization, and we are confident that it will make a constructive contribution to the task of consolidating international peace and security.
34.	The threats to international peace and security that existed a year ago have not disappeared; indeed, they have increased.
35.	In January this year, at the sixth emergency special session of the General Assembly, the Organization had the opportunity to review the situation on the Asian continent. The great majority of countries—among them the Argentine Republic—expressed their opposition to any act implying violation of the political rights of States and, hence, of the Charter of the United Nations, which must be adhered to equally by all Members without exception.
36.	In fact, those situations have been created within an international context which continues to be ruled by the ambitions and tensions prevailing among the superpowers. Their power appears to be used for no other purpose than their own self perpetuation and aggrandizement, at times at the expense of the rights of other States and the opportunities of the rest of the nations which constitute the great majority of the world's population.
37.	The present international political outlook is such that the developing countries appear justified in their efforts zealously to defend their sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, protect the authority of this Organization and assert their right to contribute actively to the solution of international problems and participate as equals in initiatives aimed at the economic, social and political advancement of peoples—and I stress "as equals".
38.	As can be seen, the international situation confronting us today differs greatly from that which could have been hoped for until very recently, when we believed that we were advancing firmly on the road to international detente and cooperation.
39.	Therefore it is necessary, for the nations whose vocation is freedom, to reject from the outset any attempt to impose on us a confrontation in which neither the interests nor the wishes of our peoples are at stake.
40.	At the same time, it is essential that all nations, especially the two great Powers, refrain from infringing the principles of non-interference and non-intervention in the internal affairs of States. These basic principles of international relations must not be ignored by any nation or any intergovernmental organization, whatever the motive or pretext.
41.	Only unrestricted adherence to these principles will ensure lasting understanding and real cooperation among States. The ineffective paternalism of those seeking to impose their judgement on the sovereign will of other peoples leads to a rarefied international atmosphere which impairs efforts to bring about peace and development.
42.	We note with great concern the present escalation of tension and warlike activities between Iran and Iraq, which might have serious consequences and endanger peace in the area and even beyond. We therefore associate ourselves with the timely appeal made recently by the Secretary General to the parties concerned and we are confident that they will reach an understanding which will preserve peace in the area. Similarly, we support the appeal made by the President of the Security Council on behalf of the Council members for the cessation of any armed or other action that might ex acerbate the present dangerous situation and for the solution of their dispute by peaceful means.
43.	The competition between the superpowers is most clearly evident in the arms race. In this area there have been alarming signs during the period since the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly. Not only has the process of ratification of the SALT II agreement been suspended but there seems little prospect of an early beginning of negotiations on a future SALT III agreement.
44.	The trend thus indicated is therefore negative and denotes the readiness of those States with the most and the most sophisticated nuclear weapons to continue to exercise a sort of guardianship over the rest of the world by means of nuclear terror.
45.	The reasonable level of legitimate defence of the superpowers was greatly exceeded long ago. Furthermore, they have encroached on the security of all States, without offering any guarantees other than the goodwill of a few or the dubious security offered by complex electronic devices— which are in fact as fallible as their operators.
46.	If the decade that has just started is to be sincerely described as the Disarmament Decade, it will be necessary to respect egalitarian—not discriminatory—and effective foundations that will enable us to progress once and for all towards general and complete disarmament. The priorities established in 1978 in the Final Document of the special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament clearly indicate the steps to be taken. We cannot allow secondary issues to serve as an excuse to postpone the solution of more important issues on which a consensus has already been reached. In this regard it is clear that there is a fundamental objective above all: the objective of arresting and reversing the nuclear arms race, until it is completely eliminated.
47.	In this connexion, we have already referred to some of the structural characteristics of and situations connected with the present system of international relations that affect the stability of peace and security. It has rightly been said that the absence of war is not enough to enable us to live in peace.
48.	The genuine enjoyment of peace implies that each people is in a position to make its own order, has available the resources to develop its economy, is capable of trading with other nations and providing for the health and education of its population and, lastly, can live a worthy life of work in freedom. Only thus will peace be accompanied by the necessary security which development brings.
49.	These aspirations are frustrated whenever an unjust system of economic relations persists, since its bases the welfare of certain nations not only on their own labour but also on insufficient payment for the efforts of other nations.
50.	Only a few days ago a most serious attempt to reformulate the international economic order was frustrated h j the intransigence of some developing countries. We are all in agreement that the economy of the world is going through a period of grave difficulties. In those circumstances it would seem obvious that there should be no opposition to attempting to overcome the crisis by means of a negotiated solution.
51.	Nevertheless, the proposal of the Group of 77 that a new round of global negotiations be held in 1981, within the framework of the North South dialogue, was not approved by three developed countries, which alleged that the procedural framework proposed during the eleventh special session of the General Assembly was unacceptable. In view of the present state of the dialogue, the Republic of Argentina reiterates before this Assembly its willingness to continue to make all the necessary efforts to enable the international community to reach a genuine consensus on all aspects related to the preparation of a new round of global negotiations.
52.	Argentina, the only developing country that is a signatory to the Food Aid Convention of 1980,  has donated significant quantities of grain to many countries in the developing world, thus contributing within its possibilities to the fulfilment of their food needs and allowing them to concentrate their efforts on other fields of economic development. In a spirit of solidarity, our country has also aided countries in emergency situations by supplying provisions and medicine. Our greatest satisfaction lies in the knowledge that we have been helpful, as evidenced in the expressions of thanks from the Governments of the recipient countries.
53.	However, we do not believe that the elements essential to human life—for example, food and medicine—should be used as means of political or economic pressure.
54.	With regard to humanitarian questions, the rules of the game prevailing in the international order render unacceptable the attempt to take political advantage of such questions. Those who adopt that attitude expose themselves to the censure of international opinion, to the distrust of States and to the squandering of efforts on a sterile objective: the furthering of electoral aims or the provocation of confrontation between peoples.
55.	These attitudes become even more serious when arguments are used in a selective manner and when the strategic risks of the opportunistic accusers are smaller.
56.	The internal political development of each nation, with its achievements and difficulties, is the sole and exclusive responsibility of that nation, and those who seek to teach lessons from abroad are committing an error with consequences that will be increasingly difficult to eliminate.
57.	Similarly, no contribution to peace and security has been made by the violation of rules that from time immemorial have given diplomatic agents immunity in accordance with the delicate functions they must carry out. The interests of the entire international community are affected when these rules are infringed.
58.	The perpetration of criminal attempts against representatives and diplomatic missions—such as those that are, alarmingly, taking place at an increasing rate all over the world—must also be the subject of more decisive action with a view to the total elimination of such attempts.
59.	Latin America is a subject of fundamental interest to us. The Republic of Argentina is a Latin American country, because of its geographical location as well as its culture and vocation. That is why I cannot fail to mention in this context an event that holds promise for our region and, consequently, for international relations in general.
60.	The process of Latin American integration gained renewed momentum with the establishment of the Association for Latin American Integration, composed of 11 countries whose Foreign Ministers or other Ministers signed the Treaty at Montevideo in August of this year establishing the Association. The prospects opened up by this instrument exceed what was regarded as possible by the preceding Latin American Free Trade Association, after 20 years of hard and positive efforts. The economic pluralism of Latin America having been acknowledged, the new Association will make possible, in the long term, access to the much desired objective of the establishment of a Latin American common market. Also, it will enable the signatories to take steps to establish and intensify the links of solidarity with developing countries and integration areas in which they are active, in accordance with the guiding principles and commitments assumed in the context of the Declaration and Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order and of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States.
61.	We wish also to express our satisfaction with the undeniable substantial progress achieved by the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea during its ninth session, held at Geneva from 28 July to 29 August of this year. It is well known that our Latin American countries have made a great contribution in this important matter. We trust that final agreements will be speedily reached.
62.	We are also satisfied—and with justification—with the stage reached in the relations between Argentina and Brazil, as demonstrated by visits at the highest level of government and the signing of important economic, technological, trade, energy and nuclear agreements.
63.	Our relations with the neighbouring and other countries of Latin America have been extremely good and, as an indication of the closeness of those relations, we point to the outstandingly important work of physical integration with the countries of the River Plate basin and the increase of imports from those countries by nearly 80 per cent in the last four years. That growth is in itself eloquent.
64.	We should like to reiterate Argentina's gratitude to His Holiness Pope John Paul II for the continued and invaluable assistance he has been giving to the Governments of Argentina and Chile in the search for an equitable and honourable solution to the dispute over the southern zone of the American continent, in compliance with the provisions of the Montevideo Agreement of 8 January 1979.
65.	This Assembly will be faced, for the second time during the course of the year, with the question of Palestine, the heart and crux of the crisis in the Middle East. The first opportunity this year was provided last July by the seventh emergency special session, which was convened chiefly on the initiative of the nonaligned countries. 
66.	The position of the Argentine delegation at that time— which we now reiterate—consisted in support for the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination to the establishment of its own sovereign State and to freedom to choose its own representatives and its own future.
67.	At the same time, we reject the unilateral and arbitrary measures adopted by Israel in the territories it has occupied since 5 June 1967. Moreover, we believe that the City of Jerusalem must be put under a special regime, recognized by all parties and in conformity with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council.
68.	In appealing once more to the Israelis and the Palestinians to recognize each other's legitimate rights, we express the hope that they will fulfil, in an atmosphere of peace and far from all forms of violence, their responsibilities to a world in which the tensions are becoming extremely dangerous.
69.	We also urge all the parties involved to make major efforts to bring about peace in Lebanon. We fervently hope that that longsuffering nation will preserve its complete sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity and that all acts of violence against its inhabitants will cease.
70.	Another area which my country contemplates with alarm is southern Africa. The independence of Zimbabwe, which we noted with satisfaction, was not followed by other positive events in that area.
71.	The international community is still awaiting the end of the illegal occupation of Namibia. That Territory must accede to sovereignty with complete territorial integrity. The present situation must be brought to an end, because its persistence calls into question the implementation of the principles and decisions of the United Nations and, at the same time, constitutes a significant danger to the peace and security of Africa and the entire world. In affirming this, we also welcome in advance the representatives of the United Nations Council for Namibia who will soon visit the Republic of Argentina.
72.	My country wishes to reiterate most categorically its total rejection of apartheid and any other form of racial discrimination. Those systems—which offend the moral conscience of all nations and are contrary to the Christian traditions on which we were brought up—are the root of future suffering and conflicts. We have no guarantee that the violence that they are creating will be localized and will respect the frontiers of the countries involved. There is therefore a double imperative—moral and political—to clearly condemn all forms of apartheid and racial discrimination.
73.	Because of the seriousness of the risks confronting mankind, it is particularly important for the movement of nonaligned countries to continue to play an active part without abandoning its original principles. This presupposes the reaffirmation of the independence and impartiality from which the movement was born and which it must preserve at all costs so that its influence in world affairs may be great enough to meet the exigencies of the times.
74.	Only thus will the movement of nonaligned countries be a reflection of the feeling of international responsibility of a significant number of States, which, over and above their political, economic and social differences, attempt to direct international relations towards full respect for non-intervention through solidarity and cooperation among peoples.
75.	I come to a matter of the greatest importance to us. Year after year Argentina has given repeated proof of moderation and patience with regard to the usurpation by force by the United Kingdom of a part of our national territory, the Malvinas Islands.
76.	This Organization is well aware of the background of this question and has not ceased to urge the Argentine and British Governments to continue negotiations to put an end to the occupation of the islands. Moreover, the heads of State or Government of the nonaligned countries have expressed their unqualified solidarity with Argentina regarding its sovereign right to the Malvinas Islands.
77.	We must also mention the wide international support for Argentina's claim, as well as our willingness to seek an early solution by means of negotiations culminating in the definitive recognition by the United Kingdom of Argentine sovereignty over the aforementioned islands. As is well known, Argentina has made a series of efforts to meet the interests of the nucleus of inhabitants of the islands and has offered them the necessary safeguards and guarantees.
78.	It is precisely at this time, on the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of resolution 1514 (XV) that we must reaffirm our support for its provisions and redouble our efforts finally to eliminate colonialism from the world. It was by virtue of that resolution that the General Assembly adopted resolution 2065 (XX), on which negotiations on the Malvinas Islands are based.
79.	I hope that at the end of this session we shall be able to say that the efforts of this Assembly have been fruitful, that peace is possible and that we shall continue to work resolutely for its consolidation.


===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
Mr. President, let me begin this statement on behalf of the Argentine Republic by expressing our sincere congratulations to you on your assumption of the most important post in the General Assembly. Your election represents not only an acknowledgment of your personal distinction, but also shows the respect of the community of nations for your country. The Organization may be sure that it has entrusted this high mission to an experienced diplomat who is aware of the grave responsibilities that his task involves.
2.	In your recent visit to Buenos Aires, in the company of the VicePresident of Iraq, our two countries restated the importance of their cordial, longstanding and fruitful relations.
3.	Argentina would also like to reiterate and reaffirm its high esteem for the ability and efficiency with which your predecessor, Mr. von Wechmar, of the Federal Republic of Germany, carried out this particularly difficult task during the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly and the emergency special session.
4.	We express our satisfaction at the admission of the new independent State of Vanuatu as the one hundred and fifty-fifth Member of the Organization. We are sure that it will contribute to the fulfillment of the Organization's goals of peace and development.
5.	At the same time, I should like to express the satisfaction of the Argentine people and Government at the independence of Belize which was actually proclaimed yesterday and which constitutes an example of how the outstanding problems of decolonization may be resolved with a sense of history and realism, with decisiveness and without premature discouragement in the negotiations.
6.	May I therefore convey to each of those new States the Argentine Republic's desire to broaden relations of friendship and cooperation with them.
7.	This new session of the General Assembly brings with it, as usual, a world round of analysis and thought, which indeed is one of its main purposes. As it is opening at the start of a decade that appears to be tense and full of conflict, it demands above all a balance-sheet of the essential elements inherited from the 36 years that have elapsed since hope emerged after devastation without precedent.
8.	Today, as in the beginning, a single idea has remained defined with a clarity that does not allow for nuances: it is the idea of peace. There is no alternative to opting for peace. The Organization came into being under that inspiration and with that as its objective. The technology for destruction that has been developed since then has excluded world war as a conceivable instrument in any political program. The essentially immoral instruments of destruction that mankind has created have ensured an option that cannot be challenged; one that, so far, neither the ethical approach nor justice has been able to secure. Unfortunately, this lack of alternative to peace has neither improved the conditions of world security nor made it possible to thieve progress along paths that seemed promising only a few years ago. The international society, for some time multi-polar in the political and economic fields, is still supported by a bipolar arc in the field of final military power. This situation at present gives rise to growing tension.
9.	The disappointing developments in the recent negotiations on disarmament in the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the virtual paralysis as regards SALT have occurred at the same time as the emergence of new conflicts, which follow those that for years have been receiving the attention of the Organization.
10.	The idea of disarmament has been replaced in practice, first, by the concept of a slowdown of the arms race and, secondly, by the parity of military power. This has tended to dispel many illusions; indeed, we all know that a vicious circle has been created. True parity can never be established in such times of technological buildup. Every effort to close any real or imaginary gap inevitably creates yet another gap, imaginary or real.

11.	This process has a strong inherent logic. The increasing arms buildup comes from a sense of insecurity. This feeling persisted among all the protagonists despite all the unquestionable progress made during the cycle of so-called detente. Viewed in retrospect, it is clear that that necessary progress was far from sufficient and that today a further effort is needed, under much worse conditions. There is not the slightest doubt that the distrust between the main protagonists has increased. Nor is there any doubt that nothing deserves higher priority at this stage than efforts to recreate appropriate conditions for dialog. 
12.	The obvious crisis through which the world security system is passing is aggravated by the equally unacceptable crisis affecting the system of ideas underlying it. For example, there is the clear care of those ideologies that believed they had grasped the meaning of history and were capable of building a final model society free of contradictions. Any observer today can clearly see that some of the most ominous changes threatening peace derive expressly from the objective existence of the contradictions supposedly overcome in that model.
13.	Insecurity and the ideological crisis are at the root of the emergence and universal spread of terrorism. It is evident that this real scourge has not only new dimensions but also a new essence. Contemporary terrorism constitutes one of the most dangerous assaults on the human condition. It is, above all, an assault on reason, similar to many assaults that history has known before, and it lacks any ethical motivation. Present day terrorism is a highly professional manifestation of naked power, with a worldwide organization, which is increasingly refined and threatens even those who succumb to the temptation to support it, directly or indirectly.
14.	We Argentinians cannot but recall in this dramatic context the attempt on the life of His Holiness Pope John Paul II, whose efforts to promote understanding among peoples are clearly exemplified by his welcome mediation* in the border dispute between Argentina and the Republic of Chile.
15.	A look at the world situation reveals a picture with many shadows, among which problems that have been included for many years now in the agenda of these sessions and those that have been added recently stand out. The common denominator is the element of national, regional or world insecurity.
16.	A single thread characterizes the most serious cases. The persistent delay in the solution of the Palestine problem, the nonrecognition of Israel by most of the Arab countries, the unacceptable risk of annexing the territories occupied after the 1967 war, the bombing of Iraq's nuclear reactor, the attack on Lebanon and the attack on the Vienna synagogue represent stern appeals to the conscience and sense of responsibility of all countries represented here. Another such is the continued illegal interference in Afghanistan, where one superPower is expressing its idea of national security at the cost of the security of a neighbor which by no stretch of the imagination can be classified as dangerous. Exactly the same can be said of Viet Nam's interference in Kampuchea another instance of a threat to regional security. In this world in which colonialism is now in its twilight, its continuing existence in the flagrant example of Namibia and the unacceptable delay in the process to independence of that country demonstrate how a situation of this kind can directly threaten not only regional but also world peace and security.
17.	These four situations, which constitute extreme cases in the present international scene, all have a common denominator, namely, the violation of fundamental principles of world order and of the Charter of the United Nations. They all involve the self-determination of peoples, a violation of the principle of nonintervention, a breach of territorial integrity and an attack on sovereignty. The invoking of their own security by the interested parties is a cover for conduct that clearly violates the security of others and thus threatens the security of everyone. It seems both clear and rational that the security that they supposedly desire to preserve would be better guaranteed by a precise definition of its own limits,
18.	In so far as those problems fall within the specific competence of the United Nations, "some comments on the methodology of their handling by the Organization are called for. The first concerns the need to adopt realistic political approaches that include activities and explore prospects, and lead to specific solutions. Those solutions must take into consideration both the objectives aimed at in each case and the purposes and principles of the Charter, in order if possible to obtain consensus among Members of the Organization. When the defense of a principle or worthy cause is at stake, it is much more effective to obtain the minimum common denominator acceptable to all than to put forward extreme proposals that inevitably give rise to reservations that neutralize them in practice. The second comment underlines the need to place more emphasis on negotiations and dialog between the countries directly involved in each problem, with the participation of the United Nations Secretariat where necessary, without prejudice to the concerted action agreed upon in the resolutions addressed to all Member States.
19.	From the point of view of Latin America, these considerations seem timely. It is evident that this continent, and Central America in particular, has entered an extremely critical phase. Possible actual violations of fundamental principles that have led to serious disputes in other areas are now a matter of real concern for the people of Central America, as shown clearly by the case of El Salvador.
20.	The highly dangerous potential for an escalation of conflicts in Latin America does not seem to be clearly perceived in other areas, especially in some developed countries that appear to see those disputes as a problem of spheres of influence relating to the prevailing political trends in Europe.
21.	This false perspective especially prevalent on the part of industrialized European countries, has also been, and is being, committed, although in a reverse sense, in the field of human rights. In the name of human rights there has been, and still is, an uncalled for and, by some sectors a distinctly superficial, interference in situations of internal security which in no way affect international peace and security. That interference is clearly a violation of the spirit and letter of the Charter. It constitutes, in fact, a very significant and decisive support of the subversive terrorist activities that really might create actual situations endangering international peace and security.
22.	Obviously such peace and security must reflect all of the elements underlying the system of international relations. The Organization was founded at a time when there was hardly any discussion of economic development and underdevelopment. However, as far back as 1945, San Francisco was the meeting point of highly industrialized countries and others that had not even taken the first steps towards modernization. The great campaign to dislodge colonialism, in which many of the battles were fought in these halls, multiplied the number of developing countries. Their political weight increased, but that did not narrow the gap separating them from the big centers of finance, industry and technology.
23.	The 1973 crisis, in which the new oil prices acted as a catalyst, did not change the essence of the problem, but introduced into the situation aggravating elements of decisive effect. In order to check these, on the initiative of the Group of 77, a more extensive dialog was begun based on the fact that the fates of developed and developing countries were clearly linked through their interdependence and they must therefore join in seeking a global agreement that would make it possible to find the basis for a sustained and balanced growth of the world economy. Our skepticism about developments thus far in no way detracts from the validity of that program or that approach.
24.	It is now more urgent than ever to reverse the trends that are becoming more marked in a situation of acute recession, but it must be on the basis of a realistic analysis of the situation.
25.	The increase in oil prices generated a regionalization of profits and a general spread of losses as a consequence of such a monumental redistribution of world earnings without the establishment in the meantime of "structural measures designed to correct the inherent distortions. During the whole process, the developing countries oil producing or  non-oil-producing maintained their solidarity and unity, in spite of the fact that most of them were the worst affected.
26.	After some hesitation as to whether priority should be given to checking unemployment or inflation, this, new situation led all the industrialized countries to emphasize action against inflation, and adopt measures that reinforced the recessive trends in their own economies.
27.	But as the recycling of financial surpluses was finally channeled to the industrialized States through private banks, those States availed themselves of a series of mechanisms which helped them to overcome their main basic problems. They introduced more streamlined protectionist policies, passed on the higher cost of money and oil to the prices of their products and services, and made aggressive inroads into the international market with new subsidized exports that compete unfairly with the traditional exports of the developing countries.
28.	Obviously the non-oil producing developing countries are the ones that meet the cost of balancing the accounts. They have to pay more for energy, for capital goods, for industrial inputs, for finished products and, more specifically, for currency.
29.	There being no other solution, the balance of payments on current account of three quarters of the international community has become structurally deficit ridden. Because of this development, members of the international community have responded to these negative trends with measures designed to remedy or alleviate them, although they do not yet form part of an effective concerted effort consonant with the problems identified. It is a proven fact that the developing world remain^ united in solidarity, in spite of the fact that some of those measures were also designed to divide it.
30.	The most important factor after 1973 has undoubtedly been the recycling of financial surpluses in the petroleum-exporting countries to the economies of the industrialized countries. This is a fact that can only be remedied with large scale measures. Otherwise, in a few years time the present trends will lead the international community to completely unacceptable situations. The oil-exporting countries and the industrialized nations today have an inescapable responsibility for the global redistribution of resources and growth. If the need for a solvent world demand was very clear 20 years ago, it is out of the question to sit idly by today watching the extension of insolvency to the entire world.
31.	While international dialog is pursued in New York, Caraballeda, Ottawa, Nairobi, Paris and Cancun without our getting any closer to a global approach to substantive policies, our conscience is struck by the situation eloquently described by His Holiness John Paul II in his recent encyclical Laborem Exercens, a document which is a virtual program of action for the countries assembled here.
32.	One could devote a great deal of time to the analysis of the situation, but the diagnosis would always be the same: there is no solution that does not involve reactivating the world economy, and this calls for a massive increase of cooperation with the developing countries. This is tantamount to saying that there will be no future prosperity for the great world economies of today if industrialization is not extended to all countries in the world.
33.	Argentina is the only developing country which is both self-sufficient in the energy sector and a substantial food exporter. It is therefore in a better position to judge the present trends. I would stress that the world food situation is as serious as ever and that the reduced interest which it evokes only reveals a shameful acceptance of backwardness, injustice and hopelessness. A world in which, pari passu, missiles and misery are built up threatens an explosion somewhere.
34.	I have taken the liberty of expressing some viewpoints of the Argentine Government, which are those of my people. The Argentine nation, as all representatives are aware, has inherited Western culture. It shares all the values that are inherent in that culture: a profound belief in freedom, in the alienable rights of the human person, in their defense through the mechanisms of a pluralist society, in the sovereignty of the people and in the republican form of government. Its national and international ideals were formed by men like Sarmiento, Calvo, Drago, SSenz Pena, Pueyrreddn, and Saavedra Lamas.
35.	In this Organization, as in the one that preceded it, Argentina has always played an active role, which has been permanently documented, through the most diverse Governments and in the most difficult internal situations. My country passed through one such situation a few years ago, when it suffered one of the most violent acts of aggression ever perpetrated by international terrorism. Argentina overcame that aggression by its own means, not asking for anyone's help. No one can say that my country is a threat to the peace or security of anyone. For that reason, we have not been prepared to permit interference in our internal affairs by anyone, either in the events that are part of history or in the present process of democratic reconstruction in which we are engaged, although our doors are open for everyone to see what we are doing and we are ready for a dialog with anybody.
36.	In that dialog Argentina will be, as it has always been, a zealous defender of international order, of the rights of the national State, of the principles of sovereignty; of nonintervention, of self-determination of peoples and, above all, of peace among nations. Argentina reaffirms those principles, which it has always adhered to and which it shares with the States members of the non aligned movement in which our country plays a part and whose principles we hope will be vigorously reaffirmed at the next summit conference in Baghdad in 1982 in the face of any attempt to weaken the Movement. Those principles, as well as the repudiation of all forms of racism or discrimination such as apartheid or any other kind of discrimination based on creed, culture, caste or class, are inherent in a nation that attained freedom at the dawn of the process that put an end to the colonial empires.
37.	It is a strange paradox that our country, which was in the vanguard of the struggle for national independence, should still suffer from a breach of its territorial integrity, an anachronistic persistence of colonialism.
38.	The Malvinas Islands have not been restored to Argentina despite the long interval that has elapsed since the General Assembly adopted resolution 2065 (XX) in 1965. The Malvinas are a colony to this day, with the formal status thereof, basically exploited by a company built on the pattern of those of the time of the mercantile States. Perhaps a unique case in these times of demographic explosion, the Malvinas at present have a population smaller than that which inhabited them at the time of the above mentioned resolution. Large food and energy resources are awaiting exploitation, which is not possible as long as the present illegal occupation continues.
39.	That situation is still less understandable when the islanders have had every practical opportunity of realizing that their association with Argentina is a source of benefits that are otherwise unattainable. Obviously the Malvinas cannot remain a colony, nor can Argentina passively accept that part of its territory should be one of the last colonies. I should like to inform this Assembly that Argentina has addressed to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland a proposal designed to give a decisive impetus to the. negotiations regarding sovereignty over the Malvinas, South Sandwich and South Georgias Islands. The Argentine Republic hopes in due course to be able to report to the General Assembly that the series of negotiations concerning the Malvinas, South Sandwich and South Georgias Islands which we hope will begin soon, has proved to be the last.
40.	The clear awareness that we must have of the serious problems that we face does not hide the enormous capacity of the instruments available to mankind to solve them. The main one among them is the Organization. A single example would suffice to demonstrate the possibilities that open up when the international community works in an organized fashion towards common goals: the success of the intense efforts to ensure the establishment of a just and balanced system to govern the orderly and peaceful use of the oceans and the rational exploitation of their resources.
41.	In that connection, Argentina hopes that the draft convention prepared at the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea1 will be adopted in the course of next year and that it will be open for signature in Caracas.
42.	There is no alternative to peace; nor is there any alternative to development. Peace and development require the effort of each and every State forming part of the world community. There is no substitute for our own work, but it is also necessary to have the contribution of everyone. Peace and development presuppose a demand for reason and a Call for moderation. Reason and moderation are the specific instruments of culture and the human condition. They can forestall any threats that hover on the horizon. They can ensure a proper synthesis of the demands of security and the sacred principle of the self determination of peoples. They can also foster the realization that the economic growth of the richest among us is not incompatible with, but rather requires, the development of the poorest among us.
43.	In this world there is no place for lethargy in the struggle for peace or in the development effort. We have reason to hope, not only because there is no alternative but also because the cause is good and just. In the pursuit of those ideals, Argentina identifies with the brotherly peoples of Latin America, whose destiny it shares, whose more active presence in world politics is one of the best assurances of the attainment of the goals of those who gave birth to this Organization* and whose authentic leaders are all men of goodwill.

===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
I should like to begin by congratulating the 
President on his election to the high office he 
has been asked to fill at this session of the 
General Assembly. His contribution as President 
of this forum will undoubtedly be invaluable in 
achieving the success we hope for in the tasks 
with which we have been entrusted, especially in 
the fulfillment of the principles and purpose of 
the Charter.
233.	My country would also like to greet, 
through him, the friendly nation of Hungary, with 
which we have a very close and productive 
relationship.
234.	Nor can I omit to take this opportunity 
to recall the outstanding performance of Mr. 
Kittani of Iraq, and to reaffirm our appreciation 
of the ability and effectiveness with which he 
carried out his task at a particularly difficult 
session of the General Assembly.
235.	Finally, before I reach the substance of 
my statement, I should like, as Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of a Latin American country, to 
greet most warmly the first Latin American 
Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, 
to whom my country is deeply indebted for his 
earnest efforts during the South Atlantic crisis 
to reach a solution to the conflict.
236.	This year my country had to deal with a 
grave international crisis rooted in the fact 
that even today, on the eve of the twenty-first 
century, there remain forms of colonial 
domination in the world, despite the efforts of 
the Organization and of the overwhelming majority 
of its Member States to eradicate them. The 
crisis to which I am referring, which resumed in 
an armed confrontation between Argentina and the 
United Kingdom, would not have taken place had 
colonialism and its vestiges been completely 
eliminated from the face of the earth.
237.	The conflict which took place in the 
South Atlantic, comprising the Malvinas Islands, 
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, 
shows that there is as yet no end to the efforts 
of the United Kingdom to cling to its colonial 
possessions and to maintain its privileges, 
something possible only in an international state 
of affairs which is based on the existence of 
unequal relations, supported in the main by the 
crude domination of force.
238.	The Government of the United Kingdom has 
attempted to obscure the very clear rights of the 
Republic of Argentina to claim territories of 
which it was divested by force; but the General 
Assembly is well aware of the historical 
background of the matter and the stubborn British 
attempts to distort it have come to naught.
239.	Existing cartographic proofs offered by 
maps of that time demonstrate that the Malvinas 
Islands were discovered by Spanish navigators in 
the first half of the sixteenth century. Then, 
since the beginning of the seventeenth century, 
they were explored by French navigators until 
1764, when Louis de Bougainville established the 
Port Louis settlement, now Soledad Island, a 
situation which gave rise to a Spanish protest 
and a subsequent recognition by France of the 
sover¬eignty of Spain over these territories. In 
1766 Port Egmont was established in the islet of 
Trinidad, the only territory occupied by the 
British in the Malvinas Islands, from which they 
were also expelled by the Buenos Aires Government 
on 10 June 1770.
240.	Subsequently secret diplomatic 
negotiations led to the precarious restitution of 
those settlements to the British on condition 
that at a later date they would have to withdraw 
from them definitively, a commit¬ment which the 
United Kingdom fulfilled in 1774. Since then the 
United Kingdom virtually forgot all about the 
islands until it took them by force in 1833.
241.	In the period between 1767 and 1810, a 
year when Argentina started on its road to 
independence, the Malvinas were administered by 
20 governors appointed by the Spanish Crown. The 
Republic of Argentina, having become independent 
from Spain, then succeeded Spain in all its 
rights, including the rights of sovereignty over 
the islands which belonged to Spain. By virtue of 
this, until 1833, the administra¬tion of the 
Malvinas was exercised by six Argentinean 
governors, under whose government my country had 
the peaceful and exclusive occupation of the 
archi¬pelago, without any discussion by the 
European powers of our claims, titles and rights 
to these territo¬ries. What must be emphasized, 
because it is a decisive point, is that the 
United Kingdom in 1825 recognized that the 
Republic of Argentina was a sovereign State, and 
at that time entered into a treaty of friendship, 
trade and navigation with Argentina and did not 
then voice any reservation with regard to its 
alleged rights over the Malvinas Islands or any 
other adjacent terri¬tories. This most clearly 
demonstrates that the United Kingdom was aware of 
the fact that it had absolutely no right over the 
Malvinas Islands and archipelago, whose 
sovereignty it questions today.
242.	On 3 January 1833, eight year^ after 
Argentina was recognized as a sovereign State, 
and after the signing of the treaty of 
friendship, trade and naviga¬tion, British troops 
occupied the islands by force, bringing down the 
Argentinean flag, expelling Argentinean 
authorities and Argentinean citizens, residents 
of the area and forcing them to go to Montevideo. 
The Argentinean population was thus completely 
replaced by a British military garrison.
243.	On 15 and 22 January of that same year, 
the Government of Argentina sent a protest to the 
Charge d'affaires of Great Britain in Buenos 
Aires, and on 17 June the Argentine Minister, Don 
Manuel Moreno, voiced the most energetic protest 
in London. Thus began an uninterrupted series of 
Argentinean protests against the British 
occupation and in all cases these were 
arbitrarily rejected by the Government of the 
United Kingdom.
244.	The Republic of Argentina never agreed to 
the British occupation, nor did it ever give up 
its sover¬eign rights over the territory of which 
it was divested by force. All this is more than 
enough to show the inequity of any claims of 
acquisition by the United Kingdom.
245.	Let the Assembly compare the historic and 
con¬sistent stand of my country with the silence 
of Great Britain in 1825 and its ominous 
aggression of 1833.
246.	Let us come back now to our times. 
Following the creation of the United Nations the 
treatment in the Organization of the item of 
decolonization brought with it the adoption of 
the well-known General Assem¬bly resolution 1514 
(XV), which deals with decoloniza¬tion, as well 
as resolutions 2065 (XX) and 3160 (XXVIII) and 
31/49, which is specifically applicable to the 
case of the Malvinas.
247.	It was thus decided, first, that there 
was recog¬nition of the existence of a dispute 
over sovereignty between the Republic of 
Argentina and the United Kingdom, secondly, an 
invitation to those Govern¬ments to continue 
forthwith negotiations to achieve a peaceful 
solution of the matter, bearing in mind the 
provisions and objectives of the Charter, as well 
as the interests—not the wishes—of the population 
of the islands; thirdly, the recognition of the 
efforts made by the Republic of Argentina to 
facilitate the decolonization process and to 
promote the well-being of the population of the 
islands.
248.	Starting in 1966 negotiations began 
between the two Governments but these 
negotiations did not lead to any result because 
of the indifferent attitude and dilatory tactics 
displayed by the British.
249.	Acceptance by the United Kingdom of the 
invita¬tion to negotiate on the matter of 
sovereignty, for¬mulated in resolution 2065 (XX), 
was embodied in the communications of Foreign 
Ministers Zavala Ortiz and Stewart,'3 as a result 
of the visit of the latter to Buenos Aires in 
1966. Clearly this acceptance was encouraging for 
it reflected, apparently, the beginning of a 
change in the British position, which up to that 
time had rejected all negotiations on the matter 
of sovereignty of the archipelago.
250.	Later the terms of reference of the 
negotiation were formally set out in the joint 
communique of 26 April 1977," which stated 
specifically that it would include the matter of 
sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, South 
Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands. That 
agreement between Argentina and the United 
Kingdom was explicitly recognized in the parallel 
notes addressed in June 1979's by the Per¬manent 
Representatives of my country and of the United 
Kingdom to the Secretary-General, informing him 
that from 21 to 23 March 1979 the representatives 
of the Governments of both countries had held the 
fourth round of negotiations on the Malvinas 
Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich 
Islands, within the framework established in the 
aforementioned communique of 26 April 1977.
251.	Nevertheless, the obligations undertaken 
by the United Kingdom in those documents and 17 
years of negotiations failed to convince the 
Government of the United Kingdom to deal with the 
matter of sover¬eignty fully and in good faith. 
That was an arbitrary attitude which could not be 
explained in the light of the clarity of the 
commitments entered into.
252.	On the contrary, my country continued to 
demonstrate at all times its sincere resolve to 
settle the dispute. Further proof of that was the 
letters addressed to the Secretary-General in 
1971 by the Permanent Representatives of 
Argentina and the United Kingdom^ on opening up 
communications between continental Argentina and 
the archipelago, for that statement demonstrated 
in fact the declared intent of Argentina duly to 
take into account the interests of the 
inhabitants of the Malvinas.
253.	Thus the supply of fuel, the 
establishment of regular maritime and air 
services, free medical atten¬tion in hospitals on 
the continent, the granting of fellowships in 
educational institutions and the supply of 
foodstuffs are some of the many indications of 
the sincere desire of Argentina to continue to 
improve considerably the standard of living of 
the inhabitants of the islands, which up to that 
time had been isolated and had suffered 
shortages, which Argentina—not the United 
Kingdom—tried to make good in the best interests 
of the inhabitants of the Malvinas.
254.	One should bear in mind also that along 
with this, and from the beginning of the 
negotiations, my country repeatedly oHered to 
grant guarantees and safeguards under the 
protection of the United Nations in order to 
preserve the lifestyle of the inhabitants of the 
Malvinas, as well as their traditions and 
customs, with the idea of considering their 
interests, an idea which is contained in General 
Assembly resolution 2065 (XX).
255.	Nevertheless, despite all the efforts of 
succes¬sive Argentine delegations in the rounds 
of negotia¬tions, which were once again renewed 
at the last meeting in February 1982, it was not 
possible to get from the British delegations, 
which also included islanders, a list of the 
guarantees and safeguards which they required for 
the protection of their interests.
256.	The positive attitude demonstrated by 
Argentina in presenting to the United Kingdom in 
February of this year a new proposal for settling 
the dispute between the two countries met with 
complete silence on the part of the British 
Government. That proposal provided for a 
machinery to speed negotiations over sovereignty 
and achieve concrete results in the form of a 
system of monthly meetings, with a 
pre-established agenda, the venue of the meetings 
established in advance, presided over by 
officials at the highest level.
But, as already stated, in accordance with the 
usual practice of Britain in matters of 
negotiation with our country, we were not able to 
obtain a reply to this reasonable initiative by 
Argentina, despite the requests made by our 
Government.
257.	We come now to the episode which 
unleashed the present crisis. Argentina received 
the British ultimatum to withdraw a group of 
civilian workers who had landed on South Georgia 
to fulfill a private contract, which was known to 
the British authorities, under the threat of the 
use of force if their demand was not heeded. That 
intimidation was accompanied by the movement 
towards that area of various naval units, 
including nuclear submarines.
258.	Thus the bloodless occupation of the 
Malvinas Islands by Argentina was a justified 
reaction in the face of the British decision to 
strengthen its colonial domination over a 
territory which by law belongs to my country and 
in flagrant contradiction with the provisions of 
General Assembly resolution 31/49. I should like 
to emphasize that the recovery of the islands was 
achieved without the British suffering a single 
death or injury due in any way to the intentions 
of Argentina, a country which preferred to 
sacrifice many of its own soldiers for the sake 
of not causing any victims among the British 
occupying forces or the population.
259.	Furthermore, I should like to recall that 
imme¬diately and without any pre-condition the 
Republic of Argentina returned all British 
military personnel, along with their flags, in 
order to avoid further prob¬lems in trying to 
reach a peaceful solution.
260.	The recognition by Argentina of the 
authority of the Security Council in this dispute 
was made quite clear in many statements by my 
Government in favor of an effective and full 
implementation of Council resolution 502 (1982). 
In his statement at this session the President of 
Brazil, stressing the importance of the General 
Assembly's consideration of the question of the 
Malvinas, stated that the first step towards a 
solution must be the full implementation of 
Security Council resolution 502 (1982), adding: 
"It is time for those who so vigorously condemn 
the use of force in the solution of controversies 
to demonstrate the consistency and sincerity of 
their designs".
261.	My Government spared no effort in order 
to obtain immediately a negotiated settlement of 
the crisis, accepting at all times the good 
offices offered to us; but we wonder about the 
possibility of arriving at a legitimate agreement 
when the United Kingdom, seeking no result other 
than a military victory and the maintenance of 
the colonial situation, brought its fleet into 
the South Atlantic unlawfully, invoking Article 
51 of the Charter, and arrogated to itself the 
right to act, no matter what the consequences, by 
taking all sorts of hostile measures.
262.	The generous offer made by the Secretary- 
General on 2 May this year, to be considered by 
both Governments, did not achieve the solution 
called for by the serious crisis.
263.	The Government of Argentina from the very 
outset had full confidence in the role which the 
Organization, and especially the 
Secretary-General, could play in these grave 
circumstances, to help with the maintenance of 
international peace and security and to eliminate 
all vestiges of colonialism in the world; but the 
United Kingdom adopted an extremely rigid 
position with regard to the ideas which were 
being discussed, an attitude that was closely 
related to the increase of its military potential 
in the area.
264.	Later came Security Council resolution 
505 (1982), and a British veto on a draft 
resolution'? in the Security Council^ which, if 
adopted, would have made possible an immediate 
cease-fire, thus avoiding loss of life on both 
sides. This was the clearest proof of the lack of 
political will on the part of the United Kingdom 
to find a peaceful negotiated solution. The only 
thing which the British Govern¬ment was 
interested in was a success by its punitive 
fleet, to consolidate its imperialist presence in 
the South Atlantic and improve its damaged 
domestic political situation. The facts show that 
from the very beginning military action was the 
only solution which the Conservative Government 
of the United Kingdom seriously considered.
265.	I am revealing no secret when I say that 
the British Empire only reluctantly gave up its 
colonies. Many of the nations represented here 
have at one time in their history been colonies 
of the United Kingdom and know that their present 
situation as sovereign States is not due to any 
gracious conces¬sion on the part of that Power, 
agreeing m a gesture of generosity to grant them 
independence. On the con¬trary, every case of 
liberation was the result of a very difficult and 
cruel struggle by the oppressed peoples, or of 
the final inability of the United Kingdom to 
continue exercising its control over those people 
in the face of the irresistible force of the 
great movement of history leading to decolonization, 
generated essen¬tially by the United Nations.
266.	The United Kingdom, which today attempts 
to act as the champion of self-determination, is 
pre¬cisely the colonial Power par	which in 
many cases raised all kinds of obstacles when the 
United Nations tried to assist the just process 
which made it possible to liquidate most of its 
Empire.
267.	Thus, in the specific case of the 
Malvinas Islands, the practice of the United 
Kingdom thus far has been to pretend to fulfil 
the requirements estab¬lished in the resolutions 
of the General Assembly, requiring it to 
negotiate in the dispute over sover¬eignty, while 
in reality sabotaging any serious attempt to make 
progress on that important problem. It proceeded 
throughout with no sense of haste or urgency, 
while striving only to protect its special 
private interests, and the monopolistic 
exploitation of its colony.
268.	The United Kingdom has proclaimed that 
Argentina resorted to action in the midst of the 
negotiations about the islands. No statement 
could be more false. That process has been 
frustrated precisely by the dilatory tactics and 
delays used time and again by the British 
Government, quite apart from its complete failure 
to reply to the last proposal made by Argentina 
in February 1982.
269.	Moreover, I wish to state categorically 
that throughout the 17 years of fruitless 
negotiations imposed upon the United Kingdom by 
the will of the
General Assembly in 1965 in its resolution 2065 
(XX), the administering colonial Power of our 
Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich 
Islands never gave any indication of trying in 
good faith to reach a solution to the dispute 
over sovereignty which exists between that 
country and Argentina, refusing to discuss the 
only subject that justified those negotiations 
and made them necessary: precisely the question 
of sovereignty.
270.	Among the basic principles which it sets 
forth for the fulfillment of the purposes of the 
United Nations, the Charter, in Article 2, 
paragraph 2, states that "All Members, in order 
to ensure to all of them the rights and benefits 
resulting from membership, shall fulfill in good 
faith the obligations assumed by them in 
accordance with the present Charter". But the 
attitude of the United Kingdom constitutes a 
flagrant violation of this commitment to which it 
subscribed when it signed the constitutional 
statute of the Organization, and its actions and 
omissions have shown how little importance it 
attaches to the resolutions of one of the basic 
pillars of the relations in the international 
community.
271.	Furthermore, if any doubt remained, the 
attitude of the present Government of the United 
Kingdom is full confirmation that its objective 
has always been to continue its usurpation of the 
Islands and to accept only those superficial 
changes which serve to conceal the true colonial 
nature of its domination over them.
272.	And if the existence of colonies is an 
affront to the dignity of the peoples and a 
shameful blot on the name of an international 
community which claims to be civilized, even more 
shameful is the attempt to invoke the principles 
of decolonization to prolong the life of the 
ill-omened remnants of an era that fortunately 
has come to an end. The Government of the United 
Kingdom is trying to whitewash the guilt of its 
unlawful occupation by invoking the right to 
self- determination of the inhabitants of the 
Islands. In so doing, it is attempting to justify 
their plundering by invoking the principles that 
are generally accepted in the United Nations in 
the hope that the nations represented here will 
forget all the times when these principles were 
ignored or denied by the same United Kingdom 
which now invokes them.
273.	For if the United Kingdom states that it 
is a nation which respects the right of 
self-determination, we are faced with a true 
historic paradox. How are we then to explain the 
struggle for independence and national 
sovereignty of India under Gandhi's leader¬ship, 
human symbol of anti-colonialism, peace and 
justice in our century? How can we forget the 
wars of liberation in Africa against British 
imperialism ever since the end of the Second 
World War? How can we explain the subjugation and 
domination suffered by the peoples of Asia at the 
zenith of the United Kingdom's imperial 
expansion? Could we perchance forget that he 
United Kingdom not only violated the true 
self-determination of the peoples, but it also 
made illegal use of force, violating the most 
elementary rules and principles of international 
law and ethics? Why did the United Kingdom, 
claiming to be such a staunch defender of the 
self-determination of peoples, displace by force 
the population of the island of Diego Garcia, to 
make over that territory for the establishment of 
a military base in the Indian Ocean?
Cotild it be perhaps because they were not white, 
but Macks and people of mixed Mood?
274.	Obviously, it is no mere historical 
coincidence that some of the major leaders of the 
developing world and champions in our day of the 
freedom and independence of peoples—men such as 
Nehru, Nasser, Kenyatta, Nyerere and Archbishop 
Makarios, among others—had to confront at various 
times in their political struggles the colonial 
or neo-colonial domi¬nation of British 
imperialism.
275.	These facts show that when the U „ 
Kingdom claims to be defending the right to 
determination of peoples, that is not only a way 
vt concealing the truth about the nature of its 
illegal colonial possession of the Malvinas 
Islands, South Georgia and South Sandwich, but 
also a cynical attempt to adjust its position to 
the world of today, in order to perpetuate its 
last ties of political and economic domination; 
in other words, its intent is to seem to change 
things so that they can remain the same. The 
right to self- determination is basically a 
collective right, recognized for all peoples, 
nations and States. That right assumes a 
legitimate relationship between those who are to 
benefit and the territory to be decolonized, but 
the territorial link cannot be of any type, 
because the right to self-determination can never 
be used as an instrument to split up a territory.
276.	For example, the settlements established 
by Israel in the occupied Arab and Palestinian 
terri¬tories—in contradiction of the rights of 
the countries and populations affected, and of 
the Geneva Con¬vention on the Protection of 
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 
1949, and in flagrant violation of the 
resolutions adopted by the Security Council and 
the General Assembly—are a clear example of a 
policy infringing the right of territorial 
integrity. The international community has 
rightly condemned such policies, since the 
perpetuation of these illegal situations at the 
expense of Syria, Jordan, Lebanon and the 
Palestinian people year after year has become a 
constant source of tension and violence, 
endangering not only the Middle East but 
international peace and security.
277.	Therefore, recognition of the right to 
self- determination of a population implanted by 
force, after the forced expulsion of those who 
were legiti¬mately living in the area earlier, is 
a mockery of the efforts of the Organization to 
put an end to colonialism, and can lead only to 
the renewal of colonialism in the guise of a 
settlement freely consented to. The relation¬ship 
between those who claim freely to exercise the 
right to self-determination and the territory in 
which they live must come from a justifiable 
situation that existed before the occupation.
278.	The clear and maked truth is that the 
United Kingdom has established a colony in part 
of Argentine territory, and the definitive 
solution must be the restitution of that 
territory to its legitimate owner, in keeping 
with the right of territorial integrity, which 
clearly applies to this case, in conformity with 
resolution 1514 (XV). Otherwise, I must give 
warning that to legitimize the illicit origin of 
British pos¬session would be to establish a 
dangerous precedent for legitimizing future 
seizures of territory, based on the use of force, 
yet subject, it would be claimed, to 
legitimization by the passage of time.
279.	The recent crisis in the South Atlantic prompted the Government 
of the United Kingdom not only to seek to 
consolidate its colonial domination, this time 
quite openly, over the Malvinas Islands and their 
dependencies, but also in violation of General 
Assem¬bly resolutions, to establish an 
extra-continental military base on the islands, 
with nuclear submarines and nuclear weapons in 
the area.
280.	This provocative attitude has clearly 
introduced a focus of continuing tension into the 
South Atlantic, which is unacceptable both to the 
Republic of Argen¬tina and to Latin America. We 
must therefore put an end to that state of 
affairs. There has been a de facto end to the 
hostilities in the area, as everyone knows, and 
my Government does not intend to take the 
initiative in changing that situation. But 
following the cease-fire the United Kingdom 
carried out an armed attack on the Argentine 
scientific station "Corbeta Uruguay", established 
six years earlier in the South Sandwich Islands, 
imprisoning the staff, who were carrying out work 
of a strictly peaceful nature. That unjustifiable 
act of aggression was recently condemned by the 
Second World Conference On Cultural Policies, 
convened in Mexico by UNESCO.
281.	Furthermore, my country has many times 
brought to the attention of the Organization acts 
of harassment by British vessels and aircraft 
against Argentine fishermen, even outside the 
exclusion zone which the United Kingdom continues 
to impose around the islands for Argentine civil 
and military vessels and aircraft. Although 
technically limited to an area of 150 nautical 
miles, this illegal and arbitrary measure has in 
fact been extended by the British Government to 
waters outside the area, where Argentine fishing 
vessels are constancy subject to intimidation. 
This is a serious matter that should be of great 
concern to us, since we all recall how during the 
recent conflict a British nuclear submarine did 
not hesitate to torpedo and sink the Argentine 
Republic navy cruiser Genera/
which was sailing outside the exclusion zone 
established and defined by the United Kingdom 
Government itself—a completely illegitimate and 
brutal action which was no source of pride for 
British public opinion or any of its allies.
282.	The facts that I have just described, as 
well as the stand taken so far by the British 
Government, opposed to any genuine negotiation, 
show clearly the need for the international 
community, through a decision by the General 
Assembly, to support the Latin American 
initiative to resolve the present situation and 
the dispute over sovereignty between Argentina 
and the United Kingdom by substantive 
negotiations carried out in good faith.
283.	Latin America is today writing a page in 
its history marked by its spiritual umty and its 
heroic role, reaffirmed recently by the Panama 
Canal issue, and today by the Malvinas question.
284.	This unity will be demonstrated in the 
forth¬coming meetings of Latin American heads of 
State proposed by Uruguay, Panama and Colombia, 
in all of which my country will take part. It 
will also be demonstrated next year at a meeting, 
convened by Venezuela in Caracas, of heads of 
State and other representatives of their peoples 
to commemorate the bicentenary of the Liberator, 
Simon Bolivar, who conceived of our continent as 
a federation of nations striving, through the 
strength of their common ideals and 
determination, to bring about a world of justice 
and freedom. With this dream, to which our 
Liberator, Jose de San Martin, made his 
outstanding contribution, were associated all the 
national heroes of Latin America, with a slogan 
that we have not forgotten, and are determined 
not to forget, calling for respect by the 
international community for our demands, today 
and for ever.
285.	Latin America, united today by the 
Malvinas, and tomorrow by whatever other equally 
just cause may affect any of the countries 
comprising it, calls for a response that will 
meet its legitimate demands.
286.	Latin America shall not be a 
breeding-ground for colonial adventures. The 
countries of the hemi¬sphere fought hard to win 
their independence and therefore have a long tradition 
of rejection of colo¬nialism. Those ideals of the 
founding heroes of the Latin American homeland 
inspire the actions of the Governments of the 
region, with whose decisive assistance and 
support the Hrst decolonization ini¬tiatives 
prospered in the United Nations. It is in that 
spirit that Latin America has demonstrated its 
whole¬hearted support for the fraternal 
initiative taken by Mexico, which calls for 
consideration of the question of the Malvinas 
Islands during the current session of the General 
Assembly.
287.	I emphasize with pride and appreciation 
that the question of the Malvinas Islands is no 
longer in the Organization the private cause of 
my country but has become the cause of Latin 
America, as happened also in the case of Panama. 
In their letter to the Secretary-General, the 
Latin American nations made the following points, 
among others:
"The persistence of this colonial situation in 
America and the dispute between the Argentine 
Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland concerning sovereignty over 
the Islands, on which the General Assembly has 
expressed itself in resolutions 2065 (XX), 3160 
(XXVIII) and 31/49, have led to serious armed 
con¬flict in the South Atlantic and constitute a 
situation that affects the Latin American region 
in particular.
"The countries of America, which are peace- 
loving and anxious for a peaceful settlement of 
the conflict, consider that the negotiations 
between the Argentine Republic and the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
should be conducted under the auspices of the 
United Nations/' [Sep
288.	That initiative earned the gratitude of 
all the Argentine people, for which the cause of 
the Malvinas is a national goal which takes 
precedence over partisan differences and binds 
together citizens of all sectors.
289.	We extend the same gratitude to the 
non-aligned movement, which in its successive 
statements has categorically endorsed Argentina's 
claims.
290.	I wish to express similar appreciation to 
all countries which have extended to us their 
support and have recognized the legitimacy of our 
claims.
291.	The events in the South Atlantic have 
taught us some hard but useful lessons, which 
will have an impact on our future as a region and 
hence on our international relations. We have 
felt the warmth of solidarity and the bitterness 
of frustration, depending on the reaction to the 
legitimate claim of our peoples.
292.	We shall never forget those who acted as 
our friends. As to those who did not so act, we 
shall re-examine in the future their earlier 
positions, bearing in mind the circumstances of 
that time, which for many were unclear or 
distorted. But the positions they are taking now, 
will have to stand up to the closest scrutiny by 
the Argentine people and by all those who agree 
with the very clear principles which the 
inter¬national community has committed itself to 
defend. Their conduct will be judged not by 
Governments, which are temporary things, but by 
peoples, which are permanent. History, which is 
incorruptible, will be a court of last resort. 
The Argentineans and all Latin Americans are 
convinced that it will be our ally, not to be 
suborned.
293.	We firmly believe that negotiations in 
good faith between the parties provide the only 
possible path to peace. Hence we are prepared to 
heed the call of the General Assembly to begin 
negotiations to find a peaceful solution to the 
dispute over sover¬eignty which will take into 
account the relevant resolutions of the General 
Assembly and the Security Council, with the 
assistance of the Secretary-General, in whom my 
country has sincere confidence.
294.	Argentina has never expanded its 
territory through the use of force. On the 
contrary, it has traditional resorted to peaceful 
methods and negotiations to resolve its 
territorial disputes. In this spirit our country 
is committed to the peaceful settlement of its 
territorial dispute with the Republic of Chile in 
the southern part of the country, with the 
invaluable participation of His Holiness Pope 
John Paul II as mediator. The people and Government 
of Argentina wish to express here their deepest 
gratitude to His Holiness for his tireless 
mediating activities and his guidance of the 
negotiations with the Republic of Chile. Great 
importance has been attached by the Holy See to 
these activities, which resulted in the agreement 
signed on 15 September last at Vatican City. That 
agreement is an unequivocal confirmation of the 
complete confidence which the two countries have 
placed in the Supreme Pontiff and in his judgment 
as to the best way to settle the dispute. For our 
part, we reaffirm our belief that through 
mediation we will reach a final agreement 
acceptable to both parties which will put an end 
to the dispute once and for all, thus 
consolidating the traditional links between the 
two peoples.
295.	The world situation is so serious, and 
the situa¬tion as regards the Organization's 
ability to fulfill its purpose of maintaining 
peace and acting as a useful forum for 
negotiation among its Member States has become so 
difficult, that the Secretary-General felt 
compelled in writing his exemplary report to 
abandon the usual practice of reviewing the broad 
range of issues involved in the work of the 
United Nations and to concentrate on the central, 
vital problem of the chances of achieving the 
aims which 37 years ago prompt J the creation of 
the United Nations, after the six years of agony 
and destruction of the Second World War.
296.	In the year since the last regular 
session of the General Assembly the deteriorating 
trend of inter¬national relations has been 
confirmed. The tensions stemming from the 
traditional confrontation between the 
super-Powers have been aggravated by fighting 
resulting from long-standing conflicts which 
remain unresolved as a result of the lack of 
political will or an intransigent refusal to 
confront the problems intelligently and in a 
forward-looking way.
297.	Thus the lack of trust between 
antagonistic blocs or States at the international 
level provides the political opportunity for 
serious regional crises, and the military pacts 
among the great Powers encourage their allies, 
whether or not they are in the right, in 
exaggerated confrontations or punitive operations 
reminiscent of the nineteenth century, although 
they use the ultra-sophisticated arsenals of the 
late twentieth century.
298.	Furthermore, the developed nations, are 
en¬trenching themselves m positions of privilege 
and when they agree to a dialogue with other 
States which are not members of their club they 
do so only on their own terms. Fear of change 
makes them more inflexible and the climate of 
international tension, instead of making them 
outward-looking as regards the rest of the world, 
makes them turn inward, which is a futile flight 
from the collective responsibilities they should 
shoulder. Those nations close their ranks to 
defend the advantages they gained in the past, 
although the injustice of these is obvious. This 
is all clear evidence of a process of 
international political involution which augurs 
ill for the future.
299.	We cannot but affirm emphatically here 
that if there remains any chance of justice and 
right prevail¬ing, it can only be within the 
framework of the Organi¬zation, which has the 
necessary ways and means to assist nations in 
conflict, provided those nations are really ready 
for dialogue and negotiations to settle their 
disputes. Hence, the international community must 
turn towards the United Nations in search of a 
reply and for attitudes which encourage the 
preser¬vation of world peace.
300.	We all know that one traditional way is 
through disarmament but, unfortunately, the 
present session is taking place in the shadow of 
the failure of a few months ago of the second 
special session of the General Assembly devoted 
to disarmament. The international community had 
great hopes in that session, which it expected 
would consolidate and develop the achieve¬ments 
made in the four years since the first such 
special session.
301.	But the time is coming when all the 
countries, and in the first place the great 
Powers, will be unable to ignore the fundamental dilemma 
any longer: they must either make sincere and 
serious efforts to bring under control the 
massive increase in weapons, in particular 
nuclear weapons, or we shall be embarking upon an 
uncontrollable escalation of which we shall be 
the prisoners and probably the victims.
302.	The recent events in Lebanon constitute a 
further tragic manifestation of the permanent 
threat stemming from the perpetuation of unjust 
and serious situations not resolved by the 
international system, which has once again failed 
in Its primary task, established under the 
Charter—^namely, that of maintaining 
international peace and security. Too many years 
have passed during which the people of Lebanon 
have had to suffer as a result of successive 
violations of their territorial integrity, 
independence and sovereignty. This unjust 
situation has been com¬pounded in recent weeks by 
the barbarous acts perpetrated in the refugee 
camps of Sabra and Shatila. This provoked the 
unanimous condemnation of the international 
community, in which my Government joined first 
with a communique issued in Buenos Aires and then 
by our vote at the seventh emergency special 
session, on Palestine. There can be no doubt of 
the responsibility of the Israeli Government 
which invaded the city of Beirut in violation of 
the agreement reached and on the pretext of 
preventing chaos.
303.	The Government and people of Argentina 
are convinced that ajust and lasting solution of 
the question of the Middle East can be achieved, 
as my country has argued repeatedly in recent 
years, only if there is recognition of and 
respect for the inalienable right of the 
Palestinian people to self-determination and 
national independence and to establish their own 
sover-eign Statu; acceptance of the right of 
Israel and all countries of the region to live in 
peace within inter¬nationally recognized borders; 
Israel's withdrawal from all the Arab territories 
occupied since 1967 and, in addition, recognition 
of a special regime for the Holy City of 
Jerusalem, in accordance with the relevant 
resolutions of the Security Council and the 
General Assembly.
304.	Many other situations are subjects of 
grave con¬cern to us. The persistence of the 
hateful apartheid regime in South Africa and the 
unjustifiable delay in the inexorable process of 
independence for Nami¬bia, the decolonization of 
which must not be further postponed, are just two 
of these. South Africa cannot continue to resort 
to new and arbitrary excuses to preserve a 
shameful and unjust status quo the pur¬pose which 
is to deny the Namibian people the true exercise 
of their right to self-determination and national 
independence in accordance with Security Council 
resolution 435 (1978) and with full respect for 
its territorial integrity. The international 
community must use its best efforts to put an end 
to this colonial situation, which is marked by 
economic exploitation and racial discrimination. 
The people of Namibia must be assisted in their 
just struggle to put an end to South African 
domination, which flies in the face of the most 
elementary principles of justice and equity 
accepted by the overwhelming majority of the 
States Members of the United Nations.
305.	Another grave situation which for reasons 
of regional brotherhood concerns us profoundly is 
the instability and violence prevailing in 
Central America, which prompted the promising 
initiative of an offer of good offices by the 
Presidents of Mexico and Vene¬zuela, with a view 
to reducing tension and ensuring peace. Of 
course, my Government has already expressed its 
full support for those efforts.
306.	I know that it is not original to refer 
to the crisis in international economic relations 
or to emphasize that the high cost is being borne 
by the developing countries. However, despite the 
attempts made by those countries to ensure the 
establishment of more just economic and political 
relations which ensure a proper place and 
equitable participation in the international 
sphere, some developed countries are working to 
prevent these through economic policies that 
undermine multilateral co-operation in general 
and co-operation for development in particular.
307.	There has been a resurgence of 
protectionism in the major decision-making 
centers, accentuating further the economic and 
social difficulties on the periphery.' Selective 
and discriminatory policies have been 
established, based on concepts of so-called 
graduation, which establish arbitrary and harmful 
differences for developing countries. By 
increasing emphasis on bilateralism in 
international economic relations there has been 
an erosion of the multilateral framework of 
international co-operation.
308.	As if all this did not constitute a 
sufficiently discouraging picture, we now see a 
tendency for certain developed countries to use 
economic means for political ends, by trying to 
bring pressure to bear on developing countries to 
subordinate the exercise of their sovereign 
rights.
309.	The non-aligned movement has emphatically 
condemned such behavior and the Charter of 
Eco¬nomic Rights and Duties of States adopted by 
the general Assembly in 1974, is also emphatic on 
this point.
310.	Within the Latin American framework, at 
the regional level, it was understood from the 
outset, as confirmed by decisions 112 and 113 of 
the eighth meeting of the Permanent Council of 
the Latin Amer¬ican Economic System, that Latin 
America must reduce its vulnerability to the 
concerted pressures of the developed world.
311.	Nevertheless, in the midst of this 
disturbing picture there are on the horizon some 
positive facts, such as those originating in the 
Group of 77 and the recent statements made in the 
Economic and Social Council by some 
industrialized countries, which lead us to hope 
that global negotiations can begin shortly in an 
attempt to revitalize the North-South dialogue.
312.	As regards co-operation among developing 
countries, the recent meeting in Manila showed 
the realities and potential of this broad range 
of co-oper¬ation and solidarity.
313.	I cannot conclude my statement without 
saying that my country accepts the existence of 
this real and regrettable world political 
panorama because it is a matter of plain fact. 
However, we also believe in the absolute need to 
overcome this grave situation, because we are 
sure that the instinct of self-preser¬vation will 
compel all the peoples in the world to unite 
their efforts to change this picture of real and 
potential conflicts. But we also firmly believe 
that that primary objective cannot be attained 
through vague declarations and pious words, but 
only through specific action and a healthy 
political determination, which, by establishing 
good faith in international relations and 
encouraging progress and wealth, will make 
possible the emergence of new protagonists on the 
world scene. There must be new presences capable 
of restor¬ing a balance threatened today by the 
magnificent development of some nations at the 
expense of the stagnation or the slow development 
of others.
314.	I should like to conclude my statement by 
referring once again to the Malvinas question, 
which is so vitally important to my country. The 
world knows Argentina's devotion to peace and 
that we have lived through more than a century 
without any periods of war. If a peaceful people 
felt it necessary to take up arms to defend its 
cause, in an unequal battle, it was solely as the 
result of the justice of that cause. Our forces 
consisted entirely of Argentineans who were 
fulfilling their patriotic duty. In our struggle 
we did not turn to foreigners boastful of their 
bloodthirsty ferocity closely tied to the 
degrading exchange of money.
315.	Our martyrs, sacrificed in the desolate 
lands and frigid waters of the South Atlantic, 
will be constant witnesses to Argentina's 
unwavering sovereignty over the Malvinas, a cause 
whose defense brooks neither concessions nor 
hesitation. The hours of sacrifice of our 
combatants, as well as the blood and the lives 
laid down by so many of them, were not in vain. 
The cry that went up then and that will lead us 
steadfast to our goal will not fade from the 
conscience of mankind.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿ 
Mr. President, first of all I should like to congratulate you upon your election to your high office at the present session of the General Assembly. I am sure that your contribution as President will be invaluable in ensuring our success in carrying out the tasks entrusted to us, especially in upholding the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which you have yourself so often defended in your capacity as a representative of your country in this forum and in the Security Council. Furthermore, my country wishes to congratulate, through you, the friendly sister nation of Panama, with which it is linked by a close and fruitful relationship based upon historical, cultural and political ties that indicate a joint Latin American destiny of sovereignty, development, justice and peace. Nor can I fail at this time to take note of the outstanding performance of the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Hungary, Mr. Imre Hollai, and say how much we value the ability and efficiency with which he discharged his delicate task. Today the world is confronted with a situation fraught with growing injustice, threats and insecurity that can only be the harbinger of new conflicts at the expense of the peace and the development of the peoples. The Argentine nation is convinced that the attainment of universal peace and justice will be possible only if a democratic system of international relations is established. This can be achieved only through the elimination of super-Power confrontation, the abandonment of aggressive and expansionist policies, the eradication of the apartheid regime and any other regime of discrimination based on race, creed or religion, and the final elimination of colonialism, neo-colonialism and any other form of foreign domination. The world cannot be regarded solely and exclusively as a stage on which East and West engage in a permanent conflict of ideological, political and military power. This would be to ignore the unjust system of relations between developed and developing countries. This North- South dimension is so serious that it demands special attention on the part of the great Powers which would make possible the establishment of a genuine dialogue and exchange that would benefit the whole international community. Furthermore, within the present structure of power relations in the world it is the developing countries that suffer the adverse effects not only of a clearly inequitable international economic order but also of the military adventurism of extra-regional Powers, the plundering of parts of their territory, the foreign exploitation of their natural resources, the establishment of military bases upon their soil and the maintenance of anachronistic colonial situations. What are the obstacles that must be overcome in order to bring about the necessary changes in present world circumstances? In the sphere of disarmament, for example, the international community must face up to a truly dire situation. It is paradoxical that when public opinion most energetically expresses its growing concern at the threat of a potential nuclear conflict, when the leaders of the major Powers publicize their apparent interest in reaching and desire to reach agreements on disarmament and when there is a universal consensus that this is a fundamental and pressing problem, the activities in the Held of disarmament have yet to yield tangible results. As we know, Geneva is the theatre of bilateral and multilateral disarmament negotiations, particularly in the area of nuclear disarmament. Obviously these negotiations are making no headway, and the efforts of the Committee on Disarmament are out of all proportion to the scant results obtained. Unfortunately the present situation and trends do not encourage us to hope for a brighter future. Nuclear arsenals are increased and improved day by day, so that the possible use of nuclear weapons poses the clear danger that any conflict could turn into a catastrophe that would spare no one. Moreover, not only are nuclear armaments being shipped without any restriction throughout the world; they are also being introduced into legally prohibited geographical zones, thus posing an unjustifiable threat and creating an atmosphere of insecurity that affects, first and foremost, those countries that do not belong to the major military alliances. Until very recently Latin America felt secure under the protection of a nuclear-weapon-free zone, but it can no longer feel free of suspicion since in 1982 the United Kingdom, in violation of its commitments, introduced nuclear armaments into the region of the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands, thus creating an alarming and dangerous situation. In this connection it is especially significant that at the eighth General Conference of the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America, which was held in Jamaica last May, the introduction of British nuclear weapons into the zone and areas surrounding the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands was again denounced. Moreover, that Conference expressed its concern at the fact that the United Kingdom used nuclear-powered submarines in warfare within the zone established by the Treaty of Tlatelolco. Both cases constitute unprecedented and extremely serious acts that must be noted by the relevant organs of the United Nations because they call into question the very essence of the concept of nuclear-free zones. As a result of the painful lessons learnt since last year it is imperative to create mechanisms to verify the fulfilment of the commitments undertaken by the nuclear Powers. I am aware that I am not the first to draw attention here to the crisis in international economic relations or to emphasize that the developing countries are paying the highest price. But I cannot fail to emphasize that in spite of the efforts of these countries—Argentina among them —to ensure the establishment of more just economic and political relations guaranteeing for them more equitable participation in the international sphere, some industrialized nations are determined to prevent this. Thus there has been a resurgence of protectionism in the large decision-making centres and discriminatory and selective policies have been established, on the pretext that they are based on a concept of "graduation", which create arbitrary and damaging differences for developing countries. Moreover, the emphasis on bilateralism in international economic relations has seriously eroded the multilateral framework of co-operation. And, as if all of this were not discouraging enough, we continue to perceive a tendency on the part of certain developed countries to use economic measures for political purposes, pressuring peripheral countries to make themselves subordinate in the exercise of their sovereign rights. My own country has been subjected to such unjust practices in the recent past. At the regional level, there was an understanding within the Latin American framework from the start— which was ratified by decisions of the Council of the Latin American Economic System—that the vulnerability of Latin America in the face of concerted pressure from the developed world had to be diminished. It was submitted that all nations have the sovereign right to follow their own path in the economic, social and political spheres in peace and freedom, free from external pressure, aggression and threats, and free from embargoes, blockades and any other coercive measures imposed illegally and arbitrarily. That is why Argentina has enthusiastically supported the important initiative of the President of Ecuador, Mr. Osvaldo Hurtado Larrea, aimed at mobilizing the energy and resources of the Latin American countries and recently ratified in the Santo Domingo commitment. In order to face up to this profound international economic and financial crisis we need fundamental solutions and the joint elaboration of principles and instruments for a new order in international economic relations. Along these lines, the developing world, represented by the 125 States members of the Group of 77, drafted what is called the Buenos Aires Platform' at the Fifth Ministerial Meeting of the Group, held this year in my country. That platform stressed the urgency of adopting, at the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, a programme of concerted and sustained economic reactivation and promotion of the accelerated development of the countries of the Group. Unfortunately, the industrialized nations preferred to take more rigid and opposing positions, and no satisfactory conclusions were reached at the sixth session of the Conference. Nevertheless, the solidarity of the Group of 77 was strengthened at Belgrade, and during this session of the Assembly the Group's members must act accordingly in order to face in a coordinated manner the acute international crisis. In this regard, the presence and remarks of the Prime Minister of India, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, who carries on with great dignity the far-seeing efforts of her illustrious father, Jawaharlal Nehru, will be of paramount importance in this forum, for, as chairman of the Movement of the Non-Aligned Countries, she will voice the message of a majority of States which have a will to negotiate and which aspire to a world of justice and peace. The most obvious consequence of the exceptional situation affecting Latin American countries is their high external debt and the heavy burden of servicing that debt. We have constantly shown our willingness to make the sacrifices necessary to fulfill our obligations and to avoid moratoriums. But all the efforts being made to aggravate the already very onerous process of adjustment that has been carried out so far could strain the political and social tolerance of our peoples, which could have the most serious and unpredictable consequences. I wish also to state here the position of my country regarding some of the most serious current international conflicts. As a Latin American country, Argentina has a serious fraternal concern regarding the critical situation in Central America, which is characterized especially by political destabilization, violence, the constant threat of armed conflict among sister nations, and foreign intervention. In the face of this situation, my country once again reiterates its unchangeable position of full respect for the fundamental principle of non-intervention. It is that spirit that has from the beginning inspired my country's firm support for the Contadora declaration  signed by Colombia, Mexico, Panama and Venezuela, and for the Cancun Declaration on Peace in Central America, which resulted in the encouragement of negotiations and contacts at the highest level on the part of the parties directly involved in the conflict. At the same time, the Argentine Republic wishes to make clear its conviction that the crisis in Central America is the result of many complex causes, such as anachronistic political, social and economic situations which have eliminated justice as the guiding principle of social organization, persistent violations of the principle of nonintervention in the internal affairs of other States, and wrangling within the struggle for world power. My country, therefore, is especially interested in finding speedy and just solutions to save Latin American nations from these tragic problems. Similarly, we hope that Latin America and the Caribbean will not be dragged into a struggle for political and strategic objectives that are not in accordance with the genuine interests of then- peoples. When speaking of our continent I cannot fail to mention the historic meeting of reunion between Spain and Latin America which took place in the presence of King Juan Carlos during this year's celebration at Caracas of the bicentenary of the birth of the Liberator, Simon Bolivar, whose ideals of liberty and integration for our peoples we most strongly sustain. We are also deeply concerned about the attitudes of governments which persist in implementing policies that run counter to the Charter of the United Nations and to the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council. My country attended the recent International Conference on the Question of Palestine, held at Geneva, with the firm objective of helping to achieve a just and equitable settlement of that problem. Our presence attested to our conviction that it is possible to find a just and peaceful solution which takes into account the interests of all the States and peoples of the region. We reiterate today that such a solution demands the acknowledgement of the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to national self-determination and independence and to the establishment of their own sovereign State. Moreover, it requires the acknowledgement of the right of all the States of the region, including Israel, to exist and to live in peace within secure and internationally recognized boundaries; withdrawal by Israel from all the Arab and Palestinian territories occupied since 1967, including the Golan Heights; and the recognition of a special regime for the Holy City of Jerusalem, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 303 (IV). We thus reaffirm the need for a peaceful negotiated solution, with the participation of all interested parties, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly. Argentina has already condemned the violations of the fundamental principles of international coexistence of which Lebanon has been a victim. My country has strong and long-standing links with that noble and suffering nation. Today I wish to stress as vigorously as before that the attainment of peace in Lebanon is one of the elements of security and stability in the Middle East and that the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Lebanon must be strictly respected. I wish therefore to express today my Government's satisfaction at the auspicious announcement of a cease-fire between Syria and Lebanon, achieved with the mediation of Saudi Arabia. We hope that this will be the first step leading finally to peace in the region. The situation m southern Africa is also one of serious concern for the Argentine people and Government. My country, supporting the struggle of Africa against colonialism and racism, has repeatedly condemned the intransigence of South Africa and its aggressions against neighbouring States, in particular against Lesotho, Mozambique and Angola, part of whose territory is still under South African military occupation. We are also convinced that international action on Pretoria must be accompanied by practical measures by the Security Council to eliminate the whole regime of racial discrimination and achieve genuine independence for Namibia. In this context I wish to reiterate the importance of the Latin American Regional Conference for Action against apartheid, held at Caracas this month, whose declaration	has been fully endorsed by my Government. Similarly, my country took part in the International Conference in Support for the Struggle of the Namibian People for Independence, held in Paris in April, whose Declaration and Programme of Action we wholeheartedly supported. We wish to express again our backing for the independence plan for Namibia approved by the Security Council in its resolution 435 (1978), for it is the only way for the Namibian people, through its legitimate representatives recognized by the General Assembly, truly to exercise their right to national self-determination and independence, with full respect for the territorial integrity of Namibia, including Walvis Bay and the offshore islands. In the same context, any internal settlement or other constitutional plan that South Africa may wish to impose upon Namibia to perpetuate its colonial domination must be rejected. We further reaffirm that the independence of this Territory cannot be subject to the fulfilment of preconditions. The Argentine Republic fully agrees w : the statement of the Secretary-General, in his further import presented in accordance with Security Council resolution 532 (1983), that no real progress can be made until a precise date is set for the implementation of resolution 435 (1978) and a cease-fire enters into effect. I must also take this opportunity to recall that Argentina supports the General Assembly's call to Iraq and Iran to put an end to their prolonged and tragic war. Furthermore, we wish once again to declare our support for and solidarity with the people and Government of Cyprus in their search for a just and equitable solution that respects the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and non-alignment of that country, pursuant to the relevant General Assembly resolutions. In this respect we also continue to support the efforts of the Secretary-General. I cannot remain silent about the tragic fate of the South Korean commercial aircraft which brought about the irreparable loss of 269 human lives. This deplorable event has deeply shocked the conscience of the Argentine nation, which finds this yet another reason why it is imperative to create an atmosphere of global confidence based on respect for the law and linked with the maintenance of international peace and security, because this is the only way to avoid the tragic and senseless loss of innocent lives in the future. In my statement I have repeatedly touched upon situations that guarantee peace and justice in the world, two values without which no society can fully prosper. I have briefly listed some of the most important international conflicts, and now I must refer to the one that vitally affects my own country. There is no need to set forth again at this time the legitimate title upon which Argentina bases its claim over the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands. It has been explained repeatedly at the United Nations and international forums and has been specifically organized by Latin America and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. The latter has, ever since the 1973 Declaration adopted at Lima, constantly and unceasingly called for the restitution of the Argentine territories illegally occupied by the United Kingdom. Furthermore, the General Assembly and the Special Committee on decolonization have recognized the existence of a sovereignty dispute between Argentina and the United Kingdom and are convinced that the negotiation process recommended by the General Assembly itself is the best way of settling that dispute and the other unresolved questions between the two countries. That is to say, the international community, through the General Assembly, has unequivocally decided on those territories are to be decolonized. For almost 17 years my country has unsuccessfully sought to obtain London's compliance with General Assembly resolutions 2065 (XX), 3160 (XXVIII) and 31/49 and with the Assembly's four consensus decisions on this matter. During this long period of time, the British Government showed not only a lack of political will or ability to solve the sovereignty dispute, but also an incomprehensible lack of sensitivity in failing to appreciate the importance of this question for the Argentine people. Recent official British documents clearly reveal that successive governments of the United Kingdom had an interest in delaying any diplomatic solution to the conflict while the Argentine Government was made to believe that negotiations were under way. This deception was furthered by defects in the international system, which does not provide for a truly effective procedure for the peaceful settlement of disputes brought about by illegal and unjust situations, and the difficulties are further aggravated when one of the parties has the right of veto in the Security Council. The attitude adopted by the United Kingdom, the consequences of which we are all well aware of, not only remains unchanged but is now accompanied by a dangerous policy of militarization of the territories usurped from Argentina. This clearly dangerous policy includes the establishment of a military base on the islands, the illegal and arbitrary maintenance in Argentine jurisdictional waters of a zone excluding vessels and aircraft from my country, and the repeated resort to provocative attitudes and statements against Argentina. It seems as if the British Government is assuming that the United Kingdom can prolong its colonial presence on our continent indefinitely. Nothing could be further from the truth. The decolonization and recovery of the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands are a permanent and priority objective of the Argentine people, whose legitimate rights and vital interests are seriously affected by this colonial presence. Moreover, the restitution of the islands to effective Argentine sovereignty is a common cause for Latin America. The British policy of military expansion in the South Atlantic has been seriously and dangerously escalated by the recent decision of the United Kingdom to establish a strategic air base on the Malvinas Islands. According to British sources, the cost of the installation will exceed $600 million, and more than a thousand workers will be, employed on its construction. This is the approximate population of the islands. South Africa will be used as a base to provide support for this enterprise. Argentina has already denounced to the Secretary-General, the Security Council and the General Assembly the danger which the construction of this strategic air base implies for the security of the Latin American region. The United Kingdom has said in a note addressed to the Secretary-General that the aim of this escalation is to defend the islands against a supposed Argentine aggression. That is false, because my country has indicated that there is a cessation of hostilities which it respects, has respected and will continue to respect and that it believes that negotiations are the appropriate means for settling the sovereignty dispute, Moreover, the features of the strategic base show the disproportion between the supposed Argentine threat and the means used to counter it. Therefore, we must infer that the true purpose of the United Kingdom, a nuclear Power and a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is no less than the extension of its global strategic interests to the South Atlantic. These assumptions were fully confirmed by the British Secretary of State for Defense, Mr. Michael Heseltine, at a conference held under the auspices of the Center for Strategic Studies of Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., on 14 September. As recently as that, this senior British official stated, among other things, that the Malvinas Islands were not at present an objective of the Soviet Union but that they would be in coming decades, and then the strategic value to the West of constructing the new airport on the islands would be clear. Perhaps with the intention of reassuring his audience, the British Defense Secretary added that the British commitment to the islands would not prejudice the role of the United Kingdom in NATO, because the expenditure of $600 million had been added to the normal defense budget, rather than subtracted from the expenditures provided for the alliance Mr. Heseltine also pointed out that the victory in the Malvinas had demonstrated the credibility of the Atlantic alliance's power of dissuasion and that, as a result of one of several conclusions drawn from the Malvinas war, the British Government had decided to improve its strategic capacity and air mobility to support operations outside the geographical scope of that alliance. What I have just highlighted clearly shows the seriousness of the situation and the dangerous effects of transforming the South Atlantic into a new source of conflict between East and West, which would do irreparable damage to Latin America. My country believes that it is the responsibility of the Atlantic allies of the United Kingdom to dissuade that country from the dangerous adventure it has embarked upon and to dissociate themselves from it publicly, to reassure the Latin American continent and all the nations represented at the General Assembly. Obviously, it is all the more urgent and necessary that, with the help of the Secretary-General and in accordance with General Assembly resolution 37/9, Argentina and the United Kingdom begin their negotiations as soon as possible. Argentina has repeatedly declared its resolve to negotiate. My country has publicly and officially accepted General Assembly resolution 37/9 and has offered the Secretary-General its full co-operation in the renewed good offices mission entrusted to him by the United Nations, but to this date this positive attitude has not been echoed in the least by the British Government, which has not only ignored the resolution but has at the same time implemented a policy based solely upon force and provocation. No excuse can justify the refusal of the British Government to comply with the fundamental obligation that it has, as a Member of the United Nations and by virtue of both the Charter and the General Assembly and Security Council resolutions, to find a peaceful, negotiated settlement of its problems with Argentina and to refrain from adopting provocative measures which contribute to increasing tension in the South Atlantic. The British Government's obligation to co-operate actively in achieving a peaceful settlement of this conflict is all the greater because the United Kingdom is a permanent member of the Security Council—that is, it is a country with a special responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Therefore it comes as no surprise that the British Government should fail to find arguments in reply to those who, like my Government and some responsible circles within the United Kingdom itself, bring to its notice this serious violation of its international agreements and of the principles and rules governing international coexistence. The violation of the Charter by the United Kingdom cannot be justified even by the alleged need for Argentina to comply with formalities not required by international law—much less so when, as is known, the attitude adopted by my country in relation to the cessation of armed hostilities has conformed with General Assembly resolution 37/9 and the provisions of the Charter regarding the peaceful settlement of disputes. Furthermore, the 14 and a half months that have elapsed since the cessation of hostilities confirm strict compliance with the resolution and the Charter. How, then, can one explain the British insistence on artificially putting this already solved aspect of the 1982 crisis at the heart of the problem? The only conclusion is that the only real explanation is the intention not to negotiate and to consolidate its illegal occupation by the establishment of a military base on the islands, as part of a policy of strategic expansion. Naturally, if the United Kingdom were to comply with the Charter and with resolution 37/9, refraining from implementing that aggressive design and putting an end to the illegal exclusion zone, the situation would improve. Argentina, responsibly and sincerely, calls upon the Government of the United Kingdom to re-examine its position, to comply with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly, and to resume in good faith the negotiations to settle the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas. At the negotiating table, with the invaluable assistance of the Secretary-General, we shall be able to find imaginative solutions that will satisfy both parties and the interests of the inhabitants of the islands, thus ending a conflict that seriously affects our two countries and the Latin American region, and that, as I have already said, may have unforeseeable consequences. My Government also attaches great importance to Antarctica, an item included in the agenda of this session. For reasons of sovereignty, geography and history, my country is very closely linked to that continent. As far back as 1904 Argentina established an astronomic and scientific observatory on the Orcadas Islands. Since then a great number of scientific stations have given evidence of our active presence in the area. In 1959 my country was one of those which furthered and subscribed to the Antarctic Treaty, and, within the framework of its provisions, we have carried out a great many activities. The achievements of that Treaty should be emphasized here, since they have led to a genuine international co-operation for the benefit of mankind and the promotion of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. By means of the Treaty the Antarctic has been preserved as a zone of peace, where all military measures and tests of any kind of weapons, including nuclear ones, are prohibited. Scientific co-operation and exchange of information have been promoted and encouraged for the benefit of all States. One fundamental concern of the parties to the Treaty is the protection of the environment. This is reflected in the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, which has been in force since last year. Bearing in mind the substantial contribution of the Treaty to the international community, my country firmly believes that any initiative by this Organization should lead to the consolidation of its provisions and the maintenance of a system that has proved effective. We are also determined to find a solution to the territorial dispute with the Republic of Chile in the southern zone, with the most valuable intervention of His Holiness John Paul II as mediator. His advice will surely lead us to a final settlement, acceptable of course to both parties, which will put an end once and for all to the dispute and consolidate the traditional links between the two peoples. In various international forums the Argentine Government has announced its intention of bringing about the full institutional normalization of our country by a specific date. This process has begun and the political parties representing all political trends have been reorganized. At the present time they are campaigning actively, in complete freedom and with the full guarantee of non-interference by the Government, for the election on 30 October of all future national, provincial and municipal authorities, ensuring the effective operation of a republican, representative and federal system of government. In 35 days my Government's commitment will be carried out definitively, showing how faithfully it keeps its word. I wish to reiterate this before this world parliament. There is no better way of helping people to enjoy complete democracy and freedom than by collaborating with them in ensuring their economic progress and social well-being, which are indispensable elements of their cultural and political advancement. By the same token, there is no better way of delaying and hindering such progress than by interfering from outside in the internal changes of those countries with the purpose of imposing upon them structures and customs that cannot be copied or invented but must be rooted in the unique character of each people. In the world's present exceptional and serious circumstances, the international community has no more urgent task than to assist the developing nations of Latin America, Africa and Asia. The world that is taking shape, the variety and number of new peoples, is an indicator for the future of mankind, because our immediate and long-term ideals and interests coincide with the universal aspiration to harmony and peace.


===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿2. Mr, President, I wish first to express my personal congratulations to you on your unanimous election to your important position. We have two reasons to be pleased—that your well-known human and professional qualities represent an invaluable contribution to the success of the endeavours of the General Assembly, and that you represent Zambia and Africa, a brother continent of Latin America, whose hopes and demands we share.
3.	I also wish to express our gratitude to Mr. Jorge Illueca, Head of State of Panama and an eminent Latin American diplomat, who so skilfully presided over the thirty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We Argentines have special reasons to be grateful to him.
4.	At the same time, we welcome Brunei Darussalam to the United Nations. Its admission emphasises once again the universality of the Organization.
5.	Ten months ago, when Argentina was regaining its democratic life, I told the Congress of my country that our foreign policy would be the natural extension of our domestic policy. Both must be based on the same aspirations and, above all, on an identical system of values. Since we do not have two different moral codes, we do not have two different policies
6.	All the reasons that drove us to political struggle, the heartfelt convictions that guided and supported us throughout the years, were based on a set of values that my country needed. Those values transcend a people and a territory. They can be applied to government actions that regulate domestic political life, to the way in which we approach our relations with other States and to the positions we adopt with regard to the problems of the international community.
7.	However, defining an ethical system as the source of political action, which is, after all, the issue, is not simply an option that soothes the conscience of those who govern or a way of avoiding the practical, concrete problems of our time. This is not an abstract or idealistic position; rather, it is essential. It is to know why one governs, to know what type of society we seek for our countries, and what kind of world we want for mankind.
8.	This thought stems from my conviction that the world order is dangerously distorted, the most obvious proof of which is that some countries seem not to wish for the rest of the world what they wish for themselves. In my opinion, this is the result of having replaced the moral view of the world order by a concept of power. It might be said that this is a naive thought. But let us examine where the so-called pragmatic ideas have led us.
9.	Two types of problems affect our world as a whole: the crisis in the political order and the crisis in the international economic order.
10.	We are witnessing today the extent to which strategic purposes tend almost exclusively to define relations between States. On the basis of these strategic ideas, a new phase in the nuclear arms race has begun, one that makes the boundary between peace and war very much more precarious and frail. I am speaking of the boundary between the life and the death of mankind. This is a tragic prospect, for which the strongest hold each other responsible, while the majority of the countries of the international community are made to stand idly by.
11.	Bystanders and actors appear to follow two kinds of logic: the logic of peace, which is susceptible to ethical arguments, and the logic of the arms race, which is the result of a political concept of power based on threats. The worrying thing is that those who hold to one logic do not listen to or hear those who hold to the other.
12.	What good are our arguments if they cannot penetrate the logic of others, in particular the logic of those who are truly capable of altering the situation?
13.	What means are available to us to moderate, with our ethical reasoning, the reasoning of power and threat?
14.	Sometimes, everything seems to indicate that our role is limited to making demands, or possibly to denouncing this state of affairs. None the less, we shall continue our anguished clamour, because we know that our voice must be raised unceasingly in defence of peace. That is why I ratified the 22 May 1984 Joint Declaration, together with the Heads of State or Government of Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania. In that Declaration we stated that we share the conviction that there must not be another world war and that the advance towards global suicide must be restrained and halted. The world cannot oscillate between a devastating nuclear war and peace. We must work together to influence present and future events.
15.	That position with regard to peace has been held consistently by all the democratic Governments of my country. Thus, in accordance with the policy which had been developed previously by President Hipolito Yrigoyen, another of my predecessors, President Arturo Frondizi, said in 1961, at the sixteenth session of the General Assembly: "invariably, with exemplary consistency, Argentina’s international policy has been based on the three fundamental principles of international life—the legal equality of States, non-intervention in domestic affairs, and the self-determination of peoples . . ."... We have opposed foreign intervention and any kind of pressure, whether political, economic, legal or ideological, by one nation upon another.
16.	I further believe that the maintenance of peace involves a wider reality, in which we are not mere spectators. Indeed, in our world, it is not only arms that endanger peace. The international political order is not only increasingly a strategic military order, but is also increasingly dependent on the world economic order.
17.	Over the decades we have related political questions to East-West tension, while, in connection with the economic order, we have referred to North- South relations. But I believe that even if we can identify two distinct kinds of tension—one among equals and the other among those who are not equal—these are not isolated from one another. Indeed, today we can assert that peace and security alike could be seriously affected by the enormous disparities between the rich countries and the developing countries of the world.
18.	In a developing world characterized by instability and social tension, national conflicts have increasingly attracted the attention of those with strategic interests. The evolution of the social and economic conflict in the South has attracted the interest of the super-Powers. Our territories have thus become the victims of harassment by both Powers. This results, first of all, in the exacerbation of local conflicts; in this way, although the suffering continues to be national, the conflict becomes more and more a foreign one. Secondly, this interference intensifies the strategic conflict itself; in this way, the balance of the North—unstable and dangerous as it is—is reflected in clashes in the developing world.
19.	We have seen and continue to see this phenomenon whereby a national conflict is intensified by strategic conflict to the point at which a nation is broken down. Hence, to our own problems is added the problem of a confrontation—covert or overt— between the big Powers on this third ground, in this third arena provided by the countries of the so-called South.
20.	In sum, I believe that there are two things which threaten peace. On the one hand, there is the arms race and the direct strategic confrontation between the big Powers, and, on the other hand, there is the instability, injustice and poverty in the South. There is very little we can do about the first, but the second involves us directly.
21.	It will suffice to note as an example of the second cause the extremely serious economic situation now obtaining in certain regions of Africa owing to a persistent drought and the lack of the material resources necessary to achieve self-sustaining growth and development. Africa must have the support and solidarity of the whole international community if it is to overcome this crisis, with all its unforeseeable consequences.
22.	It is a question not only of putting forward arguments favourable to the developing countries, but also of showing that the destiny of those countries directly affects the industrialized world.
23.	The ethical reasons that make us call for a more equitable international order unite with practical reasons, for an unjust world is today more than ever before an unstable and insecure world. Justice in the South is today more than ever before a necessary prerequisite for peace in the North.
24.	The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the Group of 77 have clearly pointed out the unjust and unstable situation which I have described. The international community as a whole, and the developed countries in particular, must show their willingness to listen to the economic and political proposals formulated by these groups of States, which represent two thirds of mankind.
25.	I have stated that one of the characteristics of the present day is that international relations are increasingly relations among Powers rather than relations among societies. But I must say too that another disturbing fact of our day is that the economic order is increasingly becoming an exclusively financial order.
26.	These are severe distortions that we must avoid, because a world in which politics is replaced by arsenals and economy by finance is simply a world in danger. We cannot accept that the future we seek for mankind should be based on and motivated by weapons and money. That is why I insist on the fact that ethical rebirth is a vital enterprise for our civilization.
27.	It is painful to note the backward motion of our countries. Until some years ago, we were calling for the improvement of commercial and technological conditions in order to lessen the gap between our countries and the more advanced countries. Today, the objective of our claim is that of no longer being exporters of financial resources to the industrialized countries.
28.	In Latin America, in 1983, the per capita gross national product was 10 per cent below the level of 1980. We have slipped backward six years, since we had already reached that level in 1977. This has greatly affected the welfare of our peoples, as has also the deterioration of our earnings brought about by the decline in the terms of foreign exchange.
29.	The crisis of our foreign debt lies precisely in this deterioration of our economies, which are^ hindered from utilizing their productive potential, and in the reduction of employment and welfare. Last year, this debt meant, in terms of interest alone, the allocation of almost a third of the exports from the region.
30.	Forgotten now are the international commitments agreed to during the first and second development decades—launched by the United Nations in 1961 and 1971—which obligated the most advanced countries to transfer 1 per cent of their national product to the developing countries.
31.	Paradoxically, these commitments are reversed today. The developing countries are now the ones that must transfer part of their national product to the developed countries; and it is not an annual 1 per cent, but an annual 3 per cent and sometimes more.
32.	Owing to this overwhelming reality and to the attempt to restore rationality and good sense in the financial order, we in Latin America have proposed dialogue as a necessity—a dialogue between the richer countries and our countries, a practical dialogue about one of the questions that most upsets the financial order and stability of our countries; the question of foreign debt. We believe that this debt not only affects the debtor countries, but, because of its political impact, also directly involves the creditors.
33.	We think that if everything depended on the manner in which the problem was being dealt with at present, we would not find a permanent and dependable solution. This is a subject that no longer has anything to do with the problem as it was in the early 1970s. Nevertheless, the solutions proposed are still the same. Only a joint political will can now give rise to new solutions for a problem that is no longer traditional.
34.	Today, the question of debt is inextricably linked to the political and social destiny of our countries and, since it affects the whole region, it jeopardizes global stability in Latin America.
35.	The meetings at Quito, Cartagena and Mar del Plata this year have been the best expression of the gravity of the situation. They also expressed our caution and moderation, which was translated into a call for a dialogue with the creditor countries. We hope that there will be a positive response to that call. Dialogue is not confrontation, as some people have alleged. Rather, confrontation arises when dialogue is precluded. I believe that both political logic and experience show this.
36.	Perhaps on the basis of this concrete subject the aspiration for the North-South dialogue may materialize. It has been formulated many times, but up to now practical results could not be achieved.
37.	This call for peace by the Argentine democracy is valid because we acted decisively for its preservation in the events in which we participated directly.
38.	In one of those disputes—between us and the Republic of Chile—my country took resolute steps. In the framework of the mediation of His Holiness Pope John Paul II, whose assistance we highly value and appreciate, my Government showed its firm will to find an equitable solution that would put an end to a century-old controversy. What we can present before the international community are words of peace translated into peaceful actions through dialogue and negotiations.
39.	In the other conflict, the one which continues between us and the United Kingdom over the Malvinas, South Sandwich and South Georgia Islands, our negotiating will and decision have encountered intransigence.
40.	For almost 150 years, a portion of Argentine territory has been subjected to the colonial regime imposed by the United Kingdom. This unjust and illegal situation, which Argentina has never accepted, permanently affects our national life.
41.	The mission of recovering the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands for our heritage is a mandate that has been transmitted by successive generations of Argentines up to our day, and this process will continue until the attainment of that objective. There should be no doubt about this, as this is a cause with which my people identifies deeply. We have the law on our side. The failure to understand it in this way is tantamount to ignoring one of the most important facts of the problem that exists between my country and the occupying Power.
42.	It is a national cause, but it is also a Latin American cause inasmuch as Latin America has come forth in solidarity to defend a national integrity that it considers its own. Latin America now also views with alarm the presence in the South Atlantic of a military force equipped with the most sophisticated armaments, threatening the interests and stability of the entire area and constituting a dangerous intrusion of the East-West conflict into the region.
43.	Argentina is firmly committed to seeking the restitution of the Malvinas Islands only through peaceful means. This my Government has stated, and it will fulfil this aim. There should be no doubt in anyone's mind about this. Our concept of democracy, which my country has now fortunately recovered, has two facets: a domestic one and one that looks outward. The first one is related to the full exercise of the Constitution—with the concomitant limitations upon the exercise of State powers—and respect for human rights. The second one, as I have already mentioned, involves relations with other countries. This outward projection of the democratic way of life translates into a behaviour that is civilized and law-abiding and may be summed up as respect for the prevalence of legal rules in relations among States.
44.	The Charter of the United Nations, a true constitution of the international community, imposes on Member States the obligation to solve their disputes by peaceful means. Consistent with this legal duty, my Government has taken steps towards attaining the maximum flexibility compatible with national rights and has sought to reinitiate negotiations with the United Kingdom to solve this conflict. Naturally, we also seek the normalization of the friendly relations which Argentina has traditionally had with that country. But that cannot be achieved if, from the very beginning of the attempts at normalisation, we lack the certainty that a mechanism will be established to allow negotiation on the sovereignty dispute, which represents the main obstacle on the path leading to that normalization.
45.	Unfortunately, judging by recent bilateral contacts that culminated in the meeting at Berne in July of this year under the auspices of Brazil and Switzerland, up to now we seem to be left with nothing but the intention, clearly stated by the United Kingdom to postpone sin die the fulfilment of the urgent call by the General Assembly for the parties to sit down at the negotiating table. Together with my gratitude to Brazil and Switzerland and to the Secretary-General for their laudable efforts, I wish to express my ardent desire for that request of the General Assembly to be carried out as soon as possible for the sake of law and justice.
46.	Next year the international community will commemorate the fortieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. There is no doubt that the Organization has fulfilled an essential role in the search for international peace and security, the economic development of peoples and the eradication of colonialism. Its work is not over. I am convinced that the overwhelming majority of Member States will lend their assistance and best endeavours to achieve an international system based on justice and on the social, cultural and material progress of the peoples.
47.	Mindful of these objectives, today we cannot fail to express our deep preoccupation with the situation in southern Africa, where the structures of colonial and racial discrimination still exist, in violation of international law and morality. Namibia must be made independent once and for all. The unjust system of apartheid must be eliminated for ever. Those who suffer under it can continue to count on the support of the civilized world.
48.	There are areas of tension and armed conflict in the Middle East and the Gulf region; the United Nations must continue to give them special attention so that quick, just and peaceful solutions can be achieved.
49.	My country also views with serious concern—as do, I am sure, all the other nations—the situation in Central America. In our opinion, the proposals and actions of the Contadora Group, expressly supported by the General Assembly, offer a suitable alternative to achieve the sought-after peaceful solution to this very painful conflict for all of Latin America.
50.	I believe that if power relations replace relations among men, we shall have lost the ethical motivation that ensures progress and peace for mankind.
51.	No one should doubt, in reviewing history, that civilizations live and thrive when they are based upon moral premises and that, by contrast, their extinction systematically stems from ethical confusion.
52.	I believe that the fact that the world order is increasingly defined by the arms race and financial greed is an ethical confusion. Were these motivations to persist, there would be no well-being for the majority of our countries. It is also well to recall that what affects the South will sooner or later affect the welfare of the more advanced countries.
53.	I have the firm conviction that, as recently stated by Pope John Paul II, today development is the new name for peace


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
First of all I should like to convey my congratulations to you. Sir, on your unanimous election as President of this fortieth session of the General Assembly. He are greatly encouraged to see our proceedings conducted by a diplomat of such deep knowledge, skill and tact, a son of Spain, a country with which Argentina is linked by the strongest historical ties of solidarity and fellowship.
I should like also to extend my gratitude to Ambassador Paul Lusaka, who so effectively presided over the thirty-ninth session of the General Assembly.
I cannot refrain today from expressing the profound grief of the people and the Government of Argentina over the tragedy that has afflicted the fraternal Mexican people. He offer them our sincere condolences and convey our feelings of solidarity. He have mounted an operation to give the Mexican Government all possible assistance and we hope that the difficult and tragic situation confronting it today will be swiftly remedied.
The post-war international system, which includes as its center-piece the United Nations, is now 40 years old. Over such a long period of time our Organization has had time to find its place in the functioning of that system, and observers have had an opportunity to consolidate their views of the achievements and failures of the resulting system.
It is an axiom that the United Nations from its beginning was not able to establish an efficient system of collective security. He also know the causes of this failure. The fact is that responsibility for the maintenance of global peace and for the territorial integrity or political independence of the smaller nations does not lie solely with our Organization. But even with regard to the objective of peace - and indeed the other objectives of the United Nations, in particular international co-operation - it is worth restating the oft-repeated observation that everything would be much worse today if the Organization did not exist and that, undoubtedly, if it had not been founded in 1945 it would have had to be founded today.
It is worth stating that, 40 years after the founding of the United Nations, the picture is one of great achievements and - why hide the fact? - deep disappointments.
Among the most positive achievements of the day, we must, undoubtedly, include the process of decolonization, in which the United Nations played a leading role. The important impact of our Organization on that process was due-to the fact that it provided for the colonial countries and peoples the forum of the General Assembly, where they could create an awareness of the inherent evils of colonialism and the injustice of the situation of which they were victims.
As a result of the process of decolonization, we have almost fully achieved the ideal of universality in the membership of the United Nations. It is to be hoped that this universality will become complete. That principle has always been fostered by Argentina, since the time of the League of Nations itself, and it was precisely out of loyalty to that principle that our country temporarily withdrew from that body in 1920.
But this great achievement of our Organization is tarnished by the persistence of colonial situations in various parts of the world. Namibia continues to be a tragic victim of an anachronistic system aggravated by the inhuman practice of apartheid. Other peoples and territories are still suffering under the colonial yoke.
We must also fight against new forms of colonialism that have arisen from the vast inequality that continues to exist between the technologically advanced and the developing countries. This new kind of dependence, aggravated with every passing day by the widening of the technological gulf, is reaching dangerous extremes. An increasingly important element in international co-operation within the framework of the United Nations is everything relating to the transfer of technology, so our Organization can assist the efforts of developing countries to achieve more satisfactory levels of efficiency.
In the field of human rights considerable progress has been made as a result of collective action. Apart from regional agreements, including the inter-American agreement signed by Argentina recently, action by the United Nations has succeeded in reducing the number and magnitude of violations of human rights in a number of parts of the world, and it is clear that international public opinion is turning against governments that engage in such violations. In so far as concerns my own country, the intervention of international organizations contributed decisively to the easing of the situations of numerous victims of political persecution and helped save others from a grim fate during a recent dramatic period of our history.
Nevertheless there is still a great deal of ground to be covered. The practice of apartheid in South Africa is an outrage in our century. Torture, imprisonment and political persecution in all its forms are in many parts of our planet deplorable daily realities.
Disarmament has received particularly great attention from our Organization. My country has done a great deal to that end in United Nations disarmament organs, in accordance with an ancient national tradition favoring the rule of law in international relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes between States. The establishment in Argentina of a democratic regime has meant a genuine return to those traditions, of which we are so proud. Accordingly the national Government has bent every effort in its attempts to help curb the arms race and to continue with the development of exclusively peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Because of this concern, our President, together with the Heads of State or Government of the countries of a number of continents, took part in a series of concerted efforts, culminating in the New Delhi Declaration, in which we expressed the intention to heed the demand voiced by millions who expect their leaders to represent them in their concerns and anxieties in the face of the vast capacity for destruction of existing nuclear arsenals.
Since that time my country has attempted to remain true to the content of that message. On every possible occasion we have highlighted the importance of keeping public opinion informed and alive to the threats it faces as a way of influencing the political will of those who bear primary responsibility for the production of effective disarmament agreements.
In order to take action at the national level in keeping with international obligations, Argentina has substantially reduced its military expenditures. In particular we have reaffirmed our determination - which is repeatedly proclaimed -to use nuclear technology exclusively for peaceful purposes. In a recent message to the disarmament Conference, President Alfonson stated that:
"with regard to the nuclear question, my country will be a civilian nuclear State. This was supported when the Argentine people approved, in the course of national elections, a program supporting the use of nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes."
Almost 25 years ago, to avoid the consequences of the bi-polarization of the world, the Non-Aligned Movement was founded in Belgrade. I should like to mark its relevance to this fortieth anniversary of the united Nations, because in fact the principal arena for the activities of that movement is none other than our world Organization because we understand that its original principles, in so far as they are respected and enforced, make it an important force for moderation between the positions of the two military major alliances. But they should always be guided precisely by true principles of non-alignment: equi-distance between the blocs, non-intervention and non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries, the peaceful settlement of disputes, the juridical equality of States, and rejection of all forms of domination.
My country is going through a difficult hut exciting stage of its history marked by the Argentine people's recovery of its rights and freedoms within the democratic system of life and government necessitated by our evolution as a nation and our characteristics as a society. The Government I represent emanates from the genuine will of the Argentinians and is leading the reconstruction of the country, and its foreign policy reflects the same values that guide its internal policy. Argentinians have made sacrifices to ensure peace, the right to self-determination, the dignity of man, the right to life, the rational and peaceful settlement of disputes. These are the specific needs of every Argentinian and the lasting aims of our nation.
But history has shown that not only efforts and the passage of time produce the true consolidation of political independence. One hundred and fifty years before our Asian and African brothers, we in Latin America formally achieved our liberty. Nevertheless, like them, we remain subject to many different forms of dependence which limit our political capacity to decide on our own destiny.
It is not just a matter of material or economic conditions. The Latin American experience has shown how much we are affected by the confrontation between the major Powers, which even limits our capacity to control our own affairs. In Latin America, many phenomena destructive of the political system cannot adequately be explained by domestic causes, nor by flaws inherent in our political systems. In fact, those internal weaknesses are exacerbated because of external influences and the conflict between the super-Powers.
Latin America is now affected in one way or another by the grave situation in Central America. The constant incidents in the frontier region between Nicaragua and Costa Rica have brought about a serious worsening of relations between those two countries, creating such serious tension as to result in a marked decline in efforts to create the necessary atmosphere of trust between the States involved in the conflict, the essential prerequisite for achieving a comprehensive agreement to put an end to the crisis.
We should be aware of the risk involved in postponing a balanced and realistic solution to the points of disagreement. The Argentine Republic believes that positions based on intolerance will only lessen the possibility of bringing about an agreement that is just and honor able for all the parties in the conflict; they will, on the other hand, encourage the use of military options.
The Foreign Ministers of the member countries of the Contadora Group met on 24 and 25 August in Cartagena, where they were joined by the Foreign Ministers of Brazil, Peru, Uruguay and Argentina, countries which have constituted a support group, whose objectives are to support and give effect to the peace-making activities of the Contadora Group. We are absolutely convinced of the importance of that initiative, which reflects the political will and capacity for concerted action of Latin America to achieve, from its own standpoint, a negotiated and lasting solution to the Central American conflict.
I should like to repeat my Government's concern over the situation in the Middle East and to endorse the statements made on that serious matter by the Argentine Democratic Government, particularly with regard to the extent to which it is possible to find a just and lasting solution if, on the basis of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly, the following conditions can be effectively met: first, respect for the right to existence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of all the countries of the region; secondly, the eight of all countries of the region to secure, internationally recognized frontiers; and, thirdly, the withdrawal of Israel from the occupied Arab and Palestinian territories.
The Palestinian question is another cause of great concern to my Government. We again repast that it cannot be resolved properly and equitably without support for the actions and initiatives originating at the United Nations, based on international law and the Charter of our Organization. The essential objective of those actions and initiatives is that the Palestinian people should be able to exercise its inalienable right to self-determination and independence, the establishment of its own national State and its own legitimate representation in the negotiations that must be begun to that end.
My Government is also following with growing concern the development of events in Africa, and has given practical effect to its rejection of the policies of racial discrimination, aggression and domination which have been imposed upon the peoples of southern Africa.
The need for a rapid and just solution to that grave conflict is perhaps the most urgent and real challenge facing the United Nations today. It is a challenge that has already existed for 40 years, and its continuation damages the credibility and efficiency of our Organization. For four decades now South Africa has violated with impunity fundamental principles and concrete provisions of the Charter, obstinately refusing to eradicate apartheid totally and for ever, persisting in its illegal occupation of Namibia and carrying out repeated acts of aggression against neighboring States. The grave events that have been occurring daily in South Africa confirm that the policies of Pretoria are a threat to peace and security in the region. An appropriate reaction to that behavior is essential,
not only to put an end to racism and South African expansionism, but also to preserve the political and social order represented by our Organization.
Argentina repeats its strong condemnation and repudiation of apartheid and its unswerving support for the right of the Namibian people to self-determination and independence in a united Namibia. Together with the vast majority of the international community, we believe that the time has come for the United Nations to adopt, through the Security Council, urgent and effective measures to increase the effective pressure on Pretoria.
For our part, during the past year we have taken concrete steps against South Africa in the diplomatic, economic, cultural and sporting fields. Most recently, the Congress of my country ratified the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid. As long as apartheid and the illegal occupation of Namibia continue. South Africa can only expect our support to grow for the legitimate struggle of the oppressed peoples of South Africa and Namibia to establish free, democratic and egalitarian societies in southern Africa.
My Government once again denounces the continuation of the illegal occupation of part of Argentine territory by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. In spite of the repeated appeals of the international community to the parties to find a just, peaceful and final solution to the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas Islands, the united Kingdom continues to refuse to engage in serious and comprehensive negotiations, in its attempt to consolidate an anachronistic colonial situation. In systematically opposing the implementation of specific United Nations resolutions on the question of the Malvinas Islands, it is also opposing the whole policy followed by the international Organization to put an end to colonialism in the world.
The Argentine Democratic Government has on many occasions expressed its firm determination to solve the controversy by peaceful means. It has therefore made concrete offers for the resumption of negotiations, but so far there has been no positive response.
Furthermore, the British Government has made public its refusal to include in any negotiations the subject of sovereignty, which is the very source of the dispute and to which are linked all the other questions affecting relations between the two countries.
In addition to that intransigence, a factor worsening the situation is the excessive British military presence in the south Atlantic. That militarization not only poses a threat to Argentine territory, but affects the whole region, as was recently established by the Permanent Council of the Organization of American States.
The construction of a strategic airport in the islands and the extraordinary naval build-up jeopardize the stability of an area that forms part of the Latin American nuclear-weapon-free zone. No one can deny today that those British actions have transformed the Malvinas Islands into an area of strategic interest, drawing in the global conflict between East and West.
Without prejudice to what I have just said, as a clear demonstration of my Government's desire for peace and its negotiating spirit, a little over two months ago we once again proposed to the British Government the start of conversations, in response to the lifting of the commercial restrictions unilaterally imposed by the United Kingdom in 1982.
The fact is that for us relations between the two Governments and countries can be developed on a solid basis only to the extent that the central problem between us - the sovereignty dispute over the islands - is not ignored. To ignore that subject would be to base any restoration of relations on a fiction.
Furthermore, the Argentine Government, which does not consider it necessary to make a formal declaration of the cessation of Hostilities, sines there was Raver a declaration of war, and the cessation has been recognized in a number of resolutions of the United Nations, nevertheless declared, on 10 July this years
"if this matter" -a formal declaration of cessation of hostilities -
is viewed by the united Kingdom Government as the remaining obstacle to the initiation of negotiations, the Argentine Government would be prepared to make the declaration as soon as the united Kingdom Government agrees to initiate the general negotiations repeatedly recommended by the international community." (A/40/478, p. 3)
In the circumstances, I should like to repeat here, in this hall, our invitation to the Government of the United Kingdom to resume negotiations to find a solution to the sovereignty dispute between our two nations, a dispute which is obstructing the normalization of our relations.
In this connection, and as clear evidence that we have no conflict with the country but with the Government, just a few days ago in Paris President Alfonsin met with the leader of the Labor Party and the Parliamentary opposition in the United Kingdom, the Right Honorable Neil Kinnock, HP, and they both agreed:
"... on the need for the re-establishment of diplomatic and commercial relations between the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom. To that end, they expressed their desire that negotiations should be initiated to explore the means of resolving the outstanding problems between the two countries, including all aspects of the future of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas).
"They also jointly stressed the importance for the inhabitants of those islands of effectively guaranteeing the preservation of their customs, their ways of life and traditions, as well as respect for forms of administration, education and social and economic organization. In that connection, Mr. Kinnock stressed the fundamental importance of taking fully into account the interests of the inhabitants of the islands, and President Alfonsin pointed to the range and the extent of the rights guaranteed by Argentina's democratic constitution." (A/40/662, p. 3)
That is the position of the Argentine Government with regard to a question which calls for a prompt and final solution. For that to happen we need a substantial gesture on the part of the Government of the United Kingdom which would demonstrate a genuine wish to put an end to the controversy.
The crisis which has been affecting the economy of the developing countries has grown worse. This situation is fraught with the most serious consequences, particularly for the peoples of our countries because the right to peace is indissolubly linked to the right to development.
We have been vigorously advocating a total restructuring of the international economic relations, a structure governed by equality and justice. Nevertheless, only a few countries in the North understand that sustained social and economic progress of the South would be of benefit to them. In contrast, there are many countries which maintain an attitude of historical short-sightedness which is reflected in the persistence of protectionist policies, in the substantial reduction of the flow of capital for financing development and an increasing deterioration in the terms of trade. Therefore, we repeat that we are not looking for charity, but for the concrete will to find solutions which would be to our mutual advantage and which could put an end to this world recession.
The situation is particularly serious in some countries represented here because they have suffered from extremely severe climatic conditions which have caused hunger and disease. In other countries, difficulties have been compounded by payment obligations deriving from an external debt that was contracted in a chaotic international market and at real interest rates which have been the highest in history.
In Latin America, together with the Central American crisis, the other major question of concern to our region is precisely that of the external debt of the countries of our region. Of course, this is a subject which affects almost the whole developing world, but the form it has assumed in Latin America has probably hit that region harder than other regions. Indeed, a large proportion of our external debt is connected with floating rates of interest. In practice, this has meant for my country, for example, that over the last four years the external debt has increased by 50 per cent as a result of changes in the rates of interest which, as is only too clear, are entirely outside our control and independent of our will.
In recent years our region has seen exceptional political change. Almost all our countries have put authoritarian regimes behind them and, after a prolonged struggle for freedom and dignity, democracy is now flourishing in our part of the Americas. But if this experience of ours shows that the people are mobilizing in the name of liberty to achieve democracy, history teaches us that they are also mobilizing in the name of well being to maintain democracy. In other words, growth is directly linked with the stability of this hard won democracy. The truth is that this growth is seriously jeopardized by our capacity to generate resources. This is particularly .true if a large proportion of those resources are swallowed up precisely by payment of the interest on the debt.
Our countries are now being asked to put into effect internal adjustment programs, which are frequently necessary for the proper organization of our economies. But those programs, which call for austerity and effort, to be successful also require prospects of growth, and hence well being. It is the expectation of growth which makes sense of the current efforts. Therefore it is impossible to conceive of a stable situation in which austerity would not be accompanied by growth, or at least by the hope of growth. Thus, the question of resources for development is something today which has a clear cut political corollary, because the ultimate stabilization of our democracy would depend on our obtaining those resources. In the circumstances, the problem of external debt becomes an eminently practical and political problem, and by that I mean to say that although it is vital to continue the debate with regard to the need for a new world economic order, keeping alive our demand for international justice, no one can reasonably suppose that we shall achieve immediate results from sum a debate. However, our countries need urgent solutions which, while supporting our general demands, will make it possible to solve the specific and very serious blockages which exist today to our growth. In other words, there is a time for global debate and a time for exploring immediate measures. We think those two approaches are not contradictory and that, furthermore, they are actually complementary. But what does seem a problem to us is the fact that general discussion prevents us from making progress in the search for solutions which would make it possible to retrieve a proportion of the resources which today are earmarked for the payment find external debt servicing. It is vital, therefore, that the industrial countries should also shoulder some responsibility and undertake to eliminate the disruptive factors which have caused the present crisis of indebtedness. This was the sense of the appeal issued by the 11 Latin American countries which subscribed to the Cartagena consensus of June 1984.
The General Assembly has decided to adopt on its agenda of the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations an item entitled "The United Nations for a better world". Therefore, we should ask ourselves on this occasion what is this better world to which we aspire and how would we like to see it brought about.
We are convinced that the peoples of the world aspire to a future of peace which would mean more than the absence of war and conflict. What they want above all is a situation which would make it possible for them to enjoy the fruits and benefits of peace, which is to be understood as a condition for the attainment and affirmation of the rights of the individual. Without the guarantee of those rights, efforts to improve standards of living would be incomplete and limited. We therefore believe that commitment to an ethical system free from strategic concepts should be the source of concerted political action. The better world to which we all aspire depends internally, upon the building of democratic societies, the rule of law and tolerance. 
Hence, we should like to see a just and stable international order without the distortions of power politics and without the imbalances generated by a purely financial view of economic interaction.

The better world we see is based on three fundamental principles of civilized coexistence: juridical equality of States, non-intervention in internal affairs and the self-determination of peoples.
The better world we all hope for requires a new consensus for development which would make possible mutual benefit from trade and promote the well-being of the peoples.
The ways and means of achieving this better world remain today, as they were 40 years ago, the elimination of the arms race, particularly the nuclear-arms race; recognition of the right to independence of peoples under colonial domination and foreign occupation and the right to territorial integrity and social and economic development; and the peaceful solution of disputes between States by means of dialog and negotiation.
These are the principles of the Charter, whose fortieth anniversary we are celebrating.
We understand the difficulties in achieving the objectives of the Charter and we are not unaware of the fact that we have not been able to succeed in this over the last 40 years, but we are mindful of the invaluable contribution of the united Nations to the cause of peace, decolonization and the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The political determination of the Argentine Government to help ensure that this contribution is greater and more profound, to the benefit of all, constitutes one of the reasons for our firm commitment to the United Nations. The other, even more important reason is our commitment to the value system based on the Charter, without which it would not be possible to ensure a future of dignity for all the peoples of the international community.


===== Session 41 - 1986 =====
 Mr. President, first, I would like to congratulate you on your unanimous election as President of the forty-first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We are pleased to see a diplomat like you, of proven merit and knowledge, directing these deliberations. You are a citizen of Bangladesh, a country with which Argentina maintains friendly relations.
I also wish to greet the Secretary-General in a very special way and express to him how pleased we are now that he has fully recovered. His dedication, efforts and leadership deserve our most heartfelt gratitude.
I would also like to express my sincere appreciation to Ambassador Jaime de Pinies who presided over the fortieth session of the General Assembly in such an able and successful manner. At this juncture, we feel it is our duty to pay tribute to the memory of Olof Palme, a statesman who fought untiringly for the cause of peace and development. His ideas will continue to inspire peoples and direct the actions of Governments.
We meet in this principal forum to deliberate, negotiate, and adopt decisions on the fundamental issues which are of concern to the international community: peace, justice prosperity, the defense of human rights, and the sovereignty and independence of nations.
The consideration of these issues has become especially relevant in light of the fortieth anniversary of our Organization, which we designated with the following call for hope: "The United Nations for a better world". I believe it is thus appropriate and necessary to pause and reflect on the present conditions affecting international relations in contemporary society. The seriousness of the existing conflicts, the increasing disparity in the distribution of power and wealth, the senselessness of terrorism, have reached proportions of such magnitude that they threaten the existence of a community of nations respectful of the right of each and every one of its members.
Throughout its existence, the United Nations has served as an essential instrument for the elimination of all forms of discrimination, for decolonization, for the strengthening of human rights and for the promotion of economic and social progress. During these years, mankind has avoided the tragedy of a new war on a universal scale. It is fitting to ask what would have happened in the world without the existence and active presence of the United Nations.
Based upon this positive balance, last year's commemoration represented a commitment to multiply efforts in order to advance concretely towards the achievement of the principles and purposes of the Charter that is to say the construction of a better world.
However, the past year has not been positive and it must be admitted "that'the present serious international situation does not seem to arise from a set of circumstances, but rather from a structural manifestation, the expression of a logic which impels the forces leading us towards dissension, confrontation and destruction.
Despite the great effort of decolonization, new forms of dependence and exploitation incompatible with the basic provisions embodied in the Charter are gradually imposing themselves and appear to generate an order from which one can discern nothing but new and increasingly unbearable demands on the weakest members of the international community.
The bloc policy, a modernized version of the old policy of the balance of power, is replacing the collective security system. Its implications are well known: a reduction of the political independence of the less powerful; a stagnation in the relations between the principal partners; an increasingly inequitable economic order, and a forced homogenization of the world which stifles national styles.
The realistic aspiration of progress and justice, which formed the basis of the creation and vitality of our Organization, seems to be disregarded for the sake of hegemonic projects which exclude the alternatives of an authentic peace. Such is the logic of the present-day world, a logic of senselessness.
This logic stems from the confrontation of the blocs in a world characterized by a bipolar tendency, which in turn brings about two consequences which affect the developing nations in particular.
The first is an increase of what we could call the amorality of international politics, which is a result of the excessive weight of the security factor.
This distortion establishes a difference and sometimes an opposition between the criteria applied to internal relations and those applied to international relations.
Thus, on the one hand the inviolability of civil rights in the domestic order is not carried out into the international order with regard to matters related to the respect of people's rights to self-determination and independence. On the other hand, the calls for equality found in the internal message are not translated into an external version of equality among States and the resulting respect of their sovereignty.
The second consequence is that we suffer because of the problems resulting from the uncertain and arbitrary security borders which separate both blocs, giving rise to a kind of underhanded war which occurs at many different levels, disregarding the basic principles and rules of international law and allowing the confrontation of underground powers and destructive fanaticism.
We are all aware of the fact that there can be no real independence as long as there is no effective control within the internal political area of our countries. In addition, we are all aware that this capacity to control tends to weaken and even vanish as a result of the confrontation between the super Powers. The war of propaganda and mutual harassment within our own territories is known to polarize societies and divide citizenry because of questions often unrelated to their own interests. As a consequence, the global strategic conflict ends up by absorbing our national energies.
Moreover, while we become involuntary participants in and victims of the global strategic conflict, the regional tension thus created turns bade upon the super-Powers, increasing the danger to their own internal peace and survival. We believe it necessary to recreate a logic of good sense, the logic which led to the creation of our Organization four decades ago. To do this, we must first and foremost rid ourselves of the nightmare of war.
The Argentine Government gives the highest priority to the question of nuclear disarmament. Today there would be no winner in a nuclear war: all mankind would be its victim. Based on this simple, apocalyptic reasoning, my Government returns to this forum to insist on this question, which no one can ignore.
At the beginning of 1984 the tension between the tJhited States and the Soviet Union had reached a level comparable to the highest level reached in the so-called cold war. Mutual dialog had been interrupted and replaced by a counterpoint of challenge and response, which lead to the development of new weapons and their positioning in territories which until that time had been free of them.
This gloomy outlook began to brighten when the United states and the Soviet Union issued, on 20 November 1985, a joint communique in which they stated that a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought". If this sentence means to its authors what it states literally, we have no doubt that the bilateral disarmament negotiations must make progress. Yet this has not been the case.
In 1984 the Argentine Government requested that a global disarmament process be initiated urgently. Nevertheless, none of the negative conditions mentioned by us on that occasion has been overcome; on the contrary, in many cases those conditions seem even more negative. Such is the position regarding the vertical and geographical proliferation of strategic weapons, the continuation of nuclear-weapon tests, the deceptive guarantees of security given to States which do not possess nuclear weapons, and the absence of measures to prevent nuclear war.
This was why my" country, on 22 May 1984.- together with India, Greece, Mexico, Tanzania and Sweden, started an initiative seeking to halt the nuclear-arms race and bring about nuclear disarmament. We asked that the tests, the production and the positioning of nuclear weapons and launching systems be suspended. We also requested that this be followed by a substantial reduction in nuclear forces.
We, those six countries, have continued to put forward practical initiatives, and during our recent meeting in Mexico we offered our assistance in setting up appropriate verification mechanisms. Such measures could include the creation of temporary surveillance stations in the existing testing zones, arrangements to use the stations in the United States and the Soviet Union to monitor their territories beyond the testing zones and the inspection of large chemical explosions. In addition, we have proposed to the Heads of State of the United States and the Soviet Union that experts from our six countries should meet with Soviet and American experts.
The Mexico Declaration begins by proclaiming the right of mankind to peace, which is intimately linked to the right to live, since war would inevitably lead to a holocaust. Therefore, I should like to take this opportunity to ask the States responsible for the arms race to give appropriate consideration to the proposals presented by the group of six.
War is also looming over Latin America. The Central American crisis and conflict have become more and more serious. A peaceful settlement in Central America is not only a humanitarian objective for other peoples, but a necessity for all Latin Americans. On the basis of the experience of three years of negotiation, we must now find a new process that will once again give rise to hope. I believe this process should not insist cm the formal aspects of a treaty, it being understood that prior to the peace treaty itself a desire for peace cm the part of all parties is indispensable.
Today an exceptional treaty, the Act on Peace and Co-operation in Central America, is available to us thanks to the great efforts of the Contadora Group. This lucid and complex document is a truly important source for the measures we must take. But for this instrument eventually to be effective, the parties which are to be governed by it must first reach agreement on how to resolve the conflict.
It is quite clear what has to be achieved. The Contadora Group ana its Support Group expressed it in the Message of Caraballeda, Venezuela, in February of this year, as follows: the full exercise of self-determination* non-interference in the internal affairs of other States? respect for the territorial integrity of States; pluralistic democracy* no armaments or military bases that would endanger peace in the region*, no military operations by countries of the region, or by countries with interests therein, which would involve aggression or constitute a threat to peace* no foreign troops or military advisers* no support, whether political, logistical or military, for groups seeking to destabilize the constitutional order of the Latin American States by means of force or terrorist acts of any kind* respect for human rights, which means unconditional respect for civil, political and religious freedoms so as to ensure peace by a strictly Latin American process.
None of these aims has been fully achieved in the region and some of them have increasingly been violated in the past weeks. These 10 commandments, which should be the Decalogue of hope, are instead the cause of our anxiety.
Even though the aims are clear and the international community has endorsed them, it seems that there is growing confusion about how to achieve them.
We believe that a reciprocal commitment is needed: on the one hand a commitment among Latin Americans based on the assumption that the political, economic and social development of Central America is the responsibility of those countries which, like ours, are committed to this effort of mediation and peace*
 aid on the other an agreement among centered Americans regarding democracy and the elimination of any kind of political, military or economic dependency on any Power.
If we want peace, it is necessary for the nations of centered America to make a colossal effort to secure their internal and external freedom, that is their democracy and independence; and if we want the Central American countries to be able to make this effort, the remainder of Latin America must pledge its help in bringing about the material and political conditions that will make possible the independence and freedom of the Central American countries.
If Latin America runs away from the conflict, the conflict will catch up with it. If Central America does not destroy the causes of the conflict, the conflict will destroy it.
This mutual effort could be vain unless there is a third pledge that of the countries that have links and interests in the region to abstain from any kind of intervention, since what happens in the future will largely depend on them and since the peace and security of those nations is contingent upon satisfactory solution of the Central American conflict.
Our country is willing to honor its pledge; we hope that at this decisive time those who have done most in favor of peace will once again take the initiative and redouble their efforts.
The identification of practical ways to eliminate injustices which may create new areas of tension will also contribute towards peace and development in Latin America. In this regard, we support the just and legitimate efforts of our sister republic of Bolivia to recover a direct, useful and sovereign outlet to the Pacific Ocean. This would be a just historical indemnity which, by eliminating the land-locked character of that country, would promote its development. Similarly, I wish to reiterate the support of my country for all of Panama's efforts to ensure full compliance with the Treaties applicable to the Canal ana to obtain all countries' endorsement of the Protocol to the Treaty Concerning Permanent Neutrality and Operation of that interoceanic waterway.
My country's backing of the initiative of the Federative Republic of Brazil to designate the South Atlantic as a zone of peace and co-operation of the peoples of South America and Africa also takes its inspiration from the same dedication to peace that characterizes the Argentine people and Government. Demilitarization of the South Atlantic and avoidance of the arms race will contribute substantially to a lessening of international tension.
My Government wishes to reiterate that the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas, South Georgias and South Sandwich Islands is an issue of permanent interest to the Argentine Republic and represents the central problem which keeps it apart from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
We are determined to achieve a peaceful, equitable and final solution to this dispute through serious negotiations in good faith. If such a solution were achieved, relations between the two countries would be established on solid and permanent bases. However, despite the repeated calls of the international community, the United Kingdom still refuses to accept comprehensive negotiations.
The international community has fully understood the necessity for the Republic of Argentina and the United Kingdom to resume negotiations ands.has expressed this desire by supporting last year's resolution 40/21, adopted by a majority of votes in the General Assembly.	'
Nevertheless, the international community once again is witness to the intransigent stand of the British Government, which persists in ignoring, its call and rejects negotiations as the appropriate and rational way to solve international disputes.
Such an attitude only prolongs a situation which, because of its consequences, is as unacceptable as it is detrimental: First, the excessive military presence in the South Atlantic constitutes a serious risk to Argentina and affects the entire region.
Secondly, the strategic airport built on the islands and the extraordinary naval reinforcement jeopardize the stability of an area which is part of a Latin-American nuclear-weapon-free zone. Thus the Malvinas Islands have been turned into a new zone of strategic interest and attract the global East-West conflict towards them.
Thirdly, the illegal and arbitrary "Exclusion Zone" unilaterally declared by the United Kingdom around the Malvinas Islands precludes Argentina from engaging in legitimate and peaceful activities in waters and air space falling within its jurisdiction. In addition, this has caused the uncontrolled exploitation of the area's fishing resources.
The Argentine Government reiterates its willingness to initiate negotiations in search of an imaginative solution that would, through special statutory safeguards and guarantees, also allow the interests of the present inhabitants of the Malvinas Islands to be adequately addressed.
The next step on the road towards final solution of the question of the Malvinas Islands must be taken by the British Government and the Republic of Argentina, together with the international community. They await a positive reaction, as can already be observed in certain political spheres of the United Kingdom as well as in other sectors of the public opinion of that country.
I should' like to avail myself of this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General for his assistance and constant efforts to promote fruitful negotiations.-1 The Argentine Government asks him to continue his efforts, and reiterates that he can be assured of its broadest and fullest co-operation.
Before addressing myself to other important issues that deserve our special attention I wish to mention one which preoccupies us all by virtue of its flagrant nature: the untenable policy of the Government of South Africa, which offends not only the written rules of international law but also more basic and fundamental rules which each one of us carries within his conscience.
The Argentine Government has repudiated time and again the policy of apartheid and its inexorable consequence: the harassment of the republics of southern Africa.
Faced with the continuing acts of aggression by the Government of South Africa which are the other side of an institutionalized regime of racial discrimination, unacceptable in the framework of the contemporary international community, we have broken diplomatic relations with the Republic of South Africa.
Once again we reiterate in this forum the Argentine people's expressions of friendship to the oppressed people of South Africa, as well as our support for the just struggle it is engaged in to establish a free, egalitarian and democratic society in its country.
On this occasion, I believe it necessary to confirm the unlimited support of the Argentine Government for the people of Namibia - represented by the South West Africa People's Organization - which still suffers from the illegitimate occupation of its Territory by South Africa.
As I stated in my message addressed to the recently concluded special session of the General Assembly on Namibia, this situation is unacceptable. Its continuation can only be explained by the imbalance of the forces involved and the importance of the interests seeking to perpetuate it.
There are countries which, though they do not belong to the region, still have a great responsibility towards it. This responsibility is incompatible with the continuing existence of racism, colonialism and interventionism - scourges that are contrary to human dignity, violate human rights and breed violence and destruction.
There is no rule of law in South Africa or Namibia. The longer it takes to establish it, the more widespread will be the violence and injustice; the greater will be the insecurity of those who share with us the Atlantic basin.
The Middle East region continues to pose a risk of conflict, escalation and war, as we have unfortunately witnessed.
We the Argentine people believe in the possibility and need for peace in that tormented region - a peace based upon truth, justice and freedom for all, without exception, a peace based on the negotiation of the legitimate interests by all those who hold inalienable rights that no one can ignore, a peace based upon mutual respect and tolerance. That is the context in which Argentina affirms the necessity for recognition of the Palestinian People's right to form on its own territory an independent State enjoying full self-determination and governed by authorities freely chosen by the Palestinian people.
Similarly, we uphold the right of all the States in the region, including Israel, to live within secure and internationally recognized boundaries.
For the same reasons we condemn all measures which jeopardize the full force of human rights, as in the case of the forceful occupation of territories, acts of terrorism and violence, which cut short human lives, destroy families and mutilate children and adolescents.
I wish to mention especially the conflict that has been raging between Iran and Iraq since 1980: that war must cease. The peace, which should never have been broken, must reign once again. The peoples of both nations, which have suffered and been terribly afflicted, must once again co-exist as brothers. The Argentine Republic is friendly to both; it has supported and will continue to support all efforts to restore their full enjoyment of the right to life and peace pursuant to the United Nations Charter and the principles of non-alignment.
 A part of this pattern of tension can also be observed in Lebanon, a country with which we have relations of long-standing and deep friendship. He can only express our hope to see once again a flourishing and peaceful Lebanon, enjoying fully its sovereign rights, free fros occupation of any part of its territory and actively contributing towards the progress and stability of the region.
 The senselessness which tends to dominate the international scene reveals itself crudely in the world economic situation, and this widens the gap separating an ever more powerful center from an ever weaker periphery. To this we must add a technological monopoly which threatens to disenfranchise even further the developing countries. The lack of access to the more advanced technologies will accentuate the economic instability but, more than this, it will affect the capability of the nations left behind to act politically, submitting them to a new form of colonialism.
Unfortunately, it must be admitted that in the year that has elapsed since the last session of the General Assembly no events have occurred in the area of international economic relations that would raise our hopes for a more equitable and rational system. On the contrary, the situation of international trade has deteriorated, showing clearly the doubly unjust principles on which it is at present based. On the one hand, something that is a fallacy is stated: de facto equality among nations. From this premise, rules are conceived which not only do not favor possibilities for development of the poorest but also perpetuate, if not intensity, already existing inequalities. Disregard for de facto inequality leads to the creation of an actual de jure inequality among nations, through a body of norms and principles which all must accept as the only one capable of governing commercial exchange.
The poorer nations, the youngest ones, the former colonies, we are told, should not and cannot search for the road towards their own development and progress outside the framework which the ridlest nations, the most established Powers and the most important cities of the world need to strengthen their trade and productive investment.
Now comes the second inequitable basis. The evolution of the international economic order is showing that what the backward nations cannot do the richest
can. Thus one arrives at the paradox where precisely those who seated the rules in accordance with their needs and their requirements are not only the first but indeed the only ones who violate their own rules when this becomes necessary for the defense of their own interests.
The process which led to starting the new round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations show how far the logic of discrimination reaches: while the opening of markets for goods and services is proposed, protectionism and unfair competition increase as regards traditional raw materials. Since its inception GATT has failed to address the question of raw materials.
The deterioration of international trade has worsened the problem of external debt owed by developing countries, especially that of Latin America. In our region the standard of living has regressed 10 years in the past 5 years. In addition, servicing foreign debt in the past four years has turned Latin America into a net exporter of capital: we have exported more than 3100 billion.
The response of the Latin American countries has been an enormous effort to put order into their economies, improve efficiency and increase exports, an effort that is nevertheless neutralized by the drop in raw material prices on the international markets. The logic of senselessness puts us into this absurd predicament in which our efforts to comply with the debt requirements meet with discrimination and ever growing protectionism on the part of our creditors.
The subsistence of the negative factors of the prevailing international economic system obliges Latin American countries to make even greater efforts to transform regional co-operation into a concrete fact. This is the reason behind the ambitious integration agreement entered into recently by my country and the Federative Republic of Brazil, the final purpose of which is to create a common
(Mr. Caputo, Argentina) market system between our two countries. As my dear colleague from Brazil has said, we share the fraternal aspiration to "grow together". Also, as the Republic of Uruguay is doing, we hope that other Latin American countries will join this initiative. Thus Latin America is moving from the rhetoric of integration to a common effort which translates into practical initiatives.
The Cartagena Consensus, which remains fully valid as a means of solving the debt problem, as well as other joint endeavors which direct the course of the democracies of Latin America, has paved the way for the possibility of a new regional arrangement to serve our peoples and all mankind, not contradictory to but complementary with the other regional arrangements which more and more characterize the times in which we live.
One of the main themes on the agenda of the General Assembly refers to the crisis within the United Nations. The Organization can only be strengthened by a rationalization of its duties based on the expert report submitted for our consideration. However, in addition to the obvious need for a readjustment of the work procedures and administrative and financial reforms, a concern arises with regard to the true purposes and possibilities of our Organization.
This is where an attempt at frankness must play a fundamental role. For four decades the United Nations has assisted in the reconstruction of economies shattered by war and has helped countries subjected to colonial domination to gain their independence. Nevertheless, fundamental tasks remain to be undertaken in this search in the United Nations for a better world. To carry out this substantial task, we must all contribute, whether or not this is convenient to our own particular interests.
This is how we see the world and its conflicts. We do not expect miracles but we shall not let ourselves be disheartened. We trust in the ability of mankind to understand existing situation and apply its will to transform it. But there will be no transformation of the present without a proper understanding of the fundamental facts that shape it, nor will it be possible to build the future unless there is a clear idea about what we expect for our civilization.
The years remaining until the end of this century present a challenge to our intelligence, to our will, and fundamentally to our sense of ethics in relations among men and nations.
Our presentation is essentially political, in the profound sense of this word. We believe in peace as a true formula for coexistence, in equality as a predicate of action towards the common welfare, in development as a focus for the energies of men and women to build a new society.
We have no other weapons than our minds, and this is why we ask that this logic of senselessness be abandoned in order that common sense may be restored. We repeat that we must regain our senses so that the system of peaceful coexistence of our various national identities may survive. For more than 40 years that has been the principal objective of our Organization.
We do not believe that our world can organize itself to build a better future by favoring immediate interests derived from strategic and military concepts or proceeding from the basis of a continuous confrontation between the great hegemonic blocs that use their power politics in dealing with those which do not belong to any of the power blocs. We prefer a world in which people can coexist peacefully and freely, not in submission or under oppression but rather on the basis of respect for diversity. As Albert Camus once said:
"The extremisms of the right or of the left seek totality, that is to say, the elimination of differences, and not unity, which is the harmony of contrasts."

===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿
My first words are words of congratulation to you, Sir, on your unanimous election to the Presidency of the General Assembly. The delegation of Argentina is pleased to have supported the election of the Bureau. Let me assure you that we will co-operate with you in your efforts so that the forty-second session of the General Assembly may contribute to the solution of the problems facing mankind.
At the same time I wish to acknowledge the wisdom with which my distinguished colleague Mr. Humayun Rasheed Chowdhury fulfilled his duties.
I wish also to express our congratulations to Ambassador Joseph Verner Reed in his new duties as under-Secretary-General for Political and General Assembly Affairs. From this rostrum, we often warn about the serious crises that affect our planet and we call attention to the misunderstandings and conflicts that threaten the harmony of mankind.
I believe that in 1987 we must begin recognizing the progress towards peace that has taken place in the world. One fact suffices to explain my statement, which is also the reason for my hope - the recent historic understanding between the United States and the Soviet Union concerning the dismantling of short- and medium-range missiles in Europe. It is the first time since the development of nuclear weapons that an effective commitment to disarmament has been initiated. The fact that common sense has prevailed in the relationship between the major ' Powers is, I believe, the event of the greatest political importance to affect the planet in recent decades.
All members of the international community have an important role to play in this regard. Nuclear disarmament is undoubtedly a priority task, which cannot be delayed, with that conviction, the leaders of Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden, Tanzania and Argentina are actively pursuing the initiative for peace and disarmament known as the Group of Six, which since its inception has postulated the adoption of decisions that might halt and reverse the nuclear arms race.
In the multilateral sphere, we feel encouraged by the progress evidenced in the disarmament conference towards achieving a convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons. We hope to see that convention materialize in the near future, on a non-discriminatory basis. There is thus evidence in the world of a greater willingness to have recourse to negotiation as the proper way of approaching the solution of conflicts. Such an attitude must obviously be encouraged by all means - among these, our Organization, the United Nations, provides an ideal framework for the development of negotiations and understandings, in that sense, my Government wishes to stress the tireless activity of our Secretary-General, whose efforts to make the United Nations the most valuable element for peace available to us are widely recognized and appreciated. His work is a source of legitimate pride for his country - so dear to us Argentines - and for our regional group, from which he was chosen.
In its participation in the Security Council Argentina is inspired by its desire to make a concrete and effective contribution to the strengthening of the United Nations. Through our votes, and our participation in general, in the Security Council we have in view the consolidation of the system set forth in the Charter, convinced as we are that small and medium-sized countries may contribute significantly to the maintenance of international peace and security.
In that light, we have considered various international conflicts, some of them, such as the war between Iran and Iraq and the questions of southern Africa and the Middle East, are obvious and exert daily pressure on the international conscience through their manifestations of destruction and death. Others, such as terrorism and drug trafficking, constitute a more subtle and less orthodox, but none the less dangerous, form of violence.
As regards the armed conflict between Iraq and Iran, we have achieved, with the agreement reached among the 15 members of the Security Council, which led to the adoption of resolution 598 (1987), an instrument that allows us to act, to mediate and to promote conditions would allow both countries to safeguard their vital interests, preserve their national honour and dignity, and, above all, regain peace. But we are seriously concerned by the events that have taken place since the adoption of Security Council resolution 598 (1987). That is why, in the view of the Argentine Government, immediate compliance with a cease-fire is necessary as the primary and indispensable condition for achieving the objectives set forth in resolution 598 (1987).
The main challenge is, indeed, to achieve peace, but it also seems appropriate to state that we face another challenge - that of demonstrating the effectiveness of our Organization and, in particular, of its Security Council. Accordingly, my Government believes that, without ever putting aside the exercise of political restraint, the Security Council should - if circumstances so require - intensify the search for machinery that might ensure the effective implementation of resolution 598 (1987).
Also among the many promising signs this year is the fact that the two Koreas are analysing proposals for reducing armaments and troops and are considering the possibility of signing a non-aggression pact. We must likewise call attention to the meeting of the German leaders as another element favouring the reduction of tension.
Among these encouraging events, the Latin American countries would, obviously, also wish to emphasize the development of the situation in Central America. It would be hard to enumerate all the meetings, contacts, proposals and negotiations carried out by the Foreign Ministers of the Contadora Group and the Support Group. Today, we can say that nothing seems to have been in vain, that no effort has been useless. But for that to be so, if peace again becomes possible it will undoubtedly be due to the political will of the five Central American countries whose Presidents, resolutely confronting the regional crisis, signed the Guatemala agreement on 7 August last with a view to working out fundamental solutions with regard to security, the consolidation of institutions, and social and economic development. The Argentine Government continues to be firmly committed to its support of a lasting peace in Central America and has given evidence of that will in a practical way through Its participation in the mechanism for the verification and follow-up of the Guatemala agreements drawn up at Caracas on 22 August.
There Is therefore cause for rejoicing that peace in Central America appears possible, but we must also be aware that although the progress achieved is substantial, the situation remains fragile. No political will, no diplomatic skill, can ensure peace without self-determination, non-interference, pluralistic democracy and economic development. And we are all well aware how difficult it is to bring about these conditions. It is therefore essential that the entire international community co-operate in order to create the basic conditions for peace in Central America. If we rejoice at peace, if we search for it and preach it, let us all share the responsibility for its attainment.
The situation In the Middle East continues to be unstable and dangerous. We consider it imperative to continue to explore all feasible formulas for obtaining a just, honourable and equitable peace. We are convinced that this will become possible only if the solution Includes recognition, at the same time, of the Inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to live in their own territory - with the authorities and forms of government they freely choose - and the rights of all States of the region - obviously including Israel - to live within internationally recognized boundaries. In that context, the convening of an international peace conference under the auspices of the United Nations, with the participation and approval of all parties, would represent a definite step forward. 
With regard to the critical scene in the Middle East we continue to follow with particular concern the situation in Lebanon, and we feel it is necessary to step up efforts to ensure that Lebanon may recover its full territorial sovereignty and exercise its inalienable right to live free of all foreign interference.
The growing deterioration of the situation in southern Africa and the problems of that region have a common cause in South Africa's persistent refusal to abide by the decisions of the United Nations. The continuation of the apartheid regime constitutes one of the worst and most urgent of today's problems. Argentina reiterates its solidarity with the oppressed people of South Africa and its rejection of the Pretoria regime, whose inflexibility endangers international peace and security.
In addition, the Government of South Africa continues to occupy Illegally the Territory of Namibia. It is imperative that progress be made towards the self-determination and Independence of the Namibian people. To that end, the Organization must fully assume its direct responsibility over the Territory, adopting the measures necessary for that purpose. In this connection, as in the question of apartheid, my country supports the adoption of mandatory sanctions against South Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter, since we view that as the most appropriate and effective means to establish justice and the principles of the Charter in southern Africa.
Tense situations between States are often aggravated by acts of international terrorism. The General Assembly has unanimously condemned such criminal acts. We undertake to lend our support to the search for measures that would enable us to make co-operation in this area even more effective.
Argentina also wishes to reaffirm in the General Assembly its support for the legitimate and just aspiration of the Republic of Bolivia to recover a direct outlet to the Pacific Ocean. We have followed with interest and attention the talks that took place at Montevideo and we hope that the spirit in which they were convened may be renewed in the search for a solution through negotiation and dialogue.
The identification of our foreign policy with the principles and purposes of the United Nations is concretely evidenced In those subjects in which we are directly involved. Thus, with regard to the question of the Malvinas Islands, the Argentine Government Is firmly committed to the search of a peaceful and lasting settlement of the sovereignty dispute and related problems that at present exist between my country and the United Kingdom. In this context we have accepted General Assembly resolution 41/40, which requests both Governments to initiate negotiations with a view to finding the means to resolve peacefully and definitively the problems pending between both countries, including all aspects on the future of the Malvinas, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. It is worth recalling that that resolution received overwhelming support, which included close friends of the United Kingdom. That wide support confirms the genuine interest of the international community in finding a solution to the question of the Malvinas Islands.
Unfortunately, that feeling of the international community has not been shared by the British Government, which has repeatedly rejected the idea of global negotiations without exclusions that may allow us to resolve the dispute between the two countries. The Argentine Republic, while reaffirming its sovereign rights over the Malvinas, South George and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding sea, also repeats its permanent willingness for dialogue, its decision to respect the
interests and life-style of the inhabitants of the Malvinas, guaranteeing their well being and prosperity, and its firm commitment to peace. In that sense ray Government expresses its permanent willingness to find mechanisms that may ensure peace in that region without altering in any manner its titles and claims over the islands.
The Argentine Government expresses once more its gratitude for the mission of good offices of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in accordance with General Assembly resolutions, in the question of the Malvinas. My Government appreciates his efforts and is convinced that the Organization has an important role to play in the process of settling the dispute over the Islands.
Turning to another area, my delegation is duty-bound to express its gratitude to the outstanding and noble task of the World Commission for the Environment, presided over by the Prime Minister of Norway. The relative reduction in world tension will enable us to devote greater efforts and resources to environmental conservation and to ensure a harmonious and sustained development. From that perspective, for example, the Malvinas region, which today is an area of tension, might, through appropriate solutions, become a region for co-operation and détente that would generate progress and development, with a priority concept of environmental conservation. Once the Argentine territorial claim has been answered, the South Atlantic might become a formidable experiment for co-operation and progress with an inestimable effect on the economies of the Malvinas and Patagonia.
Today Latin America is confronting a triple challenge.
In the first place, there is a challenge to recover and strengthen the democratic political system in places where it has not hitherto existed or where it had been allowed to lapse. The 1980s signalled the recovery of the founding ideals and values of our region. Our destiny is once more in the hands of our peoples. Nothing could be more encouraging for universal peace, because a democratic Latin America is a guarantee of stability and common sense for all the international community.
In this new stage, in itself fragile because of the traces left by authoritarianism in Latin America, we are now confronted with a second challenge, the challenge of the threat of war in Central America, the consequences of which would undoubtedly affect the entire region. Contadora has shown that Latin America is capable of facing this second challenge, even at times when all hope seemed lost.
Our region also faces a third challenge, that of resolving the crisis caused by the external debt and the distortion of the international economic and financial system. Our peoples and Governments have also shown their abilities and decisiveness vis-à-vis this challenge, which casts the darkest shadows over our future.
The consequences of this crisis were defined with common sense and resolve in the Cartagena consensus, in which, with unprecedented courage, we initiated structural adjustment programmes that meant and continue to mean great sacrifices for our peoples.
At the same time, we understand that we are facing a re-organization of international political and economic relations and, in spite of the narrow perspectives of the present day, we have made significant progress towards shaping a common regional space. This is evident, for example, in the creation of the so-called Rio Group which, at the forthcoming meeting of the eight Presidents to be held in Mexico, will take one more step towards the integration of Latin America. Consolidation of political systems, a concrete contribution to peace, compliance with the demands of an exorbitant and unfair debt, far-reaching economic restructuring, substantial progress towards integration - these, in short, are some of our achievements in response to that triple challenge. Nobody could reasonably expect so much; nobody could reasonably demand more of us.
However, despite all this, our future is still dark. The present economic situation cannot continue without the chances of deep social crises, which would seriously affect all the progress that we have made. Latin America cannot and should not continue to subsidize the creditor countries as a net exporter of capital. Latin America cannot continue to be the victim of trade wars between the industrialized countries, which have caused an unprecedented fall in the prices of its traditional products, while markets are closed or lost because of the unfair competition created by subsidies. Common sense prevents us waiting passively for an end to that situation.
A few figures suffice to show the magnitude of the Latin American economic problem. In the last five years alone the main countries of the region have produced a net transfer of capital to the developed world of about $150 billion, which represents an annual reduction of approximately 5 per cent in the investment capacity of our countries, whose investment levels are already below those needed for sustained growth.
Those figures and that situation are applicable to all the other countries of Latin America, too, and we are sure that our Latin American brothers feel the same. We Argentines have no doubt that the main responsibility for change and growth in our country lies with the Argentine people themselves. Like all our Latin American brothers, we do not beg for help or shift on responsibility on the other shoulders. Having said this, we roust affirm that we have no doubt either how limited is the viability of our countries, however hard we try to achieve our own reforms, however much we reduce our concessions to legitimate social demands, however firmly we reject any demagogic temptation, as long as the present international situation persists. In present international conditions resulting from the debt and the restrictions on trade it will be very difficult to achieve the goal of strengthening democracy and securing an acceptable level of development.
The majority of the industrialized countries, if not all, often show their solidarity when an authoritarian regime afflicts our nations; similarly, they rejoice when we Latin Americans return to democracy. It is high time for us to state clearly that we Latin Americans hope that we shall not again in the future need that solidarity in our misfortunes, not having found solidarity in our reconstruction. In that case it would be, as President Alfonsin has so often said, a post-mortem solidarity.
Rightly, since we are responsible for our own future, and are determined never >gain to need that post-mortem solidarity, we believe that it is not possible to deal with situations which are no longer traditional and conventional with the traditional and conventional models and instruments. This is true of the debt. It is fair to acknowledge that in several developed countries there is a growing understanding of the need for a new, unconventional approach to a new problem. The United States Senate recently passed a Bill in which, analysing the question of the external debt, it proposed the creation of an international authority to develop new methods so that creditors and debtors might find a solution to this problem on which to a great extent the present and future of Latin America now depend. The viability of democracy, its continuity and its strength depend above all on the hope of the people, the conviction that it is democracy that makes possible the struggle for a better future. It must be made clear to the Assembly that in Latin America the persistence of the unjust situation created by the debt and discriminatory trade practices is destroying the hope of the peoples.


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿
In recent years those of us who have taken part in these debates have normally begun by giving a pessimistic description of the world situation and a list of conflicts and situations threatening international peace and security. The persistence of centres of tension and unjust situations and the emergence or worsening of certain disputes justified this gloomy picture and to some extent caused our warnings, our feeling of hopelessness faced with what appeared to be problems without a solution, to become a habit.
The United Nations was not spared that criticism. There was scepticism because of what was regarded as a paralysis of the Organisation's capacity as a mediator. We believe that the facts show that the criticism was groundless, and that, as we have affirmed in the past, this alleged weakness of the United Nations was caused only by a lack of as, element or in many cases the feeling of resignation of its Members.
In international relations there are two alternating tendencies: a period of co-operation follows one of conflict, like swings of a pendulum, though in practice the periods often overlap. It would seem that in recent years there has been a change from the phase of conflict towards that of co-operation.
The United Nations has played a part in this new dynamic. In fact, in many instances it has created the necessary framework in which the way towards a final settlement of long-lasting conflicts may at last be found, through dialogue and negotiation.
This year, and particularly in the last few months, a number of breakthroughs have taken place which can be attributed largely to the Organization. It gives me great satisfaction to begin this statement by expressing the recognition of the Argentine Government of the key role played by the Secretary-General. Mr. Perez de Cuellar has succeeded in giving orientation and drive to the trend of co-operation to which I have referred.
On the question of Afghanistan, after six years the determination and perseverance of the Secretary-General and of his Special Representative, now Ecuador's Foreign Minister, Mr. Diego Cordovez, led to the signing in Geneva of the agreement between Afghanistan and Pakistan, guaranteed by the Governments of the United states and the Soviet Union.
In the case of Iran and Iraq we have also arrived at a cease-fire. Argentina, a non-permanent member of the Security Council, reiterates its commitment to the establishment of a just, honourable and lasting peace within the framework of Security Council resolution 598 (1987), and urges both parties to redouble their efforts towards building the future of peace and co-operation that both nations deserve.
I consider it appropriate to emphasize at this point the momentum gained lately by the United Nations peace-keeping forces. In recent decades we have actively co-operated in various peace-keeping operations. Also, as an additional contribution to this undertaking, the Argentine Government today contributes personnel to the United Nations Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group.
Within this framework we also notice positive signs in the Maghreb region, and we welcome the resumption of diplomatic relations last May between Algeria and Morocco. We also view with hope the development of the process of consultations by the President of the Organization of African Unity and the Secretary-General of the United Nations with the countries of the region. We trust that just and lasting solutions to the question of Western Sahara may be found.  
We cannot fail to mention the encouraging aspects of certain other major issues. I refer here to the new talks that are taking place on Cyprus and South-East Asia and between the two Koreas. Recent developments also make it possible for us to look hopefully towards the future in southern Africa. We must not slacken our efforts until a just, democratic and egalitarian society has been established in an independent Namibia. The only internationally agreed basis for the peaceful settlement of that question is the United Nations plan for the independence of the Territory, contained in Security Council resolution 435 (1978). All the relevant conditions for implementing the plan have been met. We hope that the talks engaged in by the Governments of Angola, Cuba, the United States and South Africa may be a sign of a change in the attitude of South Africa, marked so far by defiance of the international community. However, if that is not so, and if, on the contrary, South Africa seeks to perpetuate illegally its policy of colonial occupation of the Territory of Namibia, the United Nations must take the necessary steps, including those provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter, to achieve its goal of making Namibia independent.
In parallel with these situations, we cannot but regard with concern the persistence of certain problems, with respect to which we must redouble our efforts, so that they are not left out of the phase of co-operation that I have mentioned.
The events that have been taking place since last December in the occupied Arab territories have added another element to the already unstable and explosive situation prevailing in the Middle East. A just and lasting solution to the situation in that region can be reached only if it includes both acknowledgement of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to live in their territory, with the authorities and form of government that they freely choose, and the right of all States of the region, including Israel, to live within internationally recognized boundaries. Argentina considers it necessary to open channels of negotiation in order to find viable formulas for all the parties concerned. In this context, the convening of an international conference, under the auspices of the United Nations, with the participation and consent of all the parties, could be an appropriate mechanism.
The situation in Lebanon is again causing particular concern to the people and the Government of Argentina and occupying their attention. The Lebanese people must be able to exercise their inalienable right to live free of all foreign interference, thus recovering their full sovereignty.
Another question is that of ending the apartheid regime of the South African Government. The rejection of apartheid has been clearly reflected in many General Assembly and Security Council resolutions. There will be no peace in southern Africa until it is totally and definitively eradicated. The most appropriate, effective and peaceful way to achieve that is to apply mandatory sanctions against the Government of South Africa, under Chapter VII of the Charter.
I should now like to refer to the situation in Central America, a question in which my country has a direct interest, and which affects in a special way the whole continent. Last year in this debate we highlighted the political will of the five Central American Presidents, who confronted the regional crisis by signing the Guatemala agreement. Our country, a member of the Contadora Support Group, has worked, and is continuing to work, towards a peaceful and negotiated solution to the problems of that region. We understand that the objectives sought by the United Nations can be achieved only if the principles of non-interference and self-determination are respected, without delays or conditions.
We believe that peace is directly linked to the concept of development. That is why we have sponsored the plan of assistance and co-operation for Central America worked out by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and adopted by the General Assembly this year. Since the signature of the Esquipulas II agreement, the countries of Central America have taken important steps towards peace. That shows that the way that has been chosen is the right and the only appropriate one consonant with the principles of the United Nations.
The difficulties that have emerged in recent months must be dealt with in the same spirit. We the countries of America that feel committed to contribute towards a solution to this crisis, are convinced that force, threat and economic coercion must be left behind - indeed, that they have become a thing of the past.
Only through co-operation, increasing integration and effective political will it be possible to initiate economic development, which is the key to any future stabilization. We are convinced that Latin America has entered upon a period of active solidarity in the solution of its problems. The initiatives of the Contadora Group and the Support Group resulted in the creation of the permanent mechanism for consultation and concerted political action. The Presidents of the Group, at their meeting at Acapulco, established a dynamic system for unifying the criteria for consultation and negotiation, with the basic aims of promoting the peace, development and democracy of our peoples, aims that are in agreement with the basic principles of the United Nations. 
Our work also includes other fundamental areas in which we must strengthen the co-operate phase upon which we have now entered: I am referring to disarmament, to social and humanitarian affairs, and to international economic relations.
Disarmament, while it contributes to detente, ought also to be its logical consequence. The heads of State and Government of India, Greece, Mexico, Sweden, Tanzania and Argentina have continued to work actively in the Group of Six on the initiative for peace and disarmament, particularly in the priority task of nuclear disarmament.
The implementation of the Treaty banning intermediate-range nuclear missiles is, undoubtedly, an important step in the process of disarmament. The possibility of reaching agreement on the reduction of strategic nuclear weapons is, in turn, another auspicious element in the area of bilateral disarmament. Both will undoubtedly benefit international peace and security. However, this new atmosphere is not yet reflected on a multilateral basis. We believe that the present session is a propitious occasion to reflect the possibilities offered by this new situation in the field of disarmament.
The convergence in political will should allow the Conference on Disarmament to make progress on such priority issues as stopping nuclear-weapons tests and preventing an arms race in outer space, as well as on the early conclusion of the preparation of a convention banning chemical weapons on a non-discriminatory basis.
With regard to Argentina, we cannot, in dealing with this central issue of the United Nations over-all policy on disarmament, fail to mention the situation in the South Atlantic. Our country has fully and resolutely supported the initiative of the General Assembly, as reflected in resolutions 41/11 and 42/16, in which the South Atlantic has been declared a zone of peace and co-operation. The South Atlantic has been subjected to an unjustified militarization by nuclear-weapon States, which have established bases, carried our manoeuvres and moved their naval units in the area without restrictions, thereby adversely affecting the security of the region as a whole.
For that reason a firm and vigorous response was called for. The States that co-sponsored the resolutions to which I have referred have worked actively towards the establishment of a concrete and effective means of consolidating peace and security in the region pursuant to General Assembly resolution 42/16. The final document produced by those countries and signed at Rio de Janeiro last July sets forth some basic principles; the issues of peace and security are linked with those of development and militarily significant Powers are urged to reduce their military presence and show restraint in this regard, banning the introduction of nuclear armaments.
In the social and humanitarian field, my delegation wishes to associate itself with the celebration of the fortieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Nor can we fail to refer to the question of drug trafficking. We are resolutely determined to fight against that scourge, and we acknowledge the effort being made by our Latin American brothers, despite the difficult economic circumstances they are experiencing.
Progress in the political field is in sharp contrast with the prospects for international economic relations. The truth is that, with regard to the question of development, little or nothing has been accomplished in the past few years. The main consequence of this omission during the present decade has been that the developing countries, particularly those of Africa and Latin America, have not been able to contribute to the growth of the international economy in a manner proportionate to their potential.
The growing external debt of those countries has caused a massive reverse flow of financial resources that is setting up insurmountable barriers against the imports of the developing world and is posing a formidable obstacle to the growth of world trade. Sharp increases in interest rates, restrictions on commodity trade and protectionist measures in the industrialized countries, along with the enacting of subsidies for their own agricultural exports, indicate the lack of a global development strategy.
As part of any global strategy it is essential that substantial progress be made towards the liberalization of international trade at the new round of multilateral negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), for which the mid-term review, to be held at Montreal in December, should agree suggested by the Cairns Group at its meeting at Bariloche, upon long-term reform in agricultural policy, a contractual freeze and a gradual reduction in agricultural support and subsidy measures and other policies that cause the greatest amount of economic distortion.
The new strategy for global development must focus on a lasting solution to the problem of debt, which encompasses, on the one hand, a continuing process of structural reforms in the debtor countries and, on the other hand, the reduction of the total amount of indebtedness and a real transfer of financial resources towards those countries.
Development is also necessary to ensure global security, within the framework of interdependence which I mentioned earlier. This analysis of the international situation and the dynamic process in which we are immersed leads to me share with you some thoughts about the internal functioning of our Organization. In 1985, the United Nations decided to initiate a process of reform that would enable it to respond to the challenges facing it with the greatest effectiveness and efficiency. Since then many efforts have been exerted in the search for formulas acceptable to all. However, much remains to be done. We believe that if we are to rely on the United Nations as a suitable instrument capable of meeting the needs of our times, we must as soon as possible move beyond this transitional stage. We are convinced that we will find solutions satisfactory to all. To achieve that, we are willing to make our contribution and to co-operate in the quest for agreements that will enable us to implement the objectives we set forth in General Assembly resolution 41/213. 
At the same time it is indispensable that the Organization be provided with stable financing so it may be in a position to give us what we expect from it. Otherwise, we alone shall be to blame. Thus, each Member State must continue to make every effort to fulfil its obligations without imposing conditions not provided for in the Charter.
I wish to conclude my statement by referring to two matters on our agenda that are of special importance to my country. The first is the question of Antarctica. Argentina is linked to that continent by sovereignty, history and continuity. As an original signatory of the Antarctic Treaty, Argentina has participated actively in creating an effective and flexible system, open to all States, which has kept the continent free from conflicts, ensured that it be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and prevented it from becoming a setting for international discord.
The second is the question of the Malvinas, an old colonial issue that has existed since the earliest stages of Argentina's independent development. A settlement became a real possibility with the advent of the decolonization movement encouraged by the United Nations, The Assembly is aware of, and has shown unmistakable signs of agreeing with, the constant willingness of the Argentine Government to achieve a just and final solution to this matter, which has high priority in my country's foreign policy.
Since 1965 a succession of resolutions have called for negotiations between Argentina and the United Kingdom to reach a peaceful solution of outstanding problems, in particular the problem of the future of the Malvinas Islands. These resolutions lay stress on Argentina's efforts to comply with the demands of the international community, but so far these have been repeatedly thwarted by the position of the British Government, which has refused to begin comprehensive negotiations,, despite the efforts of the Secretary-General, whose mission of good offices to bring together the parties to the dispute has been and continues to be acknowledged by Argentina.
The recent heightening of tension in the area owing to measures that deepen the differences between the two countries is another source of concern for the region and the world·, this makes the prompt resumption of bilateral contacts even more essential.
While reaffirming its sovereign rights over the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands and the adjacent seas, Argentina reiterates its willingness to enter into a dialogue with the United Kingdom, a wide-ranging, sincere dialogue, without pre-conditions, which would take into account and respect the interests of the inhabitants of the islands so as to ensure their well-being and prosperity.
On this issue, as well as on other regional and global problems, my country is ready to co-operate actively in fulfilling the fundamental purposes of this Organization.


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿

 

I should like to begin by congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to head the work of the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session. You represent Africa, a continent linked to the most difficult and successful of the struggles of the United Nations, You also represent a country, Nigeria, that has played a significant role in promoting the principles and purposes of the Organization's Charter. We know of your efforts in the Special Committee against Apartheid, and in you we see a standard bearer in the fight to eradicate the vile practice of racial discrimination from southern Africa.
I should also like to salute the outgoing President, Mr. Dante Caputo, who, on behalf of our country, accepted the responsibility of presiding over the General Assembly.
I have always believed it to be impossible to imagine the future of one's country without reflecting upon the reality of the world around us, impossible to have a correct national vision without a correct international vision, impossible to progress if we cover our eyes and grope our way forward without knowing what is going on in a constantly changing world.
For that reason, here in this highest forum I wish to speak about some of our concerns, goals and ambitions. I wish to talk about our fears and also about our hopes. I wish to talk about risks and also opportunities. In short, I have come to share with you our dreams and our realities.
What is politics, if not the focal point of our will and our ideas? History summons us, and we cannot turn our backs on it. There is a challenge before us, there is a clamour around us; there is an inescapable responsibility. The twenty-first century must be the century of a true renascence. It will demand greatness to do away with selfish criteria that are merely partisan, ideological, class-related, religious or racial. It will demand intelligence to understand the problems of our times from a global standpoint. It will demand resolve if we are not to confine ourselves to mere words.
Today, to defend what is ours we must be aware of everyone's world. What was a humanitarian option yesterday is now an imperative. We feel that we are all united in the face of great world problems that require co-operation and responses in a spirit of solidarity.
There is only one world. There is only one human dignity. There is only one home for all mankind. An understanding of those realities is not a minor detail of the history through which we are living. What is at stake is the difference between peace and war, between progress and decadence, between development and poverty, between life and death.
The century that is about to end has been marked by unprecedented technological and scientific progress, but it has also been marked by atrocious wars, by genocide and by new threats. We must be aware of that interplay of light and shadow, and we must prepare ourselves to ensure that the twenty-first century will be set upon the right road towards the desired harmony.
I think that the time has come to reformulate old ideas, to dust them off and update them and to make them consonant with the contemporary world; that is why the concept of international security must be re-adapted to the new realities.
 
Today, insecurity is no longer limited merely to the danger of a nuclear confrontation between super-Powers. There is another world insecurity: it is the risk that the world may once again be split up, this tine into North and South; it is the inability to harmonize economic development on a global scale. There can be no peace or international order in a world given over to the irrationality of inequality. For decades we have been appealing to the conscience of universal peace, that everything be done to end the East-West split.
Today, here and now, we must do likewise to avoid the equally dangerous North-South split, which would bring us into the twenty-first century with two totally opposite universes: a rich, affluent society facing a majority of increasingly impoverished countries. In the same way, it is necessary to give deep thought to the dangers threatening the ecological balance and the human environment.
For all of us, man cannot become the predator of man. ""Our planet is not a degradable entity. Development is not a mere mathematical equation. Technology is not a mirage that must merely destroy mankind's home. An appropriate form of production must be founded on wise management of renewable resources and decreasing consumption of irreplaceable raw materials and energy. Furthermore, it is necessary to rescue the cultural values, the quality of life, the style and tradition that are inherent in the identity of every nation. It is essential to encourage man's progressive rediscovery of nature, water, earth, air, plants and the animals of creation. These are substantive issues that require a political awareness and a resolute response before it is too late.
The concern of philosophers, sociologists, anthropologists, theologians and poets can no longer proceed independently of the mediocre universe of the policy of mere efficiency. I do not believe in the illusory domination that involves a real danger to the destiny of the world. The United Nations is the ideal forum in which to forge that conscience required by changing circumstances. It is obvious, furthermore, that the present political horizon does give us reason for hope. We can see a climate of detente taking shape not only at the level of ideological-political opposition between the super-Powers, but also in regional conflicts. In the last five years we have seen concrete steps taken along that long road towards overcoming the cold-war climate.
Solid progress has been achieved in disarmament, such as the historic 1988 treaty between the Soviet Union and the United States. Such progress may point to the beginning of the definitive overcoming of the irrational arms race. That event is exemplary because it has positive repercussions on other conflicts.
I think we should all thank the Secretary-General for his determination, his wise, concrete, untiring and hopeful activities - even at times when it seemed impossible to have any reason to feel hopeful. Suffice it to recall the progress made towards peace in the conflict between Iraq and Iran, and in defusing the problems of Cyprus and Afghanistan. With regard to the questions of Kampuchea and the Western Sahara, we hope that the Secretary-General will continue to receive the support that is essential for the final attainment of peace.
It is also our hope that a fair solution can be reached on the Korean issue. We sincerely hope that next November elections will be held in Namibia and that its long-suffering people may be represented at the next session of the General Assembly and that we may welcome it to our midst as a new independent and democratic State. That will be a decisive step towards normalizing the situation in the southern cone of the African continent.
But much more is needed, without the final eradication of apartheid in South Africa, the spark of violence will not be extinguished, what kind of peace can be guaranteed if it is based on silence with respect to the exclusion and daily violation of the most elemental human right, the right to equality?
We Argentines have a special debt of gratitude to Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar for the role he has played in regard to our regional conflict - that of the Malvinas Islands. This issue is directly linked to peace and disarmament. From the moment our Government came to power, we have sought to join in the general climate of detente. That is why we have taken positive measures. We have extended our hand, showing our willingness to enter into dialogue, while in no way casting any doubt on our historical and inalienable rights to sovereignty over those South Atlantic islands. The recent concrete steps taken at our initiative are well known. The normalization of bilateral dialogue must be followed by a firm and sensible will to bring an end to an obsolete colonial situation that is historically unsustainable.
This is the appropriate occasion for me to express to the representatives of the vast majority of countries represented here the deep gratitude of the Argentine people. On repeated occasions you have expressed your overwhelming support for our just claim. That attitude and that complete support encourage our hopes for a fair and peaceful solution of this conflict. I should like to assert that we shall struggle unstintingly and peacefully, with reason and perseverance, to recover our Malvinas Islands.
Among the regional conflicts, one which naturally involves us is that of Central America. We favour a negotiated political solution, without external interference. The countries directly involved must find their own solutions. Experience has shown this to be the proper approach. Agreements such as the Tela Declaration reached by the Central American Presidents are proof of that. There can be no solutions if we directly or indirectly disregard the principle of non-intervention. Likewise, conflicts would only increase if attempts were made to postpone the full implementation of democratic pluralism and freedom.
 The question of the Middle East deserves careful reflection. That region is a historical cross-roads of culture. Like any zone of conflict, it can become and indeed has become an area of failure and danger. It is a particularly acute area of danger because of its geopolitical position and the heterogeneous interests that it involves. Cur country reaffirms the need to find an urgent solution for all opposing sectors. That is to say, the solution must include respect for the rights of all parties concerned to self-determination and to live within recognized and safe boundaries. Those rights are applicable equally to Israel and to the Palestinian people. Much has been achieved in the field of intentions and declarations, but, unfortunately, Palestine remains a land of death, pain and growing hatred. Lebanon, in its unfortunate situation, is flagrant proof of the inability to attain peaceful solutions. Our country favours the convening of an international peace conference within the framework of the United Nations in order to bring peace to that region and to negotiate an eventual agreement that will include solid international guarantees until the time when the situation is normalized. That method has made it possible to find appropriate solutions in equally dangerous circumstances. In any event, we shall support any type of negotiation which the parties may agree to with a view to putting an end to the bloodshed.
Our country has sizeable Arab and Jewish communities; they coexist peacefully with their own lifestyles, traditions and religious beliefs. I myself am a descendant of one of those communities and I can bear witness to our modest but not insignificant experience. We Argentines believe, as do any people strengthened by the most heterogeneous immigration, that men can live in peace, whatever their creed, race or colour. Therefore, feeling this problem as one very close to my own heart and experience, I have offered the good offices of my Government, and my own, to work towards a rapprochement of the parties involved, if they so wish, according to the method that they deem appropriate. We are aware of the enormous difficulties of the problem, but we have not wanted to skimp in our efforts or availability with respect to any concrete initiative.
Beyond the problems of peace and disarmament, our Organization must devote its efforts to new issues which, because of their magnitude, are becoming the major universal issues of our generation.
Almost every country is the victim of drug trafficking, whether as a producer, a consumer or an intermediary. This extremely serious problem can be combated only if the international community acts in concert and energetically, pursuing with equal severity drug consumption, trafficking and production. International criminal organizations sometimes believe they are stronger than some States, but that is not true, for they lack moral force and their fight, although violent, is a terminal and desperate one. Our country - and in particular our Government - is willing to wage an all-out war on all fronts against this scourge. We want to extend our law enforcement measures to reach all those involved in drug trafficking. We are providing the Colombian Government with all possible support. On this point, I should like my words to ring out with the full force of a call for shared and joint action. Despite the enormous limitations faced by my country, we have none the less donated three fighter, exploration and surveillance aircraft to our sister republic of Colombia.
I wish now to address one of the major universal problems that affects particularly my country and our Latin American brothers. I refer to the prevailing international economic order. We are one of the countries whose volume of exports is affected by the exclusions or limitations imposed by a system of customs and tariff barriers, subsidies and other restrictions on free competition in the trade in agricultural products. This limitation coincides with demands for the payment of interest on our foreign debt. The industrialized countries which demand absolute respect for financial obligations are the very ones that are limiting our possibilities for recovery by restricting the access of our basic commodities to their markets. This means specifically that many Latin American countries are faced with a situation of having to mortgage their development or demand of their People an extremely high, indeed immoral, social cost, in order to meet their foreign debt obligations.
Our Government is committed to meeting its obligations, but of course we require the necessary reciprocal changes in the conduct of international trade in order to make our effort economically viable so that we may be able to sell our products freely, at competitive and realistic prices. We are not so much afraid of the debt itself as of the persistence of a system that keeps on postponing the prospects of legitimate recovery.
I will not go into detail about these inequities in the world economy. Many of the countries represented here experience it as terrible deprivations, and indeed, their very survival is threatened. This syndrome has been described very accurately. Data on the annual South-North flow of dollars make further comments unnecessary.
What I do want to point out to the Assembly is that in Argentina's current crisis, which is similar in essence to that of many other Latin American countries, the determining factor is the deformation of our economy, coinciding with the perversion of world trade.
In this respect, we are committed to a thoroughgoing reorganization, halting hyper-inflation, streamlining the State and replacing a ruinous economy riddled with financial speculation by what we call the "productive revolution", so that one who works in the productive chain may benefit.
We realize that it would be inconsistent to call for a fair external order while maintaining injustice and disorder within our own borders. Therefore, our mandate began with a thorough restructuring of our own economic and financial organization. Within a few weeks we have managed to curb the hyper-inflationary process, to lower interest rates and contain the dollar parity. However, we are aware that this internal reorganization would only be a partial effort if not accompanied by economic change on a global scale, because at the world level also, at least in the sphere of the capitalist countries, we suffer from a disease, the privilege of the financial circles - and that of speculation - to the detriment of the fundamental element, productivity. Currency ceases to be a symbol of values and trade becomes the dominating factor of the economy.
Confronted with this reality, our country is taking action at the regional level, from our immediate frontiers, to implement a policy of growing integration and co-operation with our Latin American brothers. Intensive work is being carried out to consolidate and integrate a system of trade, technological exchange and co-operation for production, based upon concrete agreements. Thus, the real content of this effort will be in the hands of businessmen and will not be only at the State level. We trust that in time this important initiative will become the corner-stone of this unity of peoples that is the natural destiny of Latin Americans. However, this task is not limited to our continent. We are trying to extend it to many other countries through trade and technological co-operation.
I have tried to point to some of the central aspects of our position with regard to international problems. We firmly believe that the United Nations has before it a very important task to correct deviations and find the avenues we all desire. The Organization has a mandate, specified in Article 1, paragraph 3, is:
"To achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character ...".
This objective is broad and far from being achieved. None the less, we feel that more than ever it is the essential task of the United Nations to manage the major world problems to the benefit of all and not just at the discretion of a few, even though they are the most powerful.
I repeat. There are not three worlds. There are no levels of mankind that can be ignored. There are no continents that can be left out. There is no individual salvation. The twenty-first century will by built by everyone in the world or the twenty-first century will be a mere illusion. It is essential to avoid any irreparable division of the world, a division that may no longer be political but rather economic.
Our country, like the vast majority of developing countries, aspires to active co-operation with the industrialized countries which, in turn, are affected by the contradictions resulting from their technological growth. This attitude was made clear at the recent Belgrade Conference of Heads of State of the Non-Aligned Countries. There, constructive co-operation prevailed over confrontational impulses.
To conclude, I wish to make an appeal, I should like my words to reach the conscience of all, to reach each heart, without distinction as to creed, dogma, political colours or national factions. I should like each of us to look the other in the eye and to ask ourselves sincerely and frankly? Is this the world our children deserve? Can we feel proud of the world our children will inherit tomorrow? Will we be satisfied when, in the near future, the voice of history and of our blood summons us to judgement?
We cannot mortgage the present. We cannot kill our hope. We cannot murder our dreams. The twenty-first century is not merely a rhetorical turn of phrase. It is not a mere publicity slogan, nor is it a new technological goal. Fundamentally, the twenty-first century is represented in each and every one of c children and young people. The twenty-first century has the face and the look of millions and millions of children and youth, who, today, at this very moment, demand that we face our responsibilities with the intelligence and greatness needed to rule the destiny of the world. The twenty-first century must not be a century of war, anguish, death, hunger, alienation, collective madness, indifference, disease, backwardness or ignorance. Today poverty prevents a billion people from having a minimally acceptable standard of living. One out of five human beings suffers this terrible humiliation, in the last 24 hours - please listen to me - some 40,000 children under the age of five have died from causes related to poor economic conditions. Faced with that situation, we cannot look the other way and feign ignorance. The future cannot be measured in terms of material wealth or poverty alone. We must fight hunger among poor children, and we must also be concerned with the despair of rich children.
In the poor countries, they cannot find the economic means for education, work or well-being, or for survival itself. In the industrialized countries, they feel threatened by education characterized by cruel competitiveness. They are denied the space and time they need for fantasy, and they are forced to enter a world where important values are not always kept alive. In both instances, the developed and under-developed, the young feel confronted by a "closed world". The twenty-first century cannot be the mere perpetuation of such a mirage.
I insist we must ask ourselves a question deep within ourselves, a question that may seem cruel and compromising: can we truly feel happy with the universe we have created? Can we look our children and young people in the eye and tell them without hypocrisy that we are going to bequeath to them a world in which it is worthwhile to live? Can we say "mission accomplished" with a sigh of relief? Can we sleep peacefully while a single defenceless human being is dying from lack of food, medicine, education or love?
I know the answer will not satisfy us, but because I know the answer will bring us together in our conscience, I wish to leave you with this final appeal. Children and young people are the best measure of our behaviour and our decisions. They must be the protagonists of a twenty-first century of hope, rather than becoming the victims of a new millennium of horror. That is why I take as mine the words of His Holiness Pope Paul VI, words that are an appeal and a commitment for all men of good will: "Peace is obviously more than the absence of war. Peace is development; and without development peace is an illusion".


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿At the outset, let me convey to you, Sir, my warm and heartfelt congratulations on your election 
as President of the General Assembly at its forty-fifth session. Your experience 
and wisdom guarantee the success of our endeavours. I would also like to convey 
our delegation's appreciation to General Garba  who so efficiently guided our 
proceedings at the forty-fourth session. 

We reiterate our welcome to the newly born Republic of Namibia as an 
independent State, thus putting an end to one of the most conflict-laden and unfair 
situations in recent history. We also welcome the Principality of Liechtenstein as 
a new State member of our Organization, and we reassure its delegation that we are 
willing to co-operate with it in the common purposes that guide our presence in the 
United Nations. 

During the past year we have witnessed fundamental transformations in 
international relations. The far-reaching changes that have taken place in the 
countries of Eastern Europe and the commendable improvement in East-West relations 
have made it possible to join international Public opinion in forecasting the end 
of the cold war. 


The reunification of Yemen has taken place. In a few days we shall witness 
the unification of Germanys, which will put an end to the painful period of division 
of its people and will solve this most glaring of the remaining issues of the Second 
World War in Europe. We hope that in a not-too-distant future the presence of 
Korea will further strengthen the universality of our Organisation. 

We are also witno8sing the realisation of the hope for an end to racism and 
discrimination in South Africa, the achievement of progress towards solving many 
complex situations in South-East Asia and an almost complete return to democratic 
rule in Latin America. These are all signs of the strengthening of the United 
Nations, beginning with detente and the end of the policy of opposing blocs. They 
also imply a renewal in the practices of United Nations organs and a return to the 
spirit of San Francisco, free of ideological content exemplified by an age of 
confrontation that we have already left behind. Here, we can but pay a special tribute 
to Secretary-General Peres de Guellar, whose untiring efforts have contributed in 
large measure to those achievements. 

History, however, is not linear. The enormous progress made by the international community during this past year in reconstituting the spirit of San 
Francisco has met a violent challenge. The invasion of Kuwait by Iraq has darkened  the light of this new era. 

The Argentine people, together with the international community, is deeply 
concerned and afflicted by this episode born of aggression and of disregard for the 
most fundamental rules of international coexistence. My Government condemns Iraq's 
aggression and, in conformity with Security Council resolutions, demands the 
immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi troops from Kuwait and the 
restoration of the authority of the legitimate Government of that country. 

Another source of concern is the situation in which the Kuwaiti people and the 
hundreds of thousands of foreign refugees in the area find themselves. My 
Government urges Iraq to apply the 1949 Geneva Conventions and the 1977 Additional 
Protocols regarding the protection of civilian persons in time of war and to permit 
immediately all foreigners who wish to do so to leave Kuwait and Iraq. 

However, we believe that these expressions are not enough, because we face a 
new fact: the first challenge to the order that has emerged since the ending of 
the cold war. This is a challenge that takes us back to a Past we wish to leave 
behind - a past based on confrontation and the use of force which severely hampered 
the functioning of our Organisation. 

This is why we are opposed to those who propose aggression and terrorism, and in so doing we  favour the implementation of the operative mechanisms envisaged in 
the Charter as the sole safeguard for the less powerful countries and as the
guarantee of peace for the international community. 

It is in that context that my Government has decided to send a force, which 
will join the international undertaking aimed at securing the implementation of 
United Nations resolutions imposing sanctions against Iraq for its invasion of 
Kuwait. 

This action in the part of my government confirms its resolves to assume fully its international commitments. In the building of the post-cold-war world, all members of the international community, without exception, are responsible for keeping international peace and security, in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the charter. 

Our endorsement of the principle of the peaceful settlements of disputes applies to another issue, one whose importance for my country is well known. I refer to the question of Maldivas islands. As the General assembly is aware my country has restored diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom, thus initiating the process of normalization that is already bearing fruit.
This new situation is possible thanks to the political decision of President Menem to come to an agreement with the British government on a formula that protects the sovereign rights of Argentina
over the Malvinas, South Georgia, and South Sandwich islands, which cannot be relinquished. Its implementation enables us to advance in the strengthening of our bilateral relations while we search for ways and means to solve existing differences. The Argentina government
believes that this new climate between the two countries must also facilitate, at the appropriate time, the resumption of negotiations on sovereignty repeatedly called for by the General Assembly.

Meanwhile, both countries need to work out special and creative arrangements which, while adequately taking into account the interests of the islanders, will permit cooperation between the Argentine continental territory and the islands. This would allow us to solve the existing lack of contact, which is anachronistic and inconsistent with the current atmosphere of good will in the relations between Argentina and the United Kingdom. 

The Argentina government once again expresses its political will to put an end to this situation of isolation and to comply fully with the General Assembly resolutions on the Malvinas Islands.

The solution reached in political situations of conflict provides clear  evidence that organization is fulfilling its ideas of peace and co-operation. My government is convinced that the United Nations can help to bring about a peaceful settlement of the international conflicts that still exist. 

The new international situation will allow the organization to plan a relevant 
role in the conflicts in the western Sahara and Cambodia. Special mention should
be made on the positive efforts of the five permanent members of the Security Council 
in preparing the peace plan for Cambodia. 

However, we are concerned that, in spite of the countless efforts and the progress achieved 
towards the peaceful settlement of many regional conflicts, the international community is still in doubt because it has not found a peaceful, just and lasting solution to the question of Palestine. My government, which has joined in the efforts of the international community to find a peaceful and comprehensive solution to this question, considers that the United Nations should not fail to take advantage of the unique opportunity offered by the present international situation, so as to enable the Palestinian people to achieve the recognition and exercise of its legitimate rights through a just and negotiated solution. 

Co-operation and dialogue must prevail over any other objective, so that all states of the region may be able to live together in peace and harmony. In addition, we believe that in order for Israel to realize that the United nations promoting a just an unbiased solution, it would be advisable to forgo the offending references based on analogies between Zionism and racism that emerge in times of confrontation and contribute little to the search for a constructive dialogue. 


The process of democratic reform in Latin America will determine the role of 
that region in the new course of world events. The establishment of newly elected 
governments in Chile and Nicaragua, and the negotiations between the Government of 
El Salvador and the rebel forces since the agreements arrived at in Geneva in 
April, confirms this tread towards democracy , tolerance and political pluralism. At the  
same time, we observe more and more often the far-reaching process of 
economic reform and renewed initiatives for integration on the part of the Latin 
American countries and of America as a whole, which allow us to hope that the 
nations of this continent will move in the direction of development, modernization 
and international security. 

Argentina gives special relevance to the challenge implied in the commitment assumed with Brazil  to structure a common market to be completed towards the end of 1994.  
We are striving to ensure that this initiative  will involved other sister states of Latin America also. 

In a world that is constantly shrinking  as a result of technological progress, generating an international system that is increasingly interdependent and complex, 
there is a need for transparent foreign policy actions that will generate trust in 
relations between states. These relations must adapt to the fundamental changes in the political and economic criteria that prevail in the world. Whereas at the 
political level we see that there is a irreversible tendency to reaffirm human  
rights and pluralism, as against dictatorship and authoritarianism, which are 
irreparably on the decline, at the economic level we see the reopening of markets 
as against State interventionism and protectionism. 

The domestic policy decisions adopted by the Government of my country since 
mid-1989 coincide with these profound international changes, pursuing as they do 
the strengthening of freedom and democracy, on the one hand, and the economic reform and the opening up of our economy on the other, all in order to fit 
politically and economically into the new international reality. 


In this new context, at the international level there prevails a clear 
tendency to reform paralysing State structures to allow the demonopolization and
deregulation of economic activities and to create a competitive, productive system 
as an indispensable basis for development. 



Our Government joins in these trends with the firm resolve to become an 
integral part of the global economy, in order to put an end to marginality and the dead 
end of increasing indebtedness without development. This calls for an 
adjustment of our rules of the game in order to reverse stagnation, making the 
country a recipient of capital that may act as a dynamic force for our human and 
natural resources. 



Two systems were born in the post-war period, systems to which my country has adhered and 
which should, in its opinion, be strengthened. I refer to the ones 
born in san Francisco and Bretton Woods, which reinforce each other‘, since peace 
and security are the basic requirements for stability and economic growth. 

However, the confrontation between the two super-Powers prevented the two 
orders from fully working. Today, the generalized accession of the socialist 
economies to the main international financial institutions and the end of the cold 
war are opening up a new chapter in the future of international co-operation, 
making it possible to envision the configuration of one world, increasingly 
integrated and co-operative. 

In this context, we look toward an international trading system, free of distortions and barriers, one that may allow all members of the international community to become part of the global economy, according to their potential and possibilities. In this connection, the practice of subsidising the production and export of agricultural products - which is seriously affecting the efficient producer countries - must be avoided. 

My country is taking part in the ongoing negotiations of the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), in the belief that on them depends to a 
great extent the multilateral solution to the expanding current trade conflicts and 
the future of international economic co-operation. In the economic field also we 
are facing a conflict between the law of the stronger, with a return to the trade 
wars of the period between the wars, on the one hand, and, on the other, 
multilateral agreements that reinforce the Bretton Woods system. 

In the last few years the increasing need for co-operation between countries and their interdependence in respect of problems that transcend national boundaries 
and demand broader and more co-ordinated responses -problems such as the 
environment, human rights and drugs, have become characteristic of the 
international system and offer a fertile context for international co-operation and 
thy work of our Organization. 

Environmental considerations make it necessary to identify models which can be 
sustained without depleting the resources that feed them. We are fully aware of 
the need to take, at the national level, every step that will ensure that future 
generations enjoy the resources we have received. We also know that in many cases national efforts will not be enough in themselves, and we are trying to find, 
especially at the regional level, a way to implement concerted and effective 
conservation initiatives. Some serious problems, which have not, in general, been 

caused by the developing countries , are of a global nature, and we are committed to 
the common effort to halt deterioration and bring about environmental recovery. 

The Conference on Environment and Development, whose preparatory work is under 
way, will be a favourable arena in which to demonstrate the new spirit of 
co-operation that is needed to solve shared problems. 

Illicit trafficking in drugs can be affectively controlled only if all members 
of the international community act in  a concerted fashion toward that end; in this 
respect, my country has endorsed the political declaration and global plan of 
action adopted during the seventeenth special session of the General Assembly 
devoted to the question of narcotic drugs. 

The individual and collective dimensions of human rights are complementary, 
and come together for the benefit of human beings in such a way that civil and 
political rights are as important as economic, social and cultural rights. we are 
convinced that the former are no more  important than the latter - and indeed no
less important - and that the exercise of some cannot serve as a pretext for 
denying the exercise of others. 

The serious events that have taken place in recent weeks have created a 
historical emergency, and we must therefore co-operate vigorously to make a world 
which is safer in its search for peace. On this global scene, our Organisation has 
a crucial role to play; we already possess the necessary structures for discussion, 
and all we have to do is adapt the existing executive mechanisms. We must rely on 
our collective imagination in order to find the fastest and safest way to that end. 

we are witnessing renewed dynamism in the Security Council, which is 
undoubtedly the result of a new philosophy of co-operation on the part of the 
super-powers in respect of regional and international conflicts. It is imperative 
for the work of the Council to be strengthened in an atmosphere free of mistrust and confrontation. 

Once again, today the eyes of all the peoples of the world are on this forum, 
aware and hopeful that the Organisation can contribute towards the creation of a  safer and more just world. This century has seen played out countless wars and 
conflicts which made us doubt whether the principles of the Charter could be 
enforced and whether it was possible to leave future generations a world free of 
the scourge of war, a world in which the fundamental rights of man, the dignity and 
value of the human person and the equality of rights between men and women and 
nations great and small would be in force and observed. In the final years of this 
century, the international community cannot fail to take up the challenge of 
putting into practice the ideals of the founders of organisation.


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿At the outset, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly for this session. I have no doubt that, like your predecessor, you will guide its proceedings to a very successful conclusion.We extend our welcome to the new States Members of our Organisation - the Republic of Korea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands - which widen and strengthen its universal framework. We also welcome the entry into membership of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, countries which have regained their liberty after the long night that followed upon the infamous Molotov-Von Ribbentrop Treaty. Of course, Argentina was among the first nations to recognise their independence.We would also like to congratulate and thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Peres de Cuellar, for the way in which he has fulfilled his sensitive mandate. We are extremely proud that he is a Latin American. His term of office has been the most active ever in our Organisation's history, and he discharged it masterfully. No doubt, his thoughts and recommendations will be valuable contributions to the future of the United Nations.The end of the cold war has established a completely new international framework. In a world from which conflicts will undoubtedly not vanish, but where the worst threats have been dispelled, the United Nations has an invaluable role to play as guarantor for these promising realities. Argentina is committed to supporting the endeavours of the United Nations. In that context, we reaffirm our support of the system of collective security enshrined in the Charter and in particular to the central role of the Security Council in maintaining peace.My country is building a sound political and economic stability, thanks to which we Argentines can now make long-term plans. The Argentina of today is doing very well in a process that began in 1983 and has been solidly entrenched since 1989. We are living through profound transformations, and it is no mere coincidence that this should be taking place at a time when the entire world is strengthening the foundations of a new world order.The changes in Argentina are the outcome of three serious crises over the past 15 years. The best thing that a country can do is to avoid crises; the next best is to learn from them, and that is what my country has done. The restoration of democracy was accelerated by the human rights crisis and the Malvinas crisis. Finally, the transformation of our foreign policy came as a result of our realising that our isolationist attitude of past decades was ineffective and led to confrontation. The crisis of the State-controlled economic model in 19S9 produced serious instances of hyperinflation which led us to a radical change of course in our economic thinking and to today's openness and stability.The crises in hyperinflation, foreign policy and human rights together generated a total renewal of the country's internal and external economic and political profiles. Argentina has stepped firmly into a new era. This is a process that coincides with deep-rooted trends affecting the entire planet and many Members of the United Nations. In our case, the key to this evolution is that the strengthening of freedom and democracy go hand in hand with economic reform and openness. He can say with great satisfaction that the legitimacy of these reforms was reaffirmed by the results of the elections held recently in my country on 8 September, when the principal political forces coincided in supporting the policy of economic stability.Since 1989, Argentina's foreign policy has been marked by our will to join in the new international order, by the defence of our interests and by our international reaffirmation of democratic values. Furthermore, as a Latin American country we aspire to the consolidation of a greater Latin American nation encompassing the entire region. In the heart of all Latin Americans is a kind of nostalgia for such a greater homeland. Our joining in this new order has been affirmed by a number of specific measures, such as our active support of the Security Council during the Gulf crisis, which included the sending of military personnel; our current contribution of observers to various peace-keeping operations; and our explicit support for the processes of change in Eastern Europe.Additional proof of our willingness to cooperate and our commitment to International peace and security can be seen in our excellent and Mutually beneficial current relations with the United Kingdom. This has occurred under the umbrella of a formula agreed upon with the British Government that protects the inalienable sovereign rights of Argentina over the Malvinas, South Georgias and South Sandwich Islands.Concerning this issue I reiterate that the Argentine Government believes that the new climate between the two countries should also - at the right time - facilitate the resumption of negotiations regarding sovereignty as this General Assembly has repeatedly requested.The encouraging process of integration between Argentina and Brazil has great relevance, due to the intense efforts involved and its transforming consequences for our countries and the region. Last March the two States, together with Paraguay and Uruguay, signed a treaty in Asuncion for the establishment of the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR), which should be set up by 31 December 1994. He have no doubt that the Asuncion Treaty will come to be for our region what the Rome Treaty was for the Community. What we are saying is not a small matter, but nor is what is at stake.The magnitude of this regional economic area becomes evident if we consider that the population of the participating countries is 190 million and their gross domestic product (GDP) more than $400 billion, that is, 2 6 per cent of the GDP and 51 per cent of the population of Latin America and the Caribbean.At the same time, we consider that the Americas Initiative formulated by the President of the United States is a positive proposal. It encourages us to work together with solidarity and on equitable grounds and on the basis of concrete facts such as trade, the debt and investment. The framework agreement recently signed in Washington between the United States and the emerging MERCOSUR is also very promising for a future of fruitful cooperation in our sub regional relations with that country.Thanks to important agreements recently signed with Chile, it will soon be possible to say that there are no longer any points of disagreement in the demarcation of the long boundary between Argentina and its sister country, and this opens up the possibility of carrying on an intensive programme of economic cooperation, which is crucial for both nations.With Brazil we have also made significant progress in other sensitive areas. Last August our Presidents signed an agreement on the use of nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes. Negotiations are also going on between the two countries on the one hand and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on the other, for a safeguards agreement that will enable IAEA to monitor nuclear facilities in Argentina and Brazil in order to verify that our nuclear programmes are exclusively for peaceful purposes.In this respect, I should like to reaffirm that the Argentine space programme is solely one of peace and cooperation, fully transparent and subject to the existing international safeguards. That is why we have decided to adhere to the missile technology control regime.Together with Brazil and Chile we have taken the historic step of pledging not to manufacture chemical or biological weapons. In this very concrete way our countries definitively exclude the possibility that the southern tip of the Americas might be affected by the consequences of the irrational use of scientific progress. In this context, I wish to reaffirm my country's firm commitment to eliminate all weapons of mass destruction from the Latin American region.I explicitly reaffirm our commitment to the respect of human rights and political pluralism both within and outside our borders. The new era which began with the end of the cold war is characterized precisely by the triumph of these political ideals and of the market economy as its most efficient instrument. The consolidation of these new and positive circumstances demands steadfast resistance to any abandoning of principles. The Argentine Government refuses to be an accomplice to the justification, under any pretext, of the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Economic and social rights are no less important than civil and political ones, but the attainment of the former cannot be used as a pretext for denying the exercise of the latter. The imposing of conditions for the effective exercise of human rights has been resorted to time and again by non-democratic regimes.The Argentine Government also emphasises the right of the international community to point the finger at those responsible for gross and systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Argentine Government therefore takes an active part in the Commission on Human Rights and has ratified the Inter-American Pact on Human Rights. At the last Assembly of the Organisation of American States (OAS), held in Santiago, Chile, we signed a declaration of multilateral commitment to the defence of democracy. There is only one real lacuna in the efforts for the consolidation of the Latin American region. My Government is eager to ensure that Cuba will very soon, in peace, return to the international community, emphasising a market economy and the defence of human rights, issues that are already being addressed by their former colleagues of Eastern Europe.Our recent withdrawal from the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries reflects our view that the end of the cold war and the establishment of a new international order have deprived the very concept of non-alignment of meaning. It reflects also our frustration at the movement's refusal to commit itself unequivocally on matters such as those mentioned above, which go beyond the opinion and behaviour of many of their member countries. We are firmly committed to the protection of the environment and to the fight against drug trafficking. These are areas in which, for the sake of higher principles linked with the interests of mankind, the international community has the right to exercise effective control. Here we note with particular satisfaction the convening of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, to take place next year in the sister republic of Brazil.On the other hand, Argentinean foreign policy is at the service of the Argentine people, and is inspired by democratic ethics. For decades the Argentine Republic suffered a constant and growing impoverishment, the main victims of which were its people. Confrontational foreign policies brought about high costs, which were suffered above all by the poor and the needy. My Government has chosen to eliminate useless confrontation from its foreign policy because it considers that such confrontation is counterproductive to its own interests, as well as to those of the new international order. This it an instance in which morality converges with pragmatism, and in which defending legitimate material interests is equivalent to defending principles.At the same time we emphatically demand that an end be put to the protectionist practices that are distorting the international markets for agricultural products through production support measures and export subsidies. These policies do not have a rational economic foundation either for the countries that apply them or for us. On the one hand they do not allow efficient producers to place their agricultural exports and on the other it punishes the contributors and consumers and the largely urban sectors of those countries which implement these policies of protection. Furthermore, these policies promote serious ecological degradation, which is brought about by these production methods and the excessive use of chemicals, which cannot be sustained by the environment. That leads to a greater environmental Imbalance than the very serious destruction of the tropical forests. On the other hand, there is a flagrant asymmetry in trade practices that tolerate subsidies to agricultural exports while banning those to industrial exports. Only very rich countries could apply such mistaken policies, but even they jeopardise global productivity and risk their future competitiveness by applying such policies.We are convinced that the elimination of all subsidies will be beneficial for all nations. He will continue our struggle in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and in agreement with the other members of the Cairns Group until we achieve this goal. We expect the clear support of the United States and the understanding of the Community as regards the need for reform. The future, no less than that of international economic cooperation, depends on our ability to find a multilateral solution to these problems in order to avoid destructive trade wars and safeguard the positive spirit of Bretton Woods.In order to create firm economic links with the Western European countries, Argentina has signed agreements on the promotion and mutual guarantee of investments, and is willing to negotiate agreements for the elimination of double taxation, which will facilitate the normal flow of capital in both directions. At the same time, we have rescheduled our debt with the Paris Club.We look forward to more flexible Interaction with the European Economic Community. We trust that the framework agreement signed a little over a year ago and the agreement signed in April 1991 on the establishment of a delegation in Buenos Aires will strengthen relations and facilitate exchanges. I should like to refer to my country's position regarding three specific issues - aspects of the current world situation that are of particular interest to my Government.Among the many positive changes that have taken place in the world, we are encouraged by the South African Government's programme of political, social and economic reforms, aimed at dismantling the unfair system of apartheid completely and forever and at paving the way for the building of a new South Africa. That is why we have decided to re-establish diplomatic relations with that State. This step is one indication of our commitment, together with the international pressure, to the establishment of a fair and democratic society in South Africa, based on the principle of one man, one vote and on the total elimination of racial discrimination.On the other hand, it is a matter of concern to us that, in spite of countless efforts and steps forward towards a peaceful solution to many regional conflicts, the international community has not yet found a just, peaceful and definitive solution to the question of Palestine. We support the call of the United States for the convening of a peace conference in the region, aimed at achieving a satisfactory and final solution to the various issues at stake, including the restitution of occupied territories and recognition of the right to secure and internationally recognized boundaries. In this context, the Argentine Government, as was stated last year in the General Assembly, believes that the time has come to leave behind offensive language based on analogies between Zionism and racism. That would help to create a climate of agreement that would facilitate the current diplomatic initiatives.In regard to our Latin American region, I with to express the Argentine Republic's support for the ongoing efforts to reach a definitive solution to the conflict involving El Salvador. I wish to reaffirm my Government's recognition of the role of the Secretary-General and that of his Special Representative. I wish to note also the positive attitude of the Government of El Salvador in the search for consensus based on peace, justice and the consolidation of democracy in that sister nation. We valued particularly President Cristiani's visit to Argentina this month.All of mankind's hopes for the remaining years of this century converge in assigning a key role to the United Nations. In that sense, 1991 has been a revealing and decisive year in overcoming scepticism. The Security Council, in particular, has shown its effectiveness, thanks to the cooperation born of the end of the cold war. It is up to us to see that these positive trends continue to be strengthened. The United Nations is undoubtedly the proper forum to discuss problems and to find solutions and ensure their implementation. Accordingly, we must commit ourselves to the most stringent respect for our Charter and to the most united and enthusiastic defence of the spirit that it embodies.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
I should 
like to congratulate the President on his election. I am convinced that his 
work at this session will be crowned with success, as was that of his 
predecessor. Ambassador Shihabi, to whom we express our gratitude for his 
outstanding work. 
We have noted with satisfaction how our Organization, in keeping with its 
universalist vocation, has increased its membership in the course of the past 
year. We welcome the delegations of Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and 
 
68 
Herzegovina, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Moldova, Georgia, 
Kazakhstan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, and San Marino. Their presence 
is perhaps the clearest demonstration of the deep-seated and positive changes 
that have occurred in important parts of the world since the end of the cold 
war. 
Moreover, we would like to extend our recognition to the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, for his hard and valuable work in the 
course of the first year of his term of office, thereby continuing the 
excellent job done by his predecessor, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar. The 
Secretary-General's stewardship has already had a sizeable impact on the 
current international situation. 
In our view, the general panorama of international relations, despite 
some serious regional conflicts, gives rise to promising prospects throughout 
the world. The end of the cold war and the considerable extension of 
democracy and the economic opening-up in many countries encourage that 
perception. This will necessarily lead to a reformulation of the North-South 
relationship that will replace confrontation with cooperation. That 
perception does not imply ignoring the seriousness of some regional conflicts, 
in particular in the former Yugoslavia or the tragic situation of such 
countries as Somalia. Neither war, hunger, poverty nor disease has been 
eliminated. Far from it: situations persist that evoke horror and concern. 
Moreover, in some regions there are still significant disputes that, 
though lacking the tragic aspects of the troubles I have mentioned, none the 
less impede the consolidation of stability. The case of the Malvinas Islands, 
to which I shall refer later, is one example. In that regard, the situation 
has unfortunately been affected recently by unilateral positions taken by the 
British Government on the sensitive matters of hydrocarbons. 
 
69-70 
In any case, apart from these issues, in recent years the world has taken 
important steps towards creating a better framework for solving serious 
problems. The fundamental change has undoubtedly been the more effective 
functioning of the system of collective security established in San Francisco 
in 1945. That major development is the prerequisite for moving towards full 
respect for the purposes and principles of this Organization. 
That explains the fundamental role of the Security Council, to which the 
Charter allocated paramount responsibility for the maintenance of 
international peace and security, and the necessity for all States firmly to 
support that body and implement its decisions. 
Convinced of that, in keeping with Article 25 of the Charter we strongly 
support the decisions of the Security Council. We did so with regard to the 
Gulf by participating in the coalition to liberate Kuwait, and we continue to 
do so through our increasingly active presence in the peace-keeping operations 
of the United Nations. 
 
71 
Our support of the Security Council flows from our deeply-rooted beliefs 
about the rules of conduct of civilized nations, from an appropriate 
assessment of the world power balance and from our perception of Argentina's 
actual interests. After long years of miscalculations and frustrations, today 
Argentina needs to grow and develop. Our chances of doing so depend to a 
great extent on our own efforts, but also on the existence of a world and 
regional context of dialogue and cooperation that will enable us to devote our 
energy and resources to that task. As a result, we also favour the regional 
development of more specific formulas for cooperation with the United Nations. 
There can be no doubt that the United Nations cannot on its own guarantee 
the climate of detente that we need, which is to say that each region should 
create mechanisms of its own. We, therefore, together with other American 
countries, have supported reforms to the charter of the Organization of 
American States with a view to giving it the power to respond politically to 
breakdowns in democracy in our hemisphere. The organization is studying 
specific responses, which we trust will soon be adopted. 
By the same token, we have contributed, together with our neighbours, to 
consolidating a promising subregional framework. The climate of harmony and 
cooperation between the countries of the southern cone is a veritable example 
for the world, and is the result of promising agreements on economic 
integration, such as the Southern Cone Common Market, and of specific measures 
to build confidence and transparency in the area of security. Our countries 
are firmly united in the struggle against the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction. Argentina, for its part, has turned this struggle into one of 
the fundamental axes of its foreign policy. 
The achievements have been particularly significant in the relationship 
between Argentina and Brazil; in a few short months, we have signed a 
 
72 
bilateral agreement on nuclear safeguards, set up a bilateral agency for 
accounting and control of nuclear materials, signed an agreement on full 
safeguards with the International Atomic Energy Agency - which has already 
been ratified by my country and have successfully pushed for amendments to 
the Treaty of Tlatelolco to allow it to come fully into force. 
In this latter effort we have also joined with Chile and, later, with 
Mexico. The changes to the Treaty of Tlatelolco are very positive, since they 
offer guarantees that did not exist before on the control system, special 
inspections and the protection of technological secrets. Argentina, Brazil 
and Chile have committed themselves to beginning the process of legislative 
approval of the amendments promptly. We are sure that in a few months all of 
Latin America and the Caribbean will be protected by a nuclear-free zone in 
full operation. 
In addition to measures taken in the nuclear area, the southern cone 
countries have signed the so-called Mendoza Declaration on chemical and 
bacteriological weapons. This model document, which eradicates these weapons 
from our region, is in complete conformity with the Convention on Chemical 
Weapons recently negotiated in Geneva; that Convention has Argentina's 
support, and is an undeniable triumph in the struggle against the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
Argentina's firm commitment in this area has also been reflected in 
concrete form in our domestic legislation. This year the Argentine Government 
issued a decree which regulates sensitive nuclear, chemical, bacteriological 
and missile exports, and incorporates major international agreements, such as 
the Missile-Technology Control Regime (MTCR) outlines and the so-called 
Australian "List of chemicals", into Argentina's legal system. It also 
stipulates that Argentina shall coordinate its actions in the area of 
 
73 
non-proliferation with other countries that have a similar approach. We plan 
to accept the invitation to join the group of nuclear-exporting countries in 
the near future. Naturally, if the main elements of the MTCR are incorporated 
into Argentine legislation, they would expect our country to become a member 
of that system. 
I should like to emphasize that, besides contributing effectively to 
non-proliferation, the new policy should serve to reopen Argentina's access to 
high technology through international cooperation. Its former ambiguous 
policy in this regard was a major obstacle in this field and was responsible, 
to a great extent, for the technological backwardness of our country, and for 
hindering procurement even of spare parts and minor supplies for our defence. 
Another important contribution to stability in our part of the world has 
been the complete normalization of diplomatic relations between Argentina and 
the United Kingdom and the development of growing and fruitful economic and 
trade links between the two. However, the dispute concerning sovereignty over 
the Malvinas, Georgia and South Sandwich islands still persists. Today I 
reaffirm the sovereign rights of my country over these territories and their 
maritime areas. The permanent defence and reaffirmation of these inalienable 
rights are at the core of Argentine foreign policy. 
Thus, the recent decision of the United Kingdom Government to move 
unilaterally into prospecting for oil in the area in dispute is strongly 
rejected by my country. This rejection has been immediately transmitted to 
the United Kingdom Government and to the potential prospecting companies. 
This imprudent step by the United Kingdom stands in the way of the real 
opportunities for cooperation in the South Atlantic and does not strengthen 
the good bilateral relationship in which both countries are strongly 
interested. 
 
74 
These developments hinder our developing creative and pragmatic formulas 
which, without undermining our inalienable rights, would foster cooperation in 
the South Atlantic. We are convinced that the establishment of a cooperative 
framework rather than of a confrontational one would benefit all those who 
live in the South Atlantic area, including the inhabitants of the Malvinas. 
It is the duty of the Argentine and British Governments to do their utmost 
towards that end by overcoming major problems such as the ones that I have 
described. 
The Secretary-General is the author of the document entitled "An Agenda 
for Peace" (A/47/277), which is a fundamental contribution towards outlining 
the future structure of the United Nations. The document clearly indicates 
what road must be taken to strengthen the Organization, particularly in the 
area of preventing and ending conflicts. Argentina supports this document, 
which is to a great extent in line with the conclusions of the Rio Group. We 
share, in particular, the opinion of the Secretary-General that it is 
necessary to set in motion all the mechanisms of collective security provided 
for in the Charter, in a framework of strict observance of the areas of 
competence established therein. 
Peace-keeping operations have become one of the main instruments of the 
international community. This year we have witnessed an unprecedented 
participation by the Blue Helmets in four continents. Argentina has decided, 
for its part, as a major component of its foreign policy, to participate 
actively in this new development by providing military personnel and materiel. 
In that connection, I wish to point out that the financing of 
peace-keeping operations must be effected in a manner that balances the need 
to ensure the effectiveness of such operations and the financial capabilities 
of Member States. In that connection, we emphasize the special 
 
75 
responsibilities of the permanent members of the Security Council in that 
respect, as well as the greater capability of the more economically developed 
countries to cope with such expenditures. 
The Secretary-General's report is at the same time an essential document 
in the development of appropriate responses to current conflicts. Some of 
these need decisive action on the part of the international community. 
It is vital for us to continue to exert maximum pressure to put an end to 
the tragedy in former Yugoslavia. Argentina supports the steps taken by the 
Security Council, the Secretary-General and the European Economic Community, 
and joins with those who demand respect for self-determination, for minorities 
and for the boundaries of the republics of former Yugoslavia. 
The tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with which Argentina is in the 
process of establishing diplomatic relations, is a challenge to us all. We 
join in the appeal to all parties to respect the principles I have mentioned, 
and we demand that Belgrade contribute effectively to putting an end to the 
aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
The presence of more than a thousand Argentine soldiers in the United 
Nations Protection Force bears witness to our interest in a solution that 
respects both the Charter of the United Nations and international law. 
We are also following, with concern, the difficulties in Cambodia and the 
lack of progress in Western Sahara, and we are following political 
developments in southern Africa with great attention. Argentina, for its 
part, is paying particular attention to the special situation in South 
Africa. Argentina and South Africa share the South Atlantic area and have 
 
75(a-z) 
great opportunities for future cooperation. That is why we again urge the 
Government, the African National Congress of South Africa and all parties 
involved in the search for a concerted solution to persevere, through 
negotiations, in their efforts to find a solution to the serious problem 
created by the policy of apartheid. The process of eradicating these terrible 
practices must be completed and, at the same time, the establishment of a 
democratic, free and peaceful society must be ensured in that great country. 
 
76 
I have mentioned the South Atlantic. We are firmly convinced that the 
time has come for all the countries involved to set up concrete mechanisms of 
cooperation in that important maritime area. The South Atlantic is one of the 
few areas in the world on which there are no specific agreements. Argentina 
advocates decisive advancement in that area. 
Progress in the Peace Conference strengthens our hope for a solution to 
the Arab-Israeli conflict. We feel that the role of the General Assembly at 
this crucial stage is not so much to ratify well-known positions as it is to 
contribute decisively to promoting agreement and flexibility among the 
parties. Argentina is prepared to cooperate actively in the efforts to 
achieve that goal. We must say that we feel deep admiration and respect for 
the Middle Eastern leaders who have had the courage and vision to put aside 
the rigidity of dialectics and undertake these crucial negotiations with 
determination and in a conciliatory spirit. 
We Argentinians have also suffered the consequences of the irrational 
violence unleashed everywhere as a result of that serious situation. The 
attack carried out last 17 March against the Israeli Embassy in Buenos Aires, 
with its heavy toll, was an unmistakable sign of the tragic imprint left by 
these conflicts at the criminal hands of international terrorism. 
As regards other regional situations, we are pleased to note the current 
progress in the high-level talks between the Cypriot leaders and the 
Secretary-General. As a result, we look forward to a prompt agreement in the 
framework of the good-offices mission of the Secretary-General. We wish to 
commend the parties involved in this conflict, including Greece and Turkey, 
for their spirit of cooperation, and the permanent members of the Security 
Council for their active role in this process. 
 
77 
We reiterate our firm support of the Security Council decisions regarding 
the situation in the Persian Gulf and we insist that Iraq should abide by its 
resolutions and fully respect the human rights of all minorities and of the 
population as a whole. 
One of the essential conditions for peace is the full enjoyment of human 
rights. Argentina reaffirms its active role in the protection and promotion 
of human rights and fundamental liberties in the deliberative international 
bodies on human rights, both at the United Nations and the Organization of 
American States (OAS). 
It is also fitting to mention some serious problems that the 
international community must face, attack and eliminate once and for all. I 
am referring to drug trafficking, terrorism and corruption. 
The first one drug trafficking - is at present a subject deserving of 
concerted action by States. This, however, is not enough. We must get to the 
deepest roots of this scourge at all its stages, from production to 
consumption, and in particular the movement and laundering of its financial 
resources. In their actions in this area, States must recognize the various 
characteristics of the countries that are most involved. Argentina has joined 
and will join any initiative that will allow us to put an end to this malady 
that affects the whole of the international community, without exception. 
As for terrorism, there can be no questions, only an answer in the form 
of the strongest, most determined and implacable commitment of each State to 
struggle against it until it is eradicated. Its activities are always deadly 
and cruel. This year Argentina suffered one of the most savage terrorist 
attacks in the annals of international crime. Our country will support all 
steps or processes that will strengthen law and the respect for standards of 
coexistence among nations. 
 
78 
Finally, the cancer of corruption must be rooted out. It is harmful and 
pernicious and undermines the efforts of States and their civilian societies 
for the healthy development of their political, economic and social 
institutions. Corruption knows no borders and coexists, or attempts to do so, 
with any political or legal system on our planet. Argentina is in the front 
lines of the struggle to combat this crime and to create the mechanisms for 
doing so. 
Allow me to return to our region and refer to some other facts of great 
significance. 
Argentina's foreign policy is geared towards creating an external context 
favourable to the competitive incorporation of Argentina into the world 
economy. In that regard, we have made the Southern Cone Common Market 
(MERCOSUR) the axis of our activity in Latin America. The agreement on trade 
and investment with the United States, called "Four plus One", shows that the 
concepts of MERCOSUR and the Initiative for the Americas are fully 
compatible. With MERCOSUR we endeavour to create a stable external context 
for the economic growth of the four countries through the implementation of 
collective economic discipline freely agreed upon by the parties. The concept 
is characterized by a marked realism as to our potential and limitations. 
MERCOSUR is not, nor could it be, the embryo of a new economic fortress. 
Before the end of 1994 we will have a common external tariff, but we have 
already clearly determined that it must allow for the increasing international 
competitiveness of our economies. It would make no sense to close at the 
subregional level the doors that each of our countries is opening at the 
national level. 
The reference to MERCOSUR leads me to recall that Argentina expects the 
creation of great economic blocs to be the forerunner of freer, more efficient 
 
79 
international trade, not of a greater space to make protectionism legal or to 
disguise clear market reserves. Argentina prefers to believe in the sincerity 
of the purposes stated in the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and in the principles outlined to launch the 
Initiative for the Americas, the same ones that form the basis of the Treaty 
of Asuncion, in which MERCOSUR is defined. But my country notes with 
justifiable concern the way in which the most powerful economies on our planet 
interpret the concept of opening the market, since they promote such opening 
only for those sectors in which their countries are competitive or where they 
themselves exert influence on international prices. 
Part of that conception is to be found in the section on agriculture and 
other decisions that have so far stalled the Uruguay Round of GATT. Precisely 
in the agricultural sector, the leaders of those economies do not display 
excessive courage or desire to put an end to annual subsidies of more than 
$300 billion for production and foreign trade, with which they distort 
international markets and, besides, contribute to environmental degradation. 
Some of their decisions reflect a greater interest in solving minor 
difficulties in domestic policy than in avoiding isolationism and trade wars. 
Only very rich countries can pursue policies that are so harmful and costly 
that they undermine the finances of their urban populations and of course do 
considerable harm to the developing countries. 
This is also an apt occasion to confirm our great satisfaction at the 
political agreements reached by Canada, the United States and Mexico to create 
a free-trade zone. We trust that this achievement will be one of the central 
modules of the broader zone foreseen when launching the Initiative for the 
Americas to make of the hemisphere one great market. While this takes shape, 
 
80 
we are worried at the many legislative attempts fiat tend to hinder the access 
of developing countries to the various international markets. 
Argentina has started a process of sustained economic stability based on 
a market economy in the framework of a democratic system. This has allowed us 
to initiate proceedings for our admission to the Organisation for Economic 
Cooperation and Development (OECD), where we hope to take part in the 
discussion of global and sectoral economic policies that may contribute to 
economic growth. 
At this session, the General Assembly will consider the report of the 
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held at Rio de 
Janeiro. No previous international event had convened so many Heads of State 
or of government. In the framework of the new international situation, it has 
been possible for the first time ever to reach basic agreements on questions 
that are important for the survival of this planet as we know it. 
The progress achieved on the American continent does not preclude the 
persistence of some specific problems. At the last two sessions of the United 
Nations Commission on Human Rights, Argentina made clear its position 
regarding the situation in Cuba. At all times my country has expressed a 
desire that Cuba should bring about the necessary reforms to allow its full 
integration, both political and economic, into the community of democratic, 
pluralistic nations. I repeat that it was expressed as a brotherly wish, not 
as interference in the affairs of that country 
Argentina strongly condemned the coup d'etat against the President of 
Haiti and supported the relevant resolutions adopted by the Organization of 
American States (OAS). I myself was part of the delegation that accompanied 
the Secretary-General of the OAS to Port-au-Prince. We have kept our 
 
80(a-z) 
diplomatic ties with Haiti, have maintained our embassy there and have spared 
no effort to support an understanding between the parties to the conflict. 
As regards El Salvador, the signing of the peace agreement is a landmark 
in the process of peace-making in Central America and we hope that the 
understanding reached can be extended to the rest of the region. 
 
81 
Peru, our sister country on the Pacific, continues to face serious 
problems in its development and progress, suffering the effects of drug 
trafficking and of bloody nihilistic terrorism. We should, however, note the 
advances recently made on that front. We also welcome the process which will, 
we hope, lead to a well-balanced and full return of Peru's representative 
democracy. We are awaiting with close attention and a willingness to 
cooperate the constituent elections of 22 November. 
With regard to Chile, we continue to move slowly and inexorably closer to 
a final solution to all of the unresolved border problems, along the world's 
third longest frontier. Very little still remains to be done before we reach 
a full understanding, which is already yielding fruitful results in advance, 
with greater and very promising economic cooperation. We are replacing a long 
history of discord with a full and fraternal relationship. 
I cannot conclude without commenting on the actions of the Rio Group. I 
reaffirm my conviction that it has proved to be a highly effective mechanism 
for consultations and for reaching political agreements, as was shown in such 
situations as the one which earlier this year endangered institutional 
stability in Venezuela. The Rio Group has also demonstrated an important 
presence and participation in connection with Peru and Haiti. It has provided 
an excellent tool for communication, information and consultation with, 
inter alia, the European Community, with which, in addition to the enormously 
important Santiago Declaration in May of this year, a significant cooperation 
agreement was signed. 
In 1992 we have been able to confirm that the United Nations, free of the 
shackles imposed on it by the cold war, is now fulfilling the essential role 
entrusted to it by mankind in 1945. Although the sources of distress still 
persist, we can affirm that we are moving towards the consolidation of the 
 
82 
ruling principles that guide the United Nations, and we reiterate our hopeful 
conviction that the closing years of the strife-torn twentieth century will 
enable us to strengthen universal respect for the letter and spirit of the 
Charter, which will mean the triumph of wisdom, solidarity and justice. 


===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
I congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his
election. I have no doubt that he will conduct our work in
a wise and balanced manner, in the same way as his
predecessor, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Bulgaria, Mr. Ganev.
Once again, we welcome the new Member States, the
Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Monaco, Eritrea and Andorra.
We also reiterate our gratitude to and support for the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, who with clear
objectives and diplomatic efficiency has undertaken the new
tasks of the United Nations in an international climate that
is problematic but promising.
Serious conflicts, such as that in the former Yugoslavia
and the sensitive situation in Somalia, still remain, and are
the object of the work and efforts of the United Nations.
There are long-standing regional confrontations and frictions
resulting from certain national, cultural or religious
identities; ignored for long periods, they are now demanding
their rights, and not always in a peaceful manner.
Moreover, there are still sharp economic imbalances
between nations and regions, as well as the serious risk that
the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) negotiations will fail because some
Governments insist on maintaining anachronistic protectionist
policies that adversely affect the trade opportunities of
countries such as Argentina.
Above and beyond these problems, this is also a time
of hope and optimism; we are heartened by the expansion of
democracy, the globalization of the concept of human rights,
and the economic openness and reform in regions where
state control once prevailed and where today the basis for
freedom and the continual quest for peace is growing.
Perhaps there is no better symbol of this hope and
optimism than the historic agreement between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization.
The Arab-Israeli conflict has until now been one of the
more disturbing issues in contemporary history and one of
the greatest obstacles to peace and stability. The
consequences of this prolonged and painful confrontation
have been felt everywhere; hence all humankind rejoices at
the agreements that have been reached.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 25
These agreements undoubtedly reflect the tenacious and
intelligent diplomacy of the parties, the special contribution
of Governments such as those of the United States, the
Russian Federation and Norway and the support of the
members of the Security Council; but, above all, they attest
to the courage, intelligence and maturity of the peoples and
leaders of Israel and Palestine. Today we wish to pay a
tribute to all of them.
Since its origin, the conflict in the Middle East has
been of particular concern to Argentina, inter alia, because
the Arab and Jewish communities in our country have
always coexisted peacefully. That is why we have always
hoped for peace and respected the need to avoid
confrontation and achieve a just and lasting solution taking
account of the interests of both parties.
The agreements reached can be considered as a
breakthrough in that direction. They open the door to a
global settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and that is why
we rejoice at their attainment and firmly support them. We
call upon all States, particularly those which have interests
or influence in the Middle East, to join resolutely in the
support that the circumstances require.
The Republic of Argentina considers the maintenance
of international peace and security as essential. Hence, my
Government considers that the efficient functioning of the
Security Council must be a priority for the Organization.
Argentina has therefore clearly defined its position on
an eventual restructuring of the Security Council. In our
opinion, that body has recovered the role assigned to it by
the Charter. Any changes in its structure should therefore be
made solely on the basis of consensus, always respecting the
principle of the sovereign equality of States, and taking care
not to endanger its ability to fulfil effectively the
responsibilities assigned to it by the Charter. Hence we
must act with the utmost prudence, and on the basis of the
aforementioned principle, in making changes that would
introduce structural modifications, creating, for example, new
categories of privilege. In any case, it would be counter-
productive to ignore the position of those countries that have
actively demonstrated their firm and continued support for
the Council’s important work.
Mr. Bull (Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Argentina, for example, resolutely and actively supports
the system of collective security provided for in the Charter
and the decisions of the Security Council. That support has
been repeatedly demonstrated through concrete action in
accordance with Council decisions, and in particular through
our active presence in peace-keeping operations.
At present, Argentina is participating in nine
peace-keeping operations; in the last few months alone, we
have pledged to send three new groups of our armed forces
to Mozambique, Kuwait and Cyprus: a field hospital, a unit
of engineers and an infantry battalion respectively.
Argentina has the firm political determination to support
United Nations peace-keeping operations, within its means.
At the same time, I am obliged to mention some issues that
currently affect the normal development of the operations
and that somehow limit the ability of Member States to
participate to the extent they would desire.
We consider it a priority to do as much as possible in
order to guarantee the safety of the men and women who
participate in peace-keeping operations.
The arrears in the payment by Member States of their
contributions and the subsequent delays in reimbursements
to troop-contributing Governments have created very serious
financial problems for those Governments. For that reason -
and also because of their own domestic budget limitations -
these countries find it ever more difficult to increase their
contributions of troops and equipment. A mechanism should
be established at once to find a solution. In this context, we
welcome the efforts of the office of the Secretary-General,
as well as the initiative with respect to creating stand-by
forces.
The priority goal of peace also imposes on us a firm
commitment to each State in the struggle against the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This
commitment is one of the main focuses of Argentine foreign
policy. Hence, we have brought total transparency to the
Argentine nuclear programme. With that aim in view, we
and Brazil have signed an agreement on full-scope
safeguards with the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA); we have already ratified it. In the same spirit, we
have discontinued the missile project CONDOR II.
In addition, together with Brazil and Chile, we have
promoted amendments to the Treaty of Tlatelolco that would
strengthen that major agreement and make it effective; we
hope that these will soon be approved by the Argentine
Parliament.
At the same time, Argentina has been admitted to the
Missile Technology Control Regime, whose guidelines we
have included in our domestic legislation, and is a member
26 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
of the so-called Australian Group. We are among the
original signatories of the Convention on Chemical
Weapons, and we participated actively in its drafting; we
will soon start the proceedings for its legislative approval.
We firmly support the negotiation, in the framework of
the Conference on Disarmament, of a treaty to ban all
nuclear tests. The moratorium respected in practice by the
nuclear Powers points to the existence of favourable
conditions for the total ban of such tests.
In the field of armaments, we support the United
Nations Register of conventional weapons, to which we have
recently supplied all the relevant information and data. We
are particularly interested in the functioning of the Register
in our own region; last March, in Buenos Aires, we
organized, jointly with the United Nations, a very successful
regional seminar on this very important subject.
Latin America is now going through a promising stage.
The climate of cooperation and harmony prevailing in the
region contributes to political stability and economic
development. The expansion and consolidation of
democracy and economic and social growth have also been
stimulated as a result of the strong impetus given to the
process of regional integration. As regards the Common
Market of the South (MERCOSUR), Argentina expresses the
firm political will and determination to contribute to its
strengthening. In this context we must acknowledge the
positive role of the Rio Group, which has been consolidated
as an increasingly useful and trustworthy mechanism for
dialogue, cooperation and consultation.
The Group’s information and internal communication
systems have been enhanced, which enables it to take unified
positions on common problems. This has increased its
influence in the United Nations and the Organization of
American States (OAS), where it has played a constructive
and effective role, for example in relation to the crisis in
Haiti.
Indeed, Haiti is a case in which we note the opening of
a path towards democracy - albeit with certain difficulties.
Argentina welcomes the agreement reached under the
auspices of the United Nations and the OAS for the
restoration of democracy in that nation, through the
successful mediation of Mr. Dante Caputo, whose
performance is a source of legitimate pride for my country.
Provided that the Haiti agreements are respected in their
entirely, effective 30 October the Argentine Republic will
contribute, in the framework of relevant Security Council
resolutions, a field hospital to be used in the operation the
United Nations and the OAS will conduct together to support
the consolidation of democracy in that country.
As regards El Salvador, we note with satisfaction the
substantive progress represented by the peace agreements
recently signed. We trust that the elections to be held next
March will mark a decisive stage in efforts to consolidate
democracy.
We also express our support for the re-establishment of
constitutional order in Guatemala and we encourage its
people and Government to continue their efforts to
strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
There has been remarkable progress in the consolidation
of a climate of peace and détente in Latin America as a
whole, thanks to the restoration of democracy and to
economic reforms. There is still one case about which we
are concerned and about which we have repeatedly
expressed our hope for profound change. The best option is
to move forward in the same direction as the rest of the
continent. Delays will only bring about more suffering for
its people and more concern on the part of their Latin
American brothers.
The strengthening of a climate of harmony in Latin
America requires new ideas leading to the development of
a structure of regional security adapted to the present times
and based on cooperation, balance and transparency. We
believe that cooperative security is a realistic and feasible
proposal for Latin America, and we urge the countries of the
region to give it special consideration.
Latin America must enter fully into the new
international context. In accordance with the Secretary-
General’s ideas on the role of regional organizations as
stated in his "Agenda for Peace", it should strengthen the
contribution of the Organization of American States to the
maintenance of international peace and security.
Argentina shares with the rest of the international
community the constant anguish caused by the conflict
unfolding in the former Yugoslavia and supports efforts
aimed at an urgent solution.
We are contributing significantly to the work of the
United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), a force that
has helped save thousands of lives and has worked to
prevent the intensification of conflict in the areas where it is
deployed.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 27
We support the resolutions of the Security Council on
this subject, and strongly condemn the practice of "ethnic
cleansing" and other war crimes. Consequently, we support
the establishment of an international tribunal to try those
allegedly responsible for violating international humanitarian
law. We particularly condemn the inhuman attacks on the
civilian population in Bosnia and Herzegovina and reaffirm
the need to reach an agreement acceptable to all parties
involved, based on the principles of the London Conference.
We are deeply concerned particularly about the serious
consequences that civil and international armed conflicts
have on children. We urge the international community as
a whole to devote the utmost attention to this serious
problem and to initiate with the greatest urgency appropriate
assistance plans to alleviate the suffering of children,
especially in situations like the one in Somalia or the former
Yugoslavia. This question - like those concerning the family -
should be given the greatest attention by organizations such
as the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF).
With respect to Cyprus, I reiterate our support for a
prompt solution to the conflict, and we urge the parties to
accept the plan developed by the Secretary-General’s
mission of good offices.
I also reaffirm our express support for United Nations
resolutions aimed at guaranteeing the territorial integrity of
Kuwait and peace and security in the region. We will
continue to support the recently adopted Security Council
decisions that, in connection with this specific case, demand
respect for the inviolability of the international border - that
have already been defined - and the right of navigational
access.
As regards South Africa, we welcome, together with the
rest of the international community, the recently adopted
legislative measures aimed at guaranteeing free and fair
elections next April and establishing the Transitional
Executive Council. We continue to support the multiparty
negotiating process towards a democratic, united and non-
racial South Africa. This is another of those world events
that are on the point of crystallizing in the next few months,
and whose importance is really much greater than we could
have imagined even just a few months ago.
I must mention once again the question of the Malvinas
islands, just as we did a few weeks ago before the Special
Committee on decolonization. I reaffirm Argentina’s
well-founded and unequivocal sovereign rights over those
territories and over the South Georgia and South Sandwich
islands. The peaceful and negotiated recovery of the islands
is a central and permanent issue in our foreign policy.
The United Nations Special Committee on
decolonization, at its recent session, adopted, for the first
time without a vote, a resolution on this question, in which
the parties are once again urged to start negotiations. We
therefore stand ready to do so.
As I informed the Special Committee, our relations with
the United Kingdom would be excellent but for the conflict
in the South Atlantic, where apart from the central dispute
there are problems in specific areas. However, within this
overall picture, there has also been progress in some of those
areas.
We have made progress in reducing the security
restrictions inherited from the 1982 conflict and we have
reached a provisional understanding on fishing for 1993.
We now have to negotiate a new agreement - which is being
made difficult because of certain recent unilateral British
jurisdictional decisions over the South Georgia and South
Sandwich islands - that must necessarily reflect Argentina’s
legitimate decision now to relate its own catch to the actual
potential of the area.
As regards oil, there is still an impasse, both because of
the rejection of a specific proposal for cooperation put
forward by Argentina and because of the United Kingdom’s
preference for acting unilaterally. We are still convinced
that there is no realistic alternative to cooperation. We are
sure that potential investors will also see it that way, because
their situation would be highly uncertain and unstable in any
other context.
Argentina’s relationship with the islanders is an area in
which there have been important developments in the last
few months.
Since the last session of the General Assembly, there
have been communications between the inhabitants of the
islands and Argentina. I personally have been in touch
several times with some of them. My Government reiterates
its conviction that it is in everybody’s interest to establish
normal relations between the islands and the continent. We
reaffirm that Argentina and the United Kingdom are the only
parties to the dispute, but we underline also our willingness
to conduct a dialogue with the inhabitants of the territory
because they deserve our consideration and respect. We are
also aware of the weight their opinion carries in London.
28 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The dialogue with the islanders has wide support in my
country, and is a natural development in the civilized search
for a solution to the conflict. It is important that the
islanders themselves also understand that this is an inevitable
step, because the only realistic alternative is to march
forward together.
The recent World Conference in Vienna ratified the
universal and binding nature of respect for human rights.
Today it is no longer possible to claim, as despotic
governments have in the past, that the treatment States afford
their citizens is exclusively an internal affair.
It is a fact that the principle of absolute sovereignty has
become relative and that the international community, acting
within the framework of the United Nations, has laid the
legal foundations for denouncing violations of human rights
wherever they occur and for implementing specific measures
to ensure that human rights can be exercised to the full. We
therefore support the establishment of the post of High
Commissioner for Human Rights.
Furthermore, in the opinion of the Argentine
Government, there must be universal and complete freedom
of the press, because this is a fundamental guarantee of
respect for other essential human rights. Whatever excesses
there may be in the exercise of press freedom are nothing
compared with the awful drawbacks of policies that restrict
that freedom.
Argentina supports the restructuring of the United
Nations economic and social system in order to increase its
effectiveness and global credibility in that area.
In the field of the environment and development, we
continue to give high priority to the implementation of
Agenda 21 and the Conventions on climatic change and
biodiversity and to the use of the global environment facility
as a financial mechanism for implementing environmental
projects in the those and the related areas of marine
pollution and the ozone layer.
Argentina will participate actively in the International
Conference on Population and Development to be held in
1994. We support the negotiating process now under way
and we agree with the conceptual framework agreed upon
for the programme of action in that field.
We shall also participate actively in the World Summit
for Social Development, and we stress the great importance
of the negotiating process and of what is included in the
Summit’s agenda.
I should like to refer to the deterioration in the
Organization’s financial situation, which is so seriously
affecting its regular activities and is endangering the normal
functioning of peace-keeping operations.
Reality tells us that the only way to solve the problem
is the timely payment in full of the financial obligations of
Member States. Such payment is a fundamental factor in
restoring the financial soundness of the United Nations, but
it is undoubtedly not the only one. We consider that it is
indispensable for immediate steps to be taken to make the
allocation and use of the Organization’s scarce resources
more efficient, thus avoiding administrative disorder and
possible irregularities or substandard management practices.
A proper balance between budgetary control and the
implementation of activities will enable us to achieve the
financial consolidation needed to fulfil the goals set out in
the Charter.
In conclusion, we wish to reiterate our firm conviction
that, despite the serious problems that still obtain, we are
witnessing an encouraging development in the principles that
in their time guided the founding fathers of the United
Nations.
Those ideals of universal peace today seem more within
our grasp and in that context the Argentine Republic, a
democratic and peace-loving nation, is genuinely willing to
contribute to strengthening an international system based on
law and justice, and guaranteed by the United Nations.


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====
Allow me, Mr. President, to congratulate you on your
election to such a responsible post. I am certain that you
will be able to guide our debates with your well-known
efficiency.
These are years of change and transformation. In an
amazingly short period of time we have moved from a
bipolar world marked by strategic confrontation which
seemed insurmountable to a world in which the hope of
an international order of peace and harmony coexists with
some uncertainties. There are still serious conflicts that
require our full attention and that of the United Nations -
the main institution the international community has for
the solution of such conflicts.
The international landscape is full of contrasts: there
are encouraging signs of convergence alongside other
signs that seem to point to the persistence of
authoritarianism and extremism, which inevitably lead to
violence. Torn as it is between hope and uncertainty, the
world must face the challenge of finding the right
answers. But we must keep in mind and never lose sight
of the fact that we cannot aspire to a world at peace if we
fail to establish a just international society. There can be
no peace without justice and there can be no justice
without the full assurance of freedom and human rights.
There can be no peace or justice if there is
discrimination. There can be no peace or justice where
there is hunger. There can be no peace or justice where
there are regimes that repress individual freedom. And
there can be no peace or justice when terrorism continues
to be protected by political, cultural and economic
sponsors.
11


But, as I said at the outset, there are also some facets
of reality that encourage us. One of the high notes of the
past year was the successful conclusion of the institutional
transition of the Republic of South Africa, magnificently
embodied in the figures of President Mandela and the
enlightened opposition leaders. The national unity
agreements which made it possible for South Africa to be
successfully integrated into the family of democratic nations
demonstrate once again that the endeavour of nation-
building must always be based on dialogue and
understanding between major political forces.
We have also witnessed with satisfaction and hope the
continuation and the strengthening of the peace agreements
between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization.
In Gaza and Jericho, after more than 30 years, the
Palestinian people is once again determining its own future
in its own land.
The original agreements have been strengthened by
those recently signed by Israel and Jordan, which
unequivocally represent the definitive acceptance of the
State of Israel by the whole of the international community.
We hope that such a promising start will soon lead to
similar agreements with other, indispensable actors in the
region.
As at all great moments in history, the solution to the
violence and despair that lasted for so many years has not
been a matter of chance. Involved here have been men,
great statesmen, true leaders, who - without setting aside
their own legitimate grievances - have decided courageously
to do away with rancour and recrimination. These Israeli
and Palestinian leaders have pointed the way to
reconciliation founded on peace.
But not all is brightness. The shadows of the Balkan
tragedy linger, despite the tremendous efforts being made
by the United Nations and regional groups to find a just
and satisfactory peace. Argentina has contributed to this
quest for solutions to the best of its ability, through the
United Nations Protection Force. Since 1992 more than
4,000 Argentine soldiers have been dispatched to contribute,
sometimes even with their lives, to fulfilling the resolutions
of the Organization.
In Africa, Rwanda has demanded the attention and
gripped the hearts of all men and women of goodwill.
Argentina has contributed by sending foodstuffs and
medical supplies, and doctors and nurses from our country
have joined in the efforts of thousands of international
volunteers who, amid scenes of horror and destitution,
remind us of the inner nobility of every human being.
In Latin America, our region, to which we attach the
greatest importance, the process of consolidating
democracy has continued. Significant steps have been
taken in terms of the non-proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction, and it is now possible, as in few regions
of the world, to point to high levels of growth in an
atmosphere of increasing economic stability. Our region,
with its renewed democratic outlook, its respect for
human rights, for peace and progressive but resolute
integration, has in a few years become the centre of
attraction for international investment. In this framework
of increasing freedom that the region now demonstrates,
I should like particularly to hail the historic process of
elections in El Salvador, which has put behind it a long
period of confrontation.
With respect to the situation in Cuba, my
Government would once again voice its conviction as to
the need for democratization on a pluralistic basis as the
only way to prevent the worsening of the crisis that exists
there and to permit the country to be reintegrated fully
into the Latin American community.
In Haiti, the overall solution lies in compliance with
Security Council resolution 940 (1994), which, within the
system of collective security provided for in the Charter,
authorizes multilateral action, a mechanism that is
essentially different in nature from unilateral intervention,
which we reject.
I wish to take this opportunity to express thanks for
the work done by Mr. Dante Caputo, the former Foreign
Minister of my country, who, after completing important
and intelligent work during his term as Representative of
the Secretary-General for the question of Haiti, decided
just a few days ago to resign that position.
I believe in this regard that it is important to refer to
one of the most disquieting challenges that threaten
democracy: corruption. This phenomenon progressively
erodes credibility and public trust in institutions and their
leaders. The Argentine Government is committed to a
relentless struggle against corruption, placing particular
emphasis on eliminating excessive State control and a
lack of transparency in State administration, a fertile
ground for corruption.
The problems that make up the international agenda
must, in Argentina’s view, be solved by strengthening the
12


United Nations. We have constantly and firmly supported
the work of the Security Council, which is at last on the
way to regaining the role assigned to it by the Charter. The
participation of Argentina in nine peace-keeping
operations - the highest number for any Latin American
country - in the form of troops, military observers and
civilian police, is a concrete contribution that bears out the
convictions that I have spoken of today.
I wish to emphasize that in its participation in peace-
keeping operations, the Argentine Republic is accompanied
by 72 countries. I wish to pay tribute to them as well for
assisting in achieving peace and justice in many, very
diverse, regions of the world.
We have also responded to the Secretary-General’s
proposal that a system of stand-by forces be set up, and our
response takes the form of a pledge of specialized
personnel, transport and 1,500 troops.
Another aspect of far-reaching importance in terms of
the evolution of the United Nations itself is the question of
equitable representation on the Security Council and an
increase in the number of its members. Argentina attaches
great importance to this issue and takes the view that the
number of members on the Council has always
corresponded to the geopolitical situation prevailing at a
specific time and that efforts at reform should thus be
designed to adapt the number to the current geopolitical
situation.
Combating the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction is one of the indisputable pillars of international
peace and security.
With this in mind, Argentina has ratified the Treaty of
Tlatelolco, while currently our Parliament is considering
accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons, which should be extended for the sake of global
security and stability.
With respect to chemical weapons, we are taking the
necessary steps to set up a national authority, and we hope
to see international verification measures strengthened.
At the same time, we firmly support the conclusion of
the comprehensive test-ban treaty.
In the past year, Argentina joined the systems
controlling exports of high technology and equipment with
possible military uses, enabling us to benefit from the
transfer of technology.
We are concerned at the persistence of the
sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas, South Georgia and
South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime
areas.
Although we have a satisfactory relationship with the
United Kingdom on other bilateral questions, we cannot
help but once again reaffirm before this world forum, as
we do each year, our sovereign rights over those
territories.
Our claim this year has taken on special significance,
since the Argentine people, through their representatives
in the National Congress, reformed the supreme law of
the country little more than a month ago, giving
constitutional status to the question of the Malvinas
Islands by including, in the new text of the constitution,
a transitional clause which reaffirms our rights and states
that in recovering those rights respect for international
law and the way of life of the population of the Islands
shall be paramount.
Thus the entire spectrum of Argentine political
opinion has given solemn embodiment to a claim which
is more than ever central and permanent to our foreign
policy.
For this reason, and despite the fact that our two
Governments have collaborated on certain aspects of the
management of the living resources of the South Atlantic,
we cannot but deplore the further recourse by the United
Kingdom to unilateral jurisdictional measures in the area;
these undermine the possibility of broadening existing
agreements and of arriving at others. We trust that the
United Kingdom shares with us the conviction that there
is no real alternative to cooperation in the South Atlantic.
With respect to fisheries, we have arrived at
provisional agreements allowing for the rational
exploitation of these resources and preventing predatory
fishing. But repeated recourse to unilateral measures such
as I have described jeopardizes the possibility of adding
to or indeed maintaining these understandings.
As far as oil is concerned, Argentina has once again
put forward specific proposals for cooperation. Our
initiatives on this matter are based on the recognized
principle of international law prohibiting the unilateral
exploitation of non-renewable resources, a dispute which
has been acknowledged by the General Assembly.
13


As to the inhabitants of the islands, I wish to reaffirm
before this Assembly our full readiness to establish direct
and responsive links with them. It is clear to us that the
problem of the Falkland Islands has an inevitable human
dimension which is bound up with the way of life and the
needs of the islanders.
Argentina is ready to preserve the way of life and the
particular characteristics, and in this context we are
prepared to study all matters, from communications to the
legal and financial systems, in order to find logical
solutions acceptable to all.
Dialogue with the islanders is an inseparable part of a
rational, civilized solution to this problem. Once again,
logic and reason are pointing inexorably towards
cooperation and dialogue.
The economic and social agenda is an indication of
just how positive an event was the conclusion of the
Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT); it will make it possible to more effectively
tackle problems of unemployment and the distribution of
wealth.
Argentina’s policy aims at securing the consensus of
the countries of the Americas in order that we may declare
the continent a zone free of subsidies and unfair practices
with respect to agricultural products. The agreement on
agriculture marks an important advancement, and Argentina
thinks it is appropriate to take a further step by helping to
eliminate distortions in international trade.
Argentina’s concern for social problems is well
known. Through measures to establish stability, to combat
inflation and to ensure economic growth, we have taken an
important step forward in our struggle against poverty.
Turning to external matters, we have proposed the
establishment of a volunteer corps to combat hunger and
poverty, coordinating efforts under way in this field.
President Clinton kindly referred to our initiative yesterday,
and we particularly value his support.
The issues related to the relationship between
population and development, which a few weeks ago were
absorbing world attention in Cairo, cannot be left out of
this analysis. We believe in promoting fundamental values,
such as the advancement of women, human rights, and
sustainable economic development, but with respect to
population policies we maintain that human life exists from
the moment of conception until natural death, condemning
any practice undermining this.
Population policies should not aim to smother life,
but to ensure the greatest access of all individuals to the
benefits of development and the fair distribution of
wealth.
There are two scourges besetting the world at the
end of the twentieth century: drug trafficking and
terrorism. Both of these call for concerted action on the
part of the international community, for they are not
national but world-wide scourges.
With respect to terrorism, I can speak with the
twofold weight of conviction and pain - with conviction,
because of our repudiation of terrorism as a means of
political or religious expression, and with pain, because of
the hundreds of Argentines who died as a result of the
attack that destroyed a building belonging to the Jewish
community in Buenos Aires in July. We are grateful for
the solidarity extended to us and for the Security
Council’s condemnation. We believe that concerted
action is needed to tackle terrorism - terrorism which has
erupted in New York, London and Panama as well as in
Buenos Aires. It is vital for the United Nations to play
a more active, leadership role, coordinating a global
endeavour to effectively combat this scourge.
We reiterate here our suggestion that the United
Nations should be provided with a unit devoted to the
question of international terrorism.
United Nations action must enjoy the resolute
support of all. It is iniquitous and unacceptable that there
are Governments that encourage terrorism. Sovereignty
must not be used as a shield for abetting terrorist
organizations while the world looks on helplessly. If we
Heads of State all worked in concert, we could put an end
to this veritable scourge afflicting us all.
The United Nations should also study multilateral
mechanisms that, while respecting the immunities and
privileges enshrined in the Vienna Convention, would
prevent and punish the abuse of those immunities and
privileges to support the actions of international terrorists.
We cannot rule out the possibility that such immunities
and privileges were abused in the attacks in Buenos
Aires.
In closing, I wish to address the need to strengthen
the United Nations, in particular with respect to its
14


responsibilities in the area of international peace and
security. This involves first resolving its pressing financial
difficulties.
The United Nations must also continue to study the
possibility of changing the current structure of the Security
Council. In the view of the Argentine Republic, any
increase in the number of members should be prudent and
moderate, so that the Council is guaranteed maximum
possible operating efficiency. In addition, any expansion
should avoid the creation of unjustifiable imbalances in the
representation of the various regions of the world. The
Argentine Republic believes that the principle of the
sovereign equality of Member States must always be
respected. Furthermore, none of the provisions of Article
23 of the Charter should be disregarded. For all these
reasons, it would seem preferable to think in terms of a
limited increase in the number of non-permanent members
and, as far as possible, the elimination of restrictions on
their re-election.
We find ourselves on the eve of the fiftieth
anniversary of the Organization. Let us make the best use
of the system of collective security and the mechanisms of
economic and social cooperation provided by the Charter.
I have no doubt that by doing so we shall have a much
better world in the next 50 years, one worth living in for
our children and our children’s children.


===== Session 50 - 1995 =====
Our presence here at the fiftieth session of the
General Assembly holds a very special meaning. On this
occasion, we are not gathered here simply to reenact the
annual ritual of exchanging views and official national
positions on the principal problems that encumber the
international agenda. These first 50 years during which
the Organization has carried out its noble task have been
marked by successes and disappointments.
23


As President Menem said in this very forum a year
ago, the real situation in the world today offers a balance
of light and shadow in which encouraging signs of
convergence exist alongside other signs that seem to point
to the persistence of injustice and disagreement. The search
for a delicate balance of peace and security with
development and social justice is the goal which we must
constantly pursue. This search must be translated into
concrete facts which demonstrate on this anniversary,
through the actions of each and every Member State, the
extent to which we have faithfully respected the spirit and
the letter of the Charter.
At this historic moment, my country has chosen
actively to involve itself in the resolution of serious
international crises through the concerted action of the
United Nations.
The tragic situation in the Balkans has found
Argentina present in solidarity, through its troops, in search
of a space for dialogue and understanding after five years
of blood and fire. Today we are witnessing the rebirth of
hope, starting with the recent Geneva agreements and those
that were signed yesterday. We hope that the peoples of the
new republics of the Balkans can, once and for all, begin
life again in peace after such enormous suffering, so much
violence and so many unnecessary deaths.
The Middle East has suffered the attacks of
extremism; yet the peace process initiated in 1993 forges
ahead. On behalf of the people and the Government of
Argentina, I pay a tribute to the leaders of Israel and the
Palestinian people, who, despite provocations and the
legitimate grievances of those who suffer, have managed to
fix their eyes on the future and continue the task of
concluding agreements on each of the points that comprise
the complex agenda for peace in the Middle East.
We cannot forget our African brothers and sisters, who
have been affected by situations in which political struggles
and the survival of the least fortunate are combined in a
most dramatic fashion. It is precisely in those situations that
we must reaffirm our contribution and our solidarity,
because we cannot remain indifferent to the suffering and
deprivation of so many human beings without neglecting
the commitments dictated to us by the Charter and imposed
upon us by human solidarity. To the extent of our ability,
we maintain our participation in the solution of such
problems as those of Western Sahara, Mozambique and
Angola, a neighbour country of ours in the South Atlantic
with which we will cooperate actively in the United Nations
Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III).
The case of Haiti warrants my particular
consideration, since it deals with an issue that directly
affects our region of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Today, I would like to express the Argentine
Government’s great pleasure at the successful process that
culminated in the adoption of Security Council resolution
940 (1994). Only through that resolution could the
Government legitimately elected by the Haitian people be
reestablished — a Government which, with moving
endurance and commitment, is restoring institutional
normalcy and again moving ahead on the road to
economic development.
Argentina is proud of its character as a Latin
American nation. In just a few days, we will have the
high honour of hosting the Fifth Ibero-American Summit,
at which all the nations of our region, together with their
respective mother countries, all linked by a common
history and culture, will set an inspiring example of
dialogue and cooperation in the search for solutions
adapted to our present reality. It is precisely this reality
and the prospects we envisage for it that make us look
with optimism to a Latin American future based on
democracy, peace and integration.
The Argentine commitment to peace was recently
demonstrated once again through the active exercise of
the role mandated to us, together with Brazil, Chile and
the United States of America, as guarantors of the 1942
Rio Protocol, in an effort to bring the peoples of Ecuador
and Peru together once and for all.
Building upon political and economic stability,
ambitious mechanisms for integration have been designed
that contribute to consolidating the opening of our
economies, the transparency of our markets, and the
growth of commercial exchange with other regions — in
short, the creation of the conditions necessary to secure a
better future for our peoples.
In our case, we have made the Southern Cone
Common Market (Mercosur) a priority in our foreign
policy, with the understanding not only that its
strengthening will boost our economy and those of its
member countries, but also, and most especially, that it is
thanks to this open approach that the men and women of
our country and our region can come together today in an
atmosphere of economic growth after so many years of
disillusionment and frustration.
24


In Argentina, we place special emphasis on the
following principles: good governance; the struggle against
corruption; discipline in fiscal matters; accountability in the
management of public finances; respect for human rights;
legal equality for foreign investments; and full authority for
institutions within the rule of law. These are the principles
that form the framework designed to give a greater boost to
economic activity as a necessary motor for the well-being
of the Argentina people.
This framework of recovery and harmony within Latin
America, however, raises important issues which remain
unresolved.
In the South Atlantic, the dispute concerning
sovereignty over the Malvinas, South Georgia and South
Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime spaces has
not yet been resolved. We will not cite yet again the
numerous resolutions in which the General Assembly and
the decolonization Committee have categorically and
repeatedly stated their position on this matter. Let me
simply recall that all of these include a clear and direct
appeal to the two countries involved — Argentina and the
United Kingdom — to reach a negotiated settlement of this
dispute. This appeal from the Assembly remains unheeded,
despite the willingness we have constantly shown and the
excellent relations that bind our two countries. This makes
the issue even more baffling.
In spite of this, we maintain a cooperative effort with
regard to the exploitation of fishing resources in the area in
an attempt to protect the biomass and at the same time
ensure that significant economic activity continues.
With regard to oil, given the non-renewable character
of the resources and the existence of a consolidated
international doctrine which proscribes the unilateral
exploitation of disputed resources, we are reaching a
temporary understanding that allows us to engage in further
exploration and exploitation while avoiding the creation of
new sources of tension which might discourage initiatives
from the private sector.
This very morning we and the United Kingdom
Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs,
Malcolm Rifkind, signed a joint declaration which will
allow us to move forward together in this spirit.
With respect to the inhabitants of the islands, I repeat
our determination to guarantee total respect for their way of
life, their culture, habits and institutions.
The dispute over the Malvinas Islands will not
disappear as if by magic. The peaceful recovery of the
exercise of full sovereignty over all the territories in
dispute and the surrounding waters, and respect for the
way of life of the islands’ inhabitants, are today part of
Argentina’s Constitution, on which there was consensus
across the entire political spectrum of my country. Only
rational dialogue, without any a priori conditions from
either party, will permit us to make progress towards the
final implementation of the resolutions of the Assembly
and of the Decolonization Committee.
At the end of this year Argentina will conclude its
term as a non-permanent member of the Security Council.
In our two years as a member we have witnessed
numerous situations that have required an immediate
response on the part of the Council. Responding to these
situations has not been an easy task, and at times the
serious problems that have given rise to them have failed
to receive full attention. Nevertheless, the Council’s
response has confirmed on each occasion its character as
the central and indispensable instrument for the
maintenance of international peace and security.
Our commitment to the work of the Council has not
been limited to its discussions; it has extended to
Argentina’s contribution to peace-keeping operations, the
largest in our region. Our presence in the former
Yugoslavia, in Cyprus, Mozambique, Haiti and Kuwait —
to name but a few operations — is tangible proof of our
concrete, and not just rhetorical, contribution to
international peace and cooperation.
In recent days much has been said about the process
of reform of the Security Council. If anything has been
proved by the extended deliberations of the ad hoc Open-
ended Working Group established for this purpose, it is
the extreme difficulty of finding a formula, acceptable to
everyone, that does not introduce imbalances into the
region.
In our delegation’s view, the fundamental task in this
respect is to protect and improve the efficiency and
expeditiousness of the Council. In order to achieve this,
a careful, limited increase in the membership would be in
order, should there be the necessary consensus. This
increase could be supplemented with a new procedure
aimed at achieving a greater representativeness, which, by
means of rotation mechanisms, would enable several of
the most interested countries of different regions, as well
as those which stand to wait many years before joining
25


the Council, to take part more regularly in its deliberations.
We believe that those countries which are legitimately
interested in taking part in the daily construction of a stable
and peaceful world order could fulfil their aspirations in
this way.
Moreover, further changes in the procedure of the
Council should be introduced in order to increase its
transparency and strengthen the process of dialogue and
exchange of information. Over the past two years we have
actively promoted such progress, being convinced that the
contribution of the international community to the solution
of its crises would be facilitated if all its members had
more criteria and information on which to base their
decisions.
This matter is of undeniable importance, since the
Security Council is the body ultimately entrusted with the
maintenance of international peace and security. This
requires that we proceed with the utmost care, searching
relentlessly for consensus.
This year has been marked by the positive contribution
to international peace made here in New York, when the
179 States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), decided to extend it
unconditionally and indefinitely. We are concerned about
the ongoing nuclear-test programmes. Therefore, we look
forward to the prompt conclusion of the comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty, without exceptions or permissible
thresholds. Likewise, we hope that the Conference on
Disarmament will address without delay the negotiation of
a convention banning the production of fissionable material.
It is encouraging to note the increased awareness of
what the Secretary-General has rightly called the
“international humanitarian crisis” of anti-personnel mines.
We trust that the 1981 Convention on inhumane weapons
will be strengthened as a result of the meeting to be held in
Vienna in the next few days.For our part, in addition to
supporting the Assembly resolutions on the subject, we
have declared a unilateral moratorium on mine production,
and with regard to a case which affects us directly — the
mines planted by our armed forces on the Malvinas Islands
in 1982 — we have offered our cooperation and financial
help to the United Kingdom for their removal, which is
proceeding with the greatly appreciated cooperation of the
United States.
Apart from the struggle for the non-proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction, new challenges to peace and
stability, including international terrorism, have emerged.
Today no one can feel safe from the action of groups
which are international in structure and very often rely on
the active or passive support of certain States. Almost
every day gruesome attacks reflect the reality of this new
threat, which calls for a determined and unequivocal
response by the international community.
We have drawn this issue to the attention of the
Security Council, and we are confident that as a result
urgent action at the national, regional and international
levels will be taken to promote legislative harmonization
and cooperation in the judicial, police and even
intelligence spheres, in order to halt this insidious
manifestation of terror.
However, the pressing challenges requiring
international action are not restricted to the domain of
security. Emergency assistance activities and the
subsequent stage of rehabilitation for development
constitute a priority task for the United Nations. For this
reason, in 1994 we proposed the “White Helmets”
initiative, which aims to deliver assistance in cases of
extreme urgency and to mobilize resources for specific
instances of extreme poverty. We are pleased to note that
the initiative was adopted by consensus in resolution
49/139 B, with the formidable support of 67 co-sponsors.
In the future we will further define details of the
initiative, which has already been implemented in very
successful pilot projects in our region. We hope to extend
this initiative to other parts of the world where even
greater need is experienced.
From a historical perspective, 50 years may not be
many, but they are not insignificant in the life of an
international organization that every day has to address
numerous and complex issues. Today we find the United
Nations committed to the solution of international crises
which affect international peace and security, a far cry
from the marginalization of the Organization during the
cold war. The United Nations is actively involved in
advances on great social issues by means of international
conferences such as those of Vienna, on human rights;
Cairo, on population; Copenhagen, on social matters; and
Beijing, on women.
These meetings reflect the new and vigorous stage
reached by multilateralism, which elicits universally
accepted responses to the great currents of sustainable
human development, and acts in strict conformity with the
provisions of the Charter, under which the promotion of
human welfare, development and dignity are harmonious
26


and mutually complementary priorities. We remain actively
committed to work to achieve these priorities in the
framework of the United Nations, thus renewing the
commitment of 1945, towards which the current reform
process will make a substantive contribution, with the same
faith we had then, nourished by decades of cooperation.
The year 1995 is not only the year that marks the half
century of the United Nations. Two years ago the General
Assembly, in its resolution 48/126, declared 1995 the
United Nations Year for Tolerance. It occurs to me that the
forefathers of the United Nations must have had the idea of
tolerance deeply etched in their minds when they set the
foundations of this unique endeavour.
International reality reminds us how often we forget
tolerance, how often we reject, proscribe or ignore others
for what they are, think, say or do, or simply for existing.
May this anniversary be a timely occasion to remember the
need to reaffirm in our minds, in the education of our
children and in our acts, tolerance, and, with it, the culture
of peace.


===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
﻿May I first extend to Mr. Razali Ismail my
warmest and most sincere congratulations on his
12


unanimous election as President of this important session of
the General Assembly.
I recently accompanied President Carlos Saul Menem
on a visit to his country, and I have the most pleasant
memories of his countrymen’s hospitality, of the vitality of
his culture and of the extraordinary strength of his
country’s economy.
To Ambassador Freitas do Amaral, who presided over
the Assembly at the last session, we express our most
sincere admiration. His term was a year full of difficulties
and challenges, and he left us a positive vision of the
questions of the future.
I have had the privilege of participating in the general
debate for the last six years. During that period, significant
changes have come about and profound contrasts have
arisen in the world. The scepticism of some
notwithstanding, allow me to recall some of the progress
made on the international scene: we have improved
mechanisms for international peace and security; we have
advanced in the universal consolidation of democracy and
tolerance; we have created institutions to prevent very
serious crimes that offend the world’s conscience from
going unpunished, which clearly reflects the concept that
justice and the law are inseparable components of a stable
peace; we have successfully stepped up intense collective
work towards non-proliferation of nuclear and conventional
weapons, including anti-personnel mines. The adoption of
the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban-Treaty will
undoubtedly contribute to greater progress, as will the entry
into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical
Weapons and on Their Destruction. We have also begun to
articulate the concept of sustainable development to ensure
progress for current generations without compromising the
viability of such progress for those of the future. We have
opened new paths to free trade, eliminating barriers which,
until yesterday, were regarded as normal instruments of
national policy.
All this has happened in recent years, and it is only
fitting to recognize that the Secretary-General has
anticipated, promoted and reflected all this in his annual
reports, in his Agenda for Peace and in his Agenda for
Development, documents that are essential for the
interpretation of the process begun at the end of the cold
war.
Allow me to take this opportunity to state how my
country has dealt with all these transformations. Argentina
has actively promoted the new agenda. It has adapted
itself domestically and internationally to fulfil the
objectives and principles of the Charter, both in its letter
and its new spirit.
Argentina has consolidated democracy and has taken
a very active role in the defence of fundamental rights
and freedoms. It has given constitutional status to the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to the main
human rights treaties to which it is a party.
Argentina has got its economy in order and opened
up new possibilities and potential for its people by
promoting good governance, fiscal discipline,
accountability in the management of public funds,
equality before the law for domestic and foreign investors
and the fight against corruption.
In particular, Argentina has presented and promoted
in the Organization of American States (OAS), as well as
in this Assembly and other international organizations,
initiatives to combat the curse of corruption, which is an
enemy to development, investment and charity in society.
In Argentina, sustainable development goes beyond
academic discussions. The growing deterioration of the
ozone layer in the southern hemisphere has affected the
daily life and health of the population of southern
Patagonia. Argentina, in cooperation with other countries
in the region and the United Nations system, has assumed
a leading role in reducing the risk level for the affected
populations by establishing five ozone-layer monitoring
stations in our national territory, incorporating them into
the world multilateral environmental monitoring system.
We strongly hope that the international community will
join us in this effort by taking the necessary actions to
cooperate in protecting the atmosphere.
In our subregion, the southern cone of the Americas,
Argentina, together with its neighbours, has played a
significant role in eradicating distrust, in resolving border
problems, in promoting physical and economic integration
and in fostering political cooperation, all of which have
generated an exemplary framework for cooperation and
convergence.
On the basis of political and economic stability, we
have designed ambitious mechanisms for integration, and
we have made the Southern Cone Common Market
13


(MERCOSUR) and the Rio Group important channels for
our foreign policy.
In the agreements signed at the last MERCOSUR
presidential summit, the States parties — Brazil, Paraguay,
Uruguay and Argentina — ratified their commitment to
democratic institutions. As our country sees it, this should
be a prerequisite for full membership in MERCOSUR. The
States parties established a mechanism for consultation and
political cooperation aimed at reviewing international
activities of special interest to them.
At that time, agreements were also signed between
MERCOSUR and Chile and Bolivia, which will
significantly broaden MERCOSUR and launch our
economies into an ever more globalized system. Clear
evidence of this is the adoption of the interregional
framework agreement between MERCOSUR and the
European Union, which has given rise to positive
expectations and created opportunities for strengthening
links between the two regions in the economic, political and
cultural fields.
Argentina has promoted common activities on issues
of growing importance, such as protection of the
environment, preservation of natural resources and social
and human development, within the framework of regional
mechanisms for dialogue and political cooperation, as well
as bilaterally, in regional forums and at the United Nations.
Argentina participated in the adoption of concrete decisions
to fight terrorism, drug trafficking and corruption, which
are the new threats to international peace and security.
Argentina’s natural interest in the South Atlantic is
reflected in our participation in the zone of peace and
cooperation in the South Atlantic, which embraces countries
from both sides of the ocean in constituting an area to
which we attach special significance.
Member States of the zone are committed to
respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity, promoting
democracy, human rights and civil liberties, joining efforts
for nuclear non-proliferation and de-nuclearization, and to
cooperating in the struggle against drug trafficking. We are
very pleased with our contribution to maintaining, together
with other coastal States, the political balance and economic
potential of the South Atlantic.
However, there is still an important unresolved issue:
the persistent sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas, South
Georgia and South Sandwich Islands and their surrounding
maritime spaces.
During these last six years, I have come to this
forum to voice the claims of the Government and people
of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas
Islands.
It is incomprehensible that while Argentina and the
United Kingdom have overcome the sorrow and have left
behind their mutual disagreements and distrust and built
up a harmonious and constructive relationship — and we
see the positive results of this day by day — they have
not so far been able to comply with the resolutions of the
General Assembly and of the Decolonization Committee
and to progress in the dialogue towards a definitive
solution to this dispute. We have not even been able to sit
down together around a table to talk, even if only to
express our disagreement.
In the same spirit that encouraged our two countries
to cooperate in the South Atlantic for the protection of its
renewable and non-renewable resources, we should
advance in our search for a peaceful solution to this
dispute.
In spite of our efforts, the lack of direct links with
the Malvinas impedes human contacts, trade and tourism,
among other possible exchanges, and has slowed down
the economic and cultural development of the South
Atlantic. The lack of relations between the two areas is
inconceivable in today’s world.
Argentina is proud of its great cultural diversity.
Since the birth of our nation, our laws have preserved and
guaranteed such cultural heritage. Our national
Constitution establishes the objective of recovering the
Malvinas Islands and the full exercise of sovereignty, and
ensures respect for its inhabitants’ way of life. The only
thing lacking is the will to start a new phase together.
Argentina is firmly convinced that a new era should
begin in the South Atlantic, as an area free from
tensions — a place where different cultures committed to
humanistic ideals and with a common wish for progress
and well-being may come together.
What in the past has been a negative factor in our
relations should become a positive factor and a starting
point for a new relationship.
My country has shown its vocation for constructive
participation in the areas created by the international
system, fostering tolerance and preserving peace. In that
respect, we avidly support all efforts to resolve situations
14


of serious instability and conflict still existing in various
parts of the world.
In the Middle East, we welcome the progress made in
the peace process, especially regarding the question of
Palestine. We add our voice to those calling for the parties
involved to maximize their efforts to achieve a just, lasting
and comprehensive peace. We renew our offer of full
cooperation to contribute to the attainment of that objective.
The peace process, fostered by this General Assembly, has
borne fruits that should not go to waste.
United Nations peacekeeping operations are one of the
most effective tools for preventing violence around the
world. This explains our full support for peace missions.
We have responded promptly and unconditionally to
requests of the Security Council, agreeing to participate in
operations in our hemisphere and in various other parts of
the world by providing large amounts of financial
resources.
We deem it vital to ensure an orderly transition
between peace-keeping operations and the work of
reconstruction aimed at reversing the economic, political
and social damage caused by conflicts and to offer effective
humanitarian assistance so as to reduce the suffering of the
populations affected.
With the objective of complementing United Nations
emergency humanitarian assistance, Argentina, inspired by
President Carlos Saul Menem, proposed the “White
Helmets” initiative. The effective deployment of the “White
Helmets” in many humanitarian assistance operations is
already proving their political and technical viability.
The United Nations is called upon to play a significant
role in the international system of the twenty-first century.
Everything indicates that this system will be marked by
growing globalization and that problems such as poverty,
unemployment, corruption and the lack of education can be
more effectively dealt with at a global level. For the United
Nations to respond effectively to this increasingly broad and
complex mandate, it will be imperative for Member States
to renew their political commitment to the organization’s
political future. At the same time, it will be necessary to
strengthen the United Nations through the in-depth
streamlining and reform process that has already begun.
With respect to the Security Council, we continue to
favour a mechanism that, without affecting its efficiency,
reflects new realities, of which Argentina is an active part,
and ensures the participation of those who have clearly
demonstrated their commitment to and respect for the
purposes and principles of the Charter. It is equally
important to ensure that the working methods of the
Council guarantee transparency in the debates and in
decision-making processes. Only in this way will the
Organization become a special forum for nations to
channel their resources effectively and successfully face
the challenges of a globalized world.









===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿In recent years we have, happily, drawn closer
to the ideals enshrined in the preamble of our Charter.
We have taken substantial strides towards the ideal of
peace and security; strengthened and broadened the
observance of human rights; enhanced and developed
international law and widened the scope of international
penal law, in particular; and laid the foundations for
greater responsibility by States in the advancement of
social progress.
However, even as we draw closer to these goals, we
see rapid changes in our countries and in the world which
present a new and complex challenge for the
Organization. The challenge begins when we note that the
benefits of globalization fall short of being able to
alleviate the situation of extreme deprivation from which
more than a quarter of the world’s population suffers.
Similarly, we see more clearly new threats to security and
development, such as drug trafficking, terrorism,
corruption, and irresponsible assaults upon the
environment.
The process of reform undertaken by Secretary-
General Kofi Annan must first and foremost identify what
is the essential role of the United Nations. We believe
that it unquestionably continues to be the maintenance of
14


international peace and security. In order to achieve this we
must bring about a world where sustainable development is
possible and where the norm is the rule of law; respect for
human rights, including respect for the rights of indigenous
peoples and minorities; and non-discrimination by reason of
race, religion, gender or anything else.
The United Nations, through the General Assembly,
must continue to be in the vanguard on all these issues,
playing the role which in the past enabled it to overcome
the scepticism of the times and successfully to combat
colonialism, champion nuclear non-proliferation, and, even
more important, alert the world to the grave risks of
environmental pollution, marginalization, poverty and that
new form of moral pollution: corruption.
Although, on the whole, reform has aroused feelings
of hope, we must overcome the present climate of
scepticism and support the Secretary-General. In a world
which today is increasingly marked by globalization, the
autonomy which formerly characterized State action has
been considerably limited. This obliges us to reassess the
classical concept of sovereignty, by which I mean flexible
and dynamic — not static — reassessment. Argentina has
participated with conviction in the process of reform and
commits itself to continue to work actively in its
implementation.
The question of the Middle East is going through a
difficult phase. The peace process begun in Madrid in 1991
must necessarily continue, with fulfilment of the Oslo and
Washington Agreements.
We fully support the determined efforts made some
days ago by the Secretary of State of the United States of
America, Mrs. Madeleine Albright. We are certain that time
will show that those efforts were timely and well-directed.
Our country likewise firmly supports the system-wide
Programme of Action for the economic recovery and
development of Africa, as well as the United Nations
System-wide Special Initiative for Africa launched by the
Secretary-General in March 1996. We attach particular
importance to the mobilization of financial resources for the
African continent, and we note with satisfaction the first
signs of renewed activity in some very important areas of
that continent.
With regard to international security, we welcome the
adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,
which we hope shortly to ratify. Likewise, we extend our
unqualified support to the Ottawa process to ban anti-
personnel landmines. Our commitment to this noble
initiative was made manifest in 1994, when we offered to
assume the task of removing the mines laid in the
Malvinas Islands. We laid those mines ourselves and thus
felt a sense of responsibility. We hope that we shall soon
be able to achieve the agreement that will allow us to
complete that task.
A lasting peace requires United Nations contingents
endowed with the capacity to deploy rapidly and
effectively. Accordingly, Argentina, together with other
countries, is working to improve mechanisms of
deployment. In this context, allow me also to recall that,
next year, Argentina will mark the fortieth anniversary of
its participation in peacekeeping operations. That is a
great many years.
The magnitude of the adverse consequences for
individuals of current conflicts requires us to exert our
utmost efforts with regard to humanitarian assistance.
Such assistance constitutes an indispensable element in
peace-building. Accordingly, the “White Helmets”
initiative has made possible a growing mobilization of
human and financial resources, bringing about a healthy
reassessment of humanitarian assistance criteria and
procedures.
In order to consolidate a lasting peace, we must not
allow impunity to prevail for crimes that offend the
conscience of humankind. The creation by the Security
Council of tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and
Rwanda is a recognition that justice and law are
inseparable components of the system of collective
security. Argentina firmly supports the creation of a
general and permanent international criminal court. We
trust that the Rome conference in 1998 will make possible
the realization of this initiative.
Let me also say that the Argentine Government
firmly intends to pursue its struggle against the abusive
consumption of psychotropic substances and illicit
narcotics trafficking, as well as related offenses.
In the subregional context, we are proud that the
Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) continues
to grow in both the commercial and political spheres,
which are interrelated, and to contribute to advancing
integration in the hemisphere. MERCOSUR is a clear
case of open regionalism. It has not resulted in the
distortion or diversion of trade but has, rather, generated
trade both between the countries of the region and with
countries outside it. Argentina, jointly with its other
15


MERCOSUR partners, is active in the formation of the
American Free Trade Area (AFTA). MERCOSUR has
introduced a proposal for negotiation of AFTA based on a
phased approach.
With regard to regional security, Argentina has been
a leader in reducing residual tensions in the area. It has
contributed to the attainment of such cherished goals for the
nations of South America as the resolution of border
problems in a climate of confidence with our neighbours
and by promoting common positions in support of
strengthened democracy and political and economic
stability. Accordingly, we have, through the Mechanism for
Consultation and Concerted Political Action of the Rio
Group, been promoting the Declaration on the Defence of
Democracy, to which we attach great importance as one
more means to advance peace and security — goals that
can be achieved only with representative democracy. We
also welcome the inclusion of Bolivia and Chile as full
members of the Mercosur Mechanism for Consultation and
Concerted Political Action.
With our neighbours, friends and partners, we are
pursuing a deepening of the dialogue on security and
defence. We are adjusting it to the new international and
regional reality, convinced that security is enhanced through
integration. Indeed, the basis of security in the Southern
Cone is the friendship and cordiality of its countries. In this
context, military cooperation has increased, with positive
results for transparency and mutual confidence-building. As
a result of these efforts, Latin America today can point with
pride to the peace and harmony that prevails among its
States.
There remains, however, in the South Atlantic, an
important unresolved issue: the question of the Malvinas
Islands. I reaffirm once again the legitimate rights of the
Republic of Argentina in that dispute and its appeal for a
peaceful and lasting solution.
In keeping with the repeated appeals of this General
Assembly and the Decolonization Committee, we believe
that it is imperative to resume negotiations on all aspects of
the question of the Malvinas Islands. No Member of the
United Nations should evade the obligation to resolve a
dispute by peaceful means as laid down in the Charter of
this Organization. We call for the parties to sit at the
negotiating table and discuss all the relevant issues.
We have made too much progress with the United
Kingdom to avoid addressing this issue. We have made
very important strides in building our bilateral relationship
with the United Kingdom, which are reflected in
heightened economic, commercial and cultural relations
between the two countries. We have recreated a climate
of mutual trust in the South-West Atlantic, which enables
us today to cooperate in the conservation of living
resources and in the exploration and exploitation of
hydrocarbons. Undoubtedly, these activities would gain
substantial impetus from the resumption of direct links
between the mainland and the islands, which have proven
to be most beneficial in the past. Nothing, however,
replaces human contact between individuals.
I trust that the new British Government will heed
our appeal and that of the international community to
pursue a dialogue without preconditions with a view to
finding a definitive solution to the sovereignty dispute
over the Malvinas Islands. To the islanders, I once again
reiterate our firm commitment to fully respect their way
of life, culture and institutions, as stated in our national
Constitution.
The Decolonization Committee, which has
historically played a decisive role in this sphere, has
shown itself to be the appropriate forum to continue
addressing the situation of the Malvinas Islands and other
dependent territories. Accordingly, the six countries that
make up the MERCOSUR Mechanism for Consultation
and Concerted Political Action have reaffirmed the
importance of the work of the Committee of 24 on the
decolonization process, which has not yet been completed.
We trust that the Committee will maintain its
effectiveness to the full.
Another fundamental issue is the composition of the
Security Council, which in 1945 was consonant with the
reality prevailing at the end of the Second World War.
That is no longer the case, however. On the eve of the
twenty-first century, we should not design a model that
only adds new discriminations to those we have inherited.
That would be a conceptual mistake. Argentina, while
understanding the position of each Member State on this
matter, is of the view that there is not yet a general
agreement concerning the increase in the number of
permanent members. We all agree that the reform of the
Security Council should make it a more democratic and
representative body. To reach that goal, each region will
need to arrive at a compromise without being pressured
or rushed.
In the case of Latin America and the Caribbean, the
Summit of Heads of State of the Rio Group has agreed
that the region itself will have to decide how to fill the
16


seats assigned to it. Argentina is of the view that an open-
ended mechanism of rotation should be established that will
enable the participation of all those States that have shown
their commitment to and respect for the Charter. This
would avoid discrimination against those States that, like
Argentina, bear greater financial responsibilities. In short,
the Argentine position is aimed solely at promoting the
ample participation of all States of the region, without any
exclusion whatsoever.
I must say, however, that there is more to this matter
than the increase in the number of members. Methods of
work and procedures also need to be updated. In this
context, I concur with the comments made by the
representative of New Zealand.
It is our firm conviction that reform of the United
Nations must necessarily be built upon two fundamental
pillars. First, it must respond to the requirements and
expectations of the international community. Secondly, it
must reflect a general agreement among the Member States.
It is only in this way that the Organization will retain its
relevance in the twenty-first century.







===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
Allow me, first of all, to congratulate you, Mr.
President, on your election to the presidency of the
General Assembly. Secondly, allow me to express the
profound regard and warm ties that unite Argentina and
Uruguay, an ongoing relationship that was already under
way at the beginning of the nineteenth century.
We also extend our appreciation to Ambassador
Udovenko for the courage, balance and impartiality he
exhibited during the course of his mandate.
In a globalized world, peace and security, economic
stability and growth are more than ever indissolubly
linked. The economic and financial crisis that concerns us
today should boost our commitment to the economic
reform process which we are carrying out in our region.
Trade and foreign investment are clearly sources of
opportunity and incentives to growth and competitiveness.
But it is also clear that in recent decades the free
movement of capital flows has been one of the main
engines of economic development for many countries.
19


In order to dispel its negative effects, globalization
requires educational, social and environmental policies that
benefit all of society in a balanced and equitable manner.
We feel it is damaging to succumb to the temptation of
imposing restrictions on international trade in order to
thwart the spread of economic crisis, or to resort to
hampering or placing conditions on the flow of financial
resources in order to moderate their volatility.
In Latin America, countries such as Argentina have
made sustained and coherent efforts to consolidate their
financial situation, contain the budget deficit and provide
assurances to foreign investment by helping to create a
solid economic environment for the region, which is
increasingly being seen with new eyes.
A few days ago, the Presidents of the Rio Group,
meeting in Panama, expressed their resolve to continue
managing economic policy mechanisms in a responsible
manner that guarantees stability and growth. Accordingly,
financial institutions and those countries with the capacity
to provide assistance should understand the problems that
this critical economic situation presents to countries that
find themselves in the eye of the storm and act accordingly.
The Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR)
is today a model of economic foundations based on
freedom and democracy in which cooperation is the very
essence of the system.
As an illustration of the excellent relations in the area
of security and defense, Argentina pressed for the adoption
of the Political Declaration of MERCOSUR, Bolivia and
Chile as a Zone of Peace, which was signed at the
MERCOSUR summit held in Argentina on 24 July 1998.
The recent nuclear tests in South Asia constituted a
step backwards with regard to regional and global security.
These tests delay the economic development and well-being
of the population. Argentina, together with countries that
have renounced the military use of nuclear technology, has
urged the States of that region to stop conducting tests and
to adhere to the international instruments in force.
Argentina, for its part, has offered to share fully its
experience in peaceful nuclear cooperation. Allow me to
recall that Argentina was the first country that, having
mastered the nuclear fuel cycle, chose to limit its own use
of this technology.
We feel proud of the steps our country has taken in
the last decade related to non-proliferation issues. In the
nuclear field, we ratified the Treaty for the Prohibition of
Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean
(Treaty of Tlatelolco) in 1994 and the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in 1995, and
have become a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
In the chemical and bacteriological field, we have
promoted the Joint Declaration on the Complete
Prohibition of Chemical and Biological Weapons â€” the
Mendoza Agreement â€” of 1991, a commitment originally
limited to Argentina, Brazil and Chile, which was later
extended to most Latin American countries. We have also
adjusted our domestic legislation strictly to control
exports related to dual-use chemical, bacteriological and
missile-related substances and technologies, in accordance
with existing international instruments. Last July, as a
follow-up to the Mendoza Agreement, we adopted the
Ushuaia Declaration, which established the Southern Cone
Common Market (MERCOSUR) as an area free of
weapons of mass destruction. Hence, Argentina has taken
the decision to assume greater responsibility in this field.
In turn, this decision has allowed us to continue
exchanges of advanced technology.
In relation to conventional weapons, we strongly
support the United Nations Register of Conventional
Arms, to which we regularly provide information. We
also support other important initiatives recently adopted
within the framework of the Organization of American
States (OAS), such as the Inter-American Convention
against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in
Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives, and Other Related
Materials and Other Appropriate Actions. Small arms
constitute another source of international concern. It is
worth mentioning that regional and international seminars
have recently been held in Buenos Aires on this topic.
We are not indifferent to the grave scourge of
antipersonnel mines. In 1995, Argentina established a
moratorium on the export of mines and more recently, in
December 1997 at Ottawa, I had the honour to sign, on
my countryâs behalf, the Convention on the Prohibition of
the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction.
In our hemisphere we work earnestly and in a spirit
of compromise to overcome all differences by means of
negotiation. As we gradually resolve the few pending
bilateral disputes, we will definitively consolidate our
region as a zone of peace. We trust that in coming
months we shall see important developments in that
regard. Friendship among peoples is the best guarantee
against conflict.
20


We are convinced that the United Nations presence in
Haiti, in keeping with the desire of the Government of that
country, will help to consolidate democracy and contribute
to the prosperity of the Haitian people.
The resurgence of terrorist attacks comes as a harsh
reminder that no State is immune to terrorism. My country
firmly supports the initiatives under way to supplement with
new conventions the network of anti-terrorism norms now
in force, leading to enhanced international cooperation and
to establishing the obligation of all States to bring to justice
and punish those responsible for these acts. The Argentine
Government continues to make every effort to clarify the
acts of terrorism committed against the Israeli embassy and
the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association in Buenos Aires.
Let me highlight the fact that on 2 September 1998 the
Argentine Republic signed the International Convention for
the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. Likewise, next
November Argentina will host the second specialized inter-
American conference on terrorism.
Severe global humanitarian crises, usually
accompanied by forced displacement of populations,
constitute another issue that affects international peace and
security. Argentina has joined in the international
communityâs efforts, with bilateral assistance programmes
and with such initiatives as the â€œWhite Helmetsâ€ initiative.
In that context, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations devoting their energies to the solution of this
type of crisis deserve our recognition.
To grow and develop, peoples need to live in peace.
We are dismayed to see that conflicts which could be
overcome, such as those in Cyprus, the Middle East, the
Great Lakes region of Africa, Angola and the Balkans,
particularly Kosovo, persist in spite of the international
communityâs efforts to resolve them. The situation of
refugees, especially children, who are victims of these
conflicts is a source of particular concern.
In 1998 Argentina will mark the fortieth anniversary
of its participation in peacekeeping operations. Our
contribution has cost the lives of Argentine citizens who
helped to make this a more secure and stable world. The
vast experience acquired over these 40 years has been
embodied in the Argentine joint training centre for
peacekeeping operations, and in the Argentine gendarmerie
training centre that specializes in civilian police operations
abroad.
Argentinaâs natural interest in the South Atlantic is
reflected in our participation in the Zone of Peace and
Cooperation of the South Atlantic, which brings together
24 African and Latin American countries from both
shores of the Atlantic. I am particularly proud to
announce that, on 21 and 22 October, Argentina will be
the site of the fifth Ministerial Meeting of the countries
members of the Zone.
Unfortunately, there remains an important unresolved
issue in the South Atlantic: the sovereignty dispute
between the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland over the Malvinas
Islands, a dispute whose existence has been unequivocally
recognized in many resolutions of the General Assembly
and of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard
to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, as
well as in various other international forums. I reiterate,
with the same conviction as always, the legitimate and
well-founded rights of Argentina in that long-standing
dispute. And, with the same conviction as always, I urge
the United Kingdom to heed the call of the international
community and observe United Nations resolutions calling
upon both Governments to resume negotiations on all
aspects of this question.
The end of the cold war showed us that far more
complicated problems have been resolved through frank,
open dialogue and with a determination to reach a
mutually acceptable agreement. I see no reason why the
question of the Malvinas Islands should be an exception.
Proceeding on firm footing, we have rebuilt our bilateral
relationship and, for the benefit of the Argentine and
British peoples, have strengthened political, trade and
cultural ties. Evidence of this is the visit which President
Carlos Menem is to make to the United Kingdom in the
near future, for which both parties are engaged in
enthusiastic preparations and which has generated high
expectations at all levels.
Similarly, we have left behind the misgivings and
resentments of the past, learning from our mistakes and
creating a climate of mutual trust in the South-West
Atlantic, which is today enabling us to cooperate in the
conservation of fishery resources and in exploration for
hydrocarbons. That cooperation renders still more
incomprehensible todayâs lack of communication between
the islands and the mainland. There are few places in the
world with such an unnatural situation. It is beyond doubt
that restoring direct ties between the mainland and the
21


islands would contribute to resolving the problem. We have
no doubt about this.
Once again, I expressly reiterate Argentinaâs sincere
desire to pursue a frank dialogue without preconditions. We
hope that the British Government understands the full
meaning of our offer and that it will respond accordingly.
To the islanders I reiterate our unwavering commitment to
full and unconditional respect for their way of life, their
culture and their institutions. Our national constitution so
provides, and that is the desire of the Argentine people.
There have been concrete advances on vital questions.
The creation of a permanent international criminal court is
one such example. Similarly, the recent special session of
the General Assembly devoted to the world problem of
drugs adopted innovative documents of great importance.
This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and of the adoption
of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the
Crime of Genocide. In these 50 years, the international
community has become aware of the vital importance of
human rights: today it no longer accepts what was once
tolerated.
The deterioration of the environment, in its various
forms, is one of the problems urgently requiring concrete
answers and effective commitment by governments and
civil society. Argentina will have the honour of hosting the
fourth Conference of the Parties to the Framework
Convention on Climate Change, from 2 to 13 November of
this year.
We are convinced that a substantial part of our efforts
to reform the Organization should be geared to designing a
mechanism of closer and more effective cooperation with
the Bretton Woods institutions.
With regard to reform of the Security Council, we
believe that situations born out of the Second World War
cannot prevail indefinitely. It is necessary to find
democratic solutions that will allow for periodic renewal
within the modalities preferred by each region. The viability
of this reform will necessarily depend on the degree of
consensus reached. There are several aspects to be borne in
mind. The first is that the reform must be legally valid,
which means not forcing interpretations of the Charter with
regard to the majorities required by Article 108. Further,
the reform must be founded on political legitimacy. Any
increase in the number of permanent members should allow
for a rotation open to all States of the respective regions.
The crisis of our Organization is fundamentally one of
participation. Many small and medium-sized countries
feel excluded. Only by allowing greater participation in
the Security Council will we be living up to the
democratic ideals of the end of this century.
The vitality of democratic ideals in the region was
confirmed with the signing on 24 July of the Ushuaia
protocol, which reaffirms the democratic clause in the
countries of the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR), Bolivia and Chile.
The visit by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
to the countries of our region last July was a very
significant event. Argentina had the opportunity to
demonstrate its clear commitment to assuming its global
responsibilities. The Secretary-General recognized this,
especially as regards peacekeeping.











===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
We
are pleased that an important figure in Namibia's attainment
of independence has the responsibility of conducting this
session of the General Assembly.
I also wish to express my appreciation to the Foreign
Minister of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his skill in
presiding over the previous session of the General
Assembly.
After 10 years as President of Argentina, and with my
constitutional mandate about to end, I should like to share
with the Assembly the transformations that Argentina has
experienced during this time, in a world which has also
been transformed.
In the past 10 years we have experienced a change
of Copernican dimensions. It started with the recovery of
democracy. Since that time we have built a stable political
system based on the popular will and respect for the rule
of law. We have made respect for human rights a sacred
value. We are at peace with all our neighbours, with
which we have now undertaken a robust integration
process. We have put an end to proliferation policies and
have actively committed ourselves to peacekeeping
operations. We have developed an open and free
economy, worked to combat poverty and inequality of
opportunity and fought discrimination in all its forms. In
short, we have recovered and embraced the high values of
our culture, which are the essence of the Charter of the
United Nations and which we hope to bring with us into
the twenty-first century.
At the regional level, which is our natural sphere of
interest, we have solved all outstanding border and
demarcation issues with the Republic of Chile and thus
opened the way for fruitful integration. We have
established consultation and coordination mechanisms
with Brazil and Chile on security and defence issues. We
are convinced that security depends much more on
friendship and cooperation with our neighbours than on
what we spend on weapons. As one of the guarantors of
the Rio de Janeiro Protocol, we contributed to the peace
agreement between Peru and Ecuador. We are working
tirelessly for the consolidation of democracy and
development in our region.
In the field of disarmament and the non-proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction, we have taken the
following steps. On 28 November 1990 we signed the Foz
do Iguaçú Joint Declaration, which consolidated the
policy of nuclear transparency with Brazil, and since then
we have developed a common peaceful and non-
proliferation nuclear policy. Argentina acceded to the
Treaty of Tlatelolco, in 1994; the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in 1995; and the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, in 1998. We are
also members of the Nuclear Suppliers Group, and in
1993 Argentina joined the Missile Technology Control
Regime.
In the field of space activities, the National
Commission for Space Activities has worked with the
United States National Aeronautics and Space

Administration (NASA) on the SAC-B satellite mission, the
placement in orbit and operation of the SAC-A satellite
technology mission and the forthcoming launch of the SAC-
C satellite mission, Argentina's first Earth observation
satellite. We have also started some ambitious projects in
this field with Brazil, as well as with Canada, France,
Germany and the United Kingdom.
We have ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention,
and we are working on a monitoring mechanism for the
Biological Weapons Convention. In this context, Argentina
joined the Australian Group on 11 December 1992.
Argentina's self-restraint in the development of nuclear
weapons is recognized as an example by the international
community.
On 14 September this year Argentina ratified the
Ottawa Convention on the prohibition of anti-personnel
landmines.
At the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR) summit in Ushuaia, Argentina, on 24 July
1998, MERCOSUR, Bolivia and Chile were declared a
zone of peace and a zone free of weapons of mass
destruction. A commitment was also made to declare the
area a zone free of anti-personnel landmines.
We believe that all States must renounce nuclear
weapons and give unequivocal guarantees that their nuclear
capability and most advanced technology are exclusively for
peaceful purposes.
Allow me once more to refer to the pending
sovereignty dispute concerning the Malvinas Islands. One
of the first measures we adopted upon taking office was to
re-establish diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom,
in February 1990. A new stage was thereby begun in which
the ties between the two countries were taken to their
highest level in history. This was reaffirmed by my recent
visit, as President, to the United Kingdom and that of His
Royal Highness Prince Charles to Argentina. Since then,
while reaffirming our sovereignty rights and motivated by
a spirit of reconciliation, we have worked harmoniously
with the United Kingdom on various matters relating to the
South Atlantic, such as the rebuilding of a climate of
mutual trust in the area, the preservation of live marine
resources, the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons,
the resumption of flights between the continent and the
Malvinas Islands, and the access of persons carrying
Argentine identity documents to the Malvinas Islands.
Argentina is a country that is proud of its cultural
diversity. Our Constitution establishes as a national goal
the recovery of the Malvinas Islands while guaranteeing
the strictest respect for the way of life of their inhabitants.
I am convinced that the conditions exist for Argentina and
the United Kingdom to begin without further delay a
dialogue towards a definitive solution of the sovereignty
dispute, thus fulfilling the numerous resolutions adopted
by the General Assembly and the Special Political and
Decolonization Committee.
Argentina is the sixth-largest troop contributor to the
Organization. At this time, we are involved in 10 of the
17 current operations, including those in Kosovo and East
Timor. We have also incorporated personnel from other
Latin American countries into our troops.
In Argentina, the defence and promotion of human
rights is a State policy. That is why we have actively
participated in the establishment of the International
Criminal Court, as a way to put an end to the culture of
impunity.
The numerous humanitarian missions in which
“White Helmets” have been deployed in South America,
Central America, the Middle East, Africa and the
Caucasus are a reflection of the success of this initiative,
which I put forward in 1993. Argentina agrees with the
Secretary-General that the “White Helmets” can provide
assistance, in close partnership with the Blue Helmets, in
conflict situations.
Argentina supports a world economy of open
markets. However, we see the re-emergence of hidden
forms of protectionism. This is why we call on all States,
in particular to the most developed ones, to take part in
the “millennium round”, with the goal of attaining an
open, multilateral system that excludes no sector of
economic activity.
As evidence of our concern regarding environmental
issues, in November 1998 Argentina hosted the fourth
meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,
which adopted the Buenos Aires Plan of Action. During
the fifth ministerial meeting of the Zone of Peace and
Cooperation of the South Atlantic, which was held in
Buenos Aires in October 1998, a Plan of Action was
adopted for the first time in order to carry out the
objectives of the Zone, which include the protection of
the environment and of living resources.
5


The international community must urgently prepare
contingency plans to face the year 2000 problem in such a
way that essential community services are not affected.
Since 1 January 1999, Argentina has been an elected
member of the Security Council. I would like briefly to
share some thoughts with the Assembly.
The responsibility of the Security Council in the
maintenance of peace cannot be irreplaceable, and its
authority must be strengthened.
The Council must work in cooperation with other
bodies of the United Nations system and with regional
organizations in order to carry out its tasks effectively.
We have a responsibility towards the men and women
who make up the Blue Helmets, as well as towards those
who perform humanitarian work in conflict situations. It is
our obligation to protect them. We call upon countries to
ratify the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and
Associated Personnel.
Concerning the reform of the Security Council,
Argentina supports the creation of a system of non-
discriminatory, open rotation. It would be unfair and
unrealistic, at the beginning of a new millennium, to
multiply the privileges and discriminatory practices that
came about only as a result of war in 1945. Therefore, no
new categories of membership should be introduced in
regions where those categories do not exist, especially if
tradition and history do not warrant it.
Finally, I am convinced that the United Nations is
called upon to play an even more relevant role in the
twenty-first century. Argentina, which is now to be among
the 15 main countries of the Organization, will participate
with the same conviction as always in the realization of the
noble objectives of the Charter.
Once again, I thank you, Sir, and all the Members of
the United Nations. After 10 years and six months, I bid
you farewell for the last time.


















===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
In
this, my first statement, allow me to congratulate Mr.
Holkeri on his election to the presidency of the General
Assembly. I believe that this is a timely opportunity to
emphasize the great friendship that unites the
Argentine Republic and Finland.
I also express my gratitude to Mr. Theo-Ben
Gurirab of Namibia, another country that is a friend to
Argentina, for the constructive way in which he
presided over the Assembly's work at the last session.
We also offer a cordial welcome to Tuvalu upon
its entry into the United Nations and extend our
friendship and cooperation to its people.
This debate is taking place after a very productive
exchange of opinions at the highest level during the
Millennium Summit, which we hope will mark,
together with the final Declaration, the beginning of a
new era leading to a more equitable world and a more
effective Organization, in accordance with objectives
set out by the Secretary-General in his report entitled
“We the peoples”. For my country, this is also an
opportunity to set out before the General Assembly the
principles and objectives of our foreign policy.
The Government of President Fernando de la
Rúa, who took office on 10 December 1999, has
drafted a foreign policy on the basis of the mandate it
received from the Argentine people. This policy aims
at strengthening our integration with neighbouring
countries, intensifying the hemispheric dialogue and
promoting economic development, social progress, free
trade and a ban on weapons of mass destruction.
Argentina is determined to participate on the
international scene jointly to build a peaceful and
stable world based on the values of representative
democracy, the rule of law, the protection and
promotion of human rights, respect for the
environment, economic liberalization, social progress,
international cooperation and the maintenance of
international peace and security, pursuant to the
purposes and principles of the Charter. Today, as was
stated at the Millennium Summit, these aspirations are
shared by the vast majority of Members of this
Organization.
On the basis of its ongoing interests, the
Government has set as a priority objective its political
and economic integration with the other States
members of the Southern Common Market
(MERCOSUR) — Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay —
and associate members Chile and Bolivia. We have
agreed with these countries to consolidate
MERCOSUR by adopting the measures necessary to
promote greater integration on the basis of balance and
equity. We have made significant progress towards the
expansion of our markets since the signing of the
Treaty of Asuncin in 1991. This was the fruit of the
determination of the member countries to implement an
open trade policy in their economic programmes.
25

The creation of MERCOSUR was a political
decision transcending the economic sphere.
MERCOSUR provides a political forum within which
trust, cooperation and the pursuit of full integration in
all areas foster the increasing complementarity and
convergence of our interests. Bolivia and Chile have
bound themselves to MERCOSUR as associate
members in the context of the Free Trade Area and we
trust that they will become full members in the near
future.
As a consequence of the broadening political and
economic dimensions of our integration project, we are
also witnessing the convergence of approaches to
defence and security in our region. This contributes to
a continental perspective based on confidence and
cooperation. We and our neighbours have made
progress towards the creation of the joint
MERCOSUR, Bolivian and Chilean zone of peace.
Argentina is part of a nuclear-free Latin America
reflecting the peaceful and cooperative security
necessary to harmonious development.
At the same time, as a member of the Rio Group,
which has now grown to include Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras and Nicaragua, Argentina has pursued its
high-level political consultations and cooperation in
order to maintain peace, strengthen representative
democracy and promote sustainable development in the
region. It is our firm intention that our countries shall
enjoy greater participation in the global economy. At
the recent summit convened in Brasilia to
commemorate the 500th anniversary of the discovery
of Brazil, the Presidents of all the South American
countries reaffirmed the spirit of understanding and
harmony that marks its relations on the basis of these
principles and objectives.
The consolidation of democratic stability in Latin
America continues to be a central policy of the
Argentine Government. We do not interfere in the
domestic affairs of others and we respect international
law. We promote the consolidation of democratic
processes on the basis of our deep conviction that free,
regular and transparent elections and a plurality of
political parties are essential instruments for affirming
and guaranteeing the institutional nature of democracy.
My country also reaffirms its commitment to
eradicating poverty, inequity and social exclusion and
to ensuring equal opportunity throughout the region.
We shall continue to pursue our joint action in the
regional and global campaign against drug trafficking,
terrorism, corruption, the illegal trade in arms and
organized crime.
The Argentine Republic has a natural interest in
the South Atlantic that is reflected in our participation
in the zone of peace and cooperation of the South
Atlantic, comprised of 21 African and three Latin
American countries. At the fifth ministerial meeting
held in Buenos Aires in October 1998, a plan of action
was adopted to implement our shared objectives in the
peaceful settlement of disputes, economic cooperation,
development, the conservation of fishery resources, the
fight against drug trafficking and the protection of the
environment.
My country is in favour of free trade in order to
achieve development and the eradication of poverty.
The Argentine Government believes that protectionism
not only generates the deflection of trade and the
closure of markets, but also constitutes a form of
discrimination. Argentina urges the entire international
community to commit itself seriously to eliminating
distortions of trade and will continue to fight for these
objectives. In this regard, we believe that progress is
being made in negotiations on the free trade agreement
of the Americas to create a hemispheric free trade area
by the year 2005.
In the World Trade Organization, our country has
provided new impetus to the efforts to launch a new
round to broaden trade liberalization, particularly in
agriculture.
Argentina also continues to support negotiations
to develop political and economic association between
MERCOSUR and the European Union, including, in
this framework, the gradual liberalization of
agricultural trade and services.
We are constantly seeking new ways to integrate
ourselves with the world. The realities of technological
change and continual innovation require developing
countries to adapt to a scheme of international
economic integration based on a new paradigm of
production. The challenge is to ensure the access of the
least developed countries to this process of constant
technological change and innovation. There can be no
doubt that the international community — in particular
the United Nations — must cooperate to promote the
transfer of technology from developed to developing
countries with sufficient flexibility and breadth so that
26

technological innovations reach those countries with
fewer resources.
In his report “We the peoples”, the SecretaryGeneral quite rightly attaches great importance to this
task. Without the adequate dissemination of and access
to the new technologies of the digital revolution, we
will see the gap between rich and poor widen.
Individual States and the international community as a
whole must therefore find solutions that guarantee
greater fairness in the use of digital information.
Argentina remains fully committed to the
international community's efforts to protect the
environment from the negative impact of human
activities. In this regard we reaffirm our commitment to
the principles of sustainable development agreed upon
in 1992 at the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development — principles that were
reflected in the Rio Declaration on the environment
and in Agenda 21. Equally, we would like to stress the
importance of making adequate preparation — during
this very fifty-fifth General Assembly — for the
conference to be held in 2002 to review the
implementation of Agenda 21.
Moreover, we feel it is necessary to consolidate
the international legal regimes in the field of
environmental protection. In this context, and bearing
in mind the devastating consequences of atmospheric
warming on the global ecosystem and on human life,
we attach special importance to the entry into force, as
soon as possible, of the Kyoto Protocol to the
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The twenty-first century was preceded by a
prolonged strategic and ideological confrontation,
which has given way to a moment in history in which
representative democracy, human rights and open
economies are shared values. At the same time, we are
facing a more complex world that has yet to engender a
stable international order. The explosion of serious
intra-State conflicts — as we have seen in the Balkans
or in Africa — are signs of the emergence of a new
stage in conflicts — a stage in which, regrettably,
conflicts are based on ethnic, cultural and religious
differences.
The Republic of Argentina aspires to contribute
to achieving multilateral consensus aimed at reducing
and neutralizing risks to peace and at facilitating the
development of nations. We believe that if this
consensus were based on greater democratization in
international relations this would increase the efficacy
and the functioning of the international system.
Since it is impossible for individual States to face
these threats alone, it is necessary to adopt cooperative
security policies to eliminate the potential risk of
conflicts and to strengthen the stability and security of
legal regimes. It is essential that we face in a united
fashion the immediate and underlying causes of
conflicts, which often arise because of the lack of
economic opportunities and because of social
inequalities.
The Members of the United Nations face the
challenge of finding a response to questions raised by
recent international crises, including the international
humanitarian crises. My country believes that the
principle of non-intervention must be duly respected
because it is the pillar underpinning relations between
independent States. At the same time, we cannot
conceal our concern at the explosion of violence
against ethnic, racial or religious minorities.
In particular we are concerned about the situation
of vulnerable groups, such as refugees and internally
displaced persons, and about the situation of children
in armed conflicts. Consequently we believe that the
international community cannot remain indifferent and
must provide an adequate response to humanitarian
crises.
We must emphasize the role that can be played by
international tribunals to create awareness that
impunity will not be tolerated. The International
Criminal Court and the tribunals for Rwanda, the
former Yugoslavia and Sierra Leone, which have been
created, constitute important instruments of deterrence.
In addition to the internal reforms that the
Secretary-General has initiated with singular success
within his sphere of competence, the United Nations
must give priority to more democratic consensusbuilding in the decision-making processes of the main
and subsidiary organs of the system. This needs to be
done in a fashion that does not hamper the speed and
effectively with which solutions are found to the daily
problems facing the Organization.
Maintenance of international peace and security
is a primary responsibility of the Security Council,
which must be strengthened. If these responsibilities
are not fully shouldered, no other activity of the United
27

Nations can be carried out with any certainty of
success.
Since the inception of multilateral diplomacy,
Argentina has defended the principle of the sovereign
equality of States. It is therefore not surprising that our
country maintains that the reform of the Security
Council must be arrived at via consensus, and this
consensus must not entail new discrimination,
privileges or exclusions.
The vast majority of the international
community — seeking to ensure respect for the values
of democracy and universality — believes that a new
Security Council will have to allow for greater
participation by all. This cannot be achieved if new
permanent seats — like those established in 1945 —
are established. Reform of the Council must allow all
States a greater opportunity to participate in the
Council, which must not be monopolized by only a few
countries. For this reason, Argentina supports
exclusively an increase in the number of nonpermanent members and the introduction of restrictions
on the right of the veto, without losing sight of the
ultimate objective of eliminating it altogether. We
support the adoption of rules of procedure that
guarantee transparency and the possibility of the
participation of all Member States in this organ.
Our support for the peaceful settlement of
disputes continues to be a fundamental feature of our
foreign policy. President de la Rúa reiterated the
Argentine commitment to continue participating in
peacekeeping operations established by the Security
Council. The most recent conflicts have shown how
important efficient training of the forces participating
in these missions is. Experience acquired by Argentina
in 42 years of participating in these missions is
reflected in the creation of the joint Argentine centre
for training for peacekeeping operations. It has been
operating since 1995, with the participation of
personnel from other Member States. We also
established the centre for training of security forces for
foreign missions. Argentina, which is currently
involved in nine peacekeeping operations, places at the
disposal of the United Nations its military and police
training centres. We also support the initiatives to
strengthen the rapid deployment capacity of the
Organization, and we would support restructuring
efforts aimed at optimizing the planning and support
for peacekeeping operations both at Headquarters and
in the field.
My country was pleased to receive the
conclusions and recommendations recently issued by
the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations and
contained in the Brahimi report. These provide a
valuable basis for building international consensus
aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Organization
to prevent conflicts and to maintain and re-establish
peace. Argentina, which is part of the Bureau of the
Special Committee for Peacekeeping Operations,
supports the conducting, as soon as possible, of a
detailed analysis of the recommendations contained in
the Brahimi report — including its possible financial
implications — with a view to achieving its early
implementation.
My Government is particularly concerned about
the problems related to the security and protection of
those who participate in peacekeeping operations and
humanitarian missions. The personnel of the United
Nations and associated personnel, as well as the
personnel of other agencies that provide humanitarian
assistance, are facing increasingly risks situations, as
we have seen recently in the tragic events that have
occurred around the world. Consequently, Argentina,
which is a party to the 1994 Convention on the Safety
of United Nations and Associated Personnel, has urged
an improvement in the security situation of United
Nations personnel via the adoption of practical and
legal measures, including financial-planning and
implementation measures for these operations.
In this context we should also reiterate the duty of
the international community to provide assistance to
those countries facing emergency situations, which
arise as a result either of natural disasters or of armed
conflicts. In this area a significant role can be played
by the “White Helmets” initiative, which involves the
establishment of bodies of specialized volunteers
organized by the Members of the United Nations to
provide humanitarian assistance to peoples who are
victims of extreme emergencies and also to mitigate the
serious problems that affect these people.
We should also mention the issue of AIDS which
particularly affects the poorest areas of the world.
More than 34 million people suffer from this illness
today. The virus has spread dramatically. In particular,
more than two thirds of the victims are in sub-Saharan
Africa. This pandemic is aggravating poverty. The
illness and death of so many workers is draining
already weakened economies. The impact of this
phenomenon on the future of the affected regions will
28

probably mean greater marginalization and will
undermine the foundations of stability, security and
peace. The international community and this
Organization and its specialized agencies must
contribute urgently all available resources to the fight
against this disease.
I would like to refer in particular to the
sovereignty dispute between my country and the
United Kingdom regarding the Malvinas, South
Georgia and South Sandwich Islands as well as the
surrounding seas.
The recovery of the full exercise of sovereignty
over this part of our national territory, respecting the
interests of the inhabitants and international law, is a
precept enshrined in the Constitution of Argentina.
This item is on the agenda of the Organization, which
in numerous resolutions has requested the
Governments of Argentina and the United Kingdom to
renew negotiations to find a just and definitive solution
to the sovereignty controversy, thus putting an end to a
colonial situation imposed by force in 1833.
Today, in accordance with that request, Argentina
reiterates once again its complete willingness to renew
bilateral negotiations with the United Kingdom to
resolve this question. We reiterate our support for the
mission of good offices with which the General
Assembly charged the Secretary-General to assist the
parties in achieving this objective.
The world stage in the post-cold-war era is the
scene of ethnic conflicts, civil wars, massive violations
of human rights and fundamental freedoms, illegal
traffic in arms and other threats. At the same, time we
are seeing the unprecedented spread of representative
democracy and economic and technological
modernization.
Against this backdrop, our main task is to reach
agreements that will enable us to face these challenges
and seize these opportunities in the best way possible.
Equipping the United Nations for the challenges
of the new millennium is the great task awaiting us. All
Member States must undertake to fulfil this
commitment if our efforts are to be crowned with
success. Argentina is committed to this task and will
continue making its contribution.
On 31 December next, my country will end its
term as a member of the Security Council. During its
two-year term, Argentina has done its utmost to
contribute constructively to decision-making and
consensus-building on all items on the Council's
agenda.
On the basis of our potential and bearing in mind
the features of the current international situation,
Argentina intends, in the twenty-first century, to
continue to play an active part in the consolidation of
peace and international security and in the development
of peoples.












===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿Allow
me at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election as President of the General Assembly. We are
especially pleased that the designation went to a
personality with such a remarkable career, a
representative of the Republic of Korea, a country that
maintains a friendly relationship and intense
cooperation with Argentina. I also wish to
acknowledge the excellent way in which the Foreign
Minister of Finland, Mr. Harri Holkeri, presided over
the Assembly at its fifty-fifth session.
I would also like to express our satisfaction at the
re-election of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
for a second term. This reflects the unanimous support
of the international community for the way in which he
has decisively confronted the great challenges of peace,
the rule of law and development at this very difficult
stage of international life. The support given to him by
the Member States reflects the widespread high opinion
of his efforts and the work of the Organization, which
was confirmed by the Nobel Peace Prize, a distinction
that brings honour to those who work in the service of
the United Nations and to its clear-sighted Secretary-
General.
This distinction also comes at a moment when the
full relevance of the United Nations has become
dramatically urgent as a result of the criminal attacks
against the United States of 11 September. In the face
of those events, I wish to reiterate our solidarity and
commitment with its Government and people. It was an
attack against us all, against all humankind.
Those events have shown that terrorism can strike
at any State and that no country can fight it in isolation.
It is an international threat, and the only existing
institution with the global reach, the United Nations,
21

must confront that threat within the political and legal
framework established by the Organization.
The Millennium Declaration had already set as
one of its objectives the adoption of concerted
measures against international terrorism and the need
for all States to accede as soon as possible to all the
relevant international conventions. The adoption of
Security Council resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373
(2001) and of General Assembly resolution 56/1 shows
that the United Nations has been equal to the
circumstances, with the goal of using every means
available to counter the threat to peace and security
represented by terrorism.
The global effort against terrorism is an
imperative for the international community, one
blessed by the United Nations. Within the guidelines
approved by the Organization, all States, groups of
States or regional organizations must contribute to this
common struggle.
Argentina expresses its full commitment to the
fight against terrorism. Our nation has twice suffered
attacks of this nature, in 1992 and 1994. The memory
of those events helps us to understand the grief for
innocent victims and to say that this fight is also our
fight.
The recent Security Council and General
Assembly resolutions have been supplemented by other
instruments that reflect the will of the majority of
States to define any terrorist act, without exception, as
criminal and unjustifiable, no matter what the intended
purposes. Existing resolutions and conventions have
outlined a series of specific measures and rules to
foster judicial and police cooperation and have
criminalized many acts of terrorism, enshrining the
principle that all States have an obligation to prosecute
and punish the perpetrators.
Argentina is a party to the majority of the
international treaties in effect and is making progress
on ratifying the remainder, among them the
International Convention for the Suppression of
Terrorist Bombings, of 1997, and the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism, of 1999. We support the conclusion of the
conventions currently under consideration that should
be finalized before the end of this year, such as the
convention on nuclear terrorism. I hope that the
negotiations on a convention of a general nature will be
successfully concluded. The existence of political
differences or different interpretations related to other
situations should not distract us from the urgent need to
develop an instrument that would encompass all
aspects of this threat.
At the level of the hemisphere, we have put into
practice the regional system of legitimate defence and
collective security established in the Inter-American
Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance. At the same time, we
have fostered the full operation of the Inter-American
Committee on Terrorism and the drafting of an inter-
American convention, that complements existing
universal conventions, as well as the convening of a
special conference on hemispheric security.
At the regional level, the countries of the
Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR) are
promoting measures to enhance technical and
operational coordination, cooperation and assistance
among the various agencies entrusted with the fight
against terrorism in the field.
We must be aware that the approach to this
problem will be incomplete if we fail to recognize the
factors that nourish terrorism. In the framework of the
increasing interdependence that characterizes the
present stage of economic life, the benefits of
development reach only a few States, and the
increasing marginalization of countries and societies
that live in extreme poverty, the tragedy of neglected or
undernourished children, sickness and hunger become
more evident. This uneven economic distribution, made
even more tangible by modern communications, causes
frustration in wide sectors of the dispossessed and
creates the conditions for the outbreak of conflicts and
confrontations, on which fundamentalist movements of
various kinds are at work. This is why we need to
reaffirm here the fundamental statement made a few
years ago by Pope Paul VI: “the new name for peace is
development”.
This is a task for the international community as a
whole, in a joint effort and a spirit of solidarity. It is
wrong to minimize the importance of international
cooperation and to leave on their own those who have
problems surviving in the face of global economic
competition.
The launching of a new round of negotiations at
the World Trade Organization (WTO) could be an
important signal to control the increasingly
protectionist tendencies and to promote world
economic recovery in the short term and growth in the
22

long term. It is a signal that will also bring additional
confidence to the financial markets. Through the
launching of a new round in Qatar, the 142 member
countries of the WTO could give impetus to a process
that lays the foundations for a more equitable and
peaceful world.
The persistence of conflicts such as the one in the
Middle East is a source of tension, with a wide range of
repercussions for the region, causing legitimate
concern for the international community. The
Argentine Republic wishes to renew its expression of
support for a stable and lasting peace in the Middle
East, based on respect for the inalienable right of the
Palestinian people to self-determination and to
establish an independent State, as well as recognition
of the right of the State of Israel to live in peace within
safe and internationally recognized borders.
Violence and terrorism in any form are absolutely
unacceptable and can only exacerbate the situation.
The parties should urgently agree on a ceasefire and
begin negotiations on a final settlement, which until
recently seemed reachable.
The Secretary-General has offered us a road map
for implementing the Millennium Declaration, which
provides a responsible programme for confronting our
current serious circumstances. The principal milestones
of that road map deserve our support as a sound way
towards peace-building and strengthening our security:
the rule of law to fight terrorism with determination;
conflict prevention and the strengthening of
peacekeeping operations; the reform of sanctions
regimes in order to avoid affecting civilian
populations; the eradication of poverty and the
promotion of development; respect for fundamental
human rights throughout the world and for political and
religious plurality; and the firm rejection of any
attempt to associate certain religious creeds or
nationalities with violence or terrorism.
We also share the Secretary-General’s view of the
importance of putting an end to the culture of impunity
by bringing to trial the perpetrators of extremely
serious international crimes. We underscore the
historical importance of the establishment of the
International Criminal Court and we reaffirm our
support for measures to promote its prompt launching.
The great majority of humankind desires a future
of peace and progress. The irrationality and violence of
a minority can be isolated and defeated on the basis of
cooperation among nations following these general
principles, which we endorsed in the Millennium
Declaration, and in regard to which we propose
concrete measures today. We trust that we shall be up
to that challenge.
I cannot conclude without recalling, as the
General Assembly already knows, that the Argentine
Republic is still engaged in a sovereignty dispute with
the United Kingdom over the Malvinas, South Georgias
and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding
maritime areas. The recovery of the full exercise of
sovereignty over that part of our national territory,
respecting the interests of their inhabitants and
international law, is a precept enshrined in our
Constitution. This issue is on the agenda of this
Organization, which through repeated resolutions has
asked the Governments of Argentina and the United
Kingdom to resume negotiations on a just and lasting
solution to the sovereignty dispute and thus to put an
end to a colonial situation imposed by force in 1833.
Today, in response to that request, Argentina
again reiterates its full readiness to resume bilateral
negotiations with the United Kingdom in order to
resolve the issue, as well as its support for the mission
of good offices appropriately entrusted to the
Secretary-General by the General Assembly to assist
the parties in achieving that goal.
I conclude by calling for peace, justice and
solidarity, so widely sought by all peoples defending
life throughout the world.




===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
﻿First, I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your
election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the
General Assembly. Argentina welcomes the fact that a
distinguished representative of the Czech Republic has
been given this distinction.
The Argentine Republic rejoices with the United
Nations at the entry of Switzerland as a new Member
of the Organization. The independence of East Timor,
the formation of its first sovereign Government and its
coming membership in the United Nations are the
result of the struggle of that country for its right to self-
determination. We welcome this young nation that is
now incorporating into international life.
Argentina wishes to express its special gratitude
to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for
translating, through his actions and his continuing
search for peace, the aspirations of the international
community striving to build a more secure and stable
world.
26

One year after the criminal terrorist attacks in the
United States, we reiterate our solidarity with the
people and the government of this friendly country, and
with the victims and their families. Terrorism is the
child of political or religious fanaticism. We are
convinced that international cooperation has to be
strengthened in the fight against any terrorist threat, so
as to eliminate that threat, which endangers peace and
international security, and ensure that those responsible
for those attacks are tried and punished along with
those who help them and support them. There is no
justification, nor will there be any, for these barbaric
actions that bring shame upon mankind.
It is not a good thing when some Member States
do not abide by United Nations resolutions. It is
intolerable that these resolutions remain
unimplemented when issues related to the very
existence of mankind on the planet are involved. The
existence of arsenals with bacteriological, chemical
and other similar weapons that can be used in a
traditional or terrorist war is a matter that affects all
men, women and children of the world.
My country, along with the rest of the
international community, has consistently called on the
Government of Iraq to accept immediately and
unconditionally the United Nations inspectors. These
inspectors represent all of us inspecting one of us.
There are no reasons to refuse the inspections if there
is nothing to conceal.
Therefore, Argentina welcomes the
announcement made by the Secretary-General that Iraq
finally agreed to let the inspectors in without
conditions. We hope that Iraq fulfils its promise in
good faith, and we very warmly congratulate the
League of Arab States and the Secretary-General for
making this effort towards peace. The main concern at
the United Nations for peacekeeping and for
maintaining international security has made significant
strides, even though some situations of extreme gravity
and with high potential for conflict still exist and have
not been solved.
The promising events related to the establishment
of the New Partnership for Africa's Development
(NEPAD) that we discussed yesterday, contrast with
the worsening situation in the Middle East. The
Argentine Government is following with pain and great
concern the acts of violence in that region. We are
convinced that no possible solution will result from the
indiscriminate and brutal use of force through
deliberate assassinations or through terrorist attacks
against civilians. The only road to peace and stability is
through dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians.
Therefore we reiterate our position in support of the
renewal of negotiations between the parties with the
hope for coming to a peaceful, fair and definitive
solution to the conflict. This should include the
recognition of the undeniable right of the Palestinian
people to self-determination and to form an
independent State, as well as the legitimate right of
Israel to live within secure and internationally
recognized borders. At present, there are several plans
for peace in addition to the efforts on the part of the
Quartet. All of these initiatives deserve our urgent
attention.
At this time, I wish to confirm that, as part of
Argentina's dedication to peace, and its desire to
contribute to a solution of the serious existing
conflicts, our country will continue to provide armed
forces and police personnel, as well as civilians, for the
peacekeeping operations established by the United
Nations Security Council.
We stress again the permanent commitment of
Argentine democracy to the international protection of
human rights and to the United Nations activities in
that field. We wish to mention our satisfaction at the
entry into force of the Rome Statute, of which
Argentina is a founding party.
Argentina today is going through an exceptionally
deep crisis. As for the opening of the country to the
world, our country will continue to travel along the
path of becoming a part of the concert of nations that
exchange goods and services, as it has done
uninterruptedly for the last 12 years. Therefore we will
continue participating actively in multilateral
negotiations within the framework of the World Trade
Organization (WTO) and we will implement a new
trade policy, which, as part of an overall State policy,
will be aimed at giving the Argentine economy a clear
export profile. It is only by generating foreign
earnings, as a result of international trade, that it will
be possible to have sustained economic growth over
time, while making it possible to repay our debts.
The consolidation of this model demands access
to the currently restricted markets of developed
countries for Argentine products. The objective of
improving access to markets in industrialized countries
27

was, during the Conference on Financing for
Development held in Monterrey, precisely the subject
of an absolute consensus, since this undertaking was
considered essential to eradicate poverty and to start on
the road to development.
To bring prosperity to our peoples it is necessary
to see these initiatives enacted and not merely
considered as proposals. It is necessary for actions to
conform, once and for all, to the principles that have
been voiced and the commitments that have been made.
It is of great importance that tariffs paid for
agricultural products be reduced and, simultaneously,
that protection mechanisms and subsidies be
eliminated. Such subsidies rose in 2000, within the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) countries rose to the staggering
figure of 325 billion dollars with respect to agricultural
products alone. Of these, 80 per cent were granted by
the United States, Japan and the European Union.
It is essential then that the guidelines towards free
trade for agricultural products become a reality,
allowing the developing countries to stop calling for
aid to help them deal with a specific problem, which
leads to a vicious circle. As a result, they only increase
their already heavy and unbearable debt. They should
be allowed to sustain growth by selling their products.
In other words, we wish trade rather than aid.
The grave economic situation we are facing has
made it difficult for us to fulfil our obligations to this
Organization. These difficulties have been presented to
the Committee on Contributions, and we hope that it
will be adopted by the General Assembly, calling for
understanding from countries that are friends of
Argentina.
In an environment of acute economic and social
crisis, the Government of the Argentine Republic has
reaffirmed its firm commitment, in national and
international forums, towards the purposes and the
programmatic principles of the International
Convention on the Rights of the Child. This
international agreement, incorporated into our national
constitution, is included in the set of values and legal
standards that distinguish the Argentine nation.
My country has clearly recognized the rights of
children from the time of conception, and stresses the
importance of the family in the child's development.
Along these same lines we once again insist on the
right of those children abducted by one of their parents.
In particular, we refer to the painful situation of Karim,
Zahira and Sharif, the children of our compatriot
Gabriela Arias Uriburu. Unfortunately, despite huge
efforts on the part of the family and Argentine officials,
no answer has been given by the Kingdom of Jordan to
our request for some mechanism that would make
possible a stable and permanent relationship between
these children and their mother. This position has
received the clear support of the meeting of
government experts called by the General Assembly of
the Organization of American States (OAS) in
Montevideo, Uruguay.
The Argentine Republic believes that the
outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable
Development, recently held in Johannesburg,
constitutes a feasible agreement, upon which it is
possible to move forward in the implementation of
specific actions in the economic, social, and
environmental dimensions of sustainable development.
I regret to say that the most important statement
at that Summit was made by a group of children, who
said: We ask ourselves whether snow will fall in the
middle of summer one day,' and More than words or
applause, we need actions.' Unfortunately, little
specific progress has been made to stop the continuing
series of environmental disasters.
As the General Assembly knows well, the
Argentine Republic has a sovereignty dispute with the
United Kingdom over the Malvinas and South Georgia
and the South Sandwich Islands, as well as the
surrounding maritime areas. The recovery of full
sovereignty over that part of our national territory,
while respecting the interests of the inhabitants and
international law, is a precept enshrined in the
Argentine Constitution. The issue was included in the
programme of work of this Organization, which, in
several resolutions, asked the Government of Argentina
and the Government of the United Kingdom to resume
negotiations to find a just and lasting solution to the
sovereignty dispute, thus ending a colonial situation
imposed by the use of force in 1833.
Today, in line with that request, Argentina once
again reaffirms its positive disposition to resume
bilateral negotiations with the United Kingdom to find
a solution to the question and its support of the good
offices mission that the General Assembly entrusted to
the Secretary-General to assist the parties to achieve
that goal.
28

Some three decades ago, in this same Hall, Pope
Paul VI declared from this same rostrum that
development is the new name of peace. That brief and
wise sentence is fully valid today and points towards
the path that we should follow.





===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
﻿At the
outset, allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election to preside over the Assembly at this session. I
would also like to congratulate the outgoing President,
Mr. Jan Kavan, for his work at the head of this
Assembly at the previous session.
On behalf of my Government, we would also like
to reiterate our gratitude for the efforts of the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to promote peace
and multilateralism, and to express our solidarity in
wake of the criminal attack that claimed the lives of
several staff members of this Organization.
We have come from the world’s South to the
General Assembly with a firm belief that revitalizing
this global representative forum is essential for
international law to become once again a rational
instrument for resolving conflicts and facing threats.
Restoring the major political role that the Assembly
played in the early days of the United Nations is key to
strengthening security for all citizens of the world.
Indeed, multilateralism is the cornerstone of this
Organization. But the cold war and bipolarity that
characterized the world after the Yalta Conference until
the fall of the Berlin Wall undoubtedly shaped the
instruments and legislation that were adopted within
that framework.
Any objective look at the international situation
that that goes beyond the particular biases of individual
Members of the Organization will reveal another
hallmark of the world today: the technological, military
and economic supremacy of one country over all the
rest. We therefore consider it necessary to reaffirm our
determined support for the purposes and principles that
underpin the United Nations, so that it can actively
work to promote peace and the social and economic
development of humanity.
But, it bears repeating, we must not limit our
commitment to multilateralism to words alone.
Promoting multilateralism requires a dual strategy.
First, an open mind is needed to objectively grasp the
full extent of the new state of affairs. Secondly, we
need to reconsider the instruments and rules so to cope
with this new reality just as was done during the era of
bipolar politics in order to save the world from
destruction. Multilateralism and security are inseparable
but are not the only factors in this new equation.
The world is changing against the backdrop of a
globalization that is creating unprecedented
opportunities and risks. The greatest risk is the
widening gap between the rich and poor. To divide the
world into central and marginal countries is not merely
an academic exercise or a matter of ideology. Quite the
contrary, such definitions reflect a grim reality of
unprecedented poverty and social exclusion. Our
priority must be to ensure that globalization works for
all, and not just for the few. Promoting the
development of the marginalized countries is no longer
simply a matter of social conscience on the part of the
central countries. It has an impact on their situation and
security. Hunger, illiteracy, exclusion and ignorance are
some of the basic elements that fuel the spread of
international terrorism and cause violent and massive
national migration flows, which have cultural, social
and economic consequences. They also inevitably
threaten the security of the central countries.
Economic integration and political
multilateralism hold the key to safer future world. We
need to build global institutions and effective
partnerships within the framework of fair and open
trade and to bolster support for the development of
those most in need. If we are to promote collective
security intelligently, we must understand that security
is not just a military issue; it depends on political,
economic, social and cultural factors as well. These are
the key challenges on the current international agenda
that the main actors must meet.
In this framework, the relations between
countries like ours and others in the international
8
 
community are affected by a huge and crushing burden
of debt owed to multilateral financial institutions and
private creditors. We accept our share of responsibility
for having adopted policies that caused this
indebtedness. But we also call on the international
financial institutions — which contributed to,
encouraged and promoted the growth of that debt by
dictating their terms — to accept their own share of
responsibility. It goes without saying that when debt
grows to such an extent, not only the debtor but also
the creditor bears responsibility. It is therefore
necessary to acknowledge the tangible, verifiable and
rather obvious fact that repaying such a debt entails
great hardships.
Without specific international assistance to
enable indebted countries to restore economic solvency
and thereby their ability to repay debts and without
measures to foster their growth and their sustainable
development by taking concrete steps to promote their
market access and growth of exports, debt repayment
remains a pipedream. Promoting exports of finished
products based on the natural resources that most
indebted countries have can lay the foundations for
sustainable development, without which creditors will
have to face their losses without any other realistic
options.
No one is known to have succeeded in getting
their money back from the dead. To reach the objective
of making a country viable so it can pay its debts,
intensified multilateral negotiations are greatly needed
to eliminate tariff and non-tariff barriers that hinder
access of our exports to the markets of the developed
countries, which have the largest purchasing capacity.
Indeed, there continue to be export and production
subsidies in the international trade in food products —
Argentina’s main export item — as well as tariffs,
unjustified sanitary measures and trade restrictions that
distort the terms of trade in commodities and seriously
hamper market access for finished products.
The failure of the World Trade Organization
negotiations in Cancún should serve as a wake-up call
to us in this regard and should be remedied by making
the greatly sought-after link between business
opportunities in international trade and the growth of
indebted countries and their debt-repayment capacity. It
is paradoxical and even ridiculous that we should be
called upon to repay our debt while we are being
prevented from trading and selling our products.
On the other hand, although it is true that the
objectives of the multilateral institutions, such as the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), include shortening
the duration and lessening the imbalance of payments
of member countries and instilling confidence by
giving them opportunities for readjustment, without
taking measures that undermine national or
international prosperity, it is also necessary to redesign
those multilateral institutions. Redesigning multilateral
lending agencies should include changing the models
so that the success or failure of economic policies is
measured in terms of success or failure in the fight for
development, equitable distribution, the fight against
poverty and maintaining adequate levels of employment.
This new millennium should banish adjustment
models in which the prosperity of some is based on the
poverty of others. The dawn of the twenty-first century
should mean the end of an age and the beginning of a
new collaboration among creditors and debtors.
In a nutshell, it is essential to take note of the
close connection that exists between security,
multilateralism and economics.
The defence of human rights occupies a central
place in the new agenda of the Argentine Republic. We
are the children of the mothers and grandmothers of the
Plaza de Mayo, and we therefore insist on permanently
supporting the strengthening of the system for the
protection of human rights and the trial and conviction
of those who violate them. All of this is based on the
overarching view that respect for persons and their
dignity arises out of principles preceding the
development of law, whose origins can be traced to the
beginnings of human history. Respecting diversity and
pluralism and relentlessly fighting impunity have been
unwavering principles of our country ever since the
tragedy of recent decades.
We strongly advocate a peaceful settlement of
international disputes, particularly in a matter as dear
to our feelings and interests as our sovereignty dispute
with regard to the Malvinas, South Georgia and the South
Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas.
The United Nations has recognized that this is a
colonial situation maintained by the United Kingdom
and that it must be settled through bilateral
negotiations between the Argentine Republic and the
9
 
United Kingdom. We value the role of the United
Nations Special Committee on Decolonization and
express our fullest willingness to negotiate in order to
conclusively settle this longstanding dispute, a steady
objective of the Argentina Republic. We urge the
United Kingdom to agree to resume bilateral
negotiations to resolve this major issue.
Also with reference to the Southern regions, we
undertake to protect the interests of the international
community in Antarctica, ensuring that the activities
carried out there are consistent with the Antarctic
Treaty and its 1991 Madrid Protocol on Environmental
Protection. We shall take steps at the relevant forums
for the installation of the authorities and the operation
of the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat at its designated
seat, Buenos Aires.
We express our support and wish for a stable and
lasting peace in the Middle East based on the
inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination and an independent and viable State,
while at the same time recognizing the right of Israel to
live at peace with its neighbours within safe and
internationally recognized borders.
We have spoken of progress and collective
security as the global challenges of today. We have
highlighted the close link that exists between economic
problems and security. We firmly condemn all terrorist
actions. We know what we are talking about. In 1992
and 1994 we suffered, first hand, our own Twin
Towers. The attacks on the Israeli Embassy and the
AMIA Jewish Community Center took the lives of over
100 of our compatriots. We can bear witness to the
need to fight effectively against the new threats posed
by international terrorism.
The vulnerability of all countries in the
international community to this scourge can be reduced
only through intelligent, concerted and multilateral
action sustained over time. The fight against terrorism
requires a new rationality. We face an enemy whose
logic is to trigger reactions symmetrical to its actions.
The worse, the better, is the favoured scenario, and that
logic partly accounts for the increasingly spectacular
— almost cinematographic — nature of its operations.
Legitimate responses and the support of international
public opinion are both fundamental to confronting
those new forms of violence.
This view places the problem of international
terrorism in a dimension that goes beyond a unilateral
or military solution. On the contrary, merely
responding through the use of force, however
impressive such force may be or appear to be, in many
cases ends with the perpetrators being presented as
victims. This closes in a perfect circle the perverse
logic to which we have been referring.
As we see, in view of the complexity of the
situation, it is no longer useful to take shelter in old
alignments, anachronistic ways of thinking or outdated
structures. The new challenges call for different and
creative solutions so as not to be left behind by changes
in the world in the technological, economic, social and
undoubtedly even cultural fields.
Let us rise to the challenge of thinking anew for a
new world. To combine different ideas and create
practical means to put them into practice in the service
of the people we represent is our duty.




===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
I should
like at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election as President of the General Assembly at its
fifty-ninth session and to commend the outgoing
President, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his work. I should also
like to express once again our appreciation for the
efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to
promote peace and multilateralism.
We have come from the South to renew our
resolve to participate actively in United Nations efforts
to promote peace, economic development and the
eradication of hunger and poverty. My country is
grateful for the endorsement of the Group of Latin
American and Caribbean States to occupy a seat on the
Security Council for that regional Group as a non-
permanent member during the period 2005-2006.
There, the Republic of Argentina will reaffirm its
willingness to promote consensus aimed at
strengthening international law and international peace
and security. Those are values that we associate with
representative democracy, respect for human rights, a
fair global trade system, a better distribution of the
benefits of globalization and the democratization of
decision-making in international organizations.
The United Nations must strengthen itself and
move forward in the establishment of valid rules and
procedures to guarantee international peace and
security.
The report of the High-Level Panel on Threats,
Challenges and Change could play a key role in this
area. Its proposals should be properly discussed and
agreed upon in order to implement concrete decisions
that reflect and meet the different perspectives and
interests of all Member States.
We are convinced that there is no acceptable
alternative to multilateral action. Only through
collective debate and consensus could a majority of
countries ensure genuine action. The only legitimacy
for the use of force must come from the decisions of
the Security Council. Because of this, we support
efforts to provide the Council with greater
transparency, and with the participation of the
international community in its decisions, without this
meaning increasing the existing privileges or
establishing new categories.
27

The Council's action should be innovative and
express the political will of the international
community, all the while recognizing the fact that the
primary responsibility in avoiding conflicts will always
rest with the parties involved.
We firmly condemn the acts of international
terrorism and related crimes that have so deeply
marked the memory of the people of Argentina and of
other nations of the world, making it the maximum
priority. In this war against terrorism, we require the
active participation and cooperation of the entire
international community, based on respect for
international law.
There is a necessary link between respect for
human rights and the fight against terrorism. And we
must preserve the balance between necessary defence
and respect for human rights. In order to successfully
tackle terrorism, we must ensure legitimacy by having
the support of international public opinion. According
to this logic, the fight transcends the purely military
and predominantly unilateral reaction.
In our view, modern threats to peace come from
both the criminal action of terrorism and the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, from
massive human rights violations and the absence of
democratic political participation. But stability and
security are also affected by hunger and extreme
poverty, by social exclusion, by ignorance and
illiteracy, by the spread of disease and epidemics and
by irreversible damage to the environment.
As a result, understanding that peace and
development mutually reinforce each other, we must
work in a multilateral framework that promotes
national and international economic systems based on
the principles of justice, equity, democracy,
participation, transparency, responsibility and social
inclusion. Our commitment to peace and to the
strengthening of democracy in the world requires
decisive action, which makes it possible to combat
hunger, illiteracy and disease. These phenomena
weaken peopleís autonomy and dignity and make it
difficult for them to exercise their full rights as
citizens.
In June 2005, the Third Inter-American Meeting
of Ministers of Health and the Environment, which we
are preparing, will work on the assessment of our
compliance with the Millennium Development Goals in
the region and will submit its conclusions to the
Summit of Heads of State of the Americas, which will
take place in Argentina in November 2005.
We know that the problems that are linked to
inequality and poverty cannot be resolved with social
policies that are based purely on assistance. Even when
plans and programmes providing assistance are a
necessary resource, we should avoid the growth of
societies that are divided between those who work and
those who receive assistance. In this framework, it is
important for work to feature prominently on the
international agenda, linked to freedom, justice,
security and protection, taking into account the fact
that it is the principal means of social integration.
Economic growth is a necessary prerequisite, but
it alone is not enough to remedy the high rates of
unemployment, lack of job security and work in the
informal sector besetting our societies. In the recent
past, many of our countries we have experienced
periods of high growth with low rates of job creation,
high concentrations of income and a significant
increase in poverty. It is clear evidence of the
erroneous nature of the myth that economic growth has
trickle-down effects. Accordingly, it is important for us
to pursue active policies that stimulate business and
productive investment and give priority to the
generation of decent jobs, within a new model that
endows economic change with a strong ethical
component. Decent jobs are a more effective
instrument for ensuring material and human progress
and should become a goal during the international
community during the next decade.
Institutional conditions that would generate jobs
are of a varied nature and depend on the specific
context of every country. However, in developing
countries, the ability of democratic governments to
meet the legitimate demands of job creation from their
societies are impaired by the protectionist measures
that limit trade, especially in the agricultural sector.
The developed world spends more than $300 billion a
year on production subsidies, a figure six times higher
than that of the direct aid given to poor countries. The
poorest countries lose almost $40 billion a year
through loss of exports due to the agricultural
protectionism of industrialized countries.
The world and the attitude of the developed
countries must change if we are to turn things around.
No political system or economic plan can be
sustainable while we have the current critical levels of
28

poverty and inequality. This is not something that will
favour a particular group of countries; it will promote
peace and security throughout the world.
In addition, there is the problem of excessive
external indebtedness, the current design of the
international financial machinery and the role played
by multilateral funding organizations. The 1990s, with
its financial excesses at the global level, saw the
expansion of already oversized debts for a large
number of countries. For the sake of the development
of these countries and the international financial
system itself, it is important to emphasize the idea that
economic growth is the central and decisive variable
when it comes to capacity to pay and debt
sustainability.
During the recent international financial crises,
multilateral funding agencies made a series of mistakes
in trying to resolve these problems. The solutions
proposed spread to other countries, and this greatly
magnified the problem of hunger and poverty.
Argentinaís case is an example. After having
applied throughout the 1990s the formulas proposed by
the multilateral financial agencies, the country
experienced a financial crisis that is still not entirely
resolved. In 2002, the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) made a serious mistake in diagnosing the
problem that led to major prognostic errors and poor
policy recommendations.
On the basis of our more recent experience, and
because of the debt experience, we conclude that we
have to provide greater leeway to national authorities.
We need a different relationship with the IMF, one
favouring a solution consistent with the countryís
capacity to pay, sustainable over the medium and long
term and supportive of the principles of equality, social
justice, the fight against poverty, hunger and
unemployment.
We must promote the reformulation of fiscal
accounting methods in the majority of countries, and in
particular in the international financial organizations,
with the aim of excluding investment in infrastructure,
from current spending in the calculation of surpluses.
We know that fiscal surpluses are necessary in
order to stabilize economies and respect obligations to
the international financial community, but it must be
understood that no surplus is defensible. When
surpluses are achieved, thanks to the elimination of
investment in physical and social infrastructure, this
affects the possibility of political stability and growth,
which turns something that was positive for countries
into an imbalance and a negative for the overall
functioning of the economy.
From the tragedy of excessively indebted
countries, we conclude that simple formulas which
claim to be universal and applicable under any
circumstance, at any time and in any place are only
ideological approaches to concrete issues that must be
resolved with realism, flexibility and proactive
attitudes.
We take responsibility for the adoption of alien
policies that led us to the worst of all worlds. But it is
not enough for the multilateral lending agencies simply
to acknowledge their mistake in recommending,
requiring and supporting such policies. What we need
is an urgent and drastic structural reform of the IMF
that will enable it to prevent crises and help to resolve
them. From a lender of development funds it has
become a creditor demanding concessions. This trend
has to change. Otherwise, we will be confined to
structural reforms of a theoretical nature the results of
which will guarantee nothing to anyone, and then a
series of self-critical reviews.
Meanwhile, in our countries inequality will
increase because of the implementation of those
reforms. The excluded millions those reforms have
created will weep and poverty will spread. Mea culpas
will be uttered, and we will see the growth in the
number of poor people, if we bother to notice them.
That is why we say that what is most in need of
structural reform are the international lending agencies.
On another subject, we firmly support United
Nations peacekeeping operations set up through the
appropriate organs. This year we have doubled our
military and police staff in peacekeeping operations;
currently Argentina is involved in eight of the present
16 operations.
The recently created United Nations Stabilization
Mission in Haiti is of particular importance. It is the
only mission established by the Security Council today
that is located on American soil. The region has made a
commitment to help the poorest country in the
Americas to return to the path of growth and freedom
and to guarantee democracy as the best way of
ensuring dignity, social and economic development and
full respect for human rights.
29

In that regard, Argentina reaffirms its position of
principle based on universal respect for human rights
and for international humanitarian law. The history of
Argentina explains my Governmentís firm position on
an issue that is now part of its identity as a democratic
nation.
International disputes must be settled through
peaceful means. The United Nations has established,
through different resolutions of the General Assembly
and the Special Committee on the Situation with regard
to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, that the question of the Malvinas South
Georgia and the South Sandwich islands is a special
colonial situation, which must be resolved through
bilateral negotiations between my country and the
United Kingdom. The decolonization Committee has
expressed itself repeatedly on this issue, and we greatly
appreciate its work to promote the resolution of this
question. We reaffirm once again the constant
willingness of my country to reach a just, peaceful and
lasting solution to this sovereignty dispute, which is an
issue of great importance for the people of Argentina.
We urge the United Kingdom to comply promptly with
the international communityís appeal and to resume
negotiations.
In the southern framework, we are committed to
protecting the international communityís interests in
Antarctica by ensuring that all activities there are
compatible with the Antarctic Treaty and with its
Madrid Protocol on Environmental Protection. The
establishment of the Antarctic Treaty secretariat in
Buenos Aires is already a reality. We are grateful for
the assistance of those who always supported
Argentina as home of the secretariat, which
undoubtedly will contribute to achieving the main
objectives of the Antarctic Treaty system.
As a peace-loving State committed to
multilateralism, Argentina has always supported the
settlement of disputes through negotiation and
dialogue, in keeping with equity and justice. In that
respect, our country fully supports the achievement of
a stable and lasting peace in the Middle East, based on
the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination and to an independent, viable State,
while at the same time supporting the right of Israel to
live in peace with its neighbours within safe and
internationally recognized borders. We hope that the
parties will resume negotiations with a view to
resolving their differences and will comply with their
respective obligations under the road map ó a plan
which Argentina, along with the rest of the
international community, considers the best way to
achieve a lasting and just peace in the region.
The Argentine Republic supports the attainment
of the objectives of reducing hunger and poverty and
the provision of safe drinking water and sanitation,
which were the main topics of the World Summit on
Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg
10 years after the Rio de Janeiro Conference on
Environment and Development.
The protection of the atmosphere is of special
concern to us, with respect not only to the ozone layer,
but to all the action needed to attenuate climate change
and to help adapt to the changes that are already taking
place ó which are at the root of the severe weather
conditions that affect developing countries in
particular. In view of our concern, and convinced of the
need for the prompt entry into force of the Kyoto
Protocol, we have invited to Buenos Aires the tenth
Conference of the Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change in order to
help to give greater impetus to our joint effort to adapt.
I hope to be able to welcome and host Government
delegations at the high-level segment that I will have
the honour of opening in Buenos Aires.
For that reason, we are calling upon the
Assembly to show the necessary strength, courage and
resolve to create a world of justice and equity and to
put an end to the unfair rules often imposed by
multilateral financial institutions, which cause very
difficult problems for many countries and which
increase poverty.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
I wish
to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside
over the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I am
convinced that your talent will enable us to take useful
decisions. You can count on the full cooperation of my
delegation. I also thank the Secretary-General for his
efforts to renew the Organization and his work on
behalf of the international community.
This general debate is being held after the summit
to review the implementation of the Millennium Goals,
in which many heads of State or Government
participated, including the President of my country.
The work accomplished by the President at that
Meeting will help to overcome the difficulties facing
the Organization.
For the Argentine Republic, respect for the rule
of law is an essential premise. We believe that
democracy is a universal value that is not the heritage
of any country or region in particular. Day after day,
we strive to improve its quality and to ensure the rule
of law and the impartiality and independence of our
judiciary.
Mr. Singh (India), Vice-President took the Chair.
Respect for human rights, whose protective
norms form part of our Constitution, is another of our
concerns. In my country, promoting and protecting
human rights is a State policy that is part of our
democratic identity as a nation and therefore is one of
the main underpinnings of our foreign policy.
Defending the right to life and the right to dignity
of men and women throughout the world does not
allow half-hearted words or half-hearted solutions.
That is due to the importance that human rights have
acquired in the international arena as a factor in the
preservation of peace, development and democracy, as
well as in the cruel historic circumstances through
which my country had to struggle.
We can never devote too much energy to
promoting and protecting the human rights of all
peoples of the world. Intolerance, censorship, torture
and cruelty, even when they are presented as excesses
committed in the name of beliefs, deny the validity of
the forum in which we are now speaking, and they will
continue to do so as long as they exist.
In the context of its lasting commitment to
policies for social inclusion, my country, a few days
ago, adopted a national plan against discrimination. It
unconditionally supports the progress of the
negotiations currently taking place in the Organization
to achieve a comprehensive convention for people with
disabilities and hopes that work on that convention will
be completed in the course of the coming year.
International solidarity can do a great deal for
those deprived of their fundamental rights and
freedoms, especially as nobody expects such torments
to come upon them. That is why, from the start of the
discussions on United Nations reform, we have taken a
very active stance to strengthen and perfect the
universal system for the protection of human rights,
making sure that those rights occupy the central
position that is their rightful place.
There are few things in which men have not
believed — as few as those things they did not expect.
For that reason, in a country whose citizens were
allowed to think that impunity is possible, those that
survived must work to prevent history from being
repeated.
We therefore support the creation of a Human
Rights Council as an essential organ of the United
Nations and to give the issue of human rights the same
importance as that attached to development and
security. During the ongoing negotiations, Argentina
will work decisively to establish an organ that can
carry out vigorous and effective action to promote and
protect human rights in all the world.
Strengthening global justice is necessary to put a
stop to massive human rights violations, genocide and
crimes against humanity. Argentina is involved in the
27

fight against impunity for those crimes and
unconditionally supports the International Criminal
Court.
We welcome the adoption of Security Council
resolution 1593 (2005), which refers the situation of
Darfur to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal
Court. That resolution represents a very important step
in the strengthening of the institutions established
under the Rome Statute. It is a historical precedent
linked to the achievement of two main goals of the
United Nations: peace and basic rights.
Argentina, which in its past suffered systematic
violations of human rights characterized by torture,
forced disappearances and summary executions of its
citizens, has taken decisive steps through its domestic
legislation to put an end to impunity. Our Supreme
Court recently ruled that the general amnesty laws
entitled “Punto Final” and “Obediencia debida” were
unconstitutional and that they were an obstacle to
attaining a postponed but necessary justice. Thus, we
join the efforts to ensure that those accountable for
crimes against humanity are tried and punished.
As the President of Argentina stated during the
recent summit, Argentina unequivocally condemns
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, regardless
of the causes it invokes. Nothing can justify
indiscriminate attacks on innocent civilians and
non-combatants. We are strongly committed to fighting
that grave threat to international peace and security.
Our response to terrorism must be ethical and
morally valid, and must therefore be carried out in full
respect of the United Nations Charter, the rule of law,
international law, human rights, refugee law and
humanitarian law.
Given that we have to protect others from fear,
we must act in accordance with the principles of
legitimacy and proportionality and with the support of
international public opinion.
Argentina, the current Chair of the Security
Council’s 1267 (1999) Committee, responsible for
monitoring implementation of the sanctions against
members of the terrorist group Al-Qaida and the
Taliban, believes that the United Nations has a central
role to play in the coordinating the efforts and the
development of international mechanisms. We must
support those endeavours, particularly through the
strict and full implementation of Security Council
resolutions.
This year, my country ratified the 1999
International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing of Terrorism. With that ratification, it
became a State party to the 12 international
conventions to combat terrorism. And we have just
signed the International Convention for the
Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism.
In spite of the efforts made, there has been an
increase in the number of attacks. That requires a
careful review and assessment of the objectives,
methods and approaches employed, as well as an
important effort by the international community to
bring conflicts to an end soon, eliminate aggressive
inequalities and achieve a fairer, more rational world.
There has recently been some important
conceptual progress towards the completion of an
international convention on terrorism. We hope that
this instrument can soon be adopted.
My country — which suffered two very serious
attacks, against the Israeli embassy in 1992 and against
the Argentine-Israeli Mutual Association (AMIA) in
Buenos Aires in 1994 — is determined to shed light on
those heinous and unjustifiable criminal acts.
Identifying and punishing the culprits is our deeply felt
duty to the innocent victims and their families. It is
also the desire of the Argentine people.
The United Nations is undergoing a reform
process that must be transparent, thorough and
adequate, and it must answer the urgent and undeniable
demands of our peoples. All main organs of the United
Nations should be thoroughly improved. The General
Assembly, the principal deliberative and decision-
taking authority, must find a way to ensure that its
voice is heard throughout the world. The Economic and
Social Council also needs to be thoroughly rethought
and restructured to make it more effective.
A vast majority has called for enhancing the
transparency and the effectiveness of the Security
Council. As part of the Uniting for Consensus
movement, Argentina will work for a Security Council
that includes new members only within the category of
non-permanent members, because we believe that we
should not create new privileges contrary to the
democratic spirit that should reign in the United
Nations. Council members should be accountable for
28

their actions, and that can be achieved through periodic
elections.
For its part, the Secretariat must continue its
process of professionalization and universalization to
better ensure its accountability and effectiveness.
Peacekeeping operations are among the most
effective tools of the United Nations to bring peace and
security to troubled peoples. Argentina is strongly
committed to these operations, in which it has
participated since 1958. Currently, we are contributing
to eight of them.
In particular, I would highlight efforts being
made in Haiti in the search for a peaceful and lasting
solution to Haiti’s serious challenges. We have long
known that the response to crisis does not end with the
establishment of a peacekeeping operation. Because of
this, we have established complex operations able to
promote stable solutions in all fields: namely security;
the rule of law; justice; institution-building;
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration; social
and economic development; human rights; and
democracy.
That is why we stress the importance of
establishing a Peacebuilding Commission.
Argentina supports the goals established at the
Millennium Summit and at Johannesburg and
Monterrey. Recent progress in development financing
shows that while developing countries have made
significant efforts to reform and streamline their
economies, these efforts have not been accompanied by
measures on the part of developed countries to fulfil
the commitments adopted at those conferences.
Once again, we urge developed countries to allot
0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product for
development assistance, to open their markets and to
do away with subsidies. We support the Monterrey
Consensus provisions on reform of the international
financial system to adapt the system to the new
challenges posed by the fulfilment of the Millennium
Development Goals.
We believe in the need to study and negotiate the
creation of new international financial instruments that
will prove more efficient in the ongoing fight against
hunger and poverty.
I turn now to two topics that are of utmost
importance to Argentina: first, the international trade
situation. As the summit outcome document that we
have adopted (resolution 60/1) states, international
trade is a fundamental tool for economic and social
development. It is, therefore, imperative that we
establish fair, equitable and rule-based international
trade that is inclusive and gives priority to
development. The ongoing World Trade Organization
(WTO) negotiations in the context of the Doha
development round are of key importance. It is
essential for the WTO to promote a fair international
trade system. Developed countries must eliminate
protectionist measures in the form of subsidies,
non-tariff barriers and arbitrary standards, which
distort and limit commercial exchanges, especially in
the agricultural sector.
The sixth WTO Ministerial Conference, to be
held in Hong Kong, is drawing near, and there is still a
great deal to be done. We hope that it will enable us to
increase the indirect benefits to be gained through
growing participation by developing countries in
international trade.
Secondly, we must also deal with the question of
external debt. International bodies must adopt
effective, broad, equitable and lasting solutions to the
problem of the debt of developing countries. The
concept of sustainability of external debt must be
redefined, bearing in mind the primary responsibility
of the State to maintain and stimulate development in
sectors such as health, education and promotion of
employment. It is illogical to transform developing
countries into relatively less-developed countries so
that when the desperate moment arrives, the debt
cancellation process can begin.
In conclusion, I also wish to refer here to the
question of the Malvinas Islands. Recovery of the full
exercise of sovereignty over the Malvinas, South
Georgia and South Sandwich Islands and the
surrounding maritime areas is among the national
interests that are an essential component of Argentina’s
identity as a democratic nation. All Argentines are
strongly committed to the peaceful settlement of this
dispute; this commitment is a priority of my country’s
foreign policy and is enshrined in our Constitution.
Argentina has repeatedly stated its willingness to
resume negotiations on sovereignty, as took place
between 1966 and 1982.
I wish to conclude by reiterating that we have an
opportunity to renew this Organization so that it is
29

better equipped to meet the numerous demands of
humanity. Everything we can achieve today will result
in benefits for future generations. We shall cooperate
with other United Nations Members to that end with
due modesty, as any party expecting the same level of
commitment from others would cooperate.

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
I would 
like to congratulate you, Ms. Al-Khalifa, on your 
election as President of the General Assembly at this 
session, since I believe it is very significant that a 
woman has assumed that role, to promote gender 
equality, which is a goal both of my Government and 
of the United Nations. 
 On behalf of the Argentine Republic, we would 
also like to congratulate the President of the General 
Assembly at its sixtieth session, Mr. Jan Eliasson, for 
the work he carried out, and to renew our recognition 
of Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his role in action 
promoting peace, multilateralism and the fight against 
poverty. 
 We have come to the General Assembly in the 
firm belief that the revitalization of this forum of 
global representation is fundamental so that 
international law can be the instrument of rationality 
that will enable us to settle conflicts and combat the 
threats to peace. 
 The international conduct of the Argentine 
Republic is inspired by the values of representative 
democracy, respect for fundamental human rights and 
active defence of international peace and security. 
Those principles, shared by the vast majority of the 
 
 
5 06-52885 
 
Argentine people, guide our administration and are the 
basis of our foreign policy decisions. 
 In the field of human rights, in 2003, after more 
than two decades of sustained democratic rule in 
Argentina, we experienced a true paradigm shift. In 
response to the mandates of the whole of society, the 
three powers of the State adopted, within their 
respective purviews, concurrent decisions against 
impunity, preserving memory, truth and justice and 
securing reparations. 
 The annulment by Congress of the laws that 
accorded impunity for State-sponsored crimes of 
terrorism, the ruling that those laws and pardons 
granted by the courts in our country were 
unconstitutional, and the reopening of over a thousand 
court proceedings for crimes against humanity — some 
of which have resulted in the conviction of those 
responsible — constitute landmarks of that shift. It is 
our conviction that democracy is strengthened with the 
simultaneous fight against impunity and promotion of 
full respect for the rule of law, without calling for 
revenge. 
 With that experience, we have, since the 
beginning of the reform of the United Nations system, 
strongly supported incorporating human rights into the 
hierarchy so as to raise the institutional level of their 
treatment to that already given to development and to 
the maintenance of international peace and security. 
That determination led us to establish the Human 
Rights Council, in whose creation Argentina 
participated actively. 
 The first steps of that body have been positive, 
having approved the text of the International 
Convention for the Protection of All Persons from 
Enforced Disappearance. That is an instrument of great 
significance for our country, as it defines a crime 
against humanity from which Argentina suffered 
massively in the past, at a high cost to our society. We 
have among us here today a representative of an 
organization that was extremely involved with that 
issue — one of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, 
Mrs. Marta Vázquez, who is accompanying our 
delegation. We hope the General Assembly will adopt 
that very important instrument quickly, during this 
session. 
 Five years after the attacks that shocked this city 
and the world, we would like to firmly condemn the 
serious threat of global terrorism. Argentina considers 
all acts of terrorism against innocent civilians to be 
criminal and unjustifiable, and accepts no argument to 
justify such methods. 
 The Argentine people suffered two atrocious 
attacks in the 1990s against the Embassy of Israel and 
the headquarters of the Asociación Mutual Israelita 
Argentina. We are still struggling, in spite of the time 
that has elapsed, to fully clarify the facts and punish 
the culprits. We believe that, in order to face this 
criminal threat successfully, we must carry out a 
sustained multilateral and legitimate response. Respect 
for human rights, international humanitarian law and 
refugee law is essential, as are international 
cooperation and legal assistance to effectively enforce 
the norms against terrorism. 
 If, in facing down global terrorism, we resort to a 
global violation of human rights, the only winner in 
this fight shall be terrorism. We will advance firmly in 
the fight against terrorism only if we frame it within 
respect for local laws and international norms and 
conventions. No complication can be an excuse for not 
combating terrorism within the law. 
 Peace is built and maintained by understanding 
the true concept of solidarity among nations from a 
wider perspective than the purely military or the 
predominantly unilateral. Nations big and small, rich 
and poor, will be markedly vulnerable if we fail to 
grasp that the fight against terrorism demands 
sustained multilateral, intelligent action firmly based in 
legitimacy, respect for fundamental rights, 
proportionality of response and the support of 
international public opinion. 
 We would like to express our concern regarding 
the hostilities on the border between Israel and 
Lebanon, resulting in hundreds of casualties, severe 
damage to the civilian infrastructure and hundreds of 
thousands of displaced persons. The violence must 
stop. We need to address the causes at the heart of the 
crisis, avoid the disproportionate use of force, and 
understand that only negotiated political solutions can 
hold in the long term. Argentina will continue to 
support a fair solution to the Middle East problems 
within the framework of resolution 1701 (2006). 
 We must understand that the world will move 
closer to peace only insofar as it promotes equality and 
struggles to eradicate poverty and exclusion. That is 
true both for the global system and for each country 
nationally. 
  
 
06-52885 6 
 
 Argentina supports the building of societies that 
are fairer, more equitable and with a better distribution 
of the benefits of economic growth. We also believe 
that each country has the right to search for its own 
development model with no external conditionalities. 
We not only aspire to generate sustainable growth; we 
also want it to reach everyone. There must be 
harmonized growth that translates into a balanced 
income distribution, because we know that what is 
needed is not development for a mere few, but the 
development of the whole country. 
 In the region and in the Common Market of the 
South, we want an efficient instrument to address 
poverty and exclusion; we want the common good to 
prevail over sectarian interests and to overcome 
stagnation and the technology gap; and we want to 
define a sustainable and productive development model 
that valorizes our competitive advantages and fosters 
our vast wealth in human and material resources. 
 The economic situation of the Republic is very 
different from what it was when our Administration 
began. We are achieving true structural change. That 
includes uninterrupted growth at rates of between 8 
and 9 per cent; the growing participation of investment 
in the gross domestic product; record local savings 
rates; the resurrection of local industry; a fiscal surplus 
at historic levels; a clear expansion of our industrial 
sales to the world; the systematic decrease of local and 
external public debt; the preventive accumulation of 
reserves; lesser external exposure; a marked drop in 
unemployment; a strengthening of the income of wage 
earners and retirees; and a significant fall of poverty 
and destitution levels. 
 With a prudent monetary policy, an orderly fiscal 
policy, a fiscal and commercial surplus, and a 
responsible management of indebtedness, we are 
increasingly reducing the vulnerability and uncertainty 
that characterized the Argentine economy in the past. 
Decent work, social inclusion, national production, 
internal consumption and sustained growth have 
allowed us to fulfil the goals of the Millennium 
Declaration, although there is still a long way to go to 
recover from the hell into which we had fallen. 
 We seek the integral sustainability of that 
process, not only in its macroeconomic aspects, but 
also guaranteeing social equity and a fairer distribution 
of income through the reduction of poverty and 
unemployment. 
 In implementing a national education plan with a 
strong federal emphasis that highlights the challenge of 
improving the quality of education, ensures the 
growing funding of the public sector, and interacts with 
the private sector, we seek also to achieve its strategic 
sustainability. 
 We cannot but point out that these achievements 
have not been supported by the International Monetary 
Fund, which has denied us any kind of aid, and, it must 
be said, that they are in many cases the result of 
ignoring or even contradicting its recommendations 
and conditionalities. We have sufficient empirical proof 
of the failure of international financial organizations in 
the promotion of development in less developed 
countries. In many cases, their conditionalities have 
actually had the opposite effect, hindering 
development. 
 The world has changed and those organizations 
have not. They still insist on jeopardizing advancement 
with their misguided interference. That is why we 
support, together with most countries, the reform of the 
international financial architecture to make it more 
effectual in assisting the progress of nations with fewer 
resources. In noting the reluctance of international 
financial organizations to effect any real change in 
their policies, we feel it necessary to endorse such 
change and to consider the creation of new 
international financial instruments that would allow us 
to fund development projects to fight poverty and 
hunger in the world and generate true options for 
progress. 
 Argentina is distressed to note the stagnation in 
the negotiations of the Doha Round for the 
development of the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
It is imperative, within the current globalization 
process — from which developing countries must 
profit — to reach a successful and balanced result fully 
consistent with the mandate of the Doha Declaration. 
Thus, we reaffirm the need to reach a satisfactory 
result in agriculture in this WTO round, including a 
substantial reduction in domestic subsidies, the 
elimination of export subsidies and ample access to the 
markets of developed countries. 
 We are increasingly concerned to see the 
deterioration of the global environment. We affirm that 
there can be no double standards. The environment 
must be protected in developed and in developing 
countries, in rich countries and in poor, in the countries 
 
 
7 06-52885 
 
of the North and of the South, in the central and in the 
peripheral countries. 
 In developing their industries, the more 
industrialized countries have profited from a true 
environmental subsidy from the rest of the countries 
which today compromise, in their relative 
backwardness, a true world environmental reserve. 
That is why we cannot accept that those countries that 
have achieved greater development — often at the 
expense of the degradation of the environment and by 
producing a severe global effect evident in climate 
change — should seek to transfer to us the more 
contaminating part of their industrial processes. 
 There can be no reliable solutions without the 
concerted action of all countries of the world, insofar 
as the nature of the problem is of a global scale. It is 
unacceptable for the claims of the developing States to 
go unnoticed. It is imperative to take the path of 
solutions. 
 Our countries wish to receive investments and 
present profitable opportunities in the energy, 
transportation and infrastructure fields, and even in 
sensitive sectors. Therein lies a strong foundation for 
international collaboration, but we do not want 
investors to undertake activities in our countries that 
are prohibited in the industrialized countries just so 
that they can improve the profits of shareholders by 
creating the illusion of an allegedly less expensive 
product by raising the costs of environmental pollution, 
deteriorating health conditions and lowered life 
expectancy. 
 On a different subject, we attach high importance 
to our participation, together with other countries of 
the region, in the United Nations Stabilization Mission 
in Haiti. In our view, beyond the progress achieved in 
the transition, the steady support and economic 
assistance of the international community will continue 
to be critical in the areas of security, the strengthening 
of institutions, the fostering of political dialogue, the 
protection of human rights, social inclusion, the 
promotion of the rule of law, the creation of 
administrative capacity and, above all, the promotion 
of economic and social development through concrete 
contributions. 
 We reiterate here our will to achieve peaceful 
nuclear development under the verification of 
international organizations. Argentina’s commitment to 
disarmament and the non-proliferation of nuclear 
weapons, our adherence to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and our long-
standing practice in the field are known to all. 
 In conclusion, I wish to recall that the question of 
the Malvinas Islands — which includes the Malvinas, 
the South Georgias, the South Sandwich Islands and 
the surrounding maritime area — has been under 
consideration by the United Nations since 1965. The 
General Assembly and its Special Committee of 24 on 
Decolonization have defined this as a special case that 
differs from traditional colonial situations in that it 
involves a sovereignty dispute that must be resolved 
through bilateral negotiations between my country and 
the United Kingdom, in accordance with the provisions 
of resolution 2065 (XX) and other relevant resolutions. 
 We must stress that the Government of the United 
Kingdom persists in ignoring those General Assembly 
resolutions. Nonetheless, I would like to reaffirm once 
again my country’s readiness to engage in constructive 
dialogue with the United Kingdom. We call upon the 
United Kingdom to promptly heed the request of the 
international community to resume negotiations. 
 In conclusion, we are firmly convinced that the 
basis exists for international cooperation that can help 
the world move towards peace. The tensions and 
difficulties besetting humanity must not prevent us 
from understanding the extent to which the 
authoritarian notion that military might can provide 
unilateral solutions to conflicts and threats is starting to 
recede. That mistaken belief has led only to failure and 
great suffering. 
 Only multilateral solutions, reached through the 
arduous process of negotiation, despite their 
limitations, can move us forward. In this context, the 
United Nations has a fundamental role to play in 
ensuring greater understanding among nations with a 
view to creating a safe, peaceful and fairer world in the 
years to come. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
Allow 
me at the outset to express my sincerest 
congratulations to Mr. Srgjan Kerim on his assumption 
of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
second session. Argentina welcomes the new 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, and expresses its 
support for his efforts at the head of the United 
Nations.  
 As in previous years, we have come to the 
General Assembly with the aim of revitalizing this 
world body and with the firm belief that this will 
ensure the effectiveness of international law in settling 
disputes, thus successfully dealing with any threats to 
peace.  
 The world is facing problems. The only hope we 
have of resolving them lies in respect for 
multilateralism, support for local customs, observance 
of international norms and conventions by all 
countries, and, of course, the full realization of human 
rights. 
 For each individual country, and for the world as 
a whole, peace will be possible only if we promote 
equality and work to combat poverty and 
marginalization. The world cannot and must not be a 
place where violations of human rights are everywhere. 
Peaceful coexistence is strengthened and maintained 
through true solidarity between nations based upon a 
concept of humanity that goes beyond the purely 
military or the predominantly unilateral. 
 Our international policy is based on the values of 
representative democracy, sovereignty of the people, 
respect for fundamental human rights, and the active 
upholding of international peace and security. Those 
principles are shared by the vast majority of the 
Argentine people. They help to focus the Government’s 
activities and are reflected in the decisions taken by the 
Argentine Republic at the international level.  
 We firmly support the construction of more just 
and equitable societies that distribute more equitably 
the benefits of economic growth. We know that each 
country must have the right to seek out its own 
development model, without external pressure. 
 The past few years have been very testing for us. 
Considerable efforts have been made to rescue a nation 
that barely five years ago was in the throes of an 
unprecedented social and economic crisis. At the time, 
many people thought that recovery might be 
impossible. But day by day, with a great deal of effort 
and humility, we revived production in a country 
burdened by a foreign debt that threatened our future 
with its conditions and constraints. 
 Argentina — a developing country which once 
demonstrated that it is truly possible to climb the social 
ladder; a country of immigrants where workers once 
succeeded in sending their children to university; a 
country once without illiteracy and having almost 
banished child mortality — had been reduced to a 
country of workers demoralized by unemployment, 
children begging in the streets instead of going to 
school, and the elderly living off miniscule pensions 
and becoming dependent on their children and 
grandchildren. 
 Our country’s coffers had been emptied owing to 
the rigid application of the rules of the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF). As a corollary, there was 
violence in the streets, and Argentina experienced an 
institutional crisis, with presidents lasting only days. 
For the first time, Argentina sent off its own children 
into an unprecedented economic exile.  
 Today the Argentine State has won its autonomy 
and itself administers the variables of its 
macroeconomy as best it can in the current 
international environment. It pursues a sound, 
disciplined and predictable economic policy within a 
stable and democratic framework.  
 Our capacity for revitalization has allowed us, 
even without receiving funding, to begin cancelling our 
net debt with international organizations. We have even 
paid off in advance all of our debt with the IMF — an 
IMF that supported and promoted Governments that 
were self-supporting, adjusting and patching up their 
budgets, but at the cost of increasing the poverty of 
their people, promoting deindustrialization and 
irresponsibly plunging the country into debt.  
 Faced with the incredulous criticism of the 
promoters of orthodox prescriptions, Argentina, thanks 
to cautious monetary policies, disciplined public 
expenditures and a healthy budget surplus that enabled 
it to face or mitigate potential foreign crises, has 
reduced the debt and registered an annual growth rate 
of 9 per cent during the past five years. This was the 
strongest uninterrupted economic expansion of any in 
the past 100 years.  
 Today we represent the empirical proof that there 
is life after the Fund and also the certitude that other 
paths can lead to development and integration. We 
serve as a reminder of the unreliability of models that 
claim to be universally valid and the revindication of 
the right of countries to choose their own path, 
benefiting from international experience while 
prioritizing their national interests and circumstances 
above any other interest. Our case provides proof that 
the international economic architecture must be 
reformed, in particular that of IMF. The Fund is an 
exponent of an old world order that is no longer valid. 
Our case demonstrates the need for change in the 
multilateral financial institutions so that they can 
cooperate in the development of the less-well-endowed 
nations and help to fight poverty and generate true 
options for progress. 
 We are thinking, not of economic growth as 
defined by economic experts or historians, but of 
growth that has a strong social component and an 
emphasis on equity, where citizens are the focus of the 
results. Whereas one fourth of the labour force 
experienced the humiliation of being unemployed, 
unemployment has been reduced to 7.8 per cent since 
we have taken office. We are speaking, not about just 
any sort of work, but about appropriate and decent 
work of the kind we advocated at the most recent 
summit meeting of the Americas, which was held in 
our country.  
 Thanks to a productive policy that generates 
added value and, in addition, appeals to private 
enterprises to show social responsibility, we are 
reindustrializing Argentina. The economic indicators 
posted by our country today would have been 
impossible were it not for the complementarity of 
action between the State and the private sector. 
 Our sales to all destinations have doubled over 
the past four years, with a 16 per cent annual growth 
rate. Investments have improved substantially: gross 
domestic fixed investment has increased for the past 17 
consecutive quarters; the ratio of investment to GDP is 
between 20 and 23 per cent — in stark contrast to the 
level of 2002 when it was hardly more than 11 per 
cent.  
 When faced with that crisis almost five years ago, 
we felt compelled to maintain essential assistance 
policies for the most vulnerable segments of our 
population. We do not regret those policies, and today 
we can state that the true solution to the serious social 
problems affecting our country, and many others 
around the world, lies in providing jobs, health care 
and education.  
 In the area of health, Argentina has launched a 
national policy that includes prescriptions for generic 
drugs and the provision of essential medications free of 
charge. It also strengthens maternity and child 
programmes and everything that relates to primary 
health care, in line with the goals of equity and 
protection. This has enabled us to compensate in part 
for the disastrous state of the public health sector a 
short time ago.  
 Of course, education is an essential element for 
renewing the social and moral fabric of the nation, 
even though the time horizon for its effects to be felt is 
longer than those of other public policies. In order to 
remedy the tragic situation that signalled the 
breakdown of society and the failure on the part of the 
State to protect those who were most vulnerable, a new 
law on national education was passed. It will again 
focus on ensuring equality of opportunity through 
guaranteed access to a quality education throughout the 
territory that is linked to the labour market and 
includes excellent training for teachers. Under the new 
law, a deadline of 2010 has been set, by which time 
6 per cent of the gross national product will be used to 
finance education. 
 In this context of steady recovery, Argentina’s 
foreign policy is being strengthened and expanded, 
with a clear and decisive commitment to the national 
interest. Regional integration is a priority. Over the 
past two decades, through the Common Market of the 
South (MERCOSUR), Argentina has strengthened its 
commercial ties with the countries of the region. But 
its trade relations go far beyond the region. In that 
sense, multilateral negotiations within the World Trade 
Organization are of particular importance because the 
liberalization of our agricultural sector — in which our 
country has clear competitive advantages — depends 
on them, as does the adequate flexibility we need to 
carry out our industrial policies.  
 More equitable and fairer rules in international 
trade are of great importance to Argentina. We 
therefore participate actively in multilateral economic 
negotiations with the firm goal of achieving equity in 
the norms that govern world trade and of reversing the 
discrimination erected against our main products 
through tariff barriers and other trade-distorting 
instruments imposed by the developed countries. 
 Argentina will be present in all multilateral 
forums, where we will participate to ensure more 
equitable and democratic rules. Multilateralism is the 
most effective instrument for winning the battle against 
hunger, poverty, exclusion and environmental 
degradation.  
 Everything I have said here is both cause and 
consequence of institutional stability and respect for 
the rule of law. The three pillars of the Argentine State 
are making decisions to combat impunity and preserve 
memory, truth, and justice. We have begun bringing to 
justice those guilty of serious human rights violators. 
Those who imagined themselves having escaped with 
impunity are fiercely resisting justice and, in an 
attempt to intimidate witnesses, have caused the 
disappearance of one witness, Julio Lopez. They have 
thereby sent a dark message to a society that is seeking 
the truth about the crimes against humanity which they 
committed, and that condemns such acts. 
 Unconditional respect for human rights is our 
new national paradigm. In the past, we were known 
throughout the world for violations of those rights; 
today, as we strive to find the truth and to punish the 
guilty, we also seek to defend those rights worldwide.  
 Argentina, the Mothers and Grandmothers of the 
Plaza de Mayo in the monumental dignity of their 
struggle, and the Argentine people have personally 
suffered under the inefficiency of a broken multilateral 
human rights system. Their sole comfort were the very 
precious humanitarian gestures of individuals, 
organizations and countries. While people were being 
kidnapped, tortured and killed in my country, the 
mechanisms established precisely to condemn and 
prevent such horrors remained silent. It is in their 
memory, so that this will never happen again, that we 
support the new Human Rights Council and hope that it 
will live up to the expectations of the international 
community. 
 My Government has endorsed instruments of 
great importance, including the International 
Convention for the Protection of All Persons from 
Enforced Disappearance, adopted by this Assembly on 
20 December 2006, which we signed in Paris on 
6 February. That instrument, along with the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the 
Optional Protocol of the Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against 
Women, gives continuity and concrete form to a policy 
that ascribes a central role to the promotion of human 
rights.  
 In our public policy, we now focus on 
environmental protection, but we know that there will 
be no viable solution without cooperation among all 
the countries of the world, the industrialized countries 
in particular, because the nature of the problem is of a 
global scale.  
 The issue of climate change should be of concern 
to all Governments, because no corner of the planet is 
unaffected by changes that have been identified as due 
to human activity. The Secretary-General’s convening 
of yesterday’s High-level Meeting was a timely 
manifestation of the urgent need to strengthen 
international cooperation as an effective and adequate 
response to protect the environment and prevent the 
unacceptable exportation of pollutants to the 
developing countries. 
 One after the other, various diplomatic efforts to 
halt the violence in the Middle East once and for all 
have failed, but we cannot merely throw up our hands. 
No military solution will lead to peace and the 
tranquillity that all the peoples of the region so 
desperately call for. The invasion of Iraq, which we 
rejected at the time it occurred, is the tragic and painful 
proof of the truth of our position. The Security Council 
and the nations of the Quartet have the heavy 
responsibility of accompanying and, if possible, 
guiding a peace process that can succeed with courage 
and great perseverance. 
 The Argentine Republic continues, year after 
year, tirelessly to condemn the serious threat of 
terrorism throughout the world. We believe that all acts 
of terror are criminal and unjustifiable and that no 
argument can justify them. Just as no nation of the 
world is beyond their reach, the response must be a 
joint effort of all nations, and especially this 
Organization, to stop and eliminate this scourge. We 
cannot tolerate the actions of those responsible for 
terrorism or of those who defend, finance or protect 
terrorists, be they individuals or countries. 
 Argentina has twice suffered terrorist attacks. The 
Israeli embassy was attacked in 1992 and the AMIA 
headquarters in 1994. Some 102 members of our 
community, some of whose relatives are here with us 
today, lost their lives. Those victims, united by terror to 
those of this city, those of Madrid, those of London, 
those of Bali, those of Istanbul and those of many other 
places, impose upon us the moral mandate to respect 
their memories and to commit all our energies to 
hunting down, finding and prosecuting those 
responsible. 
 Despite the difficulties that have arisen through 
the passage of time, given that those attacks took place 
13 and 15 years ago, respectively, and the subsequent 
cover-ups, our interest and the justice system continue 
to seek the truth, and we keep our memory of the 
horror alive so that it will not recur. 
 In November last year, the Argentine justice 
system called for international cooperation in the 
apprehension of nine people suspected of having 
initiated and planned the 18 July 1994 attack on AMIA, 
and the Executive Committee of INTERPOL 
unanimously recommended the apprehension of six 
Iranian citizens and one Lebanese involved in the 
affair. We call here for that recommendation to be 
ratified during the November session of the 
INTERPOL General Assembly. 
 In that context, we hope that the Islamic Republic 
of Iran, in the context of applicable international law, 
will accept and respect Argentina’s legal jurisdiction 
and cooperate effectively with Argentine judges to 
bring to justice those involved in these events. In that 
respect, I wish to say here, at United Nations 
Headquarters and before all the countries of the world, 
that, unfortunately, the Islamic Republic of Iran has to 
date failed to offer the required cooperation with the 
Argentine justice system to resolve those issues.  
 We call on the Secretary-General and on all the 
nations of the world to persuade the Islamic Republic 
of Iran to allow the judicial process to move forward. 
We do so with the sole aim of clarifying the facts and 
bringing those responsible to justice. Respect for the 
memory of our 102 victims requires justice to be 
carried out. We request the Islamic Republic of Iran to 
cooperate in the implementation of the norms of 
international law to allow us to come to nothing more, 
but nothing less than the truth. 
 Nations big and small, rich and poor, all 
throughout the world will be highly vulnerable if we 
fail to grasp that action against terrorism requires 
urgent multilateral, intelligent and sustained action 
firmly anchored in legitimacy, respect for individual 
rights, proportional response and respect for 
international public opinion. 
 Efforts to counter the proliferation of weapons of 
mass destruction can count on the firm support and full 
participation of the Argentine Republic.  
 My country is known for the active role it plays 
in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Argentina 
develops, consumes and exports nuclear energy for 
peaceful purposes in the framework of the strictest 
respect for the norms enshrined in the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the 
non-proliferation regime in its broadest sense.  
 Efforts to prevent proliferation are ethically and 
legally correlated to progress on disarmament. Indeed, 
the legal instruments on which the prohibition of 
weapons of mass destruction is based specifically on 
the firm commitment not to develop new weapons of 
terror and destruction in the understanding that those 
who possess such weapons will proceed to their 
gradual and effective elimination.  
 In recent years, we have seen disarmament 
commitments permanently eroded. Nuclear arsenals 
remain disproportionately large and nuclear 
disarmament agreements are in stasis. It should come 
as no surprise, then, that, given the situation, there are 
those who question the legitimacy of pursuing 
unilateral advocacy for non-proliferation while solemn 
commitments in the area of disarmament are ignored. 
 Conventional weapons are responsible for the 
deaths of millions of people around the world. Our 
country has given a high priority to initiatives 
associated with the conclusion of an arms trade treaty. 
Domestically, we have initiated programmes for the 
voluntary handover of firearms, the initial results of 
which have been encouraging.  
 The reform of the Security Council is still 
pending. We are hoping for a reform that will make this 
central body more responsible, democratically 
representative and dynamic. It will not, however, 
achieve this objective by creating new privileged 
categories. We trust that the ongoing process of 
consultations will be successful so that the Council can 
be adapted to today’s world. 
 Before concluding I wish to raise a matter of 
continuing importance to the Argentine Republic: the 
question of the Malvinas Islands, which include South 
Georgia, South Sandwich and the maritime areas 
surrounding those islands. This year, 174 years will 
have passed since the British began to occupy this part 
of Argentine national territory. Ever since that act of 
force in 1833, my country has protested against this 
illegal occupation and has demanded that the full 
exercise of its sovereignty be restored. 
 We would also mention that 2007 marks the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the 1982 conflict in the 
South Atlantic, a conflict unleashed by the military 
dictatorship without the backing of the Argentine 
people, who had always endeavoured to find a peaceful 
solution to its legitimate sovereignty claim. 
 The General Assembly has dealt with this matter 
on many occasions, both prior to and since 1982. 
Starting in 1965, when the Assembly adopted 
resolution 2065 (XX), the Organization has recognized, 
year after year, the existence of a sovereignty dispute 
between Argentina and the United Kingdom relating to 
the question of the Malvinas Islands. It urged the two 
Governments to negotiate, as soon as possible, a 
peaceful, just and lasting solution to the dispute, taking 
into account the relevant resolutions of United Nations 
bodies and the interests of the people of the islands. 
The ongoing and unrenounceable objective of 
regaining the full exercise of Argentine sovereignty 
over this part of our territory and the permanent 
readiness of my country to resume negotiations aimed 
at finding a solution to the dispute have been reflected 
in our national Constitution. 
 It is incomprehensible to us that the United 
Kingdom should be unwilling to negotiate this matter, 
thereby violating the provisions of General Assembly 
resolution 2065 (XX) and numerous similar 
resolutions. 
 The time has come for the United Kingdom to 
shoulder its responsibility and put an end to an 
anachronism: the illegal occupation for clearly colonial 
purposes of territory belonging to another State. 
 My Government vigorously rejects the British 
claim on the establishment of maritime areas 
surrounding the archipelagos. In particular, it rejects 
the recently divulged intention of the United Kingdom 
to make a submission to the Commission on the Limits 
of the Continental Shelf — established by the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea — relative 
to the outer limits of the continental shelf of these 
Argentine territories.  
 In this, my last message to the General Assembly 
as the President of the people of Argentina, I wish to 
reaffirm our profound conviction that it is only through 
democracy, accompanied by freedom, social justice 
and peace, that man can realize his full potential. This 
Assembly of the peoples has a bounden duty to help 
ensure that that will come to pass. 


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
As the first female head of State in the 
history of my country, I would like to address this 
Assembly by speaking first on the issue of human 
rights. Members know that, for my country, the policy 
of unrestricted respect for and promotion of human 
rights is one of our State policies.  
 In that context, I would like to urge that the 
International Convention for the Protection of All 
Persons from Enforced Disappearance — which was so 
energetically promoted by our country and which I  
co-signed, as First Lady of the Argentine Republic, in 
Paris last year together with 73 other delegations — be 
ratified by all countries that have signed it. Thus far, 
only four countries — Argentina, Albania, Mexico and 
Honduras — have ratified it. I know that the Republic 
of France will soon be ratifying it, but it is 
indispensable that we all strongly commit to ensuring 
that the inviolability of persons be one of the guiding 
principles for all States.  
 In this context, I would also like to put forward 
the Latin American Initiative for the Identification of 
Disappeared Persons. I would like to say that, together 
with the Guatemalan Foundation for Forensic 
Anthropology, the Argentine Forensic Anthropology 
Team and the Peruvian Forensic Anthropology Team, 
we are promoting this initiative to establish genetic 
identity banks to enable us to report precisely on 
violations of human rights and properly identify 
victims.  
 We deem invaluable the testimony of the women 
who are with us here at the Assembly today, members 
of Las Abuelas de Plaza de Mayo — the Grandmothers 
of the Plaza de Mayo — who envisioned the creation 
of this genetic information bank. They have been able 
to recover, from oblivion and disappearance, 95 of the 
500 grandchildren who disappeared, children of those 
political prisoners who disappeared under the former 
dictatorship in Argentina.  
 The work of these women is living witness to 
how, even amidst adversity and against all that State 
terrorism — not just in my country but in other 
republics — has meant, it is possible to overcome 
death and fight for life. The recovery of these children 
shows how important — how crucial — it is to support 
this type of initiative and underlines the importance of 
the work that has been done to identify the victims of 
the Balkan wars and those of the 11 September attack 
on the World Trade Center.  
 In the fight against impunity, which is a State 
policy in the Republic of Argentina, we cannot fail to 
mention an issue that, for us, is undoubtedly another 
cornerstone of this inexhaustible struggle. My country, 
the Republic of Argentina, suffered two attacks, in 
1992 and 1994: the 1992 bombing of the Israeli 
Embassy and the 1994 bombing of the Argentine 
Israelite Mutual Association (AMIA) building.  
 Last year, before this very Assembly, former 
President Kirchner asked INTERPOL to ratify the 
arrest warrants issued by my country’s Ministry of 
Justice against Iranian citizens accused of participating 
in the AMIA building bombing. Days later, INTERPOL 
ratified them, and international arrest warrants were 
issued accordingly. I call upon the Islamic Republic of 
Iran, in compliance with international law, please to 
agree that the Argentine justice system can bring to 
trial in public, transparent courts, and with the full 
guarantees given by a democratic system, those 
citizens who stand accused.  
 Before all the countries of the world brought 
together in this Assembly, and with the conviction I 
have always held that innocence must be respected 
until an individual has been convicted and sentenced 
by a competent judge, I would like to affirm that, in my 
country, those citizens will have a fair and public trial 
with their full participation, with all the guarantees 
afforded by Argentine law and by the oversight of the 
international community. Given the gravity of these 
events, this would guarantee to the Islamic Republic of 
Iran that there would be fairness, truth and justice in 
that trial. 
 I would thus urge once again that, in compliance 
with international law and because ensuring access to 
justice is what truly shows how we respect truth, 
justice and freedom, this request from the Argentine 
justice system, accepted by INTERPOL, be respected. 
That would undoubtedly contribute to providing truth 
for all — not just for Argentines, but for the entire 
international community — at a time when truth and 
justice are elusive values internationally.  
  
 
08-51570 24 
 
 In this Hall, as we have been doing since 2003, I 
would also like to call for the reform of our 
multilateral bodies — not only of the United Nations, 
which includes us all, but also of the multilateral 
financial institutions as well. That involves us all, and 
it is necessary to recreate a multilateralism which has 
been lost, leading to a far more insecure world. The 
Organization needs to be reformed, not just from the 
point of view of dogmatic approaches to the world, but 
to meet the real need of all States to ensure the 
functional, operational and results-oriented character of 
the activities and interventions of the Organization. 
 In this context, I would modestly like to put 
forward an example from our region, South America, 
of how we were recently able to demonstrate that 
multilateralism can be achieved, despite differences of 
approach and vision that different Governments in our 
region may have.  
 Here I am looking at the President Evo Morales — 
the legitimate President of our sister Republic of 
Bolivia. I would like to say that, a few days ago, the 
Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) met in 
support of the democratic legitimacy of that country. In 
a concrete multilateral exercise, heads of State, who do 
not always share the same viewpoints or interests when 
we take decisions, were able to work unanimously to 
forge a resolution and plan of action to help our sister 
Republic of Bolivia, affected by those who do not 
respect the democratic will of the people freely 
expressed through elections.  
 That is not our only experience of 
multilateralism. Previously, at the meeting of the Rio 
Group in the Dominican Republic, at the time of the 
incident between the sister Republics of Ecuador and 
Colombia, heads of State intervened and were able to 
navigate a conflict which, on the basis of history, in 
other situations would surely have degenerated into an 
armed conflict between two sister countries.  
 What I want to say with this is that, for us, the 
exercise of multilateralism is not simply a hackneyed 
speech. It is a deeply-held conviction and a concrete 
and objective policy, showing results in what are 
normally called emerging regions, where we are 
capable of giving examples of multilateral 
collaboration in overcoming conflicts.  
 The other reform that we have always promoted 
is that of the multilateral credit institutions, but 
fundamentally the reform of an economic model that 
placed the generation of wealth at the centre of the 
fictional economy and of the world of finances. Recent 
days show that those matters, those positions, were not 
the result of an ideological bias or closed dogmas but 
of objective and timely observation of what was going 
on.  
 Today, we cannot speak of the “caipirinha effect” 
or the “tequila effect” or the “rice effect”, or the effect 
that always showed that the crisis moved from the 
emerging countries towards the centre. Today, if we 
were to give it a name, we would have to say, perhaps, 
the “jazz effect”, which moves from the centre of the 
first economy of the world and spreads to the rest of 
the world. That situation does not make us content or 
happy. 
 Quite the contrary, we consider this an historic 
opportunity to review behaviour and policies, because 
during the period of the Washington Consensus, we — 
the countries of South America — were told that the 
market would solve everything, that the State was not 
necessary, that State intervention was something for 
which groups that had not understood how the 
economy had developed were nostalgic. However, now 
we are seeing the most formidable State intervention in 
memory from exactly the place where we had been told 
that the State was not necessary, in the framework, 
moreover, of an incredible fiscal and trade deficit.  
 My country, the Argentine Republic — which, if 
it continues to grow at the rates at which it has been 
growing since 2003, will this year be completing the 
largest economic growth cycle of its almost 200-year 
history — has always upheld the need for a State 
presence, fundamentally because the market does not 
assign resources to the most vulnerable sectors and 
because we see the State as connecting the interests of 
society and market interests.  
 Since 2003, an Argentina that had been in debt up 
to as much as 160 per cent of its GDP has today 
reduced its debt to almost 50 per cent of GDP. We have 
fully paid our debt to the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF), and about 15 days ago we announced that we 
will settle our debt with the Paris Club, which had a 
cut-off date of 10 December 1983 — the very year 
when the first democratic President took office, after 
the dictatorship. Here in New York yesterday, in the 
Council on Foreign Relations, I announced that 
Argentina has received a proposal from three very 
important banks that represent bond-holders who did 
 
 
25 08-51570 
 
not participate in the 2005 bond exchange and who are 
proposing to do so in conditions more favourable for 
my country, Argentina, than those of the 2005 
exchange.  
 Thus we believe not only that our strategy has 
been correct but that it is absolutely necessary for all of 
us to review, with a great deal of intellectual humility, 
what is happening today in the markets and see what 
are the possible solutions for overcoming the situation. 
We emerging countries have a great advantage in what 
we do not have: no credit risk agency will come, 
nobody from the IMF will come tell us what to do, a 
great country that has grown on the basis of its real 
economy and today really has problems on the basis of 
a casino economy or a fictional economy, where it was 
thought that only capitalism can produce money. I 
always say that capitalism was invented in order to 
earn money, but on the basis of the production of 
goods, services and knowledge. Money alone does not 
produce more money. It has to go through the circuit of 
production, work, knowledge, services and goods so 
that there can be a virtuous cycle that can generate 
well-being for the whole of society.  
 Finally, I want to mention a matter that affects 
not only my country, beyond its geographical location, 
but also concerns this Assembly and also the need to 
face the twenty-first century without colonial enclaves. 
Here I refer to the issue of our Malvinas Islands, 
where, despite the resolutions of this body, despite all 
the measures taken here for the United Kingdom to 
agree, in virtue of what is set out in Article 33 of the 
Charter of the United Nations, to negotiate in peace 
between the parties, that country resolutely refuses to 
discuss with the Argentine Republic the issue of the 
Malvinas Islands.  
 I believe that a member of the Security  
Council — one that is among the principal nations of 
the world in the defence of freedom, human rights and 
democracy — should give concrete proof that it is not 
just talk but that it is truly convinced that it is 
necessary to end this shame, that of a colonial enclave 
in the twenty-first century. I want to request again, as 
have the different Presidents who preceded me — 
because Malvinas is for Argentineans a State policy as 
well — the cooperation that this body has always 
provided to once again urge the United Kingdom to 
agree to comply with international law and to 
demonstrate that it is serious in wishing to build a 
different world and a different citizenry.  
 Lastly, I wish to speak to all those men and 
women who have institutional governmental 
responsibilities in any of the branches of the State in 
their respective countries to once again advocate for 
the transformation of an international policy that has 
its fullest expression in this House. The reform of the 
instruments that we are requesting is not simply a 
question of cosmetics and formulas and changes that 
barely conceal that everything is continuing as it 
stands. The present situation, the complexity of the 
world that is coming, in terms of food and energy, 
requires all of us to re-examine our behaviour and our 
paradigms. We must accept with humility that it is 
necessary to build a world that is different from the one 
we have had to date — one in which respect for human 
rights, for the will of peoples and for those who are 
different, do not think as we do or who pray to a 
different god is not merely a catalogue of good 
intentions set out in the United Nations Charter, but a 
reality that is experienced a little more concretely 
every day. 

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====
I must confess that, when I arrived in this 
city to participate in this session of the General 
Assembly, I had intended to begin my statement with a 
strong appeal on the need to rebuild multilateralism 
and cooperation as the two basic instruments to 
overcome what today is undoubtedly the central issue 
in our global discussion, namely, overcoming the social 
and economic crisis. 
However, certain events on Monday and Tuesday 
oblige me to begin my statement by reporting that the 
Embassy of the Argentine Republic in Tegucigalpa, 
Republic of Honduras, had its electricity cut off some 
two days ago. That, of course, was not because we had 
not paid the bill, but was for far more serious reasons.  
 Next to the Argentine Embassy is a television 
studio which broadcast the news of President Zelaya’s 
arrival in Honduras, the repression and the 
demonstrations in favour of the return of democracy. 
That was one of the reasons. In any event, we have had 
better luck than the Embassy of the sister Republic of 
Brazil, where, at an early stage they cut off not only 
the electricity but the water as well — for having given 
shelter to the constitutional President, Manuel Zelaya. 
 As a Latin American, I must recall that not even 
in Chile during the dictatorship of General Pinochet, or 
in Argentina during the dictatorship of General Jorge 
Rafael Videla — perhaps the two cruelest dictatorships 
in Latin America — was there similar behaviour 
against embassies that were actively working to give 
shelter to refugees. 
 I say this because it is crucial that we realize that 
we must design and forge a multilateral strategy which 
is strong and specific to return democracy to Honduras. 
We need a strategy which would actually allow for true 
respect for human rights and ensure free and 
democratic elections — which can take place only with 
full respect for the constitution. If we do not do this, 
we would be setting a harsh precedent in a region 
where, for decades during the national security 
doctrine, suspensions of democracy claimed the lives 
of thousands and thousands of Latin Americans, led to 
the exile of many other and created the region’s most 
serious economic and social tragedy in memory. 
  
 
09-52228 2 
 
 I make this appeal because I played an active role 
from the platform of the Organization of American 
States, and also accompanied the former President of 
the General Assembly, Father Miguel d’Escoto 
Brockmann, to El Salvador in order to carry out a task 
which would safeguard two basic values which, in my 
opinion, our region has managed to develop: 
democracy and respect for human rights. 
 Therefore, I believe that multilateralism would 
also mean understanding that we have to set common 
and general rules in this globalized world that must be 
accepted by all countries. In this case, we are faced 
with a cynical media coup which was carefully hidden 
or minimized because, in fact, it was slanted against 
the advent of populist progressive Governments in the 
region. I believe that, for all of us, defining 
multilateralism is going to require specific actions and 
rules so that absolutely all of us will have the same 
parameters when it comes time to judge conduct, 
attitudes and institutional situations. 
 Yesterday I took part in the climate change event 
convened by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in order 
to bring positions closer together with a view to the 
Copenhagen Conference, which will take place in a 
little more than 10 weeks’ time. A decade and a half 
ago we agreed on the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, dealing with 
environmental protection, and we later adopted the 
Kyoto Protocol in order to begin ensuring respect for 
those obligations undertaken by nations. A decade and 
a half later, it is clear that neither agreement is being 
satisfactorily implemented. 
 Essentially, this is sometimes because the nations 
most responsible for pollution and gas emissions, 
which should bear greater responsibility for reducing 
those emissions, in terms of investments both in their 
own countries and in developing countries, cannot 
come to an agreement either. As I was saying yesterday 
in our meeting, I think we need to understand that the 
only possibility of successfully approaching 
globalization lies precisely in the setting of common 
rules which would be respected by all nations, 
developed and developing. 
 In this framework, we should mention the 
situation of the Argentine Republic, where we still 
have a colonial enclave, our Malvinas Islands, which 
persists without the possibility of addressing the 
question of sovereignty together with the United 
Kingdom, as proclaimed in many General Assembly 
resolutions. We were recently able to agree, following 
a humanitarian request, that family members with 
loved ones buried on the islands should be able to 
travel there by air to inaugurate a cenotaph to pay 
tribute to those who fought for their homeland. 
 All of this points to the very clear need to look at 
multilateralism not only as a type of rhetorical 
statement repeated every year in this or other 
multilateral forums, but rather in terms of concrete 
results. Otherwise, it will become increasingly 
complicated, with ever more unresolved problems. For, 
in the final analysis, the multilateralism we have been 
persistently proclaiming since 2003 has not been put 
into practice. 
 My country and the United States are the only 
two countries to have experienced attacks of 
international terrorism. For Argentina, the first was in 
1992, at the Embassy of Israel, and the second was at 
the Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina (AMIA). 
Hundreds of people died in those attacks. Today, in this 
Assembly, I am joined by the head of AMIA, the entity 
that was bombed, as well as by family members who 
have accompanied him. 
 In 2007, then-President Néstor Kirchner came 
here to the Assembly (see A/62/PV.5) to call on the 
Islamic Republic of Iran to agree to extradite officials 
of its country wanted by the Argentine justice system 
in order to carry out a proper investigation and assign 
responsibility for that serious attack. Last year, I 
myself came here (see A/63/PV.5) to call once again on 
the authorities of the Islamic Republic of Iran to 
accede to our request. I said that there were 
constitutional guarantees in my country; that the 
principle that no one is guilty until proven guilty 
beyond a shadow of a doubt prevails from one end of 
my country to the other; and that we have guarantees 
for freedom and the administration of justice. 
Nevertheless, that did not happen. Instead, this year, 
one of the officials whose extradition was sought by 
the prosecutor on the case was promoted to minister.  
 I know that some 4, 5 or 15 speakers from now 
the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran will take 
the floor. Surely, he will once again deny tragedies that 
occurred in the course of western history in the 
twentieth century. He will surely invoke the threat of 
other imperialisms. And he will also surely invoke 
God. I would like to say to him that my country, the 
 
 
3 09-52228 
 
Argentine Republic, is not an imperialist country — 
neither by way of belief nor as a reflection of our 
history. To the contrary, ours is a country that suffered 
from colonial oppression at its founding. During the 
world’s bipolar era, we also suffered from the doctrine 
of national security. I would like to tell him that, like 
him, I believe in God. We may do so in different faiths 
but, in the end, I believe that neither of us believes that 
God could command us to prefer threats or to avoid 
justice from being done. 
 As President of the Argentine Republic, therefore, 
I humbly reiterate once again our appeal for the 
extradition of the officials whom Argentina’s justice 
system believes are responsible — not to be found 
guilty, but to be judged and to be allowed to take 
advantage of all the rights and guarantees that every 
Argentine citizen and foreigner has in our country: 
guarantees under democracy, whose unconditional 
defence Argentina has made part of its institutional and 
historical core. 
 I would not wish to conclude without referring to 
three events that I believe are very positive, which I 
would like to share with the members of the Assembly 
today. The first took place quite recently, on 
9 September, when the Argentine Republic received a 
visit from the Inter-American Commission on Human 
Rights, including its Chair and the President of the 
Inter-American Court of Human Rights. That visit 
occurred 30 years after the Court’s first visit, during 
the dictatorship, when it came to investigate the crimes 
that were being committed and to take complaints from 
Argentine citizens — including our Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, who is with me today and who, like 
his father, was imprisoned at that time — and to hear 
testimony about the serious violations that were taking 
place. 
 Thirty years later, the men who comprised the 
Commission and the men and women who are its 
members today visited an Argentina where criminals 
responsible for genocide under the dictatorship are 
being tried by judges in accordance with the 
Constitution. We have also reached an agreement with 
the Inter-American Court to send a bill to our 
legislature — which I have already done — to 
eliminate the crime of libel and defamation against 
journalists. That is homage to the freedom of 
expression and of the press. But I also firmly believe 
that it should apply to all citizens. It is offensive that, 
in the twenty-first century, someone could be sentenced 
to prison for having said something and said it freely. 
 We have also reached an agreement to send up 
two bills — which we have also already done — to 
contribute to the recovery of children born in captivity 
during the dictatorship. Those will include provisions 
to ensure respect for the victims, as well as on society’s 
collective right to learn their identities. 
 The second thing that I would like to share has to 
do with the fact that I listened today to the President of 
the United States speak about an issue that is crucial to 
world peace and security, as well as to the rights of the 
Palestinian people. It is also a key component of a 
strategy against international terrorism, which, as ever, 
we continue to condemn. It is genuinely satisfying, and 
a salve to the soul, to hear from the mouth of the 
President of the United States of America that there is a 
need for the Palestinian people to be able to live on 
their land free of settlements of any kind, as well as, 
clearly, a right for Israel’s citizens to live in peace 
within their borders. The words of the President and 
the timely message he delivered at Cairo University, 
which many here likely followed with interest, place us 
in a position that we have not occupied for many years, 
namely, the possibility of beginning negotiations — 
successful ones, I hope — between the Palestinian 
Authority and the Government of Israel to at last 
resolve a key issue for international peace and security, 
namely, the Palestinian question. 
 Lastly, I would like to tell the Assembly that, as a 
member of the Group of 20 (G-20), which will meet 
tomorrow in Pittsburgh, we would like to call for the 
presence of another multilateral body to be heard from 
at those meetings: the International Labour 
Organization. In the two previous G-20 meetings, there 
was a great deal of discussion about the financial 
crisis. However, as we did then, we continue to believe 
that a key issue is to once again discuss the real 
economy. That is why we believed it timely that 
workers and business owners, as genuine actors in the 
real economy and as catalysts to re-energizing it, 
should be heard from as well in those forums, 
alongside officials from multilateral credit institutions 
and the World Bank. 
 We are genuinely convinced that there is a need 
to build a new multilateralism in which all of us are 
genuinely on an equal footing; where rights and 
obligations and the road map for the course to be taken 
  
 
09-52228 4 
 
are the same for rich and poor countries alike; and 
where the rights and responsibilities of developing 
countries are the same as those of developed States. We 
therefore agreed that equal rules of the game for the 
entire world was one of the basic elements of ensuring 
success in building multilateralism. If we do not 
achieve this, we will continue with these rhetorical 
exercises year after year, but we will never achieve the 
results that are not a right but an obligation for all of us 
who make up this body. 
 In conclusion, democracy, the defence of human 
rights, and equal rules for all countries in the world are 
the three key elements to building a new 
multilateralism. These three requirements must be 
equal and the same for all countries, but above all for 
those that, through their own actions and because of 
their level of social and economic development, lead 
the major developed countries of the world.  
 It is clear that those who have the greatest 
responsibility and hold the greatest leadership roles — 
won through military, technological, economic and 
even cultural power — also have an obligation to 
exercise that leadership in a responsible manner. This 
is what we, the developing and emerging countries, 
feel, and what we ask of the major nations of the 
world. They have the responsibility to build this world. 
This will no doubt be echoed in all our speeches, but 
this building must be done every day through our 
decisions and concrete actions. 

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====
Most 
of the speeches we have heard so far today and 
yesterday have had three main focuses. One of them, 
without a doubt, is the global economic crisis, its 
impact and evolution and how to overcome it. Climate 
change has been another focus. And, finally, the third 
fundamental and very important topic has been the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 
  
 
10-54959 4 
 
 I believe that emerging countries, and Argentina 
in particular, have a wealth of experience to share in 
connection with these three topics, and that we need to 
take a position. With respect to the global crisis, whose 
impact has been felt in emerging countries despite the 
fact that it actually originated in developed countries, it 
must be pointed out that it was precisely the 
developing countries that supported the economic 
growth of the past decade and that will again reignite 
and sustain economic growth and activity and thus 
provide the means to overcome what is perhaps the 
most significant economic crisis since 1930. And 
Argentina, in this sense, was somewhat of a guinea pig 
for the policies of the 1990s, when it was held up as a 
model pupil while it was in reality ratcheting up 
unsustainable levels of debt, producing neither goods 
nor services, and actually experiencing a fall in job-
creation, finally collapsing in 2001 in a financial crisis 
very similar to that which shook the world in the third 
quarter of 2008. 
 The ground fell out from beneath Argentina in 
2001. However, through the policies we pursued from 
2003 onwards, we have been able to overcome that 
crisis, which so closely resembled that which hit the 
world in 2008. And we did so through our own efforts 
and, crucially, with an economic and political strategy 
that was not dictated by demands from the multilateral 
credit institutions but was in line with our own 
convictions and, crucially, our own interests. 
 In the eight years leading up to this bicentennial 
year — this year, my country marks 200 years of 
freedom — we have achieved the most significant 
economic growth ever seen in our 200 years of history. 
We managed to emerge from debt in a way never 
before seen in our history. Since that sovereign default 
of 2001, which was the greatest such default in history, 
today Argentina has renegotiated 93 per cent of its total 
debt with Argentine debt title-holders. And, moreover, 
Argentina has achieved heretofore unknown inclusive 
growth in the past year, following our application of 
counter-cyclical measures throughout all of 2009 and 
in late 2008. We have experienced growth in economic 
activity of 9 per cent over the past 12 months. We 
brought the unemployment rate back down to 7.9 per 
cent. And we managed to continue reducing the rates of 
poverty and extreme poverty, which are now at levels 
never before seen in our country. 
 This is due essentially to counter-cyclical 
economic management and to an understanding that 
instruments such as the central bank, reserves, foreign 
trade, production, employment generation and better 
living standards, with a robust expansion in fiscal 
spending, are exactly what has meant that the crisis 
overwhelming developing countries has not had the 
same impact it would have had at other times. 
 In this context, I wish to point out that we have 
also promoted the intelligent use of our reserves, which 
is something currently under discussion in all 
multilateral bodies, in the world of economics and in 
the context of the Group of 20. We have used our 
reserves rationally because we believe that, in our case, 
they are the result of a trade surplus — that is to say, 
hard currency dollars — and should be applied to 
paying down the debt rather than putting them into 
capital markets, thereby resulting in double-digit debt 
while we would be paid only 0.5 per cent interest for 
our reserves. It would really have been senseless and 
irrational for our country to go into double-digit debt 
when in reality we had more than enough reserves, for 
which we would be paid barely 0.5 per cent. 
 What I am trying to say is that our experience in 
Argentina, as well as that of other emerging countries 
— which, I wish to reiterate once again, are shoring up 
economic growth — makes it incumbent upon the 
Group of 20, as well as the Group of 77, where we will 
also push for this, to carry out a rigorous reform of 
international credit agencies, which have failed in their 
fundamental purpose: to ensure a stable global 
economy that produces jobs and well-being for the 
inhabitants of the planet.  
In that regard, we believe that it is truly urgent 
for there to be global legislation in the area of vulture 
funds, which basically move from one area of the 
country to another in genuinely speculative ways and 
have a pitiless impact on economies. We also believe 
that there is a need to evaluate and legislate on risk-
rating agencies, which for instance rated Argentina’s 
debt as highly risky when it reality the Argentine 
Republic had been scrupulously paying its debt since 
the first renegotiation, in 2005, without turning to 
capital markets. Nevertheless, they have given much 
higher rankings to countries that subsequently 
demonstrated that they did not have the capacity to 
address their debt because they had structural problems 
in their economies, such as fiscal deficits, commercial 
 
 
5 10-54959 
 
deficits and reserve outflows — precisely the opposite 
of what took place in Argentina. 
 We therefore believe in the need for global 
re-engineering of multilateral funds — essentially in a 
theoretical framework different from the one that the 
world has experienced, namely, the Washington 
Consensus. That Consensus has been exhausted by 
failure, but has not been replaced by a new theoretical 
framework that gives different roles to central banks, 
as well as to States as instruments to promote counter-
cyclical fiscal measures that ensure something which, 
in our opinion, is a central concern: employment 
stability, rather than just currency stability. 
 We also sincerely believe that currencies should 
not be protected solely from a monetary perspective; 
on the contrary, we believe that the value of each 
country’s currency is directly linked to the potential for 
growth and wealth-generation capacity of each 
country’s economy. It is also linked to the equitable 
distribution of wealth, which should make societies 
sustainable through a model that is not just economic 
but also essentially political. 
 Climate change, which is very important and will 
soon be addressed at the Cancun meeting, has also 
been a central theme in all the interventions that have 
been made from this rostrum. While it is well and good 
to speak of that, we have not been able to reach an 
agreement because, in fact, we are not being offered a 
solution in this area that is just and equitable in terms 
of who, and to what degree, should bear primary 
responsibility for damage due to environmental 
pollution. It is not fair that developing countries — 
which, by paying a high price, have been able to 
overcome high levels of poverty and social inequality 
through economic growth — should be the ones that 
have to assume responsibility for the environmental 
legacy of developed countries, which for decades 
contaminated the world and which should therefore be 
the ones to shoulder this responsibility. Establishing 
viable targets and goals that are in line with the need to 
continue to grow the economy also require that we 
seriously realign our goals in the area of global 
warming. 
 With regard to the final focus, namely, building 
international peace and security, we sincerely believe 
that the resumption of dialogue between the State of 
Israel and the Palestinian Authority is very good news 
indeed when it comes to finally achieving what I 
believe all of us have looked forward to for quite a 
long time: that the State of Palestine will be seated as a 
full member during the next session of the General 
Assembly. We believe that will make an enormous 
contribution to the maintenance of international peace 
and security. I say this by virtue of our experience as a 
country that has been a target and victim of 
international terrorist groups. As the Assembly is 
aware, in 1992 and 1994 my country was the victim of 
two terrible terrorist attacks. The first was the blowing 
up of the Israeli Embassy, and the second tragedy was 
the bombing of the Asociación Mutual Israelita 
Argentina (AMIA). 
 In that regard, in 2007, my country’s then 
President, Néstor Kirchner, requested the Islamic 
Republic of Iran to agree to the extradition of Iranian 
citizens whom the Argentine justice system had 
accused of participation in carrying out that heinous 
crime. I did the same as President in 2008 and 2009 — 
to little effect, I must confess. I did so while 
emphasizing that mine is a leading country in 
respecting human rights and bringing to justice those 
who commit crimes against humanity. I have also 
underscored that we have a system that ensures due 
process and the right to counsel and that does not 
permit anyone to be tried or convicted in absentia. It is 
for those reasons that we continue to make this request 
for extradition. We have also emphasized that for any 
Argentine citizens who believe that our country’s 
justice system is not fair enough or does not enforce 
the law, we are party to international conventions to 
which they can turn, including such international 
tribunals as the Inter-American Commission on Human 
Rights. Despite the fact that we have guaranteed that 
all these principles will continue to be respected in the 
Argentine Republic, we have not yet achieved results. 
 I shall not on this occasion call for the fourth 
time for something that will clearly not achieve results. 
But I will propose to the Islamic Republic of Iran — 
even if it has no faith in Argentine justice, as it has 
said, because of prejudgement and insufficient 
neutrality to carry out a trial — that a third country be 
selected, through mutual agreement between our 
countries, in which there are guarantees of due process 
and where international observers and United Nations 
representatives may participate to bring to trial the 
terrible attack on AMIA in our country. I should also 
like to say that we do not consider that attack as an 
  
 
10-54959 6 
 
attack on one community or one religion. For us, it was 
an attack on all Argentines. 
 I am President of a country where we can 
celebrate the Jewish New Year with the Jewish 
community, as I did this year in my capacity as leader 
of the country. We also celebrated the end of Ramadan 
at an Islamic centre. We are a country of open-
mindedness because of our immigrant heritage, which 
guarantees plurality and diversity for all. 
 There is a precedent for what we are proposing. 
This precedent is not a capricious or fantastical legal 
construction; it is the Lockerbie case. That is an 
international precedent of a trial held in a third neutral 
country that could provide guarantees for those who 
fear they might not be judged impartially. In this 
connection, I would like to clarify that the Argentine 
Republic is not seeking guilty parties. All the Argentine 
Government seeks is justice. Ultimately, anyone who 
has committed a crime of such magnitude should be 
punished.  
 Thus, we hope that the offer I make to the Islamic 
Republic of Iran today before the General Assembly 
will put an end to the pretext of non-neutrality and to 
accusations of our complicity in withholding impartial 
justice. I address this in particular to those who insist 
that there can be no impartial justice. I believe that this 
eloquent gesture has international precedents and will 
allow us to resolve this situation and to channel this 
dispute institutionally. We must do this if we wish to 
feel truly part of the international community. We must 
resolve this dispute in a framework of justice and 
legality. 
 Finally, again in connection with security 
concerns, we must once again, here in this Assembly, 
demand respect for our sovereign rights over the 
Malvinas Islands. We do not do so solely for historical 
reasons. Our claim is absolutely up to date. The United 
Kingdom has systematically refused to implement 
universally binding General Assembly resolutions 
calling for negotiations with the Argentine Republic on 
the question of sovereignty.  
 But that is not all. Unilateral decisions have been 
taken to exploit hydrocarbon resources on the islands. 
There are two aspects to this exploitation. The first is 
that it constitutes depredation of natural resources that 
belong to us. It is unthinkable that territorial, historical 
or legal sovereignty can be maintained over islands 
that are 14,000 kilometres from the United Kingdom 
and whose transplanted population sits on a continental 
shelf that unquestionably belongs to the Argentine 
Republic geographically, geologically and historically.  
 The second aspect is the risk of ecological 
catastrophe. British Petroleum, operating off the coast 
of the United States in the Gulf of Mexico, set off an 
unprecedented ecological catastrophe. The lack of 
oversight by our country or any other over what the 
United Kingdom is doing in the Malvinas Islands has 
mobilized us not only to defend the natural resources 
of my country, but to seek to avert an ecological 
catastrophe that could occur due to this total lack of 
oversight.  
 Some may say that this has nothing to with 
security. It has a great deal to do with security, because 
one of the central problems of our globalized world is 
the need to adapt the Security Council to our times. We 
need a Security Council worthy of its name. England, 
like other countries that have a permanent seat on the 
Council, has used and misused its position. Resolutions 
of the Council are applicable only to those countries 
that do not have sufficient power or the right to a 
permanent seat on the Council. The Council should be 
reformed because it has never been able to maintain 
international peace and security. 
 That is not simply because some seats are 
permanent or because the world context has changed 
since the San Francisco Charter created the Security 
Council. The Security Council, with its permanent 
members, was a Security Council where those who 
were seated could, by pressing a red button, cause a 
nuclear holocaust. That was the true reason for creating 
a Council that could strike a balance between the 
interests of a bipolar world and prevent a nuclear 
holocaust. 
 That world no longer exists. Those who were 
once irreconcilable enemies and rivals are now 
associates, allies, friends or whatever anyone might 
care to call them. What is certain is that those who can 
unleash terrible conflict situations, tragedies and 
international terrorism are not and never will be seated 
there. Thus, the Security Council has lost its 
effectiveness because it is not in line with today’s 
world or the dangers besetting it. Quite the contrary, 
the use and misuse of their dominant position by 
members of the Council in certain countries have 
provoked conflicts that cannot then be stifled by the 
Council, much less by the Organization. 
 
 
7 10-54959 
 
 We believe that the case of the Malvinas Islands 
is very enlightening. The United Kingdom can do as it 
likes because no one is compelling it to implement the 
decisions of the Security Council, because it is a 
permanent member and an important member of 
NATO. In a world of double standards — where only 
the developing and extremely weak countries are 
compelled to abide by the international legal order 
while those who can systematically violate it do so — 
it is not possible to build peace, let alone maintain 
international security, because such situations end up 
creating the kind of insurmountable disputes and 
differences we see every day. 
 I believe it important to note that the concepts of 
security and peace can never be associated with 
military matters alone. They must be essentially 
associated with political values, equity, freedom and a 
cause for which humankind has fought from the 
beginning: equality.

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====
Exactly 
eight years ago, in this same context and from this 
same rostrum, the President of my country, Néstor 
Carlos Kirchner, addressed the Assembly, four years 
after having assumed the presidency of the Argentine 
Republic with only 22 per cent of the vote. Given the 
situation of the Argentine Republic — which had fallen 
into default in 2001, where about a quarter of the 
population was unemployed and levels of destitution 
and poverty had exceeded 50 per cent — he stated that 
the multilateral credit institutions needed reform, 
particularly the International Monetary Fund, as did the 
political bodies of this honourable Organization. 
 President Kirchner made five speeches to the 
General Assembly, and I have made four. This is my 
fourth statement as President of the Republic. In each 
of our addresses we have made the same calls to a 
world that has changed significantly since 2003, when 
the Argentine Republic was cast as a black sheep gone 
astray and which found itself in default because of a 
continued failure to fulfil its obligations. In reality, we 
were victims, used as guinea pigs in the experiments of 
the 1990s and neoliberal policies. 
 
 
25 11-50692 
 
 Much has happened since then, when Argentina 
defaulted on the largest debt — at least, so far — in the 
history of humanity, $160 billion. Over the past eight 
years, Argentina has restructured its debt, reducing it 
from 160 per cent to less than 30 per cent of gross 
domestic product (GDP). The rates of poverty and 
indigence have been reduced to single digits, and we 
must continue that fight. Our unemployment rate is 
among the lowest, and we have completed the most 
significant cycle of economic growth in our 200 years 
of history. 
 Among the emerging countries of our region, 
Latin America, Argentina has had the leading growth 
rate and is regularly paying its debt without turning to 
capital markets. I am not going to list all of the 
numbers, but they are very compelling. In 2003, we 
spent 2 per cent of GDP on education and 5 per cent on 
debt payments. Today, Argentina devotes 6.47 per cent 
of its GDP to education and spends 2 per cent to debt 
payment. 
 The situation in the world is quite different. Many 
regions and countries have severe problems. Argentina 
does not pretend to be a model or an example for 
anyone, but we do wish to reaffirm the need to 
formulate clear rules with regard to the transfer of 
capital in the area of financial speculation. Many 
speakers before me, and doubtless many more to come 
will do the same, have complained about financial 
commodity speculation, especially in the food sector. 
 When we compare the growth of global financial 
stocks to global GDP — what all of the citizens and 
businesses of the world produce in goods and services — it 
becomes clear why we are facing a world where 
speculation is out of control, careening from one side 
to the other and from one country or region to another, 
affecting currencies, economies and the daily lives of 
citizens, destroying jobs and preventing people from 
obtaining a dignified education and health care. 
 If we look at the relationship between global 
GDP and financial stocks in the 1980s, we see that it 
was a one-to-one relationship. There was a financial 
stock that was exactly equal to the goods and services 
being produced by the world. From the 1990s, figures 
skyrocketed. In 2008 total financial stocks, total 
financial activity in the world, reached 3.6 times the 
global GDP. This meant a tremendous gap between 
what we produce and what is in what I call the “enter 
key” economy. I call it that because, if we go looking 
for these shares, they are mere keystrokes transferring 
numbers from one place to another, from one currency 
to another, producing unparalleled market volatility 
and recurrent crises whereby exchanges go up and 
down on a daily basis. This not only destroys 
thousands of jobs but also generates immense profits 
that someone is pocketing. 
 We would like to reiterate once again, in the light 
of our own experience — and I reiterate once again 
that I do not want to set up a model — the need for 
multilateral credit organizations to work extremely 
hard on regulating the global movement of capital and 
financial speculation. If this does not happen, it will be 
impossible to achieve that ever elusive market stability, 
and as a result, the economies of both emerging 
countries, which have been sustaining the growth of 
the global economic activity, and developed countries 
alike will be overwhelmed. 
 It is crucial that this message be understood, 
because today we may see speculation on food; 
yesterday, it was on oil, and tomorrow, it could be on 
little candies, if that would be profitable and beneficial 
to the moving of this capital, which gets transferred 
from one side of the world to the other without any 
control or regulation whatsoever. 
 Here I must say that, as a member of the Group of 
20 at the London meeting — when it was decided to 
inject an enormous amount of financial resources into 
the financial sector that was experiencing problems — 
I maintained that it was necessary to guarantee that 
those resources being injected into the financial world 
could later return to the real economy, the concrete 
economy, to be able to generate employment, products 
and services.  
 Unfortunately, we continue to find ourselves in 
the same situation, because other than the changes that 
I would describe as purely cosmetic, we have gone no 
further with the necessary regulation. 
 Moreover, the credit ratings agencies — which 
bear a great deal of the responsibility for much of what 
has happened — rate Argentina, for example, as a 
marginal economy. Until very recently, they 
categorized economies on the brink of default higher 
than that of Argentina. Therefore, transparent 
regulation of the ratings agencies is needed, as they 
bear a great responsibility for the crisis we are 
currently seeing in various regions — which will, of 
course, have an impact on all countries. 
  
 
11-50692 26 
 
 It is regrettable that we have been asking for the 
reform, reorganization and modification of the 
multilateral credit bodies for so long now. Indeed, we 
believe that this task should already have been begun, 
already formulated, in order to avoid precisely what we 
are experiencing now. For some people it is just a 
matter of numbers on the stock market, but for others 
they signal the destruction of the hopes of a lifetime. 
 As I was saying to a colleague the other day 
during a visit to Europe, economic crises always end 
up impacting the political system. There cannot be a 
serious economic crisis, in which millions of people 
fall into poverty and lose their jobs, homes, education 
and health, without that also signalling profound 
political transformation. And when such political 
transformation results in further serious economic 
crises, the result is experiences that I will not go into 
now. Totalitarianism often came out of crises. The 
twentieth century produced crises that were not 
adequately solved by political means. 
 I call once again for the reform of this important 
Organization, which represents multilateralism — 
something we have always consistently defended. We 
need a more pluralistic and diverse world, and to make 
political bodies such as the United Nations, and 
crucially the Security Council, more democratic. 
 We do not agree on the need to expand the 
number of permanent members; on the contrary, we 
believe that the permanent member category should be 
eliminated. The right to veto also should be eliminated, 
as it really prevents the Security Council from carrying 
out the true functions that it had in the bipolar world in 
which it was originally conceived. At that time, the 
right to veto was necessary, because in that bipolar 
world, with the fear of a nuclear holocaust, that right 
gave to Council members the balance necessary to 
ensure the security of humankind. Today, that balance 
is broken. Permanent seats and the right to veto are not 
about defending security or universal stability; rather, 
they are often about the position of Council members 
exercising their right. 
 In my most recent statement before the Assembly 
(see A/65/PV.14), I believe I concluded by expressing 
my hope that this year Palestine would be become the 
194th Member of the concert of the United Nations. 
My country, Argentina, like most South American 
nations, has recognized the State of Palestine.  
 I sincerely believe that blocking the entry of 
Palestine could perhaps be seen by some as benefiting 
the State of Israel. But allow me to say to Assembly 
members, on the authority we have as a country that 
has suffered from the scourge of international 
terrorism, that to prevent Palestine from becoming a 
member of this Assembly means to continue providing 
alibis to those who engage in international terrorism 
and who in that repudiation find precisely one of the 
false arguments they use to justify their crimes.  
 I believe that the non-inclusion of Palestine this 
year, far from providing greater security and stability 
in the world, will bring about greater insecurity and 
conditions that are utterly unfavourable to what should 
be the prestige of a body that should represent the 
interests of all citizens of the world. 
 For that reason, I ask that God will enlighten 
those who must make this historic and structural 
decision of global significance so that greater balance 
can be achieved and so that this year Palestine will be 
able to take its seat number 194. I am sure that if we 
succeed in that endeavour we will help to create a 
world that is not only safer, but more just. 
 I would like to make another point, one linked to 
the situation that we have been describing, with regard 
to what is shown by the injustice of certain 
countries — five, to be exact — on the Security 
Council having veto rights. Once again, we have come 
to the heart of the United Nations to raise an issue that 
is just as vital, and not only to Argentines.  
 The question of sovereignty over the Malvinas 
Islands is also a trial by fire for this body in terms of 
whether it is possible for it to comply with a policy that 
is essentially multilateral and under which all members 
are obliged to accept the resolutions of this Assembly.  
 Ten General Assembly resolutions have invited 
the United Kingdom and my country to sit down to 
negotiate and discuss our sovereignty. Bear in mind 
that Argentina is not asking for those resolutions to be 
implemented in terms of recognizing sovereignty. No, 
it is simply asking for compliance with some of the 
provisions of the 10 United Nations resolutions on the 
matter.  
 Perhaps we could also list the 29 resolutions of 
the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
and the 11 resolutions and 8 declarations of the 
Organization of American States, as well as the 
 
 
27 11-50692 
 
resolutions of various forums — Ibero-American 
forums, the Union of South American Nations, the 
Common Market of the South, meetings of the Arab 
and African countries — and the entire world. Through 
such resolutions and declarations, all of them have 
been demanding that this issue be addressed. The 
United Kingdom has systematically refused to do so 
and has obviously used its status as a veto-wielding 
member of the Security Council to that end.  
 The year 2013 will mark the passage of 180 years 
since the Argentines were expelled by force of arms 
from our Malvinas Islands. Next year will mark 
30 years since an incident — which the United 
Kingdom took advantage of — that was committed by 
the most terrible dictatorship in memory, of which we 
Argentines were ourselves victims.  
 I am proud to be the Government that has set an 
example for the world in terms of human rights and the 
prosecution of those responsible for committing crimes 
and acts of genocide. That is why I believe that 
focusing on that incident is nothing other than one of 
the many excuses given to justify non-compliance with 
United Nations resolutions. What is worse, I ask all of 
those who see themselves in the mirror of a future 
world in which natural resources will be necessary, to 
see how our natural resources, our fisheries and our 
petroleum resources, are being stolen and illegally 
seized by those who have no right to do so. Obviously, 
I do not feel it necessary to emphasize the fact that no 
one can lay claim to an overseas territory that is more 
than 14,000 kilometres away. That is clearly an illegal 
occupation. 
 Once again, we call upon the United Kingdom to 
comply with the resolutions of the United Nations. 
Recently, there have been genuine provocations, 
including missile tests in May and July, which were 
denounced before the International Maritime 
Organization, which also suffered one of those attacks. 
Once again, I reiterate to this Assembly and to the 
United Kingdom Argentina’s interest in dialogue. It is 
true that much time has passed, however. We state 
here, before this Assembly, that we will wait for a 
reasonable period of time, but if nothing transpires, we 
will be forced to begin reviewing the provisional 
understandings that are still in effect. We emphasize in 
particular that the question of sovereignty must be 
included in those understandings.  
 Members may ask what I am referring to here. It 
is the joint statement and exchange of letters of 14 July 
1999 on resuming a regular weekly LAN Chile flight 
between Punta Arenas and the Malvinas Islands with 
two monthly stopovers, one in each direction, in Río 
Gallegos. 
 Argentina has no intention of exacerbating the 
situation for any party, but it is also fair that this 
Assembly and the United Kingdom be aware that there 
must be compliance with the resolutions. We cannot 
wait 180 years, or 30 years, just as Palestine cannot be 
making pilgrimages over the decades to find a place in 
the world. Still less can the Argentines wait to reclaim 
the territory that legitimately belongs to us.  
 I cannot conclude without referring to an issue 
that has been mentioned in all of the statements that 
President Kirchner and I have delivered here since 
2003. A few moments ago, when I spoke of the 
question of Palestine, my authority to do so — if 
indeed it gives us authority, as such — is derived from 
the fact that we are one of the only two countries in the 
Americas that have been the target of international 
terrorism.  
 This happened on two occasions. In 1992, there 
was the explosion at the Israeli Embassy in Buenos 
Aires, and in 1994, there was the blast at the Argentine 
Israelite Mutual Association (AMIA), which is one of 
the most important mutual associations in Argentina. I 
stress not that it is a Jewish association, but that it is an 
Argentine association. This was an attack on Argentina.  
 I am demanding, on the basis of the requirements 
of Argentine justice, that the Islamic Republic of Iran 
submit to the legal authority and in particular allow for 
those who have been accused of some level of 
participation in the AMIA attack to be brought to 
justice.  
 Last year, we proposed here that if they did not 
trust our country’s justice system, we could take the 
approach that was taken for the Lockerbie case: we 
could choose a court from a third country, by mutual 
agreement, in order for that court to be able to provide 
the only thing that we are demanding — that is, justice. 
We insist on this because it is a universal demand. It 
does not have to do with political positions. This word, 
justice, is in the Talmud, the Bible and the Koran, and, 
for those who do not believe in anything, I am sure it is 
in their country’s constitution.  
  
 
11-50692 28 
 
 The Government of Argentina received, on 
16 July, a message from the Foreign Ministry of Iran 
stating that it intended to cooperate in initiating a 
constructive dialogue with Argentina in order to help 
us get at the truth with respect to the brutal attack 
against the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association of 
18 July 1994. The message that we received from Iran, 
although signifying a change of attitude on the part of 
the Government, does not satisfy our demands, which, 
as I said quite clearly, are for justice.  
 However, it is an offer of dialogue that Argentina 
cannot and must not reject. We are here calling for 
dialogue with the United Kingdom and dialogue among 
all the parties that make up this body. My country does 
this on the basis of its commitment to fulfilling its 
obligation to resolve controversies through peaceful 
means. This attitude has characterized our country 
throughout our history. This means that in one sense, 
Argentina must put aside the requirements arising from 
our national justice system with respect to prosecuting 
the presumed perpetrators of these attacks. In another 
sense, we cannot do this, as this is up to judges and 
public prosecutors.  
 What we would like to say, however, is that we 
think that this dialogue must be constructive. It must be 
a sincere dialogue and must achieve results in order to 
be credible and therefore not be understood as just a 
delay tactic or a distraction. 
 I will conclude my statement. Sometimes, I think 
of everything that has happened to Argentines. These 
things have happened to many countries at various 
times, but they have all happened to us, in our country, 
during our history. We have had the worst economic 
and social disaster in living memory. We still have 
today a Power exercising a colonial influence in our 
country. International terrorism has twice made us the 
target of its attacks. So, if we think of it, it is as if all of 
the problems and all of the tragedies and miseries of 
this world decided to focus on one single country.  
 Our capacity to recover, in terms of the economy, 
our tireless and never-ending fight to recover what is 
ours, our never-ending demand for justice for the 
victims of the attacks, and the strength that we have 
drawn from all of these tragedies give me the 
confidence and certainty that this is the path we have 
chosen: that of achieving growth along with social 
inclusion for our fellow citizens. It is the path of 
ensuring that there is unlimited respect for human 
rights, with trials carried out for the sake of 
remembrance, truth and justice. It is the path that 
ensures that today, as the President of all Argentines, I 
can be accompanied here by family members of 
victims of the AMIA attack. They have confidence that 
the Government will continue to do what it has always 
done, which is to defend the values of truth and justice.  
 That is what gives me great hope that God will 
shed light on the path of all those who have to make 
decisions, not with a view to elections but with a view 
to the destiny of the world in upcoming decades. That 
is why I would like to greet everyone today who has 
taken the floor or who will take the floor and thank the 
entire Assembly for the support that they have each 
given, in all of these causes, to my country, the 
Argentine Republic.  

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿I would
like to begin my statement by confirming my personal
position and that of the Argentine Republic and the
Argentine people with regard to our emphatic rejection
and repudiation of the savage assassination of United
States Ambassador Christopher Stevens in the city of
Benghazi, Libya. That ugly act of terrorism warrants
that we reflect upon certain interpretations of events
that took place in various Arab countries and were for
many Western leaders interpreted as or called the Arab
Spring. But, in reality, from our point of view — and
I say this humbly and with all respect — it reflected
other situations that were not correctly perceived or
understood by the main leaders in the West.
It is no accident that the death of Chris Stevens
occurred in Benghazi, where the principal focus of
resistance against Muammar Al-Qadhafi’s regime
originated, and where those of us with an understanding
of international politics clearly know that the main
Islamic fundamentalists were located — not just
opponents of Muammar Al-Qadhafi’s regime, but those opposed to the very idea of peaceful coexistence
between men and women of different races, religions,
beliefs or faiths.
I say that because it is necessary to have a clear
understanding of our problems and of the situations
in the world, particularly in the Middle East. It is
important to understand the need for different policies
geared to building true and lasting peace — a peace that
must always imply choosing the language of diplomacy
before choosing the language of weapons. If one reviews
recent history, one can see that important figures or
political factions that appear to be allied with the West
frequently end up becoming sworn enemies of Western
values, perhaps as a result of poor interpretations or
policies ill suited to what was happening in the Middle
East and around the world.
The need to recognize the Palestinian State and
the need to recognize that Israel must live within
legally recognized borders in accordance with the 1967
borders is the crux of the problem in the Middle East.
The Argentine Republic — and I believe we reflect the
interests of our region — maintains that it is necessary
to have a response to an issue that has been calling
for a solution for decades. Yet, owing to different
circumstances, to Governments and to interests in
the West, which has an enormous responsibility of
leadership in the issue, nothing constructive has been
achieved.
For Chris Stevens, and for his family, there will
be no Arab Spring, but rather a terrible and eternal
winter. That is why it is absolutely necessary that we
in the West rethink our strategies and policies with
respect to the Middle East. Otherwise, we run the risk
of ending up embarking upon erroneous strategies that
undermine our values and deepen the crisis. What will
happen is what happened in Benghazi, and we shall
have to mourn the death of a diplomat, regardless of his
nationality. In this case, it was an American, something
that had not happened for a very long time.
A similar situation could be described with respect
to the other great crisis, which was apparently economic
in nature and which is shaking the world. In 2008, when
we came to the General Assembly, Lehman Brothers
collapsed, causing a crisis that seemed triggered by
poor people who could not pay off the mortgages on
their homes — the famous sub-prime loans crisis — but
it has ended up today as something greater than a crisis
of the poor who cannot pay off their mortgages.

It has spread well beyond that issue. It has been
discovered that it was precisely those financial
administrators of capital who were behind all this.
Actually, it was the wealthiest sectors of society who
created this global crisis.
In Europe the eurozone crisis is basically a crisis
of sovereign debt for countries that owe more than
their gross domestic product (GDP). Also, families
have taken on more debt than they can pay off in the
next 20 or 30 years. At this very moment in Spain
there is repression against indignant citizens who are
demonstrating against the belt-tightening programme
being imposed on their country. They are protesting
the same austerity programme that has been applied for
decades now and that has not borne any fruit.
When we in Argentina discuss the problem we
talk about it with deep-seated knowledge of the
type of neoliberal policies that were the result of the
Washington consensus, which was launched following
the problems in the 1990s and ended up exploding as a
default on the most significant sovereign debt known
in history. Argentina owed 160 per cent of its GDP, the
result of debt policies that in turn had resulted from the
industrialization and ongoing imposed adjustment and
consumption policies. Those policies were ferociously
and methodically imposed on countries, just as we are
seeing now with Spain, Greece and Portugal, with the
resulting danger to the eurozone.
Endangering the eurozone involves more than just
the undermining of an economic region. It is actually
endangering the very stability of the world financial
system. We should recall that some 65 per cent of
international reserves deposited in central banks
around the world are in United States dollars, and some
24 per cent are in euros.
It is necessary to rethink all of this. We need to
rethink the trade war that has exploded between
various countries. Some countries have denounced it
as protectionism. Basically, participants in such trade
wars assert that such policies are needed to defend their
societies, their workers, their labour markets and their
businesses against developed countries’ economies,
which actually were the root cause of the crisis we are
all experiencing today. The developed countries are
trying to push their problems off on to others. I keep
asking, if one of our countries had had a deficit in its
current account, such as the United States is running
right now, that country would no doubt have been
censored, punished and criticized. Of course, because
dollars are the reserve currency — some 85 per cent
of world transactions are in dollars — and the United
States has been considered the country that issues the
money used as reserve currency par excellence, it ends
up being outside of the whole system. It is not criticized
and is not targeted by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF). Yet the IMF continues to impose adjustment
policies. Even yesterday, there were threats issued to
countries like the Argentine Republic.
The IMF has tried to allude to sovereign debts
as though the whole thing were just a soccer game. If
Argentina were unable to accomplish certain things,
the country was going to be given a red card, just as in
soccer. I just want to say to the head of that organization
that this is not a soccer game. First, this is the most
serious political and economic crisis in memory since
the 1930s. Secondly, my country is not a player in a
soccer game; it is a sovereign nation, which makes its
decisions on a sovereign basis. It will not be subject
to pressures brought to bear from the outside nor any
threats of red cards. Finally, continuing with this
analogy between soccer and the economy, the President
of the International Federation of Association Football
(FIFA) does a much more satisfactory job than the head
of the IMF.
With regard to organization and responsibility,
FIFA organizes world matches every four years. Next
time, they will be in Brazil, and no doubt they will be a
success. The International Monetary Fund is in charge
of organizing economies and has been doing so since
the 1980s, and yet it has been unable to carry out its
task effectively. However, it seems that it is countries
that should be criticizing themselves, whereas I do not
hear any self-criticism from the IMF.
With regard to the statistics for Spain, what were
the statistics for Greece or Portugal, Ireland or Italy?
What were the figures that allowed them to go more
into debt without any kind of control or oversight? Why
are some countries being controlled and not others?
That is a question that we have to ask, and that we are
asking from this rostrum. Since 2003, we have been
saying this.
When President Néstor Kirchner came here for the
first time he was representing an Argentina that had
been devastated by the crisis, with poverty at levels
that we had never seen before: 25 per cent of Argentine
people had no work. People were losing their savings in dollars, roubles, pesos, pounds, whatever; they simply
had nothing left. They came to the United Nations
and said that we needed an opportunity to grow. For a
country to pay off its debt, it needs to be able to grow.
The dead do not pay off their debts. That is what the
Argentine President said, and he was not mistaken.
In 2003, based on the policies he was able to put into
place, and without access to capital markets, Argentina
was able to restructure a significant part of its foreign
debt. We have been rigorously making every single
payment since 2005. We will continue making those
payments because we believe in policies that promote
national production.
We are working with the most vulnerable sectors
of society and promoting social programmes. We
have dedicated more than 1 per cent of our GDP to
those programmes. We have put social policies and
programmes in place, and they are the most notable
in Latin America. They have allowed us to promote
growth, which undoubtedly is the most significant seen
in the last 200 years of the history of the Argentine
Republic.
We are not coming here to preach to anyone or to
teach lessons. We do not think that we are teachers. We
just want to tell the Assembly about the experience of
one country that went through a situation quite similar
to that now being experienced by other countries in
the developed world. What we want to contribute is
our empirical experience, not theoretical experiences.
There are still decisions that need to be taken, but that
have not been taken because many continue to follow
the practices of those who control the capital markets.
They hit one country and then another. One day,
the stock market goes up 20 per cent, skyrockets, and
then it plummets the following day. We may not be
economists, but we are not stupid either. We are talking
about incredible transfers of money, and those who end
up being harmed are the same millions of people who
lose their jobs and lose their hope. What I hope to see
is that they do not lose patience. Usually, when people
lose patience, that is when they hit the wall. When
people cannot find a job and do not have a State that is
protecting them, it becomes a political and institutional
crisis. That is what happened to us in 2001 in Argentina.
I also believe that it is important to understand that
we have a new world before us now. This new world
requires more creative leadership.
It requires taking the risk of applying new ideas
and new concepts. Trying to solve the current problems
of the world with the same medicines that caused them
is absolutely absurd. That has to be stated clearly.
Then there is the matter of the current accounts
deficit, which is transferred from the United States to
emerging countries, so that our currencies are devalued
and we have to make immense efforts to build up our
reserves. We also have to take measures to prevent the
central countries from transferring cheap merchandise
to us that undermines our economies — the economies
of the emerging countries that, it bears saying, propped
up the growth of the global economy during the past
decade.
Today, as emerging countries, we are being
condemned as protectionist by the very countries that
survived by protecting themselves through agricultural
subsidies and all sorts of special breaks at the expense
of our economies and, above all, of millions of our
people who only now are being incorporated into the
labour force.
It is crucial for developed countries to understand
the contribution that emerging countries can make to
the international economic recovery with the millions
of dollars we still owe, on top of our costs for social
benefits and production. Besides, we have paid down
our debt to levels never seen before. Argentina, whose
foreign debt represented 160 per cent of its gross
national product, today owes only 14 per cent of its gross
national product abroad; the remainder of its borrowing
is intrasectoral public debt. We are at the lowest level
ever of foreign debt and debt held by foreign sources.
Obviously, for some we are a bad example. Why?
Because when we restructured our debt — and I am
not proposing restructurization as a solution — we
held that under capitalism anyone who risked investing
dollars in a country like Argentina, with interest rates
in the 1990’s between 15 and 16 per cent to ensure
convertibility, when the rate in rest of the world was
a mere two per cent, had to know that there was a
substantial risk that that person, that bank or that
institution would not repay the debt.
Our thesis was that if they had taken the risk, they
should share it. We therefore proposed a restructuring
whereby both parties would share. The fact is that
Argentina paid its stockholders more than Enron did.
Enron paid, I believe, $1 per $100 share; Argentina paid
$25 to $30 on $100. In reality, we were more generous and responsible than Enron was, not just towards the
rest of the world but to the citizens of the United States.
That may of course annoy certain multilateral credit
institutions, especially because, during the 1990’s,
Argentina was held up as an example of the way things
should be done, while in 2001 we were left to our own
devices and told to resolve things by ourselves. I believe
that is why some would censure us or fine us, so that
our bad example does not spread, but if we think of the
world as a totality, we will understand that that is not an
economic problem, but a political one. Without leaders
who can point to a clear, specific path for overcoming
a world economic crisis of this magnitude, we are no
longer facing a problem of economics or economists;
we are facing a problem of politics for which there are
neither solutions nor responses nor new models.
We know that some multilateral agencies are
angry with Argentina, but we tell them there is no
point being angry with us. The important thing is to
analyse the mistakes that were made in both economics
and politics and what was done wrong so that we can
correct them, move forward and overcome this crisis,
because if allowed to continue it will trigger not just
severe economic problems but severe political and
institutional ones. Having been a political activist at
a young age and having experienced periods in my
country when Western values were not respected, when
people were raped, tortured and disappeared — because
democracy had disappeared — what I am most afraid of
is that if there continues to be no solution to the present
crisis, many millions of people in the West will cease to
believe that a democratic system can provide solutions.
If we examine human history, we can clearly see
that the most terrible totalitarian periods were preceded
by severe economic crises that gave people no way out,
deprived them of hope and filled their ears with siren
songs that promised things we all know could never be
delivered.
I wanted to speak emphatically about how to tackle
the problem, about how to conceive of it, so that the
situation can be brought back into line instead of
languishing as it has since 2008. Unfortunately, we
have begun to see that the crisis in the developed world
is starting to spread into emerging countries, which
have been the engine of global growth.
I believe those things are connected. The lack of a
correct interpretation, of an adequate classification, so
that political and economic events get jumbled together, gives rise to fallacies — for example, that the people in
certain political movements want to live like Westerners
or that certain orthodox economic adjustments might
lead to some way out or some solution — all false, of
course.
I would now like to address two topics that might
be called bilateral in nature. One, in the form of this
little booklet in English and Spanish, was delivered to
each of the Missions represented here and deals with the
question of the colonial status of the Malvinas. Last June,
I appeared before the Committee on Decolonization
here in New York to present our request for compliance
with resolution 2065 (XX), which urged both
countries — the United Kingdom and Argentina — to
undertake a dialogue on the issue of the Malvinas. Next
January, it will have been 180 years since the United
Kingdom illegally usurped our Malvinas islands. Not
only has that country not ceased, it has not listened to
or heeded any of the many allegations and resolutions
of the United Nations, the resolutions of the Committee
on Decolonization, and the many resolutions of various
organizations such as the Organization of American
States and other multilateral organizations such as the
Rio Group, which have asked Great Britain to sit down
to a dialogue with Argentina. We are not asking them
to say that we are right. That would not be dialogue; it
would be to impose a point of view. We are simply asking
them to sit down with us to comply with the United
Nations resolution and to undertake a dialogue on the
sovereignty of the Malvinas, as well as to demilitarize
the South Atlantic so that it becomes a region of peace
in South America, without regard to ethnic, religious or
any other differences that could lead to clashes between
us.
That is why we once again reiterate our appeal.
There is a clear double standard here: the permanent
members of the Security Council have the right to
violate any and every requirement of the United Nations,
while everyone else has to accept without demur any
and every Council resolution. That is not building
multilateralism. It contributes nothing whatever to the
peacebuilding that we all demand and need, and it leads
to a growing feeling of injustice and inequality between
nations, which significantly affects the possibility of a
more just world, of living in a world without violence.
That is why we say once again: this is not a
bilateral issue between us and the United Kingdom. It
has become a global issue — doing away with the last
vestiges of colonialism, which became one of the great contributions of the United Nations when it created
the Decolonization Committee, in 1961. Entering the
twenty-first century without colonies is a matter of
human rights, rights that in my country we certainly
defend very strongly; our support for them is an
example to the world.
Finally — and this relates to the early part of my
speech, when I repudiated and condemned the killing
of Ambassador Christopher Stevens in Libya — I would
like to mention something that for us, the Argentine
people, continues to be an open wound, since in
its case justice has still not been served. That is the
bombings of the Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina
(AMIA) in 1994 and of the Israeli Embassy in 1992,
acts that should be utterly deplored and condemned.
Former President Kirchner and I both asked the Islamic
Republic of Iran, which stands accused by Argentina’s
judiciary of participation in that crime, for its
collaboration and cooperation. In 2010 and 2011, given
the lack of response to that request, I suggested, as an
alternative, that if the Islamic Republic of Iran did not
trust the fairness and independence of the Argentine
judiciary, the solution could be based on a case that the
Assembly will recall, the Libyan terrorist attack on a
British airplane, in which a trial was eventually held in
a third-party country to arrive at reparations — if one
can talk of reparations in the case of death — for some
of the damages. Thus both countries would agree on a
third country where a trial would guarantee justice for
both sides. In the aftermath of that terrible event, what
was most important was the quest for truth.
I began my statement by talking about international
terrorism, and I am ending it on the same subject. I am
not talking about an act committed in a single African
country against a single member of the diplomat corps;
I am talking about what was done in my country, on my
territory, to my brother Argentines, in clear violation of
territorial sovereignty. Last Wednesday, 19 September,
we received a request from the Islamic Republic of Iran
for a bilateral meeting at which, as we understood it,
there would be a dialogue on this matter. My country,
which has continued to ask for a dialogue and which
promotes dialogue as a universal — and, in the case
of the Malvinas, a specific — instrument, decided
to instruct our Minister for Foreign Affairs to hold a
bilateral meeting between the two ministries, here at the
United Nations, as requested by the Islamic Republic of
Iran.

I should say here that I am expecting results
from that meeting, based on the fact that the Islamic
Republic of Iran showed that it wanted to cooperate
and collaborate on the matter of the attack. If they do
not want to conduct the case in Argentina or in a third
country, we hope that they will come forward with
other proposals as to how we can address this deep-
seated conflict, dating back to 1994. I would like to
remind the Assembly that when President Kirchner had
just become President, in 2003, nine years had elapsed
since the attack, without results. But I would also like
to say that we hope this meeting will yield specific,
concrete results if the Islamic Republic of Iran has a
proposal for making headway. It might not necessarily
be in the direction proposed by Argentina, but I would
in any case, as a member of a representative and federal
republican country, submit it for consideration by the
representative parliamentary bodies of my country. A
proposal made by the Islamic Republic of Iran is too
important to be resolved through executive power
alone, quite apart from the fact that our Constitution
requires that the legislature and judiciary be involved
in such an issue.
This is not a matter of casual or standard foreign
relations with another country. It concerns an event
that has marked the Argentine people and is enshrined
in the history of international terrorism. The essential
fact is that the families of the victims, to whom I feel
very committed, need answers. For six years I sat on
the bicameral commission of inquiry into both the
Embassy and the AMIA attacks, and I was always
critical of how the investigation was conducted. That is
why I believe I have the authority to address the families
of the victims — because they are the ones who truly
need answers; they need to understand what happened
and who is responsible — and to assure them that this
President will not take any decisions on any proposals
put forward without first and foremost consulting them
and the parliamentary representatives of my country.
They all have an obligation to voice an opinion publicly
on a matter of this importance.
Lastly, I would like to say to every member of the
Assembly that in 2013 and 2014 Argentina will have
the great honour and responsibility of occupying a
seat — a non-permanent seat, obviously — on the
Security Council. I would like to make it clear that
beyond the fact of our taking a seat at that table, each
and every country with serious aspirations to peace
as a universal value will be represented by us in that seat. That is not a disingenuous or informal wish. It
is a firm declaration that peace must go hand in hand
with truth, justice and equality. Peace is impossible in a
world where countries are not all treated equally. Peace
is impossible in a world where people are growing
poorer and becoming increasingly excluded. Peace is
impossible in a world where people do not tell the truth
or state how things really are.
We believe that in peacebuilding the largest
and leading nations of the world bear the greater
responsibility. Just as in a country’s political system
the President bears the greatest responsibility and the
chain continues down from there, the same is true in
the wider world.
We cannot, beyond the call for equality, turn a
blind eye to hegemonies or to the importance of certain
countries in not only resolving conflicts but sometimes
also in triggering them.
The Argentine Republic will, from its seat, do
everything in its power to promote the values that it
has always defended: peace and the unconditional
promotion of human rights in all countries, whether we
are on good terms with them or not. Human rights are
universal values that should be respected by all types of
Governments throughout the world. It is the obligation
of the Assembly and the Security Council to act on the
basis of a single standard so as to build the values of
peace, human rights, equality and truth. That is the
only way to bring about a world that is more fair and
equitable than the one of today.

===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
I would 
particularly like to congratulate the President of 
the General Assembly and his country Antigua and 
Barbuda, a member of the Group of Latin American 
and Caribbean States and the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States. It is an honour for all 
Latin Americans that he is presiding over the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session.

I would like to begin by expressing our solidarity 
with the victims of the attacks in Kenya and Pakistan, 
and generally to all the victims of the terrorist attacks 
occurring in various parts of the world. I say this not 
out of formal sympathy or for reasons of protocol, but 



because our country, Argentina, along with the United 
States of America, is the only one on the American 
continent to have suffered a terrorist attack — in 
our case, on two occasions: in 1992, when the Israeli 
Embassy in the city of Buenos Aires was blown up, 
and two years later, when the Jewish community centre 
AMIA in Argentina was bombed. Some of the relatives 
of the victims are here with us, as always, and I can see 
them from here. Clearly, we are talking about victims. 
These were not soldiers or fighters. They were people 
who were getting on a bus, perhaps entering a bar or 
going to work, and who were surprised by an explosion. 
They had not taken part in any war; they were not 
combatants or soldiers; they had not chosen to go 
and fight. So I am thinking of those victims and their 
families, who deserve our solidarity and the strongest 
possible condemnation of all forms of terrorism.

In the context of this sixty-eighth session of the 
Assembly, we see the Syrian question as a common 
thread. Almost in a premonition, only a short while 
ago I was here at the United Nations, presiding over a 
meeting of the Security Council, of which Argentina is 
a non-permanent member for 2013-2014. On 6 August, 
just about a month and a half ago, we proposed a 
measure to reform the Security Council. We stated 
that the functioning and the rationale of the Council 
actually reflected another era, that of the Cold War, 
when fear of nuclear holocaust had led to the creation of 
the Organization, uniting the forces that had defeated 
Nazi Germany, and then produced a bipolar world. That 
fear of nuclear war resulted in a system with veto power 
so that no one would be able to push a button and blow 
up the world. The fact is that that instrument, which 
worked in 1945, has now been shown to be dysfunctional 
and completely obsolete — and not only as regards the 
Syrian question, but also when it comes to dealing with 
issues affecting peace and security around the world.

Incidentally, I would like to express my appreciation 
for the fact that for the first time we have been given 
the opportunity to speak at such a late hour of the day, 
because it has somewhat interrupted the inertia of the 
course of the meeting. There are times when we come 
to these meetings with a format, almost a monologue, 
that makes it difficult to present arguments or counter-
arguments that take into account the statements made 
by previous speakers. I have listened very carefully 
to almost all of the addresses given earlier today. 
Obviously, I paid particular attention to those that touch 
on the global decision-making system, and, of course, 
because I am a staunch supporter of multilateralism, I 
paid a lot of attention to the first address, by Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon.

In many of those statements I heard mention of 
21 August. On 6 August, we spoke of the need for 
Security Council reform and of the fact that the right 
of veto is no longer necessary. There should be a 
system — such as those used by regional organizations 
of the Americas, such as the Union of South American 
Nations, Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States or the Southern Common Market and its 
associated States — in which decisions are taken by 
consensus. Why is that? Governmental administration 
is different, as the power of veto is necessary in order 
to govern. When dealing with conflict resolution 
and management, if one party to the conflict, or 
an interested party, has the right of veto, that right 
necessarily becomes an obstacle to the resolution of 
the conflict. We did not know what would occur 15 or 
16 days later. Many have noted that the crisis in Syria 
erupted on 21 August. 

In fact, it is extremely difficult to understand 
that the current crisis in Syria was only recognized 
on 21 August, when we became aware of chemical 
weapons. Syria has been caught up in that conflict for 
over two and a half years. Over 150,000 people have 
lost their lives and 99 per cent of them died as a result 
of conventional weapons — not chemical weapons. I 
remember that at the last meeting of the Group of Twenty 
(G-20), during a discussion about Syria, I asked, “What 
is the difference between a death resulting from bullets, 
anti-personnel mines, missiles or hand grenades, and a 
death resulting from chemical weapons?” Each is more 
or less equally shocking. As it is not the first time, 
why is there talk of chemical weapons as if it were the 
first time that chemical weapons or weapons of mass 
destruction have been used? 

I recall a statement made by another leader 
today with reference to the terrible gas chambers of 
the Nazis, the gas in the trenches and the chemical 
weapons used in other instances. I also remember 
hearing about and reading about — as I had not yet 
been born — the nuclear holocaust in Hiroshima and 
Nagasaki and the consequences of using those weapons 
on many generations of Japanese people. 

I remember when I was much younger — the 
President of Uruguay also recalled the time of his 
youth, I was less than 20 years of age, and many others 
will probably also remember — when napalm and 
phosphorous were used during the Viet Nam War. That 



was recorded forever in the Pulitzer prize-winning 
photographs of naked boys and a naked girl. I remember, 
as if it were today, that naked young girl running down 
a road after having been hit by napalm in a bombing.

I also remember, in all fairness, the suffering of the 
people of the United States when they saw the doors of 
the planes open and they saw the corpses of the soldiers 
who had gone to fight being removed, wrapped in black 
plastic bags. I can imagine the pain of each girlfriend, 
each sister, each wife, each daughter of the soldier 
who had died, trying to understand why. Many did not 
understand why the soldiers had had to lose their lives 
many thousands of kilometres away from their country. 
It is so irrational, so unjust. There are no just wars. 
Only peace is just.

On 6 August, in the discussions on the issue of peace 
and security, it was stated that peace and security are not 
military concepts; rather, they are political concepts. 
Today, I was pleased to hear the Secretary-General 
mention that very concept, which we had referred to 
in the Security Council — namely, that peace and 
security are not military but rather political concepts. 
Therefore, we welcome the fact that an agreement has 
been reached on the question of Syria. My country 
opposed direct intervention — bombing. It was quite 
simple. The argument that, in order to avoid deaths, you 
would cause even more deaths could not be sustained 
by any reasoning or even common sense. We did not 
speak out at that time only to speak. Furthermore, we 
were not discussing just any country, but one with great 
respect for the norms of international law.

My country, Argentina, has signed the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), making 
Argentina one of the most advanced countries — if not 
the most advanced country — in developing nuclear 
power for peaceful and scientific purposes. We sell 
nuclear power generators to Egypt, Algeria and 
Australia. We also use nuclear energy for medical 
purposes. We do not condemn the use of nuclear energy 
for warfare while at the same time deploying nuclear 
submarines. That has been our experience, for example, 
in connection with the sovereignty dispute involving 
our Malvinas Islands, since the United Kingdom has 
militarized the southern Atlantic region and sent nuclear 
submarines. We have no double standards. We are not 
hypocritical. We have not only signed the NPT but are 
also parties to the Rome Statute of the International 
Criminal Court (ICC), as was also mentioned by the 
Secretary-General in his statement.

In other words, when we speak of condemning 
dictators, we are actually parties to the Rome Statute and 
can be brought before the Court. We are also members 
of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights 
in Washington, D.C. It is curious that many who speak 
of respect for human rights, the relevant institutions, 
international law and the ICC and often refer to human 
rights have not signed the treaties on the subject.

If one is to speak of human rights, Argentina 
has accomplished a great deal. We were a founding 
Member of the Organization and promoted the creation 
of a human rights secretariat within the United Nations 
and the International Convention for the Protection of 
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. I am joined 
here by the head of the Asociación Madres de Plaza de 
Mayo. She was also with me in Paris to sign the treaty, 
of which we are a founding party.

I referred to human rights because there was 
something said today about human rights in another 
speech. It has been said here that if this is the world 
in which people want to live, then they should say so 
and be prepared to face the cold logic of mass graves. 
Argentina too can speak of mass graves. Even today, 
well into the twenty-first century, we continue to 
come upon mass graves that hold the remains of the 
thousands of prisoners and those who disappeared 
under the genocidal dictatorship that began 24 March 
1976, which was similar to the one that took power 
on 11 September 1973 in our sister republic of Chile, 
overthrowing the democratically elected Government 
of Salvador Allende.

How wonderful it would have been, after all the 
speeches condemning genocidal dictators, if someone 
back then had come to the aid of the Argentine and 
Chilean and so many other peoples of the American 
continent who, in the midst of the Cold War, were the 
sacrificial victims of murderous dictators. But it was 
also said here that, if those who cared about human 
rights were moved to act on someone’s behalf, perhaps 
if that concern had at least coincided with the interests 
of some great Power, they would have acted differently. 
We have spoken of those things here, including the 
need to put an end to that double standard, and we have 
said that the resolutions and decisions of a multilateral 
organization such as the United Nations must take place 
on a level playing field for the weak and the strong, the 
small and the large. 

We have been waiting since 1965, when the 
plenary and many resolutions of the Assembly and 



the Committee on Decolonization required both 
Argentina and the United Kingdom to sit down to 
hold a dialogue — another word that I have repeatedly 
heard in every speech. There is a dispute over the 
matter of sovereignty over the Malvinas, and yet,the 
United Kingdom has turned a cold shoulder. And so 
we continue with double standards, which some people 
do not like to hear mention of. But hypocrisies are like 
witches; evidently, they exist. 

I have also heard — I should add that I have heard 
with pleasure, so not everything has to do with double 
standards — that there has at last been recognition, as 
an essential basis for beginning to untie the Gordian 
knot that the matter of the Middle East represents, of 
the need to recognize the State of Palestine and the 
right of the State of Israel to live securely within its 
borders. Moreover, I think it has quite rightly been said 
that it is impossible to achieve security for the State of 
Israel unless there is also recognition of the existence, 
and support for the viability of the physical existence 
of, the State of Palestine. We can do no less than agree 
on that characterization.

I have also heard the new President of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran, and I have heard the comments that 
the great Powers have made about that change of 
Government. If I understood correctly, there appears 
to be a kind of new expectation of change in the face 
of the new authorities in the Republic of Iran, with 
which, as the Assembly knows, we have a disagreement 
that stems from — a cause of mine — a formal case 
by the Argentine judiciary against five Iranian citizens 
in connection with their participation in the bombing 
of the Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina. It has 
now been 10 years since, for the first time, on 25 May 
2003, then President Néstor Kirchner called in this 
same Hall for the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate 
in clarifying the facts of that case. Year after year 
until 2007, he continued to do so, and from 2007 until 
today I myself have also continued to do so. A little 
over a year ago, we received a reply from the then 
Foreign Minister of Iran offering to initiate talks and 
reach an agreement on cooperation. Why? For a very 
simple reason. Because the case has been stalled for 
19 years. Nothing has moved. If there are five Iranian 
accused, the only one with whom I can and must speak 
so that the judge can take a deposition from those five 
citizens is obviously the Republic of Iran. That seems 
very obvious, but often in this peculiar world, even in 
my own country, which is also a bit peculiar, obvious 
things have to be explained.

I have also heard today about imperfect choices. 
I liked that expression, which was used by one of 
the Presidents. I think that when Argentina spends 
10 years asking for cooperation and then suddenly 
someone finally says “Fine, we are going to talk; we 
are going to cooperate”, there was no other possible 
choice except to sit down together. That issue used was 
internally in our country to attack us politically, and 
here too in the United States by the vulture funds to pit 
us against the United States Congress and say that we 
were reaching an agreement, a treaty, with Iran. But 
on what? Nuclear weapons? No. On a strategic alliance 
to attack the West? No. On an agreement to convert to 
Islam? No. The agreement was simply to unblock the 
procedural impasse in order for the Argentine judiciary 
to take depositions from the accused, while at the same 
time ensuring due process through a commission of 
international jurists who would be neither Iranian nor 
Argentine and whose actions would not be binding. 

The treaty was approved in my country nine months 
ago. I could almost say that the baby is about to be 
born, if I were to put it in biological terms or in terms 
of childbirth. It was approved by all the appropriate 
organisms, including the Parliament. It was published 
in the official bulletin. The world knows that Argentina 
has duly complied with that treaty. To those who found 
it so convenient for Iran — after nine years with no 
news or notification or agreement from the Iranian 
authorities, I wonder if we were not right ourselves 
when we affirmed and said that it was a way to unblock 
the issue.

The fact is that there is now a new Government to 
whose speeches I listened attentively, and a President 
who declared in statements I read that he in no way 
denied the Holocaust. That is very important. At least 
it is important to me and to many citizens around 
the world. Even today, he specifically declared that 
through the recent election, by displacing a leader 
whose positions we have all heard, so there is no point 
in repeating them, Iranian society had proved that it 
wanted more moderate positions. We have heard, from 
this very rostrum and these very microphones, that there 
is a will to agree, to talk, to be an open and peaceful 
democratic society, and to act in goodwill.

The President of France referred to the nuclear 
case as the important matter pertaining to Iran; I 
would like to speak about the issue of the Asociación 
Mutual Israelita Argentina as the other major issue. 
They said they would make gestures by opening up to 



negotiations, and that they did not want weapons for 
military use. In other words, as I understood it, they 
were saying that they would adhere to what we support, 
which is non-proliferation. Now we wait to be told if 
the agreement has been approved, or when it will be. 
Moreover, we await the announcement of the date for 
the establishment of the commission, as well as a date 
for the Argentine judge to travel to Tehran — yes, to 
Tehran; we are not afraid and we will go there.

We believe in the goodwill of people, and there is 
no reason for us not to believe that they actually want 
peace. Everyone who has spoken here has said they 
wanted peace and that they loved one another, so we 
believe everyone. But we also hope to see everyone 
acting consistent with their words and actions. I 
therefore wanted to put this specific question on the 
table. I have no doubt that, if the words we have heard 
here are true, we will see a positive response. I say that 
to avoid any misunderstanding as to our deep conviction 
and belief in the rules of international law, and also 
to make it clear that our patience does not mean that 
we are naive or even foolish. We think that more than 
enough time has gone by, and we think answers are now 
needed. The victims deserve this. The Islamic Republic 
of Iran deserves that too, if it really wants to show to 
the world that this is a different Government and that 
its actions are also different. I trust that this will be the 
case. I have no reason to think otherwise.

As for other matters that I wish to discuss, let me 
say that we are “serial abiders” when it comes to the 
norms of international law. We are also “serial victims” 
of other unwritten rules that are nevertheless very 
important in today’s world of finance and economics. 
They are norms not written by the major international 
financial centres or the risk-rating agencies or those 
that speculate, like the vulture funds, when it comes to 
dealing with countries that, like Argentina, defaulted 
on their debt, in the case of Argentina in 2001.

There has also been talk here of poverty and the 
need for children to have access to education. I wish to 
read out two paragraphs of the address by the Secretary-
General. The first has to do with weapons, wherein he 
speaks about poverty and points out that 

“at a time of pressing human need, spending on 
weapons remains absurdly high. Let us get our 
priorities right and invest in people instead of 
wasting billions of dollars on deadly weapons.” 
(A/68/PV.5, p. 3)
For the record, Argentina does not produce any 
chemical weapons, or even sell conventional weapons. 
It would be interesting to find out — as I mentioned 
at the G-20 — who supplies weapons to the rebel 
groups that are fighting the Syrian Government. It goes 
without saying that the Government of Syria possesses 
the weapons of a State. We would like to know who 
supplies the weapons to those who fight the Syrian 
Government. This is not about taking any sides; rather 
it is just about putting forward something that is quite 
logical, for the weapons trade is today a real business.

Did we really have to wait for 1,000 people to die 
as a result of chemical weapons to realize that 150,000 
others had died before them? Why was an arms 
embargo not declared two years ago to prevent so many 
deaths? Well, that should be answered by those who sell 
weapons. We do not sell them and therefore cannot give 
an answer to that question — although we suspect what 
it would be.

I would also like to read out another very significant 
passage in which the Secretary-General talked about 
the economic situation. Although the question of Syria 
has been the common thread running through the 
whole Assembly, it is clear that the economic crisis that 
started here in the United States with the bankruptcy of 
Lehman Brothers in 2008 still, despite all speeches and 
things we have seen and heard, continues to generate 
volatility and fragility. The latter is a term that was 
often invoked, and not just in the G-20.

We see millions of people unemployed around the 
world, a situation that very much reminds us of that in 
Argentina in 2001 when we defaulted on our own debt. 
This is linked to the fact that we are also serial victims 
of the unwritten rules of the lobbyists, of risk-rating 
agencies and of those who trade in financial derivatives 
and speculate like vultures hovering over countries in 
default, buying securities at very low prices and then 
attempting to make millions. That is the Argentine 
case, but it could be the story of any other country, very 
soon in fact. 

Since the Government of former President Néstor 
Kirchner first took office, on 25 May 2003, Argentina 
began to explore how to emerge from its debt, which 
accounted for 160 per cent of our country’s gross 
national product. We had 25 per cent unemployment, 
a poverty rate of 54 per cent and more than 30 per cent 
in extreme poverty. Many countries could perhaps see 
themselves mirrored in that state of affairs. 



In 2005 we organized the first restructuring process, 
which was accepted by 76 per cent of our creditors. 
During my own Government in 2010 we reopened the 
debt-restructuring process and managed to secure the 
approval of 93 per cent of our creditors. Consider that, in 
any country that has insolvency laws, when companies 
go bankrupt the law requires the agreement of at least 
66 per cent of the creditors in order for the bankruptcy 
judge to make the remaining creditors accept the 
terms — at least, that is the case in Argentina. I think 
the number is the same in the United States, that is, 
66 per cent. In addition, here in the United States even 
municipalities can declare bankruptcy, and a judge may 
decide that, if the sustainability of the municipality is at 
stake, an even lower figure is acceptable. 

The fact remains that in 2010 Argentina reached 
agreement with 93 per cent of its creditors. Since 2005, 
Argentina has consistently and in a timely manner paid 
each and every one of its debt maturities, so much so 
that the last payment was made only a few days ago. 
That involved a bond subject to Argentine domestic 
law, payable in Buenos Aires. We paid $2.07 billion, 
and today our debt to gross domestic product ratio is 
a little under 45 per cent, down from 160 per cent, as I 
mentioned before. Much of the debt is actually public-
sector debt. The foreign-currency-denominated debt of 
Argentina is only 8 per cent of gross domestic product, 
due both to national and foreign private holders. I 
would reiterate, however, that we have been in strict 
compliance. 

In 2008, seven years after Argentina defaulted 
on its debt, the vulture funds, as we call them, 
swooped in. The United Nations is caught between the 
vultures of debt and the hawks of war. It is worse than 
Hitchcock’s The Birds, since Hitchcock, at least, was 
a good director. But what is certain is that bonds were 
purchased for $40 million, and they now wish to collect 
on that while disregarding the creditors’ agreement to 
certain arrangements and extensions. The creditors, 
like any group of creditors, wanted to be repaid and 
so approved certain arrangements and extensions. But 
the vulture funds want to recover the whole nominal 
value of the bonds, without arrangements, extensions or 
delay. From the $40 million that they initially bought in 
the so-called self-regulated markets, they will recover 
$1.7 billion. So from 2008, we are talking about a yield 
of over 1,300 per cent. 

I would like to ask the Secretary-General where 
we can find businesspeople devoted to creating jobs, 
innovating and investing in production if, in this kind 
of casino economy, somebody can buy $40 million in 
defaulted bonds and then secure a court decision that 
enables them to collect $1.3 or $1.7 billion.

This is not only an Argentinian problem; this is a 
problem that involves the whole world. This is why we 
wish to thank the Republic of France for having gone 
to the United States Supreme Court and presented itself 
as amicus curiae. We also thank the former head of the 
International Monetary Fund, Anne Krueger. She is not 
and has never been a very good friend of Argentina’s, 
but she also did that. 

We also remember the former United States 
Secretary of the Treasury, Paul O’Neill, who, when it 
was decided to leave Argentina to its own devices in 
2001, amidst a social and institutional crisis that left 
30 people dead as a result of violence in the streets, 
said that American plumbers should not have to pay 
for an Argentine fiesta. Today, I say that the millions 
of Argentines who went back to work, the millions of 
Argentines who can once again entertain hopes and 
dreams, the scientists who returned to the country and 
the children who once again have access to education 
do not have to pay for the lobbyists’ fiesta. These 
lobbyists, by participating in political campaigns and 
contributing money to the politicians’ campaigns here, 
have the lobbying power they need to destabilize the 
international financial system. Is that not remarkable? 
And such a short time has elapsed between Paul 
O’Neill’s assertion and what we are saying today. 

We are not asking for anything. We just want to 
be allowed to pay. It is remarkable. We started by 
defaulting on our debt and now they will not let us 
pay it back. It seems almost absurd, in a world that is 
grappling with debt restructuring involving millions of 
men and women. Even here in the United States, there 
are men and women who are unemployed and have lost 
their homes, not to speak of the devastation we see in 
Europe. 

Obviously, Argentina and many of the countries 
represented here today do not have the good fortune 
of being countries that issue reserve currencies, but 
we have expressed our willingness to honour our 
commitments. I think this should be recognized, 
unless the idea is to use a country like Argentina as an 
example, because it was able to climb out of the hole, to 
create jobs and generate growth, and to pay its creditors 
without applying the prescriptions that the International 
Monetary Fund tried to impose upon it. 



Incidentally, there is also a need for global market 
regulation and market interventions. Wonderful 
statements have been made in the Group of 20 regarding 
tax havens, ratings agencies and capital flows, but what 
is certain is that the world needs global laws for global 
governance. Just as we ask for Security Council and 
General Assembly resolutions to be respected, we also 
ask for rules and for respect for the sovereignty of 
countries, especially those countries like ours that wish 
to honour their commitments. 

Finally, I would like to address the Assembly on 
this very special day. Today we see war, human rights 
violations and other violations intertwined. Perhaps 
some are of a more subtle nature, such as losing one’s 
job, one’s rights, one’s livelihood or one’s hope. I think, 
at the core, our duty as world leaders is to build a truly 
different history. 

Many of those who have already spoken have made 
somewhat ambivalent statements. Some have been 
encouraging, while others have been disillusioned as a 
result of not having been able to do what they wanted, 
almost as if their desire to do something had just been 
a whim, and when they were not allowed to, they grew 
frustrated. I believe that the one thing we cannot do 
when we have the responsibility of governing and 
when we might be able to govern a country with a lot 
of power is to lose our temper or, even worse, make 
mistakes. Making mistakes is the one thing we should 
not do, because mistakes are not paid for by the leaders 
who make decisions or imperfect choices. Mistakes are 
paid for in human lives, not only if we are talking about 
war, but also if we are talking about the economy. In 
that case, they are paid for in terms of unemployment, 
lack of access to health care, education, housing and 
security. 

There is cheap labour available for drug trafficking, 
which we talk so much about fighting. One of the keys 
to fighting drug trafficking is to put an end to cheap 
labour in emerging and underdeveloped countries. We 
must also put an end to money-laundering for drug 
trafficking in central countries, because the money 
is not laundered in the countries that produce the raw 
materials. Money-laundering takes place in the central 
countries. It is right to say this, because we hear so 
much talk about drug trafficking and other things.

I would conclude with a phrase by the Secretary-
General that I really liked. I thought his invitation was 
most appropriate. It was specifically an invitation to 
turn hope into action through hard work, commitment, 
dignity and integrity. He ended with the words “with 
passion”. I am a person with a lot of passion. Some say 
that I am sometimes a bit too passionate and a bit too 
forceful in my statements. “With passion”, he said, but 
above all with compassion. He said that we can build 
a future that the people want and the world needs with 
passion and compassion. 

It is not the first time I have heard this word. I must 
confess that I heard it many years ago, and very often, 
in my own country. Perhaps I did not understand it at 
the time, this passion. It was used then, and is still used 
today, by a cardinal from Argentina who is today Pope 
and whom I would also like, as a Christian, to thank 
for the key role he played in dealing with the question 
of Syria. Compassion and passion — that means the 
passionate embrace of hope, of the future, of the things 
that are yet to come, and compassion for those who are 
less privileged, for the most vulnerable, for those who 
are waiting for so many things, who have done nothing 
to deserve extreme poverty and be Godforsaken, and 
compassion for all those who are victims — of war, of 
unemployment, of extreme poverty and misery — in 
other words, of our own failures as world leaders.


===== Session 69 - 2014 =====
I address 
the General Assembly at a very special moment, not 
only for the world but also for my country. I would 
like to begin by reflecting on the words with which 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon opened this sixty-
ninth session of the General Assembly. He went over 
many of the problems, tragedies and calamities that are 
unsettling the world today, and I think, if I remember 
correctly, that he literally confirmed that the turmoil, 
as he defined it, that is upsetting the world today is 
endangering multilateralism.

I sincerely believe that most of the problems that 
the planet has today economically and financially, with 
respect to terrorism and security, in terms of force and 
territorial integrity, of war and peace, are the result 
of the exact opposite: the absence of an effective, 
practical and democratic multilateralism. That is why, 
I would like to begin today in particular by thanking 
and congratulating the General Assembly for adopting 


resolution 68/304, on 9 September, by which it finally 
decided by a wide majority of 124 votes to dedicate 
itself to drafting a multilateral convention which will 
be a regulatory legal framework for restructuring the 
sovereign debts of all countries, a task that we needed 
to take on.

I have been coming to the General Assembly since 
2003, first as a Senator, and then, starting in 2007, as 
President. We always came calling for reform of the 
Security Council and of the International Monetary 
Fund. Our point of departure was the experience we had 
in my country, the Argentine Republic. Today, I would 
go so far as to say in this international context that my 
country, the Argentine Republic, is a triple leading 
case in terms of economics and finance, terrorism and 
security, and force and territorial integrity.

The first area is the economic and financial crisis 
that spread throughout the world starting in 2008, 
which persists to this day and which is beginning to 
threaten emerging economies whose greater economic 
growth we have supported over the past decade. The 
2008 crisis was experienced by my country in 2001, 
when the largest default on sovereign debt in living 
memory occurred. At the time, the Argentine Republic 
had accrued debt representing 160 per cent of the gross 
domestic product, with the consent of multilateral 
organizations, because when one is speaking about that 
level of debt, the problem is not just that of the debtor, 
but also of the creditors.

Starting with the dictatorship on 24 March 1976, 
and through the neoliberal period, Argentina was a 
favourite of the International Monetary Fund. In the 
end, Argentina accumulated an unprecedented debt 
that caused the country to implode, not just in economic 
terms but also in political terms. We had five presidents 
in a single week. At that point, nobody claimed 
responsibility for what had taken place in Argentina. 
Argentina had to resolve its problems as best it could, 
and in 2003, a few months after taking office, a President 
who had come to head the Government with only 22 per 
cent of the vote came to speak at the General Assembly 
(see A/58/PV.11) and maintained that it was necessary 
to generate a model of development and growth for the 
country so that the country could shoulder its debt. 
He maintained, in a rather interesting metaphor, that 
dead people do not pay their debts and that countries 
have to live, develop and grow in order to meet their 
obligations.

But he also said that the level of debt — 160 per cent 
of the gross domestic product — was not our country’s 
responsibility alone; that we as a country were accepting 
responsibility for having adopted policies that had 
been forced upon us; that while we were shouldering 
our responsibility, we were also requesting and calling 
for the multilateral organizations like the International 
Monetary Fund and the creditors themselves, which 
had lent money at usurious rates — at that time as high 
as 14 per cent in United States dollars — which were 
receiving payments in the Argentine Republic, to also 
assume part of the responsibility for that indebtedness.

And with that man — who took over with 22 per 
cent of the vote, with 25 per cent unemployment, a 
54 per cent poverty rate and 27 per cent of extreme 
poverty, without education, without health, without 
social security, over time, with a model of development 
and growth — we were able not only to create millions 
of jobs, millions of people becoming integrated in 
the social security system, including retirees and 
pensioners, but also to invest 6 per cent of the gross 
domestic product in education, and set aside enormous 
amounts of money for the country’s infrastructure, 
building roads, schools, nuclear plants, hydroelectric 
plants, water, gas and electricity plants that now cover 
the entire country, in an unprecedented programme of 
social inclusion that has allowed to reduce poverty and 
extreme poverty to single digits.

Today, the International Monetary Fund itself 
recognizes that Argentina’s economic growth between 
2004 and 2011 is the third-largest globally in terms of 
quality of growth. Only Bulgaria and China are ahead 
of us. In Latin America, we have the greatest quality of 
growth and the best purchasing power for our workers 
and salaried employees and the highest social security 
deposits.

We have been able to achieve all of that while 
also dealing with debt that others had generated. It is 
worth repeating that our Governments were not the 
ones that declared a default, nor were they the ones 
that had assumed the debt; we were simply the ones 
who shouldered the debt, as appropriate, and paid, from 
2003 to today, more than $190 billion — I repeat, more 
than $190 billion — by restructuring the defaulted debt 
with 92.4 per cent of creditors through two debt swaps, 
one carried out by President Kirchner in 2005 and the 
other carried out by me in 2010.

What is certain is that we were successful. We 
succeeded because 92.4 per cent of Argentina’s 

creditors regularized their situation. We began to 
make regular payments, and not only to them. We 
also fully paid our debt to the International Monetary 
Fund through so-called stand-by arrangements. We 
were able to completely cancel our debt with the 
International Monetary Fund. A few months ago, we 
also concluded negotiations with the Paris Club on 
a debt dating back to 1956. It was so long ago that I 
was three years old when that debt was created and the 
Minister of the Economy of my country, who discussed 
the restructuring and renegotiation of the debt with 
the Paris Club, was not even born. Yet we reached an 
agreement with 19 European Union finance ministers 
to finally restructure the debt. We are now paying the 
first phase of $642 million.

This does not end there. We also regularized the 
situation with the rulings of the International Centre 
for Settlement of Investment Disputes at the World 
Bank, which has begun hearings not for acts or actions 
committed by our Government, but for the actions 
of previous Governments that ended up in the World 
Bank tribunal. We have also resolved that issue, just 
as we arrived at an arrangement with Repsol when we 
decided to regain control of our energy resources and 
expropriated 51 per cent of the oil company’s shares. We 
also restructured that debt and reached an agreement.

We have done all this with our own resources, 
without access to capital markets because Argentina, 
due to the default of 2001, was denied access to capital 
markets. This represents a process of unprecedented 
social inclusion. Why do I say “unprecedented”? 
During the 1950s there were similar inclusion 
processes in my country, but the difference is that we 
initiated this process of inclusion after complete and 
utter bankruptcy. At the peak of default, we were able 
to overcome default, to include the people of Argentina 
and to enjoy social growth with inclusion. And today 
Argentina is extricating itself, and in addition we have 
one of the lowest debt ratios in the world.

The other leading case to which I referred and now 
wish to discuss is the emergence of the so-called vulture 
funds. That is not a term used by any popular South 
American leader or by any African ruler, although 
African countries have also been major victims of 
these vulture funds. One of the first global leaders to 
mention them was the former English Prime Minister 
Gordon Brown at the General Assembly in 2002. This 
expression became the copyrighted shorthand for 
something unworthy and immoral that kept countries 
from addressing the genuine problems of education, 
health and poverty. Today, with the support of the 
judicial system of this country, Argentina is now being 
assaulted by these vulture funds.

What are these vulture funds? They represent the 
1 per cent of debt-holders that did not take part in the 
2005 restructuring. They could not participate because 
they had purchased bonds in 2008. As everyone knows, 
these are specialized funds, as indicated by their 
names, that purchased funds or shares of countries 
that had defaulted on their debt or were about to do 
so. Subsequently, they did not revert to the country in 
question for the payment of that debt, but brought suits 
in various jurisdictions in order to make exorbitant 
profits. “Profits” is hardly the right word, because what 
has been recognized in a judgment passed down here 
in the jurisdiction of New York is that this 1 per cent 
grew at a rate of 1,608 per cent in a five-year period. 
Is there any business, undertaking or investor earning 
1,600 per cent in just five years? That is why they are 
called vulture funds. Today, they are obstructing the 
recovery of that 92.4 per cent who trusted in Argentina.

I am therefore pleased that the Assembly has taken 
the bull by the horns, and I hope that between this year 
and next — before the General Assembly holds its new 
session in 2015 — we will have arrived at a regulatory 
framework to restructure sovereign debts. The point 
is to engage in an exercise in active and constructive 
multilateralism so that no other country will have to 
experience what Argentina — a country that has the 
ability and willingness to pay its debts despite the 
harassment of these vulture funds — has been through.

These vulture funds also threaten and hold the 
economy of our country hostage by provoking rumours, 
slander and libel from the personal to the economic and 
financial, so that they sometimes act as a destabilizing 
factor in the economy. Those who set bombs are not the 
only terrorists; those who destabilize the economy of a 
country and create poverty, misery and hunger through 
the sin of speculation are economic terrorists. That is 
what we want to spell out. That is why we strongly 
advocate the establishment of a multilateral convention 
soon and expeditiously, not just for Argentina, but 
for the rest of the world. We believe that a financial 
and economic balance that addresses the social and 
economic disparities among countries and within 
societies will also be a great antidote to those who 
recruit young people who have no hope in the future 
and enrol them in crazy crusades. We must all lament 


that. We can see only the surface of the phenomenon; we 
also have to delve deeply into the causes that mobilize 
people.

We also talked about my country as a triple leading 
case on terrorism and security. My country is the only 
country of the Americas other than the United States of 
America that was the target of terrorist attacks: one in 
1992 when the embassy of Israel was blown up, and the 
second in 1994 when the headquarters of the Asociación 
Mutual Israelita Argentina (AMIA) was bombed. This 
year marks the twentieth anniversary of the bombing 
of AMIA. I dare say before this Assembly — in the 
presence of some of the family members of the victims 
who have always been with us — that the Government 
headed by President Kirchner did the utmost and went 
the greatest lengths to uncover the real culprits, not 
only because it opened all my country’s intelligence 
files and created a special prosecutor investigation unit, 
but also because, when in 2006 the justice system of 
my country accused Iranian citizens of involvement in 
the bombing of AMIA, I myself was the only President 
who dared to propose asking the Islamic Republic of 
Iran to cooperate with and assist in the investigation.
That request was made intermittently from 2007 to 
2011, until the Islamic Republic of Iran finally agreed 
to a bilateral meeting, allowing it to be included in 
the agenda. That meeting led to the signing by both 
countries of a memorandum of understanding on 
legal cooperation that allowed for the Iranian citizens 
who had been accused, and who live in Tehran, to be 
deposed before the judge.

But what happened when we signed that 
memorandum? It seemed as if all hell had broken 
out, both nationally and internationally. The Jewish 
associations that had sought our support for so many 
years and that had come here with us to ask for help 
turned against us, and when an agreement was finally 
reached on legal cooperation they accused us of 
complicity with the State of Iran.

The same thing happened here in the United States. 
When the vulture funds lobbied before the United 
States Congress, they accused us of collaborating 
with the Islamic Republic of Iran, which at the time 
was known as the Terrorist State of Iran. They even 
lobbied on their websites, posting pictures of me on the 
Internet with former President Ahmadinejad as if we 
were business partners. Just this week, we learned that 
the iconic Waldorf Astoria hotel, in this city, was the 
setting for a meeting between the Secretary of State of 
this country and his Iranian counterpart.

We are not criticizing them. Quite the contrary, 
anything that represents dialogue and understanding 
seems very good to us. But we wish to ask those who 
have been accusing Iran of being a terrorist State — and 
I am not speaking here of the last century, but of last 
year — what they would say today about the members 
of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS), 
many of whom not so long ago were called freedom 
fighters when they were fighting in Syria against the 
Government of Bashar Al-Assad. And this is where 
I believe we have another problem with respect to 
security and terrorism. The major Powers too often and 
too easily seesaw from the concept of friend to enemy, 
and terrorist to non-terrorist. We need to agree once and 
for all not to use international politics or geopolitical 
positions to determine positions of power. I say that as 
a militant opponent of international terrorism.

By the way, just to add a touch of color, ISIS has 
apparently issued a threat against me that is under legal 
investigation in my country. The threat apparently has 
two justifications: first, because of my close relationship 
with His Holiness Pope Francis, and secondly, because 
I recognize the need for two States, Israel and Palestine. 
While I am at it, let me reiterate my call on the Assembly 
to recognize Palestine once and for all as a State with 
full membership in this body. We have to begin to undo 
some of the Gordian knots — because there is not just 
one Gordian knot but several — regarding the situation 
in the Middle East, which involves recognizing the 
State of Palestine, Israel’s right to live securely within 
its borders, and Palestine’s right not to be subjected to 
the kind of disproportionate use of force that led to the 
deaths of hundreds of women and children, which we 
condemn just as we also condemn those who attack 
Israel with missiles.

In a time of economic vultures and hawks of war, 
we need more doves of peace to build a safer world. We 
need more respect for international law and more equal 
treatment of those seated in this Hall. Just this morning, 
I overheard one leader refer to the use of force to attack 
the territorial integrity of a country.

Here too, the Republic of Argentina is a leading 
case. For more than 100 years, we have had a claim 
against the United Kingdom on a matter of sovereignty. 
We once again ask the Assembly to call on the United 
Kingdom to sit down with Argentina to discuss the 


matter of the sovereignty of the Malvinas. No one 
cares and there is not a single veto from the Security 
Council, because Argentina is not a member of the 
Security Council and is not even among the countries 
that decide what happens in the world. So long as 
that continues, and so long as the votes of the five 
permanent members of the Security Council are worth 
more than the votes of Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, 
Egypt, Uganda, Argentina, Bahrain or the United Arab 
Emirates, nothing will be resolved. We will just have 
the same speeches we hear every year without arriving 
at a resolution.

The Assembly must fight to take back the 
powers it delegated to the Council, since —almost 
paradoxically — the Assembly has to ask the Council 
for permission on its decisions or on whether to admit 
a member. We need to reassert that the Assembly is a 
sovereign body of the United Nations, and that each of 
us is worth one vote in a true global democracy. Not 
everything will be resolved when that global democracy 
is respected to the letter, but I do believe it will mark 
the beginning of a solution. I am neither a pessimist 
nor an optimist; I consider myself to be a realist. In any 
event, the child of pessimism and optimism is always 
optimism, but with realism. Optimism without realism 
is either ingenuity or cynicism. I do not wish to appear 
ingenuous or cynical before this audience.

I want to convey what we really think in my country. 
We have long demanded reform of the Security Council 
and of the International Monetary Fund. In 2003, 
reform the International Monetary Fund seemed almost 
inevitable; today, hardly anyone remembers the idea of 
reforming the International Monetary Fund, because 
it no longer plays a central role in decisions. Even the 
International Monetary Fund itself and both its current 
head and former leaders, including Anne Krueger, are 
also calling for reforms with respect to the restructuring 
of sovereign debts. So long as there is no international 
treaty approved by this Assembly, no matter how many 
clauses are imposed by the restructuring, there will 
always be a Judge Griesa somewhere in the world who 
says that they are meaningless, and who will end up 
applying usurious taxes to bleed some poor country to 
death. That is what is happening, because it seems to 
me that they are trying to overturn the restructuring of 
sovereign debt for which the Argentine people worked 
so hard.

Before coming here I was in Rome, meeting with 
a fellow countryman who today occupies a strong, 
exemplary religious and moral leadership. I would like 
to offer a message of peace and of peacebuilding. If 
we truly wish to fight terrorism, then let us work for 
peace. We cannot fight the terrorists by beating the 
drums of war. Quite the contrary, that is exactly what 
they want — a symmetrical reaction so that the wheel 
again begins to turn and a price is paid in blood.

That is why I think it is important for us to think 
deeply about those issues. Above all, I want to bring 
to the table the certainty that if the United Nations 
recovers its leadership, if the Assembly resumes its 
mandate, when too many countries fail to comply with 
international law, even though they require others to do 
so, then I am certain that we will have made a major 
contribution to peacebuilding and the fight against 
terrorism from which no one would have been left out. 
But we have to leave to our children a much better 
world than the one we have today.

Finally, I wish to recall that a year ago the problems 
were different. A year ago, we were discussing other 
problems, other threats to security. Times have 
changed. The wrongdoers of yesterday do not seem so 
bad today. Those who should have been invaded and 
crushed a year ago, today seem to be cooperating to 
fight the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS). 
First, it was Al-Qaida, and, I wonder, where did 
Al-Qaida and the Taliban spring from? Where do they 
get their weapons and resources? My country does not 
produce weapons. Who sells arms to those groups? 
Then there was the Arab Spring, which ended up by 
being not so much a spring as a fall and even a winter. 
Those involved went from being freedom-fighters to 
being persecuted or imprisoned. Now there is ISIS, a 
new terrorist organization that carries out beheadings 
on television on a carefully set stage. What is causing 
all this, I wonder? Where is this coming from? I have 
become really distrustful of everything after seeing 
what is happening in the world today — real-life scenes 
that make fictional series look trivial.

It is therefore worth asking ourselves why it is that 
we are facing ever-greater problems — problems that 
caused the Pope to comment that there is practically a 
third world war. That is true. It is a world war but not 
along the lines of the more conventional wars of the 
twentieth century. There are hotspots where the only 
victims are civilian populations. That is why, a few 
minutes from now in the Security Council, of which 
Argentina is a non-permanent member, we wish to raise 
some of those issues. We have no certainties, no absolute 


truths, but we have many questions. We want to put 
them to those who possess a lot more information than 
we do, far more data and far more extensive networks of 
information than my country has. Heaven forbid that, 
with all those data, they have a wealth of information 
but can understand little of what is happening. For they 
have to be able to comprehend what is happening if they 
are to come up with a definitive solution.

I deeply appreciate once again the political will of 
the 124 countries that supported resolution 68/304. As 
everyone knows, there was pressure to keep us from 
getting that number of supporters or having a vote, 
but I think that the exercise of practical, effective and 
democratic multilateralism that the adoption of the 
resolution represents demonstrates that all is not lost. 
On the contrary, it is in the hands of each and every one 
of us, each of our countries, to find real and effective 
solutions to the problems the world has today.


===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
At the outset, allow me to welcome a very relevant event that took place here a few days ago — on 10 September — when, by 136 votes in favour, the General Assembly approved the Basic Principles on Sovereign Debt Restructuring Processes (resolution 69/319). That was a very significant triumph.
New principles have been established — which I have written down here so that I do not forget any of them — that should guide how we address and resolve matters when a country has decided to renegotiate its external debt. They include the sovereignty of a country to decide its own macroeconomic policies and how it will restructure its debt; good faith, transparency, impartiality, and equitable treatment so as not to distinguish among different creditors and so that everybody is treated in the same manner. They also include sovereign immunity from jurisdiction and execution, as well as legitimacy and sustainability.
The latter is perhaps one of the most important principles, as it refers to repaying and honouring one’s debts — not at the cost hunger and poverty for the people, but through a political and economic project and through macroeconomic variables that should make the development and growth of society sustainable.
Finally comes perhaps the most important principle lacking today in terms of regulation of sovereign debt. It is a logical principle that applies in nearly all the domestic legal systems throughout the world. When a company goes bankrupt and is unable to pay its debts in any country — including in this one, the United States of America, where municipalities are also allowed to go bankrupt — how is consensus reached? Through a qualified majority. When 66 per cent of the creditors here in the United States, and also in my own country of the Argentine Republic, come to an agreement with the debtor with regard to timetables and the form of the payment, that becomes law and is mandatory for the other creditors. Let me repeat, when 66 per cent agree. That principle also enshrines the idea that when the majority decides on a form of payment, that should be accepted by everybody else.
This agreement — these principles and conventions — was approved here, and we have decided to submit it to our parliament for it to become an instrument of public order that controls our country’s domestic practices. It has its roots in the default that Argentina experienced in 2000, history’s largest sovereign default. At that time the world was growing by more than good rates. However, Argentina went bankrupt as a result of debts that had been incurred much earlier. In fact, to be more accurate, it began in earnest in 1976, when there was a coup d’état and the country’s constitutional order was overthrown, and began to deepen in the 1990s with the convertibility regime, by which they made us Argentines believe that an Argentine peso was worth $l. That culminated in the 2001 default and in institutional bankruptcy: there were five different Governments in just one week.
Argentina, however, was able to rebuild its economy and its society when politics once again took control over the economy starting on 25 May 2003. It was then decided to summon creditors to a first restructuring offer in 2005, and again in 2010 under my presidency. The first restructuring was during the presidency of Néstor Carlos Kirchner, who in his first address to the General Assembly (see A/58/PV.11) said that the dead did not pay their debts and that it was necessary for the creditors to allow Argentina to grow in order to be able to pay. That was neither a premonition on his part nor a matter of foretelling the future. He simply applied economic logic: it was impossible to pay a debt in the absence of growth in the economy of the debtor country. That is when Argentina began its inexorable process of getting out of debt.
But it also had to do with what happened in 2005, when it was decided to pay off the total debt to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which had been imposing macroeconomic policies on our country. That is when Argentina began to grow and linked itself up as yet another wagon to the locomotive engine of the emerging countries, which were the ones that had been supporting the sustained growth of the international economy. Let us not forget that the greatest growth was led by the emerging countries, essentially headed by the giants of Asia.
During my first address to the General Assembly as President of the Argentine Republic, in September
2008 (see A/63/PV.5), I noted how the locomotive that was driving the world to sustained growth had another locomotive engine added to it. Like those old trains with two locomotive engines, this one now also had two: China and the rest of the emerging countries, pulling towards growth with rates that in the case of China had already attained 14 per cent growth in gross domestic product by 2007.
Then in 2008, with the fall of Lehman Brothers on Wall Street, came an economic crisis that we are still experiencing, but with several differences. Although it began here at the very heart of international finance, there had in fact been signs of a crisis, namely, the 2007 sub-prime mortgage crisis, which ultimately exploded in 2008. The year 2009 marked the global economic collapse, except in Asian countries. Even in Latin America, we experienced negative growth that year. In 2010 the crisis spread to the eurozone, and off they went to the rescue of indebted countries. We all know that was a euphemism; the banks were actually the ones they went to rescue. Billions of dollars were transferred to banking institutions. I still remember a discussion that took place in London at the Group of 20. Our position was that, while it was necessary to save the banks to stave off a 1930s-type depression, it was also absolutely essential that there be regulation so that the tide of resources that was being injected into the financial sector should flow back to the real economy, enter the goods and services production cycle and make the wheels of growth turn again.
But none of that happened. Indeed, on the contrary, adjustment policies were the consideration in exchange for being rescued. And the adjustment policy imposed on the eurozone caused a recession in that zone and a drop in employment to unprecedented lows: 50 per cent of young people in Italy unemployed, with double-digit unemployment in Spain as well.
That is how we got to 2014 and 2015, with a sharp decrease in global demand. Now we see how that crisis train — the Lehman Brothers locomotive engine, which departed from here, in the heart of Wall Street, and stopped off in Europe — is trying to move on to the emerging economies, we who underpinned economic growth for so long. Argentina was and is part of that growth. This year, despite difficulties and the harassment by vulture funds, which do not collect nor do they allow the 92.7 per cent that agreed to the two restructurings to collect, with the complicity 
of a certain part of this country’s judiciary, there are demands that
we pay 7 per cent of the creditors $20 billion, when the restructuring accepted by the 92 per cent had amounted to $40 billion.
What is the capitalistic logic behind this? What is the mathematical model for this? How long would it take us to restructure those 93 per cent if we met the demands of these predatory financiers, who make up only 7 per cent of the creditors, and paid them half of what we paid to 92 per cent of the creditors? Any logical judge would say that was not right. One cannot pay to 7 per cent of the creditors half of what one pays the other 92 per cent of the creditors, particularly when some of the 7 per cent had bought lots of these bonds after Argentina had already defaulted on its external debt.
It is for that reason that the approval of the Basic Principles on Sovereign Debt Restructuring Processes — for which there are some precedents already through anti-vulture laws such as those in the Kingdom of Belgium — represents help, not to Argentina, which is depositing 100 per cent of its debt to its creditors, but help to the rest of the world. It is the first serious attempt to introduce fairness and regulation to the financial and derivatives sectors, which, from the moment that merchant banks became investment banks, have remained outside the scope of all oversight and intervention.
That is why we say that what was agreed on 10 September was a very significant and major step forward that must also be in line with the fact that the world is not doing well at all. That is not news to anyone. We could talk about the refugee crisis resulting from the action of financial predators in countries that do not manage to support their people who have to migrate to Europe in canoes or rafts from Africa, or about the refugees who have to flee their homelands because of warlords.
I also want to talk to the Assembly about an unprecedented process of economic concentration that is unheard of in the world. According to the most recently released IMF report, 1 per cent of the global population at present is holding 50 per cent of the wealth. Here, in this very country that once hosted the American dream — the dream of the American middle classes, which encouraged and continues to encourage so many Latin Americans to come here — 1 per cent have more than 30 per cent of the total wealth. How long can such a society or the world continue when income
distribution is that unfair and with all the consequences of such unfairness?
Yesterday, at President Xi Jinping’s gender equality meeting, we pondered how gender empowerment could be discussed in a world in which resources are so unequally distributed; how much gender equality can we find in a world that expels people from their home countries because they have become unlivable and when they are refused entry into other countries? That forces us to address the problem of the financial markets and the need to reinject resources into the real economy so that employment and production can be resumed as the main engines for societies’ welfare.
I should also like to welcome the fact — and commend the United States of America, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the permanent members of the Security Council and Germany — that an agreement was reached on nuclear issues that will help to defuse the situation and provide more certainty and security to a world shrouded in conflicts and warmongering. We were aware of those negotiations. We harboured hopes that this agreement would eventually see the light of day.
Members will wonder how we knew. Easy. In 2010 Gary Samore, at that time the White House’s top adviser on nuclear issues, visited us in Argentina. He came to visit Argentina on a mission with one goal. In 1987, under the first democratic Government and under the control of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Argentina supplied the nuclear fuel for the reactor known as “Tehran”. Gary Samore explained to our Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Héctor Timerman, that negotiations were under way on an agreement for the Islamic Republic of Iran to cease its uranium enrichment activities or to do it to a lesser extent, but that Iran claimed that it needed to enrich for the Tehran nuclear reactor and that was hindering negotiations. They came to ask us to provide nuclear fuel to the Islamic Republic of Iran. President Rouhani was not yet in office. The negotiations had begun under President Ahmadinejad.
I remember that the Minister for Foreign Affairs came to see me and submitted to me the proposal that Gary Samore had brought. He had already informed the White House envoy that his request would be very difficult to satisfy given the relationship between Argentina and the Islamic Republic of Iran because of the terrorist attack against the Argentine Israelite
Mutual Association (AMIA) that had taken place in 1994 and the decision of the judge in the case to press charges against five Iranian citizens and summon them to appear in court. Against that backdrop, it was impossible for Argentina to make a contribution to the negotiation process, which, I repeat, was already under way in 2010. I looked at the Minister in my office — I recall this clearly — and I said that if the request was made in writing and signed, we could cooperate despite all that, because we believed that the attainment of the nuclear non-proliferation objective was important.
Members know that Argentina is a member of a select club of nuclear energy-producing countries but that, nonetheless, we occupy a leading position in the field of non-proliferation. Therefore, for us nuclear non-proliferation is also a question of governmental interest. That is what I said to my Minister for Foreign Affairs, who in turn conveyed to the White House envoy that we would agree to provide the fuel, because it had been in the hands of Argentina since 1987 and we also had the necessary technology to produce it — in exchange, obviously, for such a request to be submitted in writing and signed. That message was conveyed. I believe that that was the last time that the Minister saw Mr. Samore.
Thus by 2013, when Argentina signed the memorandum of understanding with the Islamic Republic of Iran to unblock the legal matter that had brought the case to a halt years ago — and please bear in mind that the attack took place in 1994 and I am now referring to what happened in 2013 — other Governments had intervened, there had been other developments. And, because we were strongly convinced of the need to combat terrorism and of the importance of remembering, of honouring truth and justice and clarification, we were trying to find those who were guilty of that terrorist attack and to punish them.
That was the objective of the memorandum of understanding. However, it seems as if all hell broke loose with the signing of the memorandum. Time passed, and when the agreement was signed on 2 April between the 5+1 and Iran — no longer with Ahmadinejad but with Rouhani — and with the negotiations well under way, one could not but wonder why there was so much opposition and criticism against us negotiating with Iran a simple agreement of judicial cooperation for the Argentine judge to depose in Teheran the five Iranian citizens accused because of the laws that prevented the extradition of Iranian citizens. What was the reason?
I learned it here from the mouth of another President regarding hypocrisy in diplomatic relations. There is much hypocrisy blended with a lot of geopolitics and very little interest in setting the record straight when it comes to remembering and honouring the truth and justice demanded by the victims and their families.
We later sent a bill on this treaty to our Congress, which approved. I say to President Obama that I fervently hope that the United States Congress will also approve the agreement, or at least refrain from blocking it, as it will be an important contribution to global peace.
We are coherent in our approach. It is not that what applies to us does not apply to others, although we use elements or instruments that have little to do with the objectives we declare to harm the relation or the image of a country, but that is the reality of the situation.
Finally, the judge hearing the AMIA case also considered it to be a mechanism apt to shed light and to allow him to depose the accused. An appellate court was not of the same mind, and today the case has all but come to a halt. Today we can appeal only to the goodwill of the Islamic Republic of Iran, because we have no other instrument to obtain the Iranians’ depositions.
But there have been developments in my country. Under way today, on the grounds of concealment, is an action brought against the highest ranking authorities and intelligence and judicial officials taking part in the AMIA case since 1994. The proceeding is now at the oral and public trial stage.
After my order late last year to remove from office whole sectors of Argentina’s intelligence officials on the grounds of strong suspicions that they had hindered the investigation and opposed attempts to unblock the case by going and deposing the Iranians, I dismissed some high-ranking officials, some of whom had been in office since 1972 and had rendered services to all the dictatorial Governments and all the other Administrations, including my own. Some of those dismissed officials have settled here in the United States. A few days after these dismissals, the investigating prosecutor, Alberto Nisman, died.
All this amounts to something more than I have already said. I have always maintained that AMIA was a complex game of chess in international politics. Today I believe that, in addition to a chess game, it is also spiderweb of interests alien to my country. As with
all spider webs, it is only the weakest and the smallest that get caught, while the others remain outside.
In the trial for concealment being pursued now, the commencement of which was delayed almost 14 years, and also in the investigation under way into the death of Prosecutor Nisman, some details are being revealed of horrific linkages to external secret services, bank accounts abroad and relationships with vulture funds that have been denounced not by me but by individuals who are themselves members of my country’s Jewish community.
I am not here to talk with hypocrisy or lies, I am talking about what is actually happening. A few days ago we summoned the United States Ambassador in our country for an explanation of the capacity in which a particular former member of the intelligence services of Argentina was in the United States. He was in charge of the entire investigation of the AMIA case from the outset. I was just a provincial deputy in the south of the country, in Patagonia, and a delegate to the constitutional convention when the bomb exploded, and that person was already in charge of the investigation. The investigation into the death of Prosecutor Nisman is now proving his total and absolute connection with the Prosecutor, as well as that of other individuals.
On instructions from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, our Ambassador to the United States has submitted two letters to the State Department and also held meetings with the State Department to ask in what capacity that person was here in the United States. He is almost protected. I do not know from what or from whom, but he is here and protected. A few days ago, the new prosecutors in the AMIA case asked Interpol to issue a Blue Notice concerning the whereabouts of that individual.
As we have been doing since 2007, first President Kirchner and then me, every year we have been requesting the cooperation of the Islamic Republic of Iran to clarify the attack. Today we are also asking for the cooperation of the United States. Judges in our country want to know the whereabouts of this official whom everybody refers to as someone closely connected to the case, and a cover-up is even mentioned.
Members may ask themselves why I spend so much time on this issue. It is very little compared with the time that organizations paid by vulture funds have devoted in this country to criticizing, slandering and offending us as if we were accomplices of the Iranian
regime. If we are accomplices of the Iranian regime, then what is President Barack Obama? Is he not also?
Hypocrisy and double standards cannot continue in diplomacy. We cannot continue to use weapons and instruments of international intrigue — old ones — worthy of a John le Carré novel. The world is a world of communications, of the globalization of the Internet, which some dreamed would enable them to better dominate the entire world. Today the Internet is a very powerful communication tool for everyone, the entire global village where everybody knows instantly what is happening in a particular place in the world.
Our Government in Argentina will tirelessly continue to seek truth and justice in the AMIA case. We ask for the cooperation of the country whose citizens are accused, and of this country, the United States, so that it will also help to clarify the presence of this citizen, who will surely be required, as he is already being required, by the State agencies in our country.
In this world of economic crisis — and I was listening closely to some of today’s speeches — the truth is that enemies change and mutate with amazing speed. I remember the most recent G-20 meeting in which I participated — I was absent for the last one for health reasons — in St. Petersburg, where those who confronted the Government of Syria, the freedom fighters, were those who had to be supported by the entire Western world. Today the freedom fighters are part of the Islamic State of Iraq and Shams. I should like to ask members how this seemingly Islamic group actually functions. Who finances it?
When one sees these horrendous scenes where people have their throats slit and where one can clearly see three or four cameras filming the scenes, it is like a movie. It is not simply a home-made film such as a fundamentalist group could make with a simple camera. No, this is almost a full-on production. At times it seems almost like a Francis Ford Coppola movie. Four or five cameras are used, and the faces are never shown. It would be good if we asked ourselves from where is all this financed. That would help to ensure that the world can find clues to combat one of the worst scourges facing humankind today: fundamentalism of whatever nature, whether dogmatic or religious, but mainly those who consider their neighbour an enemy and a target to be eliminated.
I do not want to leave the Assembly today only with problems of debt and the economy or terrorist attacks
and international complicity. I also wish to pay homage to the continent of which I feel I am a daughter, Latin America.
Not long before I spoke, the President of Cuba, Raứl Castro, a President and a comrade whom I love and admire, spoke to the Assembly. For the first time in 17 years the President of Cuba is back here in the General Assembly. The truth is that for us Latin Americans, members of the Common Market of the South, the Union of South American Nations and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States who have struggled so much, discussed so much and argued so much so that Cuba can return to be part of these multilateral entities, we see this as a triumph of perseverance by the region, and fundamentally an achievement by Cuba.
We also recognize the Government of the United States, which has finally opened its mind and understood that things could not continue as they had done in the past. I should like to thank another Latin American who was also in this very same Hall — and who has perhaps greater authority than the rest of us because he sits on the throne of St. Peter in Rome — who played a determining role in establishing the agreement between the United States and Cuba. He came here and spoke from this platform (see A/70/PV.3) to the world and said that money cannot continue to determine politics and that there was a basic principle understood by all religions, that is, “Do not do to others what you would not like others to do to you”.
As a Latin American I also had the joy of seeing the other day in Havana the photograph of the President of Colombia, the President of Cuba and the representative of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia launching the end of a conflict that has been going on for more than 50 years and that they had tried to end with bombs and rifles. No, political, social and cultural conflicts are not resolved with bombs and rifles; they
are resolved by talking, through dialogue and the acceptance of others.
I am pleased to be part of the Latin American region, where we do not have religious or cultural clashes, where we are all children or grandchildren of immigrants and where we still receive even internal migrations. In my country the public and free national universities host students from across the continent. We do not issue a red card to anyone, for we believe it is necessary to contribute to and establish a more just world.
For that reason I say that Latin America — once perhaps the emblem of inequality — with the growth achieved by the national, popular and democratic Governments that some call populist but which have incorporated millions of our fellow citizens and which have allowed our citizens to enjoy the benefits of education, health and housing — today we say that we are a growing continent, a continent of integration.
Perhaps the contribution that Argentina has made — it was left alone in 2001 but could still reconstruct our country, and today its gross domestic product will grow by 2.7 per cent — allows us to say that inclusion, growth, development, production and trade will be reactivated only by employing the millions who have lost their jobs, improving the wages of those who get a pittance, respecting the rights of young people and children and, on the basis of synthesis, creating a fairer, more equitable and more egalitarian society.

===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
It is an honour to be here today for the first time to represent the Argentine Republic before the General Assembly.
We are living in a time of great global transformation, where changes take place at an increasingly rapid pace and provide us with new opportunities. In the twenty- first century we are faced with a continuous challenge, namely, that of adapting to the new realities of global interdependency. Building a modern international order is an ongoing task in which we are all protagonists.
The principles of the Organization guide us to encourage dialogue and cooperation between our countries in order to achieve development, peace and international security. In the first 71 years of the United Nations, important advances have been made. However, there is still much to be done. The United Nations has proposed a horizon towards which we should advance. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is a goal that we should approach collectively.
I am proud to represent a country that has contributed to the international legal framework, driving advances in human rights, humanitarian rights and the peaceful settlement of conflicts. With the Sustainable Development Goals in mind, it makes us proud that our Governmental priorities are in line with those of the international community. In Argentina, we have set ourselves three main objectives.
Our first goal is to move towards zero poverty. That means becoming a country with equal opportunities, where our children can shape their future and where every Argentinian is able to develop his or her potential. A country like ours, which is a food–producing powerhouse, cannot accept the fact that there are people going hungry anywhere the world.
Our second goal is to defeat drug trafficking. The world drug problem, addiction and violence associated with organized crime requires that we work together towards a comprehensive agenda, based on human rights and focused on both supply and demand.
Our third goal is to unite Argentinians through dialogue, respect for the rule of law and the strengthening of democracy. For in the twenty-first century, the quality of political leadership is measured by the ability to build bridges and create trust. These are elements that every society needs to properly function. Argentinians have chosen that path, namely, that of trusting one another, engaging in dialogue and speaking honestly to each other.
An important step in this direction was working on the problems of the past in order to be able to look towards the future. We have rebalanced the macroeconomy and began to strengthen relations with our neighbouring countries. We are establishing mature links with other countries and multilateral organizations, and we are already starting to see results. We have returned to international credit markets, and many companies have demonstrated that they trust Argentina. New investments are announced every day, which will lead to jobs and put the country on track to expand its economy. Argentines are ready to enter into the twenty-first century and assume our role in the international community.
However, we cannot achieve any of those goals alone. We have to work together, starting with our neighbours. I am from a region that thinks of itself as a common neighbourhood with shared challenges. In recent years, Latin America has made huge efforts to reduce poverty, thanks to robust social policies and to the very favourable international economic conditions. But today the context is different. All of our countries have experienced diminished growth, while global trade has shown weak performance. At the regional level, the balance of trade is less favourable and inflation punishes those who have less.
But we in Argentina are optimistic. We know that, in order to grow inclusively, Latin America must count on a tremendous amount of human talent as well as incomparable natural wealth. While in the world there are trends that generate worry and uncertainty, encouraging news is coming from our region, such as the normalization of relations between Cuba and the United States and the peacebuilding process in Colombia. In addition, we see conditions for creating a corridor of peace from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean throughout the region, which will contribute to regional stability and prosperity.
But the challenges of global governance in the twenty-first century do not exclusively belong to some countries or regions; they concern everyone. We must cooperate, while thinking globally and acting locally and without losing sight of the first principle of this Organization, which is based on the sovereign equality of all of its Members. A world with more voices is a more just world. That is why it is important that we continue building a system based on clear rules that reflect diversity and plurality and that facilitate consensus.
Climate change is the greatest, most important challenge that humankind faces. Only if we are aware of that fact will we be able to make progress without jeopardizing our future and the future of future generations. We in Argentina are betting ambitiously on renewable energy to develop our potential in areas such as solar, wind and biomass energy generation. We signed the Paris Agreement and we are proud of being one of the first countries to complete the ratification process. That is why we call upon the international community to put forth its greatest efforts so that we can soon see the Agreement enter into force, which is so important for our future.
Another major challenge is the problem of refugees. Although a year ago we made a commitment to leave nobody behind, the images we see today hurt and worry us. This reality calls for us to do more. Our White Helmets are widely recognized for their commitment to humanitarian matters, which is why, last May, Argentina was present in the Syrian conflict zone to offer assistance at a refugee camp in Lebanon. I would like to announce that we are going to accept even more refugees from Syria and from its neighbouring countries, favouring families with children. We have established a national cabinet of ministers charged with broadening the existing humanitarian programme, which coordinates ministries and Governmental departments and addresses security measures and full social integration. We will be able to gradually increase our ability to receive more people to the extent that financial support, technical assistance and international logistical support allow us to do.
Gender equality is also a primary goal of ours, upon which we have to work with conviction and political determination. Argentina is making the full empowerment of women its State policy. We have established a national action plan for prevention and assistance for women at risk in order to put an end to violence against women in all of its forms. We are working with a cross-cutting approach so that women will have the same social, political, economic and cultural opportunities in the country as men. In this regard, we are grateful for the support that Susana Malcorra, our Minister for Foreign Affairs, has received as a candidate to be the next Secretary-General of the United Nations. In the twenty-first century, having a woman as the head of the Organization would be a very encouraging example.
When the Organization was founded, countries assumed the commitment of maintaining international peace and security. However, we live in a world that is increasingly violent, where radical extremism threatens innocent people and vulnerable populations. It should be remembered that, in 1992 and in 1994, Argentina was a victim of international terrorism, with two attacks, for which we hope to receive greater international cooperation in clarifying events and punishing those responsible. My country condemns any group that through its actions aims to promote terror in any part of the planet.
In recent years, this phenomenon has worsened. To stop it, international cooperation is indispensable. We have to promote development both inside and outside of our countries because development does not stop at the border. Growth with inclusion, dialogue and tolerance — and the creation of opportunities — all help to reduce the marginalization and humiliation that fuels the recruitment of terrorists.
Dialogue and the peaceful settlement of disputes make up the cornerstone of the foreign policy of a democratic Argentina. That is why I reiterate our call for dialogue with the United Kingdom, as called for in many resolutions of this Organization, so as to amicably resolve the sovereignty dispute that we have had for almost two centuries over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia Islands and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas. We have shown interest in advancing our bilateral relationship, which can and should be mutually beneficial. That is why we trust that it will be possible to find a definitive solution to this prolonged dispute.
I would like to conclude with a thought. Argentina, which has just celebrated 200 years of independence, is a country that has always opened its doors to men and women from around the world seeking a better life. There is a piece of each part of the world in my country. We coexist peacefully — Christians, Jews and Muslims. Diversity enriches our society, and we embrace openness within a world where fragmentation is burgeoning. Let us say to the world, we need not fear interdependency. This world is our shared home, which is why we must take care of it. We must learn to coexist peacefully, just as Pope Francis has called upon on us to do. Fostering a sense of integration and working
30/56 16-29296 together will only strengthen us. Let us continue to build networks and bridge gaps. The members of the Assembly can count on Argentina. We have much to say and to contribute.
Please allow me to extend my gratitude to the Secretary-General for his work in leading the Organization. His legacy has difficult challenges, which is why we must continue with our efforts. Over the years, the United Nations has shown us the importance of pursuing a better world. Now it is time for us to put forth all of our creativity and political will to make our vision of a better world a reality.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
I am very honoured and very happy to be here today representing my country and my Government.
As an Argentine and a Latin American, I cannot begin my statement without first expressing my solidarity and the solidarity of Argentina with those afflicted by the tragic earthquake in Mexico, which adds to the devastation caused by successive hurricanes in the Caribbean. The environment and the forces of nature are speaking to us and presenting us with challenges.
I would also like to congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election and on his renewed commitment to the task of focusing our responsibilities as Governments on people. I believe that that is our most important mission. If the international community is striving for peace, dialogue and understanding, and if we working against poverty, violence and intolerance, Argentina will always be there to offer its support.
The leaders of the world have agreed on a plan of action in favour of people and the planet, namely, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which stipulates that the eradication of poverty in all its forms is the greatest challenge facing the world in its efforts to achieve sustainable development. In keeping with that global aspiration, our Government has established as one of the central axes of its programme the goal of moving decisively towards zero poverty. As a sign of that commitment at the international level, Argentina presented its first voluntary national review of its implementation of the 2030 Agenda in July.
We in Argentina are working to create a country where there is equal opportunity for all. That is why we are also focusing on the creation of jobs and inclusive education. On that note, it is worth mentioning that we will host the fourth Global Conference on the Sustained Eradication of Child Labour in November, where we will tackle issues such as the eradication of forced labour and the promotion of high-quality youth employment. A debate on the future of work goes hand in hand with empowering our young people through high-quality education. We dream of a world where a child’s destiny and a young person’s future have no limits other than their talent, intelligence, determination, will power and desire to succeed in life.
The promotion and protection of human rights is a State policy of Argentina that has been sustained since we recovered our democracy in 1983. In that vein, we have been working closely with other actors in the regional and international systems for this to be effective. I take this opportunity to reiterate that our country has presented its candidacy for membership in the Human Rights Council for the period 2019-2020. We count on members’ support.
One of Argentina’s priorities is to ensure gender equality. We believe that it is important to educate our communities with the aim of eliminating the various forms of hidden violence within our society. For that reason, our Government has committed to implementing programmes that eliminate gender violence and achieve the full empowerment of women and girls, including their political and economic autonomy, within the framework of our first national plan of action for the prevention, assistance and eradication of violence against women.
Our Government has placed special emphasis on the commitments made along with the international community in the framework of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Optional Protocol, which was incorporated into our Constitution in 2014. In taking ownership of the spirit of Convention, we have established an agency that focuses on policymaking for disabled persons. The design and implementation of a national plan is essential in terms of participation and working together with disabled persons. As that is an issue that I am personally involved in, I commit to working tirelessly to ensure that the national plan covers all areas referred to in the Convention. From my own perspective as a person with an acquired disability, I wish to express here in the Hall the deep commitment that both President Macri and I have to changing the distorted view held by our culture towards disability.
I would also like to mention the global problem of drugs, which knows no limits or borders. We must cooperate and unite our efforts in order to confront it. The fight against drug trafficking is another of our President’s three main policies: we must redouble our international commitments to tackle that scourge. In Argentina we are working in that vein to find a consensus that will enable us to create an international court against organized crime in our region of Latin America.
It is with sadness that I refer to the situation that our sister Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is facing. On 8 August, 12 States of Americas met in Lima to condemn the rupture in the democratic order and the systematic violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as the violence, repression, political persecution, the existence of political prisoners and lack of free elections in that country. It pains me to speak such words about a kindred country that is so dear to Argentina, and so, from this rostrum, I call for credible negotiations in good faith, building on a consensus of the parties that is oriented towards the peaceful re-establishment of democracy in Venezuela.
The Government of Argentina once again reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms. I wish to convey the condolences of our people to the victims of that scourge and their families. We know all too well what we speak of: my country has directly suffered from terrorism, having been the victim of two major attacks on the city of Buenos Aires, one in 1992 against the Embassy of Israel and then in 1994 against the Argentine-Israeli Mutual Association (AMIA) headquarters.
I wish to reiterate the will of the Republic of Argentina to bring to justice all those who participated in the financing, planning, preparation and execution of those terrorist attacks. The continued investigation of the attack on AMIA calls for the appearance of the accused at a hearing. We do not want another 20 years to pass without justice being served. That is why we call on the international community to support us in our requests for cooperation from the Islamic Republic of Iran, which we have been submitting for some time in order to shed light on this terrorist attack.
For our Government, the new role of developing countries requires the design of an international architecture in finance and trade matters that is oriented towards inclusive, sustainable and balanced economic growth. In that context, Argentina reaffirms its determination to integrate with the world by building bridges with the international community. We have demonstrated that by taking on the responsibilities of hosting the eleventh Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO) next December in Buenos Aires and the presidency of the Group of 20 Summit in 2018, among others. We maintain our commitment to achieving positive outcomes at the Ministerial Conference, which should reaffirm the importance of the multilateral trade system, and of the WTO as its keystone. It should also ensure that the benefits of free trade reach all those who seek development, the creation of jobs, the eradication of poverty and the correction of trade distortions, particularly in relation to global agriculture and livestock markets.
The South American Common Market is our main tool for entering the international market. We know that in the twenty-first century we cannot achieve development in our countries individually, just as we cannot do so in our personal lives. Nothing can be done alone, and we are always in need of others to enrich our projects and our lives. We must strengthen our capacities and resources and establish the foundation we need for growth. The current global situation presents challenges to us that confirm Argentina’s decision to expand trade and improve our profile as a country for investment. That has led us to establish a Southern Common Market in accordance with focused regionalism to attract investments and to strengthen participation in global value chains, which will have special emphasis and effect on small and medium- sized enterprises, generating more and better jobs. That is why we have strongly encouraged negotiations with the European Union, and those negotiations are entering their final phase. We are also negotiating with the European Free Trade Association, and we will soon be doing the same with Canada and with the Republic of Korea. We have also intensified our links with the Pacific Alliance, with Japan and with New Zealand.
Argentina’s international cooperation operates through the Argentine Fund for South-South and Triangular Cooperation, which is celebrating its twenty- fifth anniversary this year and is a fundamental foreign policy mechanism that makes it possible for us to align ourselves in solidarity and in a horizontal fashion with other States. We need to update our strategies to create links and relationships with other mid-level developed States. As a reflection of our vocation to enter the regional and international arenas, next March Argentina will be the host of the High-level United Nations Conference on South-South Cooperation. We hope that that will provide an opportunity for debate and for the building of consensuses that will make it possible for us to achieve a fairer, more equal world.
Argentina reaffirms its commitment to United Nations peacekeeping operations. We will continue to provide our assistance, especially in Haiti and in Colombia.
Argentina promotes its presence on the international stage with the aim of achieving better levels of protection and a sustainable and rational use of our natural resources, and we encourage all projects and all activities that improve the living conditions of the people living on our national territory. Care for the environment is a priority for my Government. Growth cannot take place in a manner that is out of balance with the environment. As Pope Francis warned, the pace of consumption, of waste and of change in the environment has gone beyond the resources of the planet. The environment is a collective good; it is the heritage of all of humankind, and it is everybody’s responsibility. Protecting the environment should be a comprehensive part of the development process. It must not be seen in isolation. Argentina is committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. It upholds that commitment and will continue upholding it with other States parties in the preparatory process for the twenty- third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in order to achieve concrete progress in the implementation of the Convention.
We wish to reiterate our legitimate and inalienable right of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas. Once again, we call upon the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to renew bilateral negotiations, which will make it possible for us to find a peaceful permanent solution that respects the way of life of the island peoples and that is in accordance with the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. Our Government has begun a new phase in our relations with the United Kingdom. We hope that that will contribute to the creation of conditions in which both Governments can sit at the negotiating table with a view to resolving this protracted sovereignty dispute.
Two years ago our Governments met in this Hall to add their voices to a collective commitment, which took the form of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Taking on in a determined manner the targets and goals set by the 2030 Agenda will allow us to build a better world for coming generations. The progress that we have already made bears witness to the fact that focusing on people, as the Secretary- General requests that we do, is the only way to respond to our task.
The phase of history that we are living through is full of challenges and opportunities. I welcome the fact that in every corner of our planet there is a renewed perspective with regard to the vital, distinct contribution that women can and must make, provided that we bring feminine attributes into play. What am I talking about? I am talking about our natural tendency as women to unite in a world where disintegrating forces seem to be gaining strength and prevailing. We have a vocation for long-term vision when everything around us appears to be uncertain. We have the vocation of nourishing, of caring for others, of seeing with empathy, and of putting ourselves in other people’s shoes. All of those are indispensable feminine qualities that we must put into play if we want a more equal and more just society.
Those attributes are indeed vital but, as we know, they are not the exclusive domain of women. Neither are we are the only people needed to reach the goals that we have set. It would be extremely counterproductive to sacrifice the contribution of any gender, tradition, religion or culture on the altar of our prejudices. We need everybody. We must all bear the enormous burden of ensuring that this stage of history will bear fruit in the lifetime of each individual. In that way, without excluding anybody who wants to contribute towards that work, we will achieve a global society that is more prosperous and, above all, more just and fair. Our work must be a work of love because justice and the quest for the common good are the expression of love in the public sphere.

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
I would like to congratulate the President on her election to lead this session of the General Assembly. I am sure that her work will attest to the pertinence of women’s leadership.
It is an honour to return to the General Assembly to share our vision for the stage we are currently going through in Argentina and to ratify our commitment to making our country a protagonist that is fully integrated into the world. Our country is undergoing a period of profound change. We are determined to experience it with humility, while accepting the difficulties we face, and in our belief that we are making the right efforts. I know that the efforts required are great, and I want to thank every Argentine for that. We knew it would not be easy, because we are making changes without taking shortcuts or compromising our future. We are building a consensus for equitable and sustainable development. Two years ago, I shared here for the first time my view of Argentina as a reliable partner of the international community and a good-faith mediator of regional and
international politics (see A/71/PV.8). Today I would like to renew that vision.
Since I took office as President, we have been committed to an intelligent integration into the world, based on the value of our region, Latin America and the Caribbean. We are a zone of peace, with young populations full of talent and vitality and with abundant resources and natural reserves. We are working for greater integration among ourselves and with the rest of the world. That is evidenced by the willingness for dialogue and cooperation between the  countries  of the South American Common Market and the Pacific Alliance. We seek to have a positive impact on the world order of the twenty-first century. From the South, we take an optimistic view that ponders the opportunities and challenges of globalization. Intelligent integration is also part of our contribution to building a region and a world order that are stable and inclusive and that respect our values of peace, democracy and human rights.
I would therefore like to take a moment once  again to express our concern regarding the human rights situation in Venezuela. Given its seriousness, Argentina wants to refer the situation of the Venezuelan dictatorship’s crimes against humanity to the International Criminal Court. I call on Venezuela to acknowledge the humanitarian crisis so that we can use international cooperation to address the health and food deprivation of displaced persons. We are part of a broad regional response that seeks to mitigate the difficulties of millions of Venezuelans in the wake of their exodus from their country by taking them in and integrating them into society. Argentina has already received 130,000 Venezuelans.
For decades we have convened here to safeguard international peace and security. However, we live  in a world that is not immune to serious threats such as organized crime, cybercrime and terrorism, which require cooperative responses if they are to be dealt with. In recent years, with political will and greater cooperation with our partners in the region and the world, we have managed to increase the quantity of drugs seized, dismantle criminal drug-trafficking  networks, catch more national and international fugitives and reduce homicides related to drug trafficking throughout our country. At the same time, we continue to seek the necessary consensus to design a complementary judicial authority at the regional level and thereby combat organized crime collectively.
 
Argentina condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We suffered directly from two very serious terrorist attacks, in 1992 and 1994, which claimed the lives of 107 people and left hundreds wounded. Our country will not cease its efforts to bring all those involved in the attacks before Argentine courts so that they can be tried and ultimately sentenced. In that regard, considering that next year will mark 25 years since the attack on the Argentina Israeli Mutual Association, I should like once again to ask the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate with the Argentine judicial authorities to advance investigations into the most brutal terrorist attack we have ever experienced on our territory. We call on countries that are friendly to Argentina to assist us by not harbouring under diplomatic immunity any of the accused for whom international arrest warrants and INTERPOL red notices have been issued. Here I would also like to remember the five Argentines who were killed on 31 October 2017 in this city. My heart is with the families of the victims, as well as all victims of barbaric acts of terrorism around the world.
Argentina maintains a strategic vision for the South Atlantic, where we seek to peacefully develop an active policy on resources, the environment and science, which includes the question of the Malvinas. I should like to reaffirm once again before the Assembly the legitimate and imprescriptible sovereign rights of Argentina over the Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas. I should also like to reaffirm my Government’s commitment to this new phase in relations with the United Kingdom, based on building mutual trust and a broad and positive dialogue.
Argentina is a country with a democratic and multilateral identity. Multilateralism is  fundamental to highlighting our national interests and seeking consensus. We maintain our firm commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which we established as pillars of our Government’s policy on the eradication of poverty, combating climate change and achieving gender equality.
Argentina has been demonstrating its willingness to contribute to strengthening  global  governance.  We hosted the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference last year, where it was made clear that there is a future after the meeting in Buenos Aires. In 2019, we will host the second High-level United Nations Conference on South-South Cooperation. We will also
be preparing to chair the 2020 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, reaffirming our historic commitment to non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. We are presiding over the Group of Twenty (G-20) this year in a spirit of unity and a constant quest for consensus.
The results being achieved give us reason for enthusiasm. In every working group and ministerial meeting a sense of collective commitment is prevailing, as was true of the Trade and Investment Ministerial Meeting, where a willingness to revitalize the multilateral trading system was expressed. The first G-20 leaders summit to take place in South America will be held on 30 November in Buenos Aires. With the support of our partners, the G-20 will once again demonstrate its validity and relevance.
The international community is facing challenges that require effective and efficient  compromises. They demand solutions reached through  dialogue  and consensus-building. The theme  for  this  session of the Assembly emphasizes leadership and shared responsibilities for achieving equitable, sustainable and peaceful societies. Argentines are committed to doing their part to make them a reality.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
It is an honour for me to once again address the Assembly, a few months before completing my first term as President, in order to share the path that Argentina has taken regarding its links with international society. That path has been characterized by the constructive role we have played in collectively addressing global challenges, focusing on the quest for consensus and collective action, acting in the belief that the world as a whole represents much more of an opportunity than a threat, and working to build international trust, diversify our partners, expand spaces for cooperation and seek areas in which Argentina can play a relevant and leading role. And most importantly, it is a path that aligns with the deep desire of Argentine society to take its place in the international order of the twenty-first century, because we are a diverse, multicultural country in which different origins, beliefs and religions coexist peacefully in a pluralistic identity, and because we value dialogue and respect as ways of building a shared future.
Beginning in 2015, when I took office as President, we made a decision to leave behind the preceding period of confrontation with the world and work in an intelligent way to integrate ourselves internationally. In a complex global context full of uncertainties and growing geopolitical tensions, we decided to take responsibility and contribute to strengthening multilateralism and global governance. That has been reflected in the meetings of the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in 2017, the Group of 20 leaders’ summit in 2018 and the Second High-level United Nations Conference on South-South Cooperation, all held in Argentina within the past three years. Those three events put Argentina on the world stage and brought the world to Argentina, where we demonstrated our ability to cooperate in building an international order that includes all of us. But our responsibility to multilateralism and seeking consensus has gone much further. Over the past few years, Argentina has also reinforced its positive role in strengthening international peace and security, contributing to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, space development and the fight against terrorism and transnational organized crime, among many other things.
We want to once again express here our firm commitment to non-proliferation, which has been a pillar of democratic consensus in recent decades in Argentina and has guided our development of nuclear technology. In 2020 my country will preside over the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and we also hope to make a contribution through our candidate for the position of Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Argentina’s commitment to combating terrorism in all its forms is greater than ever, and was reflected this year in our organization of the Second Western Hemisphere Counterterrorism Ministerial Conference. With the support of other countries and international organizations, we have strengthened the exchange of information and measures for preventing terrorism financing. We also created a database to expedite the freezing of assets suspected of being linked to terrorists, which, for example, enabled the Argentine Financial Information Unit to freeze assets of persons and entities related to Hizbullah.
Despite all of those efforts, we Argentines still have open wounds. We continue to fight the impunity that has persisted for the attacks we suffered in 1992 on the Israeli Embassy in Buenos Aires and in 1994 at the headquarters of the Israeli-Argentine Mutual Association, which took the lives of 107 people and left hundreds more wounded. We want all those involved in perpetrating the attacks to be brought before Argentine courts so that they can be tried and ultimately sentenced. Twenty-five years after the most brutal terrorist attack ever experienced on our territory, we once again urge the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate with the Argentine judicial authorities to advance the investigation of the attack on the Association. And we reiterate our call for cooperation from friendly countries to prevent the accused from being hosted or sheltered under diplomatic immunity.
Since assuming the presidency of Argentina, I have wasted no time in advancing the fight against drug trafficking and money-laundering. We have increased the amount of drugs seized, stepped up captures of national and international fugitives, dismantled criminal drug networks and reduced the number of homicides linked to drug trafficking throughout the country. Last year, for example, we immobilized more than 500 billion Argentine pesos, around $8.5 billion, linked to organized crime. We also speeded up the process of bringing money-laundering and corruption cases to trial and seized goods and property belonging to those accused of such crimes. We also continue to work with other Governments in Latin America and the Caribbean on reaching the consensus needed to create a regional legal body capable of addressing this and other types of transnational organized crime.
In the past few years, we have demonstrated a renewed and ambitious commitment in the fight against climate change and dedicated ourselves to sustainable development. We are aware of the climate emergency, and we must act in accordance with the commitments of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. That is why we have taken the decision to implement a plan for a long-term low-emission strategy that will enable us to take the necessary steps to achieve more ambitious targets, such as carbon neutrality by the year 2050. That initiative is underpinned by the efforts that we are already making today, for example with regard to cleaner energy — particularly renewable energy — energy efficiency, the conservation of ecosystems, doubling the area of national parks, creating marine protected areas, caring for our forests and increasing our afforestation efforts, capturing carbon in our soil, promoting technologies for sustainable agriculture and good livestock practices and reducing emissions in the transport sector.
During these past few years, equality between women and men has been much more than a mere slogan in Argentina. We have been firmly committed to continuing to empower girls and women and eliminate gaps in employment, education and political participation. We have implemented a plan for equal opportunities and rights and built a system aimed at preventing women from becoming victims of violence as well as assisting such victims. We have established a parity law for posts in the legislature and designed our national budget with an egalitarian strategy in mind. We know that much remains to be done, but we are sure that there will be no going back on the rights and opportunities that women have in my country today.
For a more efficient multilateral system and global governance and a safer and more peaceful world, we need regions that are more stable, better integrated with one another and connected to the rest of the world. We therefore decided to make a firm commitment to the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), thereby confirming the importance that we have attached to regional integration since day one of our Administration. Through the four members’ concerted efforts we have set in motion a plan to adapt it to the twenty-first century so that it can be a competitive and dynamic bloc with clear rules of the game. We have given our internal and external agendas a renewed, ambitious boost with concrete actions and achievements designed to benefit our citizens. After more than 20 years of negotiations, we have reached an agreement with the European Union that is unprecedented for both trade blocs and hugely important globally. It will enable us to enhance trade and investment with positive effects for our people’s quality of life. And while that in itself is an important step, what is most relevant, as in life in general, is the direction taken, which is towards a MERCOSUR that is modern and open to the world.
I firmly believe that a country’s path to global integration requires core values guiding its action. Our history and geography unite us in a region that deeply values democracy, freedom and human rights both as a way of life and for peaceful coexistence. That is why, since the beginning of our Administration, we have led the condemnation of the very serious situation of human rights violations in Venezuela, as evidenced in the annual report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (A/HRC/41/18/ Add.1). The dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro has plunged Venezuela into an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. The mass exodus of millions of Venezuelans has seriously affected the stability and governance of our region. I want to once again call on the international community to use all available diplomatic and legal tools to reverse this situation so that Venezuela can be free and democratic once more.
Argentina reaffirms its legitimate and imprescriptible sovereign rights over the Malvinas, South Georgia, the South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas, and we maintain our position and call for the United Kingdom to resume bilateral negotiations that will enable us to find a peaceful and definitive solution to the dispute. We have nevertheless created a new relationship framework with the United Kingdom, thereby improving the conditions for moving towards a solution. Part of this, working with the International Committee of the Red Cross, was to identify the majority of Argentine soldiers buried in the Darwin cemetery, thereby paying a historic debt to their families. We have also resumed scientific cooperation in the fisheries sector, including by carrying out joint scientific maritime missions, and we have promoted greater rapprochement between the islands and continental Argentina by establishing a new weekly flight to the Malvinas.
Before concluding, I want to convey to the Assembly that today, in the uncertain situation that we Argentines are facing, my absolute priority is to be there for all of them and bring them relief to get through these difficult times. But without wanting to neglect that responsibility, I decided to come to share with the Assembly this assessment of Argentina’s international integration over the past four years. Because amid the current trends of fragmentation, I believe that the best response enabling us to move towards a prosperous future is greater cooperation and more and better multilateralism. Because I am convinced that in order to grow and develop, to have the life that we Argentines deserve, we must be better integrated into the world and deploy all of our labour and talent to that end. I know we can do it. It depends on us.


===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
Mr. Secretary-General, Mr. President, members of this honourable Assembly:
Argentina was one of the founding States of the United Nations 75 years ago. Today, we are experiencing a health crisis of planetary dimensions that invites us to a new beginning.
Pope Francis calls on all of us, especially the leaders gathered on this occasion, to think about how to emerge better and not worse from this crisis.
Inspired by his preaching and his example, I come to ratify a call on the whole world to recreate a multilateralism based on our solidarity.
This is a time not to globalize indifference but to globalize solidarity in multiple dimensions.
This pandemic has revealed us to be fragile and has recreated the need to build bridges between people, between nations and between regions.
If we are able to manufacture artificial respirators by combining components and knowledge from different regions of the planet, we have to be able to dream and build “non-artificial respirators” for the time of the post-pandemic.
If we are pooling the efforts of doctors, researchers, investors and scientific systems from around the planet to discover a vaccine that prevents COVID-19, we have to be able to dream and build a vaccine against social injustice, environmental predation and discrimination in all its forms.
This spirit of solidarity is what my Government has prioritized since its arrival and because of the pandemic and poverty, no one is safe, until everyone is safe.
That is why, from the start of the pandemic, Argentina focused primarily on protecting lives and caring for the most vulnerable, while implementing a series of emergency measures that prevented the collapse of the health system and mitigated the immediate impact of the pandemic.
Immediate relief was provided to families and businesses through multiple measures, by a State that is present and active.
In the same spirit of solidarity, we argue that the vaccine produced to prevent the disease must be a global public good, accessible to all nations in an equitable manner.
We support the resolutions adopted to that end by the General Assembly and have made our capacities available for vaccine research and production.
I set a goal for the Government to put Argentina back on its feet. Together, we can put the world back on its feet.
This requires us to recognize the importance of balance.
Balance is restoring the priorities of the multilateral system, starting with those at the bottom and reaching everyone.
We must be architects of a new common house.
Before the pandemic, we raised the issue of the need to reform the United Nations Security Council. There are agreements to revitalize the World Trade Organization. We raised the issue of the crisis of the Bretton Woods Institutions, which had demonstrated shortcomings in responding to the 2008-2009 financial crisis. They are all part of the multilateral post-war architecture.
The pandemic also put traditional metrics in crisis with regard to determining access to development resources. Indicators commonly used to classify the needs of countries, such as per capita income, do not account for the diverse inequalities and specificities that exist within the same country.
The work of millions of domestic workers and unpaid caregivers, the majority of them women, has been made invisible.
It is also essential to consider how we conduct cooperation, while adopting a multidimensional approach that goes beyond per capita income to determine the eligibility criteria for official development assistance (ODA). More than 60 per cent of the poor live in middle-income countries. If we do not serve these countries, demonstrate solidarity and understand that real progress is built when everyone is involved, we will make very little steady progress in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
All the aforementioned indicates that it is essential to revitalize the United Nations to enable it to respond to the mandate for which it was created.
We need a United Nations 4.0, with its foundational values intact and with the vision to incorporate the immense technological changes under way, to make them more human, more democratic and more socially inclusive.
This all points to the need for deep reflection, which goes above and beyond a response to the pandemic.
Overcoming the pandemic and achieving the Goals of the 2030 Agenda requires economic, industrial and social policies aimed at bringing about structural change in our economies.
Commitment to the environmental agenda requires the provision of considerable financial resources, capacity-building and technology transfer by developed countries, based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Our country is committed to a fair transition towards comprehensive and sustainable development. A fair transition entails a gradual approach, strengthening the productivity and competitiveness of the economy and job creation.
We firmly believe that a collective commitment is needed to achieve the swift and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement.
No one is safe on a planet that is on fire, flooded or poisoned.
In this turbulent global environment, assuming toxic and irresponsible external debt for speculative purposes means another wave of delays and underdevelopment.
Argentina managed to seal a major deal with almost all of its private external creditors, becoming one of the first countries to meet the challenge of debt restructuring during the pandemic.
The support of the international community, which includes several of the countries represented here, the private sector, civil society and the international academic community, has been key to restoring public debt sustainability.
Negotiations with the IMF will be addressed in a similarly responsible manner, by respecting commitments and not jeopardizing the conditions that enable economic recovery and the construction of a path to inclusive and sustainable development.
Just over 5 years ago, on 10 September 2015, the General Assembly adopted resolution 69/319, entitled “Basic Principles on Sovereign Debt Restructuring Processes”.
The position of the General Assembly on the matter set a precedent for governing international finance and recognizing sovereign economic rights in the face of abusive and extortionist behaviour.
It is all with the aim of ensuring that debt restructuring processes are reasonable and predictable, based on good faith, transparency, fair treatment, sovereign immunity from jurisdiction and execution, legitimacy, sustainability and majority restructuring.
We urge the international community to continue to seek new multilateral approaches to facilitate orderly debt restructuring and ensure increased access to public policy, while addressing the pandemic and sustaining inclusive growth.
No country can service its debt while its people are left without health, education, safety or the capacity to grow.
There is also balance in prioritizing human rights over everything else.
The promotion and protection of human rights has been a core policy of the Argentine State since 1983. This decision has resulted in the ratification and granting of constitutional status to all existing international human rights instruments, as well as our active participation at the regional and international levels.
Memory, truth and justice guide the institutions of our democracy, as well as our respect for diversity and inclusion.
The post-pandemic world can exacerbate the severe refugee and displaced persons crisis facing the planet and our region. The answer should be the promotion and guarantee of the human rights of migrants.
As never before, our human condition demands solidarity from us. We cannot remain passive in the face of sanctions that include economic blockades that serve only to oppress people amid this humanitarian crisis.
The fight against all forms of discrimination and the consequent commitment to the rights of the vulnerable and persons and groups who have suffered long-term discrimination is part of Argentine State policy and is included in the many initiatives that Argentina supports and leads.
The global crisis caused by COVID-19 has also highlighted severe gender inequality.
For our society, achieving substantive equality between men and women is a priority and central pillar of Argentine democracy.
My Government is committed to the issue and that is why, for the first time in history, we have created the Ministry of Women, Genders and Diversity, as well as a National Cabinet, to ensure that gender policies are cross-cutting.
Our Government decided to strengthen national actions and mechanisms for the care of women victims of violence, in addition to implementing a gender approach to social and labour protection measures and promoting co-responsibility and a fairer distribution of unpaid domestic work.
That commitment is already evident. Argentina was recognized by the United Nations in its ranking as the country that implemented the highest number of measures with a gender perspective during the pandemic.
I	wish to reaffirm that Argentina condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and is in favour of addressing it within the framework of multilateral forums and always in accordance with the rule of law and respect for human rights.
Twenty-six years after the bombing of the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association headquarters, I wish to maintain the policy initiated in 2003 and continued thereafter. I call on the authorities of the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate with the Argentine judicial authorities in order to make progress in the investigation on that attack.
We also ask the international community to comply with the requests contained in INTERPOL Red Notices in the event of the presence of an accused person in its territories — something Argentina has never ceased to demand.
In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm the legitimate and imprescriptible sovereignty rights of the Argentine Republic over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia Islands and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas, which are an integral part of Argentina’s national territory but have been illegally occupied by the United Kingdom for over 187 years.
This year will mark the fifty-fifth anniversary of resolution 2065 (XX), the first adopted by the Organization on the question of the Malvinas Islands, which called on Argentina and the United Kingdom to hold negotiations in order to reach a peaceful and definitive solution to that sovereignty dispute.
That request has remained in force and has been renewed on multiple occasions, most recently with the adoption by consensus of a new resolution on the matter by the Special Committee on Decolonization on 5 August.
The United Kingdom persists in its attitude by ignoring calls to resume negotiations on the territorial dispute and has aggravated the dispute by calling for the illegal and unilateral exploitation of renewable and non-renewable natural resources in the area, which runs counter to General Assembly resolution 31/49.
The United Kingdom also insists on an unjustified and excessive military presence in the Islands, which brings only tension to a region characterized by peace and international cooperation.
We have asked the Secretary-General to renew his efforts in the mission of good offices entrusted to him by the Organization. We are confident that the mission will be of great assistance to us in fulfilling the requirements of the international community.
I wish to bid farewell to this honourable Assembly by urging all of us to seize this historic opportunity to unite as a society to address an unprecedented crisis.
The coronavirus pandemic has taken the lives of more than one million people and its painful aftermath is marked by increased poverty, hunger and inequality, which are putting us all to the test once again.
I hope that solidarity, dialogue and cooperation between nations, as we were once able to achieve, will continue to be the way to respond to the challenges facing humankind.
Thank you very much.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
I come to this great forum at a unique time for humankind, when we face a triple pandemic with common roots: the pandemic of global inequality, the pandemic of climate change and the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.
This is not a mere change of direction but a real change in times.
The cry of the injured earth is combined with the cry of entire peoples plunged into vulnerability and backwardness. The pandemic has revealed the globalization of inequality and, at the same time, a vulnerability that transcends borders.
The pandemic has also exposed the risk of greed, waste and slowness in providing supportive responses to global problems.
For that very reason, I would like to emphasize before this Assembly the conviction that the COVID-19 vaccines must be global public goods.
Argentina welcomes the proposals regarding patents under the World Trade Organization in order to help to promote the production, competitiveness and local development of vaccines.
With public policies focused on strong support for research and development, our country managed to join the global production chains for two international vaccines, and we have a production capacity for the entire cycle that allows us to introduce new developments.
Clearly, it is now a matter of addressing not only the pandemic’s impact in terms of health care, but also the recovery of the economic and social situation, which goes hand in hand with caring for our common home — the planet.
We are fully committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
With the transition towards renewable energy; the adoption of clean technologies to reduce methane emissions; the elimination of illegal deforestation; and the rehabilitation of our ecosystems.
All those commitments are a further step by our country towards a path consistent with the 1.5°C target and carbon neutrality by 2050.
However, I wish to emphasize that none of that will be possible if we do not address the sword of Damocles of global inequality: the restructuring of the global financial architecture.
As the Secretary-General said, it is frankly distressing that, in 10 years, the commitment to providing $100 billion to developing countries for climate action has failed to be realized.
Climate justice will be a chimera without comprehensive financial and tax equity, which would contribute to real social justice.
All the more so in this post-pandemic context, where the risk of widespread catastrophic external debt in developing countries looms. Latin America and the Caribbean, for example, spend 57 per cent of their exports on external debt servicing.
I mention the issue of external debt with particular regret on the part of Argentina, a country that has been burdened with toxic and irresponsible indebtedness to the International Monetary Fund.
To give the world an idea of the magnitude of that “debticide”, I would like to mention one figure:
The funds for Argentina approved by the International Monetary Fund in relation to that unsustainable debt were $57 billion — the same as the total amount that the organization disbursed to 85 countries in the world in the year of the pandemic.
I repeat: they gave us in just one year practically the same amount as they gave to 85 countries around the world in the year of the pandemic.
There is no technical rationale, ethical logic or political sensitivity that can justify such an anomaly.
What is even more serious is that a large part of the funds provided to Argentina have been drained out of the country by an irresponsible liberalization of the capital account.
From that case of “debticide”, which cries out to the global financial world, I emphasize that it is key to restore the principles of debt sustainability that were discussed and agreed at the United Nations, in resolution 69/319 of 2015.
For that reason, we also support the idea of promoting an inclusive multilateral agreement that can fully address the issues related to sovereign debt restructuring.
We believe that the extension of the Debt Service Suspension Initiative of the Group of 20 (G-20), while valuable, is an interim and insufficient measure that does not fully address the issue of debt relief and the restructuring of unsustainable debts.
Similarly, the lack of a multilateral framework for debt restructuring for middle-income countries remains a major gap in global financial governance.
We therefore encourage the extension of the new G-20 Common Framework for Debt Relief to vulnerable middle-income countries.
We also propose that the credit risk rating of countries, currently in the hands of a few private agencies, should be part of the reform agenda of the global financial architecture.
Change, while difficult, is not impossible.
We welcome the expansion and distribution of the International Monetary Fund’s special drawing rights, an initiative that has opened the door to hope. What was unthinkable a year ago is now a reality.
This issue must give rise to a major environmental pact of solidarity that includes low- and middle-income countries with high climate and financial vulnerability.
A pact that allows for the extension of debt repayment terms and the application of lower rates under the current circumstances of financial, health and ecological pressure.
We must promote sustainable financing systems that support payment mechanisms for ecosystem services and the concept of environmental debt.
Debt-for-climate swaps are another positive step.
The capitalization of multilateral development banks, by leveraging funds from country contributions, is also an urgent task.
It is also necessary to deepen the debate on the new global minimum tax.
What has been set out by the Group of Seven and the G20 is a first step, but it is insufficient to benefit emerging economies. It is necessary to work towards a cooperative approach, in which the Sustainable Development Goals can become a reality.
Dear colleagues,
The crisis caused by COVID-19 is also a human rights crisis.
The pandemic has exacerbated violence against women, intensified the stigmatization of migrants, people of African descent, ethnic minorities, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex people, the elderly and people with disabilities and had a serious impact on indigenous peoples.
We face the challenge of building a new beginning towards more just, inclusive and democratic societies.
The prevention and early warning of situations that could lead to massive human rights violations, as well as crimes against humanity or genocide, must be one of the main tasks of the United Nations.
Argentina is firmly committed to moving forward towards the universalization of the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, a crucial instrument in the fight against impunity.
Together with France, we are currently working on a third campaign for the universalization of the Convention so that more States ratify it, with the aim of reaching 100 ratifications by 2025.
Argentina also takes responsibility for the historical demands of the women’s and diversity movements.
That commitment is reflected at the national level, and its highest expression is the establishment of the Ministry of Women, Genders and Diversity.
With the adoption of the law to legalize abortion, the Argentine State assumed the responsibility of legislating and protecting through public policies the health and life of women and people of other gender identities capable of bearing children.
At the same time, we adopted the Law on Comprehensive Health Care during Pregnancy and Early Childhood, which expands benefits and rights and guarantees health care for women during pregnancy and for children in the early years of life.
The Argentine Government resolved to strengthen care for women victims of violence, while implementing a gender focus in social and labour policy measures and promoting joint responsibility and a fairer distribution of care tasks.
With regard to the rights of diversities, we have made progress on historic measures to expand and recognize rights, such as the adoption of the transvestite-trans labour quota law, which stipulates that the national Government must ensure that a minimum of 1 per cent of its workforce is made up of transvestites, transsexuals and transgender people, and a decree that provides for the issuance of national identity documents that recognize non-binary identities.
Let me now turn to the scourge of terrorism.
Argentina highlights the efforts of the United Nations Office of Counter- Terrorism to support States in implementing the United Nations Global Counter- Terrorism Strategy, with full respect for international law, international human rights law, international humanitarian law and international refugee law.
Twenty-seven years after the attack on the headquarters of the Asociacion Mutual Israelita Argentina, we continue the ongoing policy initiated in that area in 2003 of requesting the authorities of the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate with the Argentine judicial authorities in order to move forward with the investigation of the attack.
We reiterate the request to the international community to comply with the requirements contained in the INTERPOL Red Notices in the event of the possible presence of a suspect on their territories, which Argentina has never ceased to demand.
Colleagues from around the world,
With regard to the Food Systems Summit, an event that I welcome, I would like to say that the topic is, in my opinion, of particular importance not only to Argentina but to all of us given our status as producers and exporters of healthy and nutritious food to the entire world.
We believe that the transition towards sustainability in food production systems must be gradual and in line with the ways and time frames decided by each country based on its productive, economic and social circumstances.
There is no single development model that serves all the nations of the world. An inclusive approach to sustainable food systems is therefore essential, with solutions tailored to the social situation and needs based on solid scientific evidence.
Finally, let me mention an issue of great significance to our nation.
The Argentine Republic reaffirms its legitimate and inalienable rights to sovereignty over the Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas, which are part of the Argentine national territory. Those territories have been illegally occupied by the United Kingdom for more than 188 years.
Apart from the United Kingdom’s intention to maintain the manifestly illegitimate colonial situation, there is no reason that the bilateral dialogue on the question of the Malvinas should not be resumed now. The request of resolution 2065 (XX), of 1965, has remained in force and has been reiterated on many occasions, most recently with the adoption by consensus of a new resolution on the question by the Special Political and Decolonization Committee on 24 June.
The United Kingdom persists in its attitude of disregarding the call to resume negotiations on the territorial dispute and has exacerbated the dispute by calls for the illegal and unilateral exploitation of renewable and non-renewable natural resources in the area — an action that is contrary to resolution 31/49 of this Assembly.
It also insists on an unjustified and excessive military presence on the islands, which only brings tension to a region characterized as an area of peace and international cooperation.
We have asked the Secretary-General to renew his efforts within the good offices mandate entrusted to him by this Organization.
In short and in conclusion.
Just as we reject all forms of colonialism, we also understand that humankind faces the challenge of combining rapid technological change and fatal environmental degradation with a vision of comprehensive human development and global social justice.
That is not a choice. It is either solidarity or extinction.
We will emerge from the triple pandemic that I mentioned at the beginning only through bold leadership, innovative ideas and schemes that make possible what seems to be a chimera.
The hands of the clock are ticking. There is no time to lose. It is now or never. History will judge us not on our words but on our actions.

===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
Many times in history, assassinations have been the prologue to great tragedies. Based on the rejection or hatred of their victims, the perpetrators of such actions have upended the public order and opened the gates to enormous social discord. Entire peoples have succumbed to such prophets of hate. For that very reason and in order to underscore the values of rational democratic coexistence, I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude for the solidarity that the entire world has shown with Argentina with regard to the attempt on the life of our Vice-President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner.
In Argentina, the attempt on the life of Vice-President not only affected the public order; it also sought to undermine the virtuous collective achievement that next year will see the celebration of its fortieth anniversary. In 1983, we restored democracy and began a long historic cycle during which different political parties have alternated serving in the Government.
We Argentinians adopted the “never again” agreement on State terrorism and political violence. We value democracy as a model of social development that demands respect for others in their diversity.
I am sure that fascist violence under the guise as republicanism will not succeed in changing the broad consensus to which the vast majority of Argentine society adheres. By exploiting the unrest caused by the pandemic and the economic effects of the war, extremist and violent narratives have proliferated and found fertile ground for promoting anti-political sentiment in our societies. Remaining silent before such glaring signs could make us responsible for jeopardizing the rule of law itself. Those who seek to weaken and erode democracies have a special interest in fostering extreme polarization. Let us not resign ourselves to such a scenario. Let us forge a robust global condemnation of those who promote division in our communities.
It is incumbent upon the General Assembly to respond to the warning signs on the planet in a timely manner. As survivors of a pandemic that struck humankind, we face the choice of learning from that tragic experience or watching the world move towards ever-greater confrontations. The pandemic revealed the enormous inequalities endured by the world’s population. Is it fair that the wealth of 10 men alone represents a sum greater than the combined income of 40 per cent of the world’s population? Where are the ethics in the fact that the pandemic has claimed four times as many lives in the poorest countries than in the richest? Failing to condemn this model of capital accumulation that concentrates wealth among a few people while millions of others drown in poverty makes us complicit in creating such a level of inequality. We still have time to stop many of the threats facing humankind. The injustices we are seeing will only get worse if extreme positions take root; if wars become protracted, while exacerbating hunger; and if persistent inflation erodes the incomes of the most vulnerable.
We must work together in solidarity. We must strengthen a cooperative multilateralism that will ensure the strengthening of the rule of law, the principle of non-violence and greater equity to reduce social gaps. In order to overcome such challenges, we must restore the primacy of peace. We have always advocated for the peaceful settlement of all disputes. It is imperative that all ongoing hostilities cease. For that reason, we need to work together to pursue dialogue and restore peace in the dispute that began with the Russian Federation’s military encroachment on the territory of Ukraine. As we seek to reach the horizon of global peacemaking, we must abandon the economic and financial practices that the developed world demands of the developing world. Maintaining the current situation will only increase poverty and marginalization. If we do not change, we will be unable to build fairer, freer and more stable societies committed to upholding their institutions.
Indebted nations suffer much more from the effects of the established system. Argentina is among them. For that reason, I would like to thank all the States that have supported us in the complex process of renegotiating our foreign debt. My Government did not create that debt but is addressing it in all seriousness. Our criteria are known. They respond to the provisions of resolution 69/319 of 2015, which stipulates that sovereign debt restructurings must promote sustained and inclusive growth while minimizing economic and social costs, warranting the stability of the international financial system and respecting human rights. While we call for a change in the paradigms that govern the international financial system, we subscribe to the same principles underpinning the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Food security must be guaranteed to all who live on the planet. Hunger cannot be allowed in this day and age. The recent reports of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations warn of the impact of the excessive volatility in some food prices and the changes in input markets that influence their production. All of that has had and continues to have a significant effect on increased inflation worldwide; all of those factors are to the detriment of the most vulnerable. Argentina will fulfil its role as a reliable producer and exporter of nutritious and quality food, as well as a supplier of technologies to improve food production. We must guarantee a fairer and more transparent, equitable and predictable international trade system for agricultural products. If we ensure such a system, food-producing countries will be able to make the needed investments to increase production and help alleviate world hunger
Just as we must ensure food security, we must have secure and predictable access to energy. Argentina will continue to stand ready to help overcome that great challenge. We are ramping up production to provide the world with clean energies ,and others that, like natural gas, will enable us to reduce carbon emissions during the transition. We have the world’s
second largest unconventional gas reserves and the fourth largest unconventional oil reserves. We hold large reserves of lithium and the potential to develop solar and wind energy, as well as low- and zero-emission hydrogen. We are working to ensure that our path towards achieving environmental sustainability and food and energy security will be feasible, but all our efforts will be in vain if we do not walk on that path within a framework of increased equitable economic and social development. In that spirit, we are deploying our industrial capabilities and creating added value along the entire production chain. We must include our industrial, scientific and technological suppliers at every turn. Production that creates dignified employment is the path we have chosen to develop.
Just as it is incumbent upon us to seek development that benefits everyone, the environmental situation of our planet urgently requires us to take firm and decisive action for the sake of future generations. Ecological problems require the involvement of everyone. They need a constructive relationship between States and societies — a crucial partnership, without which sustainable development becomes an illusion.
Urgent issues, such as climate change, biodiversity and plastic pollution, should mobilize our efforts in the hope that we can build a broad consensus to ensure the preservation of the planet and humankind. We are not all equally responsible for the climate crisis. Neither Latin America and the Caribbean nor Africa are at the forefront of carbon emissions. Responsibilities must clearly be differentiated, and that requires immediately alleviating the efforts of those that were not to blame.
We want to continue strengthening Argentina’s long-standing position based on the principles of international humanitarian law, unrestricted respect for the sovereignty of States, the self-determination of peoples, the gender perspective and cooperation.
Through the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, holding the presidency pro tempore, we are reinforcing the principles of collaboration, promoting democratic pluralism and fostering South- South and triangular cooperation.
Argentina is actively involved in peacekeeping operations, an essential instrument of the United Nations. We will continue on that path.
I would like to draw attention to the use of unilateral coercive measures. Under the Charter of the United Nations, the only legitimate sanctions are those imposed by the Security Council to enforce its resolutions regarding the maintenance of peace and security. Argentina therefore joins the demand by the peoples of Cuba and Venezuela that the blockades suffered by those nations be lifted.
I would like to thank all Member States for having entrusted Argentina with the presidency of the Human Rights Council this year. For us, the defence of human rights is part of our identity and our history. The Mothers and Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo taught us to persist and to fight. They showed us the way so that, with political will and social consensus, we could carry out a process to eradicate impunity that is unique in the world, based on memory, truth and justice.
In the same spirit, our country has expanded citizens’ rights by developing laws and public policies that promote the equality of women and diversity, based on an intersectoral, intercultural and human- rights approach.
The much-declared social equality requires that we all have access to the advantages offered by the present. In the digital era in which we live, we believe it a priority to universalize access to information and communication technologies and to promote actions that reduce the inequality gaps seen today.
The United Nations is the right place for the international community to achieve the necessary agreements to ensure the maintenance of a free, open, stable, secure and, above all, peaceful cyberspace, where hatred and violence are not fostered through anonymity.
Argentina condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. It must be countered in the context of the rule of law and full respect for international law. We continue to fight against impunity, investigating the attacks on the Israeli Embassy in 1992 and on the headquarters of the Asociacion Mutual Israelita Argentina (AMIA) in 1994, which claimed the lives of 107 people and injured hundreds. We want those responsible for such heinous attacks to be identified, tried and ultimately sentenced. Once again, we urge the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate with the Argentine judicial authorities to advance the investigation into the AMIA bombing. We also urge the international community to join us in our struggle by refraining from receiving or harbouring any of the accused, even if they enjoy diplomatic immunity. We must remember that international arrest warrants and INTERPOL red notices are pending against them.
Latin America and the Caribbean is a region of peace. We are working to also make it more just and equal. We know the tremendous comparative advantage that the Southern Common Market, in particular, and all of Latin America, in general, have in sustainable food production and energy supply.
We have a great opportunity to develop. If we improve the quality of life of our people by creating genuine employment, we can eradicate the pockets of poverty that persist in our societies today.
I wish to reaffirm the legitimate and inalienable sovereign rights of the Argentine Republic over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia, the South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas. They are part of Argentina’s national territory and have been illegally occupied by the United Kingdom for almost 190 years. The request made through resolution 2065 (XX), of 1965, has remained in force and has been reiterated on many occasions,
The United Kingdom persists in its attitude of disregarding the call to resume negotiations on the territorial dispute. Moreover, it has exacerbated the dispute by its calls for the illegal exploitation of renewable and non-renewable natural resources in the area. It also insists on an unjustified and excessive military presence on the islands, which only brings tension to a region characterized as an area of peace and international cooperation. We request that the Secretary-General renew his efforts to fulfil that request and that the United Kingdom agree to heed the call of the international community and put an end to that anachronistic colonial situation. In that context, I wish to reiterate my country’s full readiness to return to the negotiating table and seek a solution that will put an end to this long-standing sovereignty dispute.
We live in a world where injustices and inequalities are increasing. At the same time, democracies are increasingly at risk, peace is crumbling and uncertainty is increasing. We have an urgent moral duty that cannot be postponed, and that is now. We must work and implement effective global agreements that eradicate hunger, drastically reduce inequalities and ensure democratic stability, peace and coexistence. Humankind is threatened. Argentina humbly calls on all the countries of the world to build a new social model that ensures prosperity through social justice.

===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
The world is undergoing a time of change. A new era is dawning while humankind is still coping with the effects of a pandemic that killed 15 million people, exposing the inequality we face. Meanwhile, the climate crisis is subjecting our planet to all kinds of inclement events. Cyclones, tornadoes, unexpected floods or extensive droughts end up affecting millions of human beings in all latitudes of the planet. All of this is happening while a war drags on. claiming more human lives and unleashing an energy and food crisis of tremendous proportions.
As all those calamities are unfolding, we are witnessing an astonishing technological revolution. Robotization and the accelerated process of installation of artificial intelligence force us to rethink education, production processes and the preservation of work. How to address changes and harmonize interests in this new scenario in which we find ourselves is the real challenge we face. 
In speaking before this House. I feel obliged to express myself with absolute candour. The world’s problems demand solutions. We have already spent a great deal of time diagnosing the problems. We cannot keep talking about them while walking on a razor’s edge. The risks of perpetuating that reality are very high.
We have gone halfway towards achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development knowing that, as the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean points out. perhaps only a quarter of the goals will be achieved that year. That inability to envision a better future sows unease in a world that wants to develop and where the poorest and most vulnerable people on the planet live.
It is impossible to seek to achieve an equitable future by promoting the continuity of the same logic that has generated the inequality in which we live. International financial engineering appears abusive and unchanging. How can we achieve sustainable development without financing to help us do so? The international financial system does not evince the will to adapt to a world that wants to recover lost equity. On the contrary, it seeks only to impose the same orthodox policies that have deepened inequality and misery in the world. The global financial architecture serves only to concentrate income in the very few and to marginalize vast regions of the world. It puts its money in speculation rather than in development. It promotes cheap labour rather than the dignity of work. There is no longer time for words. It is time to promote social justice in the world.
The International Monetary Fund cannot raise its interest rates every time the United States Federal Reserve raises its rates to contain inflation in that country. It cannot do so. and yet it does. In that context, it is shameful that to this very day it applies surcharges to many countries that are already finding it unbearable to carry the burden of external debt. Ironically. International Monetary Fund finances Ukraine in the middle of the war. and in the midst of that war it applies surcharges to the interest it charges. That is just astounding. We need a new framework for the treatment of sovereign debt that has development with social justice as its goal. Experience shows that when a people is suffocated under the eternal sentence of debt, its strength wanes, social crises are intensified and debts become uncollectible.
We are facing the challenge of feeding a growing world population in critical climatic conditions. Droughts or floods, tornadoes or hail — everything affects food production and supply. We know that from our own experience. Argentina lost more than 20 per cent of its total exports due to the worst drought in the past 100 years. No less than three points of its gross domestic product were wiped out. We also know today that an international food market intoxicated by financial speculation only facilitates greater income for a few and instability and misery for millions of human beings.
To find a long-term solution to the problem of food security, it is crucial that there be a fairer, more transparent, more equitable and more predictable international trade system for agricultural products. We must eliminate the distortions produced by subsidies and prohibit food from being the subject of financial speculation. Both discourage the investments needed to increase production to help meet growing global demand for food.
Argentina considers multilateralism to be the best tool to identify shared solutions to common problems. It reflects our vocation to act in solidarity and to cooperate in the search for collective well-being. Hegemonic proposals have served only to enhance mistrust, promote arms races and limit the possibilities of economic and scientific-technological cooperation.
In the current situation, as we know, the impact of more than a decade of accumulated crises have come together, ranging from the effects of the financial collapse of 2008 to the war unleashed by Russia’s occupation of Ukrainian territory. The effects of that war are visible. In addition to the terrible consequences in humanitarian terms, the armed dispute is generating historic levels of inflation on a global scale, with a special impact on the price of food and energy.
The current reality is also seeing the rise of tensions that are less addressed by public opinion, but that deeply affect international peace. As an example. I highlight Azerbaijan’s blockades in the Lachin corridor, which have been causing a humanitarian crisis that is once again punishing part of the Armenian people. Precisely today, as this meeting is being held, the media are reporting that Azerbaijan has launched military operations with the purpose of taking control of Nagorno-Karabakh.
The international community cannot remain passive in the face of such a reality. It must act preventively to avoid new ethnic, racial, religious or political persecutions. As we have always done, we continue to demand that the parties find the sanity that calls them to peace and that the multilateral organizations recover the strength that they seem to have lost to enforce international rules. The countries of the global South have historically shared many views on the international system and on the responsibility incumbent on multilateral organizations in matters of development, global peace and security, cooperation and decolonization.
I represent a country that this year is celebrating the fortieth anniversary of its recovery of democracy — a country that has learned from its historical past to say “never again” to human rights violations and that has promoted as a State policy the right to memory, truth and justice. We are proud of these four decades of uninterrupted democracy, in which the promotion and protection of human rights have been a fundamental part of the path taken. Today UNESCO declared the ESMA Museum and Site of Memory — a clandestine detention, torture and extermination centre where the dictatorship perpetrated its greatest atrocities — a World Heritage Site. By actively preserving the memory that the deniers wish to hide, we will prevent that time of pain from being repeated. Faced with those crimes against humanity, our solution was not revenge but justice.
Precisely, because we know the horror involved in the disappearance of 30.000 human beings. I take this opportunity to reiterate the call for adherence to the International Convention for the Protection of all Persons against Forced Disappearances. We need more committed States so that this crime is completely eradicated. The challenge before us is to consolidate and advance the rights agenda, which means establishing democracies with greater equity and equality among its citizens.
Human rights are comprehensive and do not admit any type of regressivity. If there is regression, the cultists of authoritarianism win and hate speech proliferates. That is how democracies are delegitimized and the crisis of representation that is generated ends up putting the institutionality of the rule of law in check. Preserving the rule of law is a shared conviction on our continent. That is why we view current events in Guatemala with concern. The international community must activate the relevant mechanisms that ensure respect for the popular choice.
The climate crisis is a reality that has modified temperatures and atmospheric phenomena around the world, imposing restrictions and obstacles to development. It is imperative to resolve the problem without further delay by creating a fair, transparent and equitable multilateral environmental financing architecture, based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Argentina reaffirms its commitment to gender equality and diversity as an essential condition for growth and sustainable development at the national and international levels, with a human rights approach. We have developed regulatory frameworks and public policies to promote equality for all women and diversities. Currently, our country is executing its National Plan for Equality in Diversity.
As part of the integrationist vocation embodied in the South American Common Market and the Union of South American Nations, over these four years we have proposed resuming a path of integration with Latin America and the Caribbean and strengthening dialogue with all our partners through political coordination, with a solidarity and cooperative approach. As the construction of the European Union once was. the different integration bodies of Latin America and the Caribbean are a heritage that the region contributes to a humankind in search of peace, cooperation and justice.
Our region is facing a historic opportunity. It has the energy and food that the world demands. Our development depends on our having the ability to take advantage of those resources. We must work together to carry out infrastructure works that allow us to compete industrially from our region.
Argentina condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Terrorist acts pose a threat to peace, international security and human dignity. Terrorism must be combated within the framework of the rule of law and full respect for international law. Argentina has ratified its commitment to the Inter-American Convention against Terrorism and to most international instruments on terrorism, seeking to develop all the measures contained therein as the most effective way to end this threat.
For our part, we continue to fight against impunity, investigating the attacks that we suffered in 1992. at the Israeli Embassy, and in 1994. at the AMIA headquarters, which claimed the lives of 107 people and left hundreds injured. We want those responsible for such atrocious attacks to be identified, tried and convicted. Once again, we urge the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate with the Argentine judicial authorities to advance the investigation of the attack on AMIA. We also urge the international community to accompany us in our fight by refusing to receive or harbour any of the accused, even when they enjoy diplomatic immunity. We must remember that international arrest requests and Interpol red alerts have been issued against them.
Argentina firmly opposes the use of unilateral coercive measures and the adoption of discriminatory trade practices. The perpetuation of the blockade against Cuba is unacceptable. Year after year, the General Assembly demands by an overwhelming majority the need to end the blockade. Likewise, we request once again the exclusion of Cuba from the list of countries that allegedly sponsor international terrorism.
Similarly, the sanctions imposed by the United States on Venezuela must immediately cease. Its extension over time only hurts the living conditions of its inhabitants and has led to exile for millions of Venezuelans who have left their homeland looking for a better life.
I also want to reaffirm the legitimate and imprescriptible rights of sovereignty of the Argentine Republic over the Malvinas Islands. South Georgia, the South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime area. They form an integral part of the Argentine national territory and have been illegally occupied by the United Kingdom for almost two centuries. In accordance with the resolutions of the General Assembly and its Special Committee on the Situation with Regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, the way to resolve the colonial situation of the Islands is through sovereignty negotiations between Argentina and the United Kingdom. We regret that the United Kingdom continues to refuse to resume negotiations. We question its ongoing unilateral activities of exploration and exploitation of natural resources in the disputed area, in violation of resolution 31/49. as well as its military presence in the South Atlantic, a zone of peace.
Argentina maintains a firm commitment to the peaceful resolution to that anachronistic colonial situation. We have proposed to the United Kingdom a renewed bilateral agenda on the South Atlantic that involves a formal dialogue process that includes, of course, the issue linked to the resumption of negotiations on sovereignty. We also express our willingness to pursue the tasks involved in the identification of former combatants killed in the Islands, within the framework of the obligations arising from international humanitarian law and in order to provide a response and comfort to the families. Unfortunately, the United Kingdom has rejected our proposal.
Notwithstanding. Argentina reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to redouble his efforts, within the framework of his good offices, to bring both parties closer to the negotiating table.
The motto of the 2030 Agenda is “Leave no one behind”. May no one stray from the path of justice and development forever. We are convinced that it is a noble objective that is valid for individuals and peoples alike. But let us not turn it into a dead letter. When that happens, repentance serves no use. It does not repair damaged lives and lives without a future; much less does it restore lives lost.

===== Session 79 - 2024 =====
To the authorities of the United Nations, to the representatives of its member states, and to all citizens of the world who may be watching—good afternoon.

For those who may not know, I am not a politician. I am an economist—a classical liberal and libertarian economist—who never aspired to enter politics, but who was honoured with the presidency of the Argentine Republic in the wake of the catastrophic failure of over a century of collectivist policies that devastated our country.

This is my first address to the United Nations General Assembly, and I wish to use this occasion—humbly—to alert the nations of the world to the path they have been following for decades, and to the danger posed by the failure of this organisation to fulfil its original mission.

I do not come here to tell the world what it must do. I come to say two things: first, what will happen if the United Nations continues promoting collectivist policies under the banner of the 2030 Agenda; and second, to clarify the values the new Argentina stands for.

Let me begin by giving credit where credit is due.

The United Nations was born out of the horror of the most brutal war in human history, with the principal aim of preventing such tragedy from ever occurring again. To that end, the organisation enshrined its foundational principles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That document set forth a basic consensus, centred on the idea that *all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights*.

Under the guardianship of this organisation and the adoption of those ideas, humanity has experienced over the last 70 years the longest period of global peace in history—one which coincided, moreover, with the greatest economic growth ever recorded. An international forum was created where nations could resolve their conflicts through cooperation rather than by resorting to arms. And the seemingly unthinkable was achieved: the five most powerful nations on Earth were brought together at one table, each with equal veto power despite their often-opposing interests.

This did not eradicate war entirely, but it did prevent any conflict from escalating into a global conflagration. As a result, we went from suffering two world wars in under forty years—with more than 120 million lives lost—to experiencing seventy consecutive years of relative peace and global stability. This was made possible by an order that enabled the entire world to integrate economically, to compete, and to prosper.

As the economist Frédéric Bastiat once said: *Where goods cross borders, armies do not.* Commerce guarantees peace. Freedom guarantees commerce. And equality before the law guarantees freedom.

In this, the prophecy of Isaiah—inscribed in stone in the park across the street—was fulfilled:

> *“And He shall judge among the nations and shall rebuke many people; and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.”*

This, largely, is what happened under the guidance of the United Nations in its early decades. From that perspective, we can say it was a remarkable success—one that cannot be overlooked in the history of nations.

However, as so often occurs with bureaucratic structures created by men, this organisation at some point strayed from the principles laid out in its founding declaration and began to mutate.

What had once been envisioned as a shield to protect the realm of humanity became a multi-tentacled Leviathan—one that seeks not only to dictate what each nation-state should do, but also how all people of the world should live.

Thus, we have witnessed the transformation of an institution once dedicated to peace into one that imposes an ideological agenda upon its members—one that extends to countless aspects of human social life.

The model that once succeeded—a model traceable to the ideas of President Woodrow Wilson, who envisioned a “peace without victory” grounded in cooperation among sovereign states—has been abandoned. It has been replaced by a supranational regime of international bureaucrats who seek to impose upon the citizens of the world a uniform way of life.

What is being debated here in New York this very week, at the *Summit of the Future*, is nothing less than the deepening of that tragic course this institution has adopted. It is the entrenchment of a model which, in the words of the UN Secretary-General himself, requires a new global social contract and the intensification of commitments under the 2030 Agenda.

Let me be clear about Argentina’s position: the 2030 Agenda—however well-intentioned its goals may appear—is nothing more than a supranational governance programme of socialist inspiration. It seeks to solve modern problems by means that undermine national sovereignty and violate the fundamental rights to life, liberty, and property.

It is an agenda that claims to fight poverty, inequality, and discrimination with legislation that only serves to entrench those very problems.

History shows that the only way to ensure prosperity is to limit the power of rulers, uphold equality before the law, and defend the individual’s rights to life, liberty, and property.

It is precisely the adoption of this agenda—one that caters to elite interests—and the abandonment of the principles laid out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that have distorted the role of this organisation and set it on the wrong path.

We have seen how an institution created to defend human rights has become a primary enabler of their systematic violation. Take, for example, the global lockdowns of 2020—which, in my view, should be considered crimes against humanity.

This very institution, which claims to defend human rights, has welcomed into its Human Rights Council blood-soaked dictatorships like Cuba and Venezuela—without the slightest rebuke. The same organisation that claims to uphold women’s rights has allowed countries that punish women for showing skin to join the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women.

Here, too, we have witnessed systematic votes against the State of Israel—the only liberal democracy in the Middle East—while demonstrating a total inability to respond to the scourge of terrorism.

In economic terms, collectivist policies have been promoted that undermine economic growth, violate property rights, and hinder natural economic processes—often preventing the world’s poorest countries from freely using their own resources to develop.

These policies and restrictions have often been pushed by the same countries that once developed precisely by doing what they now condemn.

We have also seen a toxic relationship develop between global governance frameworks and international financial institutions. The world’s most disadvantaged nations have been forced to commit resources they do not have to programmes they do not need, turning them into permanent debtors in service of the global elite’s agenda.

Nor has the influence of the World Economic Forum helped—an institution promoting absurd, Malthusian ideas like “Net Zero” policies, which disproportionately harm the poor. Or reproductive rights initiatives, while Western birth rates plummet and point to a bleak future for all.

The UN has also failed in its mission to uphold the territorial sovereignty of its members—as Argentines know firsthand from our enduring claim over the Malvinas Islands.

And we now find ourselves in a situation where the Security Council—ostensibly the UN’s most vital organ—has been rendered ineffective. Its permanent members’ vetoes are increasingly used to defend narrow, national interests.

Thus, we are left with an organisation powerless to resolve real global conflicts—such as the horrific Russian invasion of Ukraine, which has already cost over 300,000 lives and left more than a million wounded.

Rather than address these challenges, this institution spends time and effort telling poor countries what to produce, how to trade, what to eat, and what to believe—just as it seeks to do through the so-called *Pact for the Future*.

This long list of errors and contradictions has come at a cost: the UN’s credibility has eroded in the eyes of the free peoples of the world, and its functions have been profoundly distorted.

So, I issue a warning: **we are witnessing the end of an era**.

Collectivism and the moral posturing of the “woke” agenda have collided with reality. They offer no credible solutions to the world’s real problems. Indeed, they never have.

If the 2030 Agenda has failed—as even its promoters now acknowledge—then it is time to ask whether it was ill-conceived from the start. We must accept this and change course. It is senseless to double down on a failed agenda.

This is the usual pattern with left-wing ideas: they design a model based on how they think human beings *should* be. And when people act otherwise—when they choose freely—the only solution they offer is to restrict, repress, and curtail liberty.

We in Argentina have already seen what lies at the end of this path of envy and melancholy passions: poverty, ignorance, anarchy, and the fatal absence of freedom. But we are still in time to change course.

Let me be clear to avoid any misunderstanding: Argentina is undergoing a profound transformation, and it has chosen to embrace the ideas of liberty—those ideas that assert that all citizens are born free and equal before the law, and possess inalienable rights granted by their Creator: the rights to life, liberty, and property.

These principles guide the transformation underway in Argentina—and they will guide our international conduct as well.

We believe in the defence of life for all.  
We believe in the defence of property for all.  
We believe in freedom of expression for all.  
We believe in freedom of worship for all.  
We believe in free trade for all.  
And we believe in limited government—always.

And since today events in one country quickly impact others, we believe all peoples must live free from tyranny and oppression—whether political, economic, or religious.

That fundamental idea must not remain mere rhetoric. It must be backed by action—diplomatically, economically, and materially—through the joint force of all freedom-loving nations.

This doctrine of the new Argentina is nothing less than the true spirit of the United Nations: the cooperation of nations in defence of liberty.

If the United Nations decides to return to the principles that gave it life—and resumes the role for which it was conceived—then it will have Argentina’s unwavering support in the fight for freedom.

Know also that Argentina will not support any policy that entails the restriction of individual freedoms, commerce, or the violation of natural rights—no matter who proposes it or how much consensus surrounds it.

For this reason, we formally express our **dissent from the Pact for the Future**, signed on Sunday, and we invite all nations of the free world to join us—not only in rejecting that pact, but in creating a new agenda for this noble institution: **the agenda of liberty**.

From this day forward, know that the Republic of Argentina will abandon the historical neutrality that once defined it and will stand at the forefront of the struggle in defence of freedom.

As Thomas Paine once said: *“Those who expect to reap the blessings of freedom must, like men, undergo the fatigue of supporting it.”*

May God bless the Argentine people and all the peoples of the world.  
And may the forces of heaven be with us.

**¡Viva la libertad, carajo!**  
Thank you very much.