

===== Session 01 - 1946 =====
Coming to this platform where so many distinguished and eloquent speakers have preceded me, I have one difficulty and one advantage: the advantage is that there is hardly anything more to be said, while the difficulty lies in having to draw conclusions. I will therefore profit by this advantage to be brief, and by this difficulty to be frank.
I should like first of all to thank the Government of the United States of America and the City of New York for the generous hospitality which they have extended to us. At the same time I wish, on behalf of my country, to pay a very respectful tribute to a certain lady in black, who was formerly the first lady of this country, and who is seated today at the table of the United States delegation. She has directed her grief into the most noble channel of all, that of duty. She has continued to serve the ideal for which her husband died.
I should now like to point out that the members of the Bolivian delegation to this Assembly were present neither at the Dumbarton Oaks Conference, nor at the San Francisco Conference, nor at that held in London. We are therefore a new team, consisting of new men. We represent a new Government, sprung from one of the most singular popular movements in history. It is the women, workers, and students who, thanks to their sacrifices, have been able to restore public liberties.
This Government has recently declared that it intends to respect international conventions, private property and also all the capital invested in our country, attracted by the riches of our sub-soil, which has as yet been inadequately explored.
This Government of judges and magistrates, professors and workers has announced that elections will be held on 5 January next. Thus, in one and half months’ time, the people of my country will be called upon freely to express their will by electing their constitutional government.
At this point I should like to quote the opportune words spoken from this very platform by my distinguished friend and colleague, Mr. Arce, representative of Argentina:
“But all this is exclusively our own history, and although we cannot deny anyone the right to pass judgment upon us, to applaud our wise actions and blame our mistakes, we do not and never shall allow foreign interference in any matters concerning the rights of our people to settle their own problems inside the boundaries of our own land.”
The Bolivian Government, composed of judges and magistrates, professors and workers, upholds, as its fundamental principles, respect for human personality within the framework of the law, as well as the safeguarding of public liberties and the claims of social justice which are so essential in a country of workers and miners like our own. I venture to emphasize this point, because the time has now come to repudiate from this platform the false and tendentious comments made by a certain section of the press on the rise to power of the Government which I have the honour to represent at this Assembly.
As a veteran of international conferences like this one, I should like to recall the day, now long past — it was 4 September 1929 — when I mounted the platform of the League of Nations for the first time. It was in the old Salle de la Réformation at Geneva, a bare and somewhat sombre hall, and the League was preparing to move into far more luxurious premises which, unfortunately, did not bring it luck. On that occasion I said:
“We have come here now, impelled by the conviction that a man-made, and hence artificial and defective, though perfectible institution cannot live or renew its vitality unless harmony exists between its component parts; and in order that this union may bear fruit, we must have either unanimity or a degree of culture, that is, of international understanding sufficient to enable the minority to accept, not the injunctions, but the reasoning of the majority.”
Thus, even at that time I unwittingly raised the vital problem of co-operation between large, medium and small States. In accordance with your conception of democracy, this co-operation can only be based on the equality of all States before the law.
It is on this basis, therefore, that we have always co-operated in all international organizations. However, it seems to me that at Dumbarton Oaks the very essence of this principle was somewhat changed.
My distinguished friend and colleague, Mr. Alberto Ulloa, the chief representative of Peru, in the memorable speech which he made from this platform reminded us of the Congress of Vienna and the Holy Alliance, which were the outcome of the Napoleonic wars. The outcome of the most terrible of wars, from which we are now emerging, was on the other hand, Dumbarton Oaks. But the five great Powers, which are, of course, heterogeneous, agreed at Dumbarton Oaks to maintain peace on the basis of a Charter, that is to say, of a law whereby the sum total of duties is counterbalanced by the sum total of rights. A larger number of rights corresponds to a larger number of greater duties. This establishes a kind of hierarchy, which was accepted at San Francisco. But it is for the great nations by their actions to make us forget it. True greatness does not take advantage of those who are weaker.
All international co-operation should be based on the legal equality of rights. And here I should like, if you will forgive me, to quote once more from the speech I made before the League of Nations:
“We should indeed like, to believe in the ideal of peace which you propose, but we hope that this peace organization will prove to be more than a mere mirage, designed to lure us on and to dazzle us. For rights and fears run parallel, and our rights are limited only by the respect they inspire in others.”
After seventeen years, and with my heart still heavy with disappointment at our failure, I could repeat from this platform the very same words I uttered at that time before an assembly at which were gathered together the builders of a world which has since collapsed. I might do so with all the more justification because the new Organization is based on a Charter which can be applied to one’s neighbours but not to oneself, if it hampers or displeases.
The right of veto must therefore be, if not amended, at least applied differently. This is a question to be decided by the large, medium and small States. I understand very well that the veto right was suggested by the three great Powers in compensation for the sacrifices they made for the common victory; but what I do not understand is the manner in which it has been abused; I do not understand this lavish use of a privilege which has been so criticized from this platform. In saying this, I am merely drawing conclusions from the speeches we have heard here. I hope, therefore, that, sooner or later, we shall be able to reach a better understanding on this exercise of the right of veto, which, we must confess, conflicts somewhat with our democratic conception of co-operation between large, medium and small States.
As you see, I have spoken with some frankness. I am glad to note, however, that since 23 October 1946, the day on which this General Assembly opened, the heavy atmosphere created by the quarrels in the Security Council, which was becoming an “Insecurity Council”, has been replaced by a much lighter one. The air we breathe is more invigorating. The Assembly is becoming, so to speak, a supplementary lung for a body afflicted by the veto with a sort of infantile paralysis, which it would be wise to relieve. It was therefore necessary to speak openly. I am happy to have done so after my colleagues had addressed you with similar frankness.
Although I am a veteran of international conferences, I am a newcomer to this milieu. Certain representatives of the great Powers had been described to me as incorrigible bogies. I have found them, on the contrary, to be charming, clear-sighted people, who wish to be understood and to understand others. Understanding is our great problem. Mutual understanding between us all for the common good, that is what we must seek. And why should we not understand each other? Have we not all, to a greater or lesser extent, directly or indirectly, shed the same blood and the same tears, and suffered the same misfortunes? Have we not all carried on a struggle for liberty without which this meeting could never have taken place?
I will end these brief remarks on a note of confidence, in the hope that all nations, large, medium or small, will apply themselves to the common task of dragging the muddy chariot of peace out of the mire into which it has sunk.

===== Session 03 - 1948 =====
Mr. COSTA du RELS stated that the third session of the General Assembly of the United Nations had opened in an atmosphere of anxiety and uneasiness. Optimistic words had been spoken from the rostrum, but there had also been bitter and disappointing words, to the point where the representative of one of the great Powers that had done so much for the cause of peace and for thirty years had devoted itself to the task of averting catastrophes, had stated that his country was forced to interrupt its reconstruction in order to turn its energies to that gloomy industry: the manufacture of war material.
By a strange irony, the spirit of the men responsible for world destiny seemed to be in contradiction with the admirable capital of France where, for five centuries, everything had been based on the strictest rules of logic and reason.
Nevertheless, it was to be hoped that French genius, so strongly evident in the admirable city of Paris which offered free men the very image of their ideal, could reduce the confusion which was so evident in the discussions among the nations. When passions were ruling, it was important to heed the dictates of wisdom, common sense, equity and courtesy. Gould the Assembly succeed in creating such an atmosphere of understanding, of serenity and courtesy so that the peoples of the world might find wise solutions for their problems?
It had become commonplace to repeat that the United Nations, based on the principle of power, could not survive without full and absolute agreement among the permanent members of the Security Council. The United Nations had been established on the principle of power but it must also be said that an implacable fate seemed to pursue it. No sooner had victory been achieved and the enemy defeated than the Allies, who had been united against a common foe, had separated and broken their unity. The victors had to shoulder a heavy responsibility. Never before had the word «Now, translated endlessly into every language, resounded so often in international deliberations.
The veto, a double-edged sword forged by the Anglo-Saxons and unadvisedly unsheathed at Dumbarton Oaks and at San Francisco, was, by repeated blows, weakening the foundations of the Organization. It was not alone in the Security Council that the right of veto was exercised.” Unfortunately, it was used outside the Council as well. For instance, resolutions and recommendation of the General Assembly, voted legally, in accordance with the rules, adopted by a two-thirds or a simple majority, were declared null and void when they were contrary to the interests of a given nation. Such insistence on negation was either an indication of weakness or a clever manoeuvre to use the United Nations to protect selfish interests. If that were international collaboration, the only possible conclusion was that it was a sinister farce.
Faced with the failure of the Security Council, the Bolivian Government had accepted with sympathy from the very first moment the concept of a « Little Assembly» or Interim Committee. The Bolivian delegation had co-operated with that Committee from the very beginning, fully realizing that it was necessary to have such an organ to consider carefully the important problems arising between one session of the General Assembly and the next.
Furthermore, the work of the Interim Committee had been carried out in an atmosphere of courtesy and calm, which had been helpful in the reaching of wise decisions. Its conclusions had been voted unanimously in the majority of cases, signifying that opposing points of view had been brought together by reasonable compromise, which was the basis for a true spirit of international co-operation, Reaching a compromise was the only way to solve the difficulties arising in the work of the various organs of the United Nations.
The Bolivian delegation had proposed that the permanent delegations in New York should be granted legal diplomatic status, as in the case of the diplomatic corps accredited to Washington.
In addition the Bolivian delegation would also shortly submit a draft resolution requesting the Social Commission of the Economic and Social Council to establish a commission which would study the problem of backward races in Latin America.
Turning to the question of Palestine, Mr. Costa du Reis said that his country had been elected a member of the United Nations Palestine Commission whose task it was to implement the General Assembly resolution 181 (II) of 29 November 1947 concerning Palestine. Bolivia had accepted that task, which was neither agreeable nor easy, and had carried it out with complete objectivity within the framework of the instructions given by the Assembly. The Bolivian delegation had accepted that mandate because it considered that international cooperation was not merely gathering ephemeral honours at assemblies or protecting petty interests. International co-operation had the grandeur of being of use to humanity and the servitude of being often misunderstood.
Men such as Count Bernadotte had carried that concept of serving to the point of heroism. His sacrifice as well as that of Colonel Sérot did great honour to mankind.
Mr. Costa du Reis went on to say that the results of work done in the United Nations were not always very encouraging. He wondered if some day, on looking back, it was not found that the experience of the small Powers consisted only of the sum total of their disappointments. However, Bolivia’s faith remained undiminished. He recalled that, in 1942, despite the wall of silence and steel which Germany had set up between France and the rest of the world, he had the honour of receiving a letter from a great French thinker, who had since died, in which he said: «Our unhappy Europe is almost destroyed. You, the peoples of Latin America, must gather the torch which is falling from its hands. »
The Bolivian representative said that while he did not claim that the wishes of Paul Valéry had been fulfilled, it was nevertheless true that since that time all the peoples of Latin America had made an effort to reach a higher degree of understanding and co-operation within the framework of the Charter and regional agreements, upon which depended their security and their future prosperity.
The Bogota Conference had been both a test and a proof. Out of Bogota had emerged union, tested as in a furnace, in defence of an ideal continuously under threat.
The Latin origin of the American countries was the mainspring of their hopes and confidence in their future high destinies. He therefore fully associated himself with Mr. Schuman, the head of the French delegation, who had said at the 146th plenary meeting that the United Nations must be universal or cease to exist. That was why he regretted to note that the group of Latin countries, which had done so much for civilization for so long, had become weaker within the United Nations. The absence of Italy and Spain was therefore the more to be deplored.
Italy was waiting in the lobby. For political reasons, which did not call for further explanation, that great Latin country would not be permitted to take the seat due to it in the conclave of nations, unless the Assembly acceded to the somewhat subtle, but courageous and correct, arguments advanced by the representative of Argentina, who had pleaded that the Charter should be interpreted in the broadest, most liberal, most chivalrous manner in order to allow Italy, a great Latin nation, to enter the United Nations.
Mr. Costa du Rels might, under given circumstances, share the view of the head of the Belgian delegation that it might be possible to ask the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion. But it was no longer possible to bar a great nation such as Italy from the United Nations for petty reasons repugnant to all good reason.
With regard to Spain, Bolivia was linked to that country by bonds of blood, language and faith; his country once again deplored the fact that Spain was not a Member of the United Nations. Despite the feelings of Bolivia in the matter, the Bolivian delegation had voted for the General Assembly resolution 39 (I) passed at Lake Success in 1946, which recommended that certain steps should be taken against Spain. Bolivia had fully implemented that resolution. Two years had passed since that resolution had been adopted, and Mr. Costa du Reis asked whether the measures contained in it had been effective. Had they not rather acted as an irritant? Had they not proved inappropriate? Under present world conditions, it might be asked whether they should be continued. He was aware that the Security Council had declared repeatedly that Spain was not a danger to world peace and security. Yet one of the most frequent arguments heard in the First Committee had been that Spain was in fact a threat to world peace.
But everyone would agree that Spain was not a threat to world peace. That threat, judging from what had been said in the Assembly, appeared to come from another quarter.
During the discussions at the congress of the Universal Postal Union in 1947, Mr. Costa du Reis had had the opportunity of opposing the view, dictated by political prejudice on the part of most delegations, that certain nations should be excluded from the United Nations specialized agencies. If necessary, he would repeat all the legal arguments he had used at that congress before the First Committee. In any case, he had received definite instructions from his Government to propose immediately that the General Assembly admit Spain, as well as Italy, to the specialized agencies of the United Nations and suspend the measures recommended in the Assembly resolution 89 (I) of 12 December 1946.
He asked the General Assembly to consider those suggestions, for the time for denunciation and measures of exclusion had passed. Formerly, political considerations had been predominant. The dominating argument should now be the need for peace; peace above all.
The terrible realities of war, which was the main topic of conversation in the humblest homes, everywhere loomed like a thundercloud over the world. Faced with that fear, an attempt must be made to rally the nations by an appeal to their courage in facing their responsibilities rather than to appeal to their fear of them.
A form of suicidal mania had led to war in 1989. It might be said that fear of war had led to war. The men of 1948, with their mind’s eye fixed upon the proud but grievous loss of their kin, should destroy that war psychosis. The spectre of the inevitability of war should be laid by resolution and co-operation.


===== Session 05 - 1950 =====
My Government has done me the honour to instruct me to define my country’s position in relation to the grave problems which concern the world and the United Nations at a moment when there has been a breach of the peace in Asia and when all peoples are looking towards us in the hope that the Organization will maintain the peace and security which it pledged itself to safeguard in San Francisco.
2.	The fact that representatives of the great Powers and those of the small countries take their turn to speak from this platform without distinction of rank strikingly reflects the democratic spirit of the United Nations and also offers tangible proof of the indivisibility and universality of peace, for peace is a matter which equally concerns all of us, regardless of the size of our country, its geographical position and ethnic composition.
3.	On this solemn occasion, it is my duty to reassert my Government’s faith in the principles of the Charter and to analyse the causes which, among others, interfere with the machinery of the United Nations. At the same time, I shall outline our view on these problems, it being understood that we shall exercise absolute independence of judgment in voting. I realize, of course, that we shall exert not so much a material as a moral influence on the events which, by affecting the rest of the world, also affect Bolivia directly or indirectly.
4.	Before dealing with the items on our agenda, I should like to say that my Government appreciates the Secretary-General’s efforts to create an atmosphere of confidence and harmony within the United Nations. It recognizes the importance of his report which, while it records the deadlock reached on specific problems, also indicates positive accomplishments. Thus the balance is still on the credit side and the hopes of my country are still nurtured by that favorable balance.
5.	At this vital stage in the life of the United Nations, I should like to point out certain inconsistencies which, in my view, exist in the Charter notwithstanding the admirable spirit, intelligent structure and wide scope of that remarkable document. This analysis is based on the belief that these inconsistencies, among other reasons, help to impede the progress of negotiations which are hampered by the ideological and political division of the world. Not that the world has no right to be divided politically and ideologically, but because the pugnacity of one part of it threatens the independence and security of the other.
6.	The first inconsistency arises from the fact that, while the Preamble of the Charter affirms the principle of the equal rights of nations, Article 27 of the operative part establishes a voting system for the Security Council which disregards the principle of equality set forth in the Preamble and makes power the determining factor in the United Nations.
7.	The second inconsistency which troubles me is that whereas the principle of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is enshrined in all the Articles and Chapters of the Charter, that principle, whose observance must be ensured by each State, conflicts with the provisions of paragraph 7 of Article 2, which defines domestic jurisdiction. That is a barrier which blocks our efforts to guarantee universal rights which are the basis of democracy and the vital prerequisite for the maintenance of peace and security.
8.	Finally, there is another inconsistency, which does not derive from the letter of the Charter but from the facts. I refer to Chapter XII, concerning the International Trusteeship System, whose purpose is to promote peace and to ensure the economic, political and social advancement of the Trust Territories by the grant of all the freedoms, rights and guarantees likely to lead to their independence. The Latin-American countries, which have developed from the status of colonies to that of free States, are following with keen interest the progress of those territories towards liberation, but we must be careful not to fall into the trap which almost always exists when an attempt is made to speed up the process of emancipation without a careful analysis of the circumstances which qualify a territory for self-government but with political ends in view, the aim being that these populations, dazzled by freedom and an easy prey to communism, should fall under a totalitarian regime which would lead them into a form of slavery much more degrading than trusteeship, which is merely a passing phase in their progress toward independence. This is a situation in which we have to move with prudence and caution.
9.	On Friday last I read an editorial in the New York Times, which publishes in its distinguished columns such excellent comments on the problems which concern the United Nations and the world. This editorial, which dealt with “expansionism” in Asia, contained an impressive list of the achievements of the so-called imperialist nations in Asia and of the territorial annexations of the Soviet Union. The conclusion is that the United Kingdom, France, the United States and the Netherlands have done a great deal for the advancement and freedom of the countries of Asia. By contrast, the USSR, which is always talking about colonialism, has virtually annexed Mongolia, has annexed Tannu Tuva outright, as well as the south of Sakhalin, and has taken over complete control of the Kuril islands; It dominates western Manchuria, controls Dairen and Port Arthur and exercises economic control over Sin-kiang, or Chinese Turkestan, as well as North Korea, which it has now catapulted into a war.
10.	I think it would be sound procedure to use these three points of reference for the purpose of defining my Government’s policy and indicating its attitude to contemporary problems.
11.	We, the small nations, resigned ourselves to accepting the principle of unanimity in San Francisco because we recognized that even in the most genuine manifestations of equality of rights among States, the facts were bound to weigh heavily, for clearly principles and declarations cannot remove the real fact of the existence of the great Powers. All that could be done was to give them certain privileges in return for the burdens and responsibilities which they were to assume and to trust that they would be magnanimous, that they would fulfil their obligations and be able to lead the way to< world unity, and thereby to human greatness. Accordingly, as Mr. Belaunde of Peru explained so eloquently [279th meeting], the veto was granted, so that the great Powers might be in a position to achieve unanimity and so bring about political harmony in the world. Even if we had some foreboding, we could not believe that in San Francisco we were forging the very chains which were to fetter our movements in the name of power and in terms of power.
12.	Unfortunately, that is what we have come to in our five-year experience. The process of paralysis is so severe that the manipulator of the powerful magic spring had to be absent from the Security Council so that the mechanism could be set in motion to cope with the aggression against South Korea.
13.	I agree with the representative of Brazil, Mr. Freitas Valle [279th meeting], that the system of the Charter is based on a division of functions, the Security Council exercising the executive powers while the General Assembly is the deliberative organ which can make recommendations. But I wonder what we can do about the persistent abuse of the veto by a permanent member of the Security Council which prevents that organ from fulfilling its functions. The only course open to us is the one pointed out by Mr. van Zeeland, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belgium, whose moving speech we applauded on Saturday [281st meeting]. The course he recommends is to seek out all the measures and means offered by the Charter, scrutinizing and analysing its wisely worded text to find procedures which open the way to pacific action within the system of collective security.
14.	That is the object of the first point in the proposal of the United States Secretary of State, Mr. Acheson [279th meeting], whose firm resolve and nobility of thought are worthy of that great democracy, the United States, and in keeping with his responsibilities. I firmly believe that the four-point proposal which he has presented is the most important and most constructive initiative taken since San Francisco, because it tends to adjust the gears so that the machine which has been slowed down can proceed, and removes the disheartening impression that we have a broken-down machine in our hands.
15.	My delegation will support the United States proposal and for the same reasons will support the Chilean proposal [A/1343], which on this point is identical and hence can be amalgamated with the United States proposal. I wish to emphasize that these proposals do not seek to weaken the Security Council which all of us respect, particularly after its prompt decisions in June; but we also do not wish the Security Council to become a giant that is bound hand and foot. It would not be necessary to carry out the new measures proposed by the United States and Chile if the Council worked and fulfilled its functions, and if no excessive use of the veto were made. We understand the use of the veto in moderation, but we condemn its abuse.
16.	I have said that another of the inconsistencies in the Charter is related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, so that by virtue of Article-2, paragraph 7, the concern for that principle which is shown throughout the Charter becomes a mere aspiration and at best has a persuasive effect. When we read those paragraphs of the Charter and realize what I have just said, we are reminded of the priest who from his pulpit threatens and exhorts the already repentant sinner kneeling in the temple, while the priest’s admonitions fail to reach the cynical and disdainful heretic passing the gates of the sacred precincts.
17.	Nevertheless it would be unjust not to recognize that we have made great progress in the past two years. My country has the honour of having contributed to that progress by bringing the question of Cardinal Mindszenty to the attention of the third session of the General Assembly. I recall that with only the support of my firm convictions I pleaded for the inclusion of the item in the agenda from this very rostrum before a somewhat fearful and sceptical Assembly. The item was included. At the fourth session of the General Assembly discussion was easier and more convincing; the world had in that short interval become accustomed to accepting collective action in defence of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the Assembly had turned its eyes to the common man, realizing that the individual was the nucleus of society and that society was the substance of the State.
18.	At this present session, the leader of the Chilean delegation, Mr. Santa Cruz, has proposed that we should take another step forward, and we shall resolutely follow our good neighbour along the path which its delegation has indicated with that generous spirit which inspires its exemplary democracy. For the same reasons we shall follow Chile in its initiative in economic questions, being convinced that the step proposed to us to give effect to the Assembly’s recommendations will, if approved, represent a great advance.
19.	I should like to comment on the other points of Mr. Acheson’s proposal, beginning with the establishment of a security force, a peace patrol. My Government not only supports the creation of this body of observers but also, as a country which has never transgressed or uttered threats, will feel strengthened and more confident because this new collective security force will be a concrete guarantee of peace.
20.	Further, my country will support the United States proposal that each Member State should designate a unit from its national armed forces, and we welcome it not only as a technical means of promoting the training and unification of the command, but as an admirable method of forming an international awareness in every citizen of every country. When he sees the flag of the United Nations side by side with his national flag waving in the calm breeze of international peace at the head of the armies which symbolize and seek to defend sovereignty, it will be brought home to every citizen that, without ceasing to be a citizen of his own country, he is a citizen of the world, and at the same time he will feel that the world is open to all.
21.	The fourth point of Mr. Acheson’s proposal is judicious and necessary and my delegation will support it, having been convinced by the experience of the improvised action against the surprise aggression on the Republic of Korea.
22.	The question of the de facto recognition of governments has been and remains a very controversial topic in the regional group of Latin-American States. Some believe in the effectiveness of collective action in preserving democracy and uphold the principle that governments must be based on the express will of the people; others believe that the right of peoples to govern themselves as they wish or as they can should remain untouched and free from outside supervision. I do not intend here to go into this controversial subject which has been exhaustively discussed; it would, however, be impossible for me not to refer to a new phenomenon: the effective, dangerous and widespread strategy of fomenting internal revolutions as a tactical means of achieving the transformation of the world, a new phenomenon which concerns each and every one of us and deserves to be discussed with the help of documentary evidence and in the light of the facts. This is not the right time to make that study and I shall refer merely to the merits of the case.
23.	Facts show that the Soviet Union annexed the Baltic States some ten years ago by diplomatic devices. The facts also show that twice it laid hands on Poland and there are some here who could tell us something of what happened in Romania in 1945. The Security Council and the world know what happened in Czechoslovakia in 1948 and all free peoples here have a feeling of solidarity with the heroic Greek nation which has set a fine example in defending its internal and external sovereignty. The events in Korea have been impressed upon our minds by the words of Mr. Austin, whose eloquence and above all whose integrity and goodwill we respect and admire, and who produced evidence in the Security Council to show that the forces of aggression against the Republic of Korea are trained in Manchuria and armed by Moscow. In the meantime we have heard the voice of Peiping loudly spreading the incredible falsehood that the United States and the United Nations are the aggressors in Korea. Nor can we think without alarm of what is happening in Indo-China, the Philippines, Burma and elsewhere.
24.	But there is even more. Wherever we look we see evidence of underground activity and the disguised intervention of the person who hides the hand that throws the stone. Thus the stability of democratic governments is constantly threatened and our families, that is, our peoples, who used to be friendly and happy, are now being divided by hates and antagonisms and our governments are forced to use their modest resources to fill their arsenals and reinforce their police instead of filling their granaries with wheat and their storehouses with meat; they must buy guns instead of ploughs and must watch the battle fronts instead of working for the general well-being.
25.	Thus the message of hope which President Roosevelt, with his magnanimous smile, addressed to the world, telling us that the world would live in freedom from fear, is already a distant echo.
26.	Something must be done to combat this phenomenon, which is destroying us from within. Something must be done to prevent the occurrence of what is happening in my country, where the Government, like the United Nations, is carrying on an armed struggle to save democracy and its institutions on the home front and, with the technical assistance of the United Nations, is striving to work its natural resources in the interests of raising the standard of living, of improving the social conditions and the welfare of the people of Bolivia.
27.	The first idea which occurs to me is that, just as in earlier times, when their domestic jurisdiction was respected, the sovereign States signed pacts of nonaggression, in order, for example, to guarantee peace, it might now be necessary for us to begin considering the preparation of a new multilateral instrument to combat the new political phenomenon, an instrument which would take the form of a universal pact of nonintervention based on the provision in international law which permits collective action to prevent intervention; such collective action would be entrusted to the United Nations, so that President Truman’s doctrine might be further strengthened.
28.	We cannot fail to point out, moreover, the way in which, in the troubled world of today, the Soviet Union is exalting the principle of absolute sovereignty, exploiting that principle which is so deeply rooted in the hearts of all peoples. And while that country attacks the freedom of other nations wherever it can, it rashly attempts, in the name of absolute sovereignty, to undermine the economic aid which the United States is giving Europe for its reconstruction and also, through its generous contribution under the Marshall Plan, in an effort to raise standards of living and improve social conditions for all mankind.
29.	For this purpose, the USSR is furthering a cold war in order to force the nations to divert their newly developed resources to rearmament. I have often thought with bitterness and sorrow of the bread of which the hungry in the old world have been deprived and of the tremendous expense entailed by the highly spectacular and co-ordinated effort deployed by the United States and the United Kingdom, with all their mechanical resources, in feeding and supplying the population of Berlin by air for so long a time.
30.	Fortunately, the democratic world has sufficient resources to arm itself in order to preserve peace while at the same time contributing to the advancement of under-developed countries, which likewise constitutes a guarantee of peace through the promotion of human well-being, for the honour of our civilization.
31.	For that reason, we of the smaller countries are not discouraged. We have faith in the expanded programme of technical assistance of the United Nations, and in “point four” of President Truman’s programme. We have faith also in the work of the Department of Economic Affairs and the Department of Social Affairs of the Secretariat, and in the constructive work of the specialized agencies. This feeling of confidence is deeply rooted in our hearts, in spite of the fact that the USSR does not contribute to or support this work.
32.	This is the proper moment to say that my country’s experience in this direction has been full, serious and constructive. That experience includes certain significant points to which I should like to draw attention. First, the Technical Assistance Mission which went to Bolivia in April of this year was composed of fourteen distinguished experts from eleven of the highly developed countries of the world. It was headed by the Deputy Minister of Mines and Resources of Canada, Mr. Keenleyside, who went to Bolivia in response to a request by the Secretary-General to the Government of Canada; Mr. Saint-Laurent, in a generous spirit of international understanding, agreed to give his colleague temporary leave of absence to enable him to serve the United Nations in Bolivia. Was not this an exemplary and heartening action?
33.	The Mission arrived in my country, where it was received with lively interest by my Government, although, it must be admitted, it met with indifference and scepticism on the part of the public. Nevertheless, it went about its task with such skill and devotion that little by little it penetrated the national consciousness and awakened the interest of the people throughout the country; requests were received by the Government from many different regions, asking that the Mission should visit each of these regions in order to study actual conditions, diagnose the ills, and prescribe the remedy. In this way the United Nations penetrated into the very heart of Bolivia, and I am certain that even were a future government of Bolivia to oppose the recommendations of the Mission, it would be forced to carry them out owing to pressure of public opinion. Meanwhile, Mr. Keenleyside, a distinguished Canadian statesman, had become also a distinguished servant of the peoples of the world, since as a result of his experience in Bolivia the Secretary-General appointed him Director-General of the Technical Assistance Administration of the United Nations, an appointment that carries the guarantee of the constructive development of the programme.
34.	I wish to extend my thanks from this rostrum to Canada and to all the other countries which have sent such distinguished experts to a less highly developed country, experts who have returned captivated by our vigorous land and our good-hearted and long-suffering people.
35.	I wish also to express my thanks to the Secretary-General and to stress the fact that the workers who constitute the technical divisions of the Secretariat are imbued with an idealistic fervour; they represent a type of worker whose time and energy are at the service of the entire world and who will form the vanguard of future progress. Our gratitude extends also to the specialized agencies, which generously and with determination have brought practical aid to Bolivia.
36.	I should like to suggest that in each of the highly developed countries a roll of honour should be established, on which would be recorded the names of the most competent experts in each country, in order that as a reward for their achievement these experts might be named as workers in the service of world economic and social progress. In this way, while at the same time, in accordance with the plan proposed by Mr. Acheson, we are organizing armed forces for the preservation of peace, we may also organize an army of civilian experts to defend peace by promoting the well-being and progress of the peoples of the world.
37.	Thus it can be seen that, in spite of the cold war, the United Nations and the democratic countries are still undertaking positive and constructive action. It can be seen that despite the “cold war”, which is forcing the western democracies to devote the greater part of their resources to the armaments race, a race which they did not desire since they have no aggressive designs and are guided only by considerations of legitimate defence, those democracies believe it their duty to ensure peace through a policy of balance of power. It can be seen that they are nevertheless concerning themselves with assisting the unfortunate.
38.	The action of the United Nations has awakened a new faith in the people of my country, a faith comparable to the hope aroused by “point four” of President Truman’s programme. All this leads us to believe that it is not necessary to throw the world into upheaval or to instigate fratricidal wars in order to exploit the natural resources of the world, to place them at the service of humanity, to raise the standards of living of the peoples of the world and to enhance their dignity as societies; rather, it is possible for society to evolve peacefully, without the need of communism, towards a new social ideal which is based on justice.
39.	And this faith is strengthened, in spite of the insidious campaign based on the old catchphrase about Yankee imperialism and the greed of Wall Street, ideas which disturbed us in our youth, twenty years ago, but which became ghosts of the past on the day that President Roosevelt inaugurated the good neighbour policy. Today, thank God, the bogey of Yankee imperialism produces no other reaction in us than would the strident and dissonant sounds of an old clarion which once upon a time roused our energies but now merely irritates us.
40.	We should ask ourselves what the Soviet Union is doing meanwhile. Is it contributing in any way to this civil mobilization for world welfare? In my opinion, it is doing the opposite; it is trying to sow distrust and dismay, because it knows that anarchy feeds on hunger. And its conduct calls forth such mistrust in us that in spite of what we have been told here in this very Assembly — that the USSR has reached such a high level of industrial development that atomic energy is used there to remove mountains — we do not dare to apply for the services of its technicians, for we are afraid that in our countries they would leave the mountains where they are and remove the governments. For the same reasons, we cannot trust the sincerity of the draft resolution [A/1376] presented by Mr. Vyshinsky, which repeats the same themes on which he based his propaganda in 1947 at Lake Success, in 1948 in Paris and in 1949 again at Lake Success. And as hope has its roots in faith, my delegation takes a sceptical view of that draft resolution and the way in which it is worded.
41.	Lastly, my country reiterates its support of the measures taken by the Security Council with regard to the invasion of the Republic of Korea, rendering heartfelt tribute to those who have died on the battlefield and expressing its admiration for those who are fighting there for peace and dignity. My Government is deeply grateful to those heroes who, in the war they wage, are the soldiers of peace, under their leader General MacArthur, symbol of the greatness of the United States, a country which lends dignity to our civilization and the genius of which is shaping the progress of the world.


===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
The sixth session of the General Assembly is meeting, it would seem, in an atmosphere of hope. The fifth, the fourth, the third sessions, and even the second, also met in an atmosphere of hope. Why? Because hope is the easy, conventional mask concealing the cruellest realities.
2.	These realities are very different from those the founders of the Organization at San Francisco held shining before our eyes on the morrow of the cruellest catastrophe the world has known. By putting in our hands a Charter inspired by the highest ideals, but already conceived in ambiguity, they made us promises which have not been kept. By giving us a Charter inspired by the highest ideals, but based upon the permanent agreement of the great Powers, they made us promises which have not been kept.
3.	As the mortar binds all the stones of a building, so that agreement — or I should rather say that compromise — binds together all the Articles of the Charter and forms its frame. Yet never, I repeat never, since 1946 has this agreement among the great Powers amounted to anything but profound disagreement, and never has the structure of the Charter been so severely shaken.
4.	It would be otiose again to mention that the Security Council, despite all the powers with which it is invested, has failed in its task. The immoderate, the excessive use of the veto, falling like a bludgeon, has paralysed it. Semiconscious as a result, it has been able to concern itself only with minor matters and, unfortunately, like a wheel with a sprung axle, to spin in the void.
5.	Yet Article 42 of the Charter gave the Security Council — an unexpected innovation — the basic means of enforcing its decisions, a United Nations armed force.
6.	You are all acquainted with the conclusions that emerged from the long discussions of the Military Staff Committee, although it was composed of the most brilliant officers of the last war. You all know that these discussions were sabotaged by the USSR representative, by his time-wasting speeches and, subsequently, by his systematic absence. And what was the conclusion? It was painful, it was disappointing. The armed forces of the United Nations were not to be larger than those of any one of the great Powers.
7.	Thus the secular arm, once demanded so warmly, so movingly by Aristide Briand, to whose memory I must pay a tribute of respect, would become in the hands of the strong a method of bringing the weak and the small to heel.
8.	Plow far we have come from the juridical and philosophic digressions of Dumbarton Oaks! How far from the idylls of Yalta and Potsdam! The tragic ambiguity of the morrow of victory is obvious to all and bids fair to change the present and future of the United Nations from top to bottom!
9.	But errors come home to roost! It was a juridical error to base the whole system set up by the Charter on a politically impracticable compromise. It was a psychological error to make such a compromise between nations with fundamentally different cultures, interests and ideologies. It was a psychological error to take the comradeship of war and victory and the momentary coincidence of interests for a permanent guarantee of friendship and mutual confidence.
10.	The ancients recommended mortals pursuing happiness to mark each day with a white stone. We see, alas as we glance backwards, that the whole road since 1945 is paved with black stones.
11.	Hardly a week ago the USSR representative in this very Assembly replied to the Western Powers’ proposals for disarmament, which might obviously have been a useful basis for discussion, with sarcastic remarks in doubtful taste. But, as he knows that even the crudest irony is not really a political position, he put forward certain counter-proposals, I will deal only with one of them: that for a disarmament conference of Member and non-member States of the United Nations to be held in June 1952 [A/1944].
12.	What does this mean? Does the Soviet Union no longer regard the United Nations as a valid organization? Does it think that all negotiations to ensure peace should be concluded outside the Organization? After weakening this Organization by an attitude which is the negation of international collaboration, after exhausting its advantages and propaganda resources, the Soviet Union considers the United Nations no longer suited to its interests and designs and intends to do without it.
13.	A few of us still here — I see them in this hall — attended the 1932 Disarmament Conference at Geneva. That conference, called by the League of Nations, comprised Member and non-member States, just like the conference Mr. Vyshinsky is proposing now. I do not want to annoy the augurs, but you all know what became of that Disarmament Conference. When it was of no further use to Hitler in obtaining acceptance of his views, the famous Gleichberechtigung, Germany left the Disarmament Conference and the League of Nations. Seven years later, the same Germany and the Soviet Union, champion of peace, signed the agreements of August 1939 and together plunged the world into a hell from which it has not yet entirely emerged, into which, there is every reason to believe, an effort is being made to plunge it again.
14.	So, I ask you and I ask myself whether it was for that that mankind endured such untold agonies for so many years? Was it for that that women shed torrents of tears? Was it for that that we gave the lives of our children, lives which we had worked upon as upon a masterpiece so that they could be finer and more useful than our own? Shall all who died have to repeat that terrible sentence which Rudyard Kipling wrote on the tomb of a soldier of the previous war: “Passer-by, go tell the living that they lied to us”? Lies, then, the words spoken by the false shepherds to lull the good faith of defenceless people! Lies, the human rights, to state which alone does honour to the spirit of man, but which the totalitarian Moloch daily devours as they take on a certain consistency and assume some form I A lie, too, this right to life, sacrificed daily to the criminal exercise of state sovereignty!
15.	So we have come to a wall. We must choose: either we have retreat, the Charter torn to shreds by admitted violence and aggression or by Machiavellian sapping of the principles which are the basis of our liberties, our dignity and our moral health; or we have reasoned collaboration, withdrawal of pride, partial waiving of that sovereignty which is of disservice to many causes, the patient search for a peace that shall not be the peace of one or of the other, but just peace.
10. But, alas, to judge by what we hear, it seems that peace is the exclusive prerogative of certain States, as each boasts that it alone has its secret. Yet, by a tragic irony, this secret is not the secret of peace, but that of war. To defend peace you must have a firm grasp on death.
17.	Are we the playthings of some strange spell or are we all men who have gone mad? Can we not lay aside our grievances, our pride, our secret interests? Can we not do without our sarcastic remarks? Can we go on living in a world in perpetual mourning, in a world in which great words, the heritage of our forebears, words such as honour love, pity, gratitude, kindness, have lost their meaning?
18.	And though the voice of a small country like mine may be too weak to be heard, allow me none the less to repeat over and over again: Let us love one another! Let us understand one another! Let us help one another!
19.	The great Powers duty is not only to defend peace by arms, but to defend it also by setting up such living standards as will promote order and justice. Thus while the world resounds with the noise of arms being forged an bombs being tested, my Government has asked the United Nations to send a mission of inquiry to make a general survey of all its material and intellectual resources.
20.	The Keenleyside mission, to which I cannot pay enough of a tribute, has completed its investigation and an agreement between Bolivia and the United Nations has just been signed on the basis of its report. Under this agreement a team of international experts in various branches and of various nationalities will completely recast our much too obsolete administrative services in accordance with a pre-established plan. They are to discover means to set our currency on a sound basis and to plan the exploration, exploitation and distribution of our resources within the limits set by our Constitution and laws.
21.	I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention and sympathy to this heartening aspect of international collaboration, to this over-all experiment in planned technical assistance. It is the first large-scale activity undertaken by the United Nations in the complex and varied life of a country desperately trying to work out its destiny.
22.	Labour must be accompanied by bodily, mental and social health. The worker must find happiness not only in a fair wage but in healthy living conditions and in an atmosphere of relaxed confidence, in which he and his employer can live side by side and work for the common weal.
23.	All in all, it is a great honour and a great satisfaction to present to you today the example of a small country, economically weak but potentially wealthy, asking the strong to make it in the future what they are today. The example of the United States of America in the past shows that this is possible.
24.	Unfortunately, there is a shadow over this profession of faith which I cannot conceal. Bolivia which, in no mercenary spirit, placed all its resources of strategic materials at the disposal of the allied countries fighting for freedom, is today facing a very serious problem, both economic and moral. I must bring it to the Assembly’s attention.
25.	The price of tin, the basis of the Bolivian economy, has for some months been subjected to the unilateral criterion of a purchaser against whom my country is defenceless. An attempt is being made to force upon it, by the methods used by the strong against the weak, a price which bears no relation to equity or to the spirit of co-operation. Whereas the manufactured goods sold to us, and the other non-ferrous metals, have risen in price by from 40 to 60 per cent, the price offered to us for tin is, within a few cents, that of 1945. If a fair and reasonable solution is not found by direct negotiation, there is a danger of a far-reaching economic and social crisis. Not only the Bolivian Government and employers, but also the whole Bolivian working class, are calling the Assembly’s attention, through me, to the serious problem caused by the artificial lowering of the price of a primary strategic raw material and by the unfair price imposed for it. At present purchases and sales have come to an end. I hope, however, that I shall be able in the near future to inform the Assembly that a reasonable solution, has been found in the spirit of friendly co-operation which is laid upon countries of goodwill by the Charter, and to which my Government remains deeply attached.
26.	In conclusion, may I be permitted to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Assembly is holding its sixth session in Paris. It seems that I am in some small degree responsible for this. Some delegations have praised me for it, others have blamed me, yet others still hold it against me. That is really too much honour for a mere representative of a small South American country. I must, however, remind you that in ratifying by a two-thirds majority at its fifth session in New York the draft resolution submitted by the delegations of Bolivia, Colombia and Peru [A/1593], the Assembly set aside budgetary considerations and based itself on political and moral grounds alone.
27.	Europe is the sick continent. Marshal Tito’s recent appeal is confirmation enough of that. It was therefore timely and wise for the United Nations to come and sit beside its sick-bed. In these critical days when civilization is being washed by a tidal wave, and the Mediterranean culture to which my friend the Brazilian representative swore eternal faith — and I join with him — is threatened, the gathering of the United Nations in France seems symbolic.
28.	Joseph de Maistre, who lived in a period almost as topsy-turvy as our own, wrote in 1814: “France has been granted an undisputed mission to raise man to his highest function”. France is still fulfilling that mission. It is gratifying that we are here to bear witness to that. A country which has poured out the fruits of its genius, which has convinced, persuaded, and, even better, charmed; a country whose ideas have formed distant nations still in the stage of France’s own turbulent youth; a country whose capital is not a city, but a sun ; a country which has made the Champs Elysees the meeting place of the world ; a country which at will manipulates masculine thought as easily as feminine styles of hair and dress ; where the Louvre is Beauty, the Etoile Grandeur and Chaillot Peace and Fraternity — that country has taken upon itself a secular and redoubtable responsibility. That responsibility France is fulfilling still in offering us its wonderful and abounding hospitality. And then there is Paris, the only city in the world which one can take to one’s heart without it bursting.


===== Session 07 - 1952 =====
I must begin by expressing the emotion and anxiety I feel as I address this Assembly, which is opening another session in full4 awareness of the fact that it is struggling for its existence as the supreme international body vested with the task of building a constructive peace for all peoples. Because “power cannot be exercised with impunity”, to quote the Bolivian Minister, Franz Tamayo, it is disquieting to consider the tremendous power and correspondingly great responsibility of the great Powers which, constrained as they are to proceed in accordance with a rigid pattern in keeping with their domestic policies, have been unable to lay the foundation for a stable peace which would enable their peoples and the peoples everywhere to live in the hope of a better world.
65.	Our emotion becomes anxiety when, as the representatives of small nations, we realize that we can contribute very little, indeed almost nothing, to the elimination of the conflicts among the great Powers, Yet, at the same time, we understand that it is our duty to co-operate constructively in the work of the United Nations, which seeks to build good-neighbourly relations at a time when profound changes are being made in economic, political and social structures and when no State, however small, can remain indifferent to the problems confronting a world which is moving towards unity. The United Nations is in itself the most satisfactory international institution history has known for studying and planning better economic and social conditions for the undeveloped countries. Its painstaking and methodical investigations, and its sustained interest in the solution of the vital problems of the undeveloped countries, represent a collective effort without precedent and the combined labour of outstanding abilities placed at the service of mankind. If to this is added the ever-growing conviction that the world will be a better place to live in if it is prepared to achieve unity, so that the economies of the different regions of the earth may be complemental to each other, all respect being given both to economic sovereignty and the principle of self-determination of peoples, it will be realized that the under-developed countries are the most vitally interested in the effective solution of the conflict among the great Powers, and, thus, in the real strengthening of the United Nations.
66.	It is the study groups of the United Nations which, in their search for the soundest bases for a lasting peace, have pointed out the fundamental need to promote the development of the under-developed countries. This view has gained such acceptance in the United Nations that no discussion and no important resolution fails to take into account the danger inherent in the continued existence of economically exploited and politically, dependent peoples. Now, in Bolivia, the opportunity has arisen to give effect to the purposes and recommendations of the United Nations regarding the economic development of the under-developed countries, without risk of conflict. That opportunity and that development will be followed, with the greatest interest by other countries in a similar position.
67.	In the frank and intelligent statement he made a few days ago [379th meeting], the retiring President of the Economic and Social Council, who is the head of the Chilean delegation, mentioned the alarming figures for mortality, health and nutrition in the under-developed countries and their trade deficits, and referred to the report submitted to the President of the United States by the Materials Policy Commission. He cited statistics on the reserves of tin, copper, manganese, aluminium, oil and zinc, and the probable consumption in the next twenty-five years, which show how “the world, and especially the industrial countries, will depend to a growing extent upon the raw materials emanating from the under-developed countries”. These ores and others, in addition to vegetable raw materials, exist in abundance in my country. Up to the present time, only tin has been intensively exploited, and Bolivia is the second largest producer of tin in the world.
68.	The arrival of the conquistadores in the territory now occupied by Bolivia disrupted the agrarian economy of the Incas and transformed it into a mining economy, while the feudal system was imposed in the rural areas. That is how, during the colonial period, the legend of the wealth of Potosi spread far and wide in America and Europe. But, paradoxically, that very wealth contributed to the poverty of the producing nation. This apparent contradiction was due to the fact that the silver shamelessly extracted at the cost of the lives of millions of Indian serfs helped to finance imperial Spain's plans for domination.
69.	In the twentieth century, tin being essential to the development of the industrialized countries, an economic empire based on tin mining was built up in Bolivia. After firmly establishing its political power in my country, the rulers of this empire went abroad and assumed foreign citizenship in order to strengthen their political domination through diplomatic influence. The tin magnates found minor allies in the large landowners and local politicians living on the labour of the Indian peasants; thus a feudal mining system was established and for half a century appointed puppets as presidents, members of parliament, judges and diplomats, all of them employed in the semi-colonial exploitation of the people of my country. Thus the bitter paradox of the colonial period of a country tremendously rich in natural resources and at the same time incredibly poor, continued to exist, although there was now the fiction of political independence,
70.	The following statistics from official United Nations documents clearly illustrate the real situation in Bolivia. The birth rate is 45 per thousand; the general death rate is 35 per thousand; the death rate of infants is as high as 500 per thousand. As regards nutrition, the Bolivian’s consumption of calories is 1,612 daily. The annual per capita income is $73 (U.S.). As regards literacy, 80 per cent of the population is illiterate. Average daily wages are about 50 cents (U.S.).
71.	At the other extreme, it is interesting to note that the personal fortune of the tin magnate, Simon I. Patiño, was estimated a few years ago to amount to over $500 million, and that in 1951 the Patiño family as a whole paid a total of 53,217.08 bolivianos, or approximately $250, in surtax (tax on presumed profits). Another “tin baron”, Mauricio Hochschild, paid no surtax at all. Lastly, Mr. Carlos Victor Aramayo, owner of the daily newspaper La Razón, which alone is worth roughly $250,000, paid 186,971 bolivianos, or about $900 in surtax in 1951.
72.	Such an abnormal and inhuman system of economic privilege, based on the exploitation of three million human beings by an insignificant minority, was maintained for haft a century by the irrational exercise of political power and was one of the main obstacles to the normal development of Bolivia. Indeed, this anomalous situation could not have lasted as long as it did had it not been encouraged and supported by interests outside the country. As a reaction to that state of affairs, and in defence of freedom and progress in Bolivia, a movement of liberation, formed by the middle and working classes and the peasants, came into existence in Bolivia fifteen years ago. It came to power without the consent of the “tin barons”, by the vote of the people, ratified by arms. It was not merely another political party, ready to wait its turn to serve the feudal super-State of the mining industry, or to seize the opportunity of the traditional military coup to enrich its leaders with the crumbs from the tables of the owners of the means of production; it was a movement of national liberation which had come into being spontaneously and naturally as a result of the situation in Bolivia and Latin America. The agents of the feudal regime imposed by the mining industry immediately understood that the organized arrival of the people on the Bolivian political scene constituted a danger to their own existence and resorted to every possible means to thwart their access to power. Those means included non-recognition. That is why, particularly during the last six years, the rights of that people were pitilessly destroyed. Thousands of working-class, peasant and middle-class families were held down under the yoke of poverty as a result of labour black-lists. They suffered the violence of a police State and were the victims of mass murders. The most elementary human rights were denied and violated; at the same time, the people were subjected to a campaign of political slander. The will of the people, as expressed through elections despite chicanery and coercion, was frustrated.
73.	But the march of the colonial and semi-colonial peoples towards progress and freedom cannot be halted, because to halt it would mean the perpetuation of war and poverty in the world. In Bolivia, the path of peaceful evolution was closed and the people, wresting the weapons from the hands of its enemies, overthrew the feudal mining regime after a bloody and heroic struggle. The triumph was marked by the greatest humanity; after the battle, and while it was still giving Christian burial to its thousands of dead, the stout-hearted and generous people of my country forgave its erstwhile opponents. Not a single person was shot; there were no reprisals or destruction of property. In Bolivia a revolution without hatred is in progress.
74.	Under the technical assistance programme launched by the United Nations to promote the progress of the under-developed countries, the agreement of 1 October 1951 between the United Nations and Bolivia was an experiment with far-reaching implications. Thanks to this agreement, which went beyond the strict definition of technical assistance, my country was given administrative assistance designed to re-establish order in its public and fiscal administration, In view of the chaos to which the public administration had been reduced by the feudal mining system at that time, it was logical that the United Nations should desire to offer technical assistance in the sphere of administration, although it was certainly not realized that the disorder had been created as a method of concealing the frauds committed by the mining industry and the government officials in its service. In Bolivia, this step was looked upon with some suspicion. It was pointed out that it involved a tacit renunciation of the principle of sovereignty and independence. Outward appearances were, of course, maintained, and the administrative trusteeship over Bolivia was veiled by regulations drawn up to guide the advisers in their work. But the Bolivian people understood instinctively that this intervention, although materially of advantage to the country, was in conflict with its traditional principles. Today my Government, interpreting that collective feeling, is preparing its observations on the agreement and will propose amendments which it considers to be in keeping with its national dignity. These reservations will not in any way constitute a repudiation of the agreement reached with regard to technical assistance, for, today, more than ever, as it begins a new era in its history, Bolivia hopes to secure all the advantages which technology can offer to a country whose potential wealth must not be underestimated in plans for increased world production or in programmes for the settlement of large numbers of migrants who could find homes in its rich and extensive territory. Negative factors in the economic and social structure of Bolivia have weakened its strength and retarded its development — its geographical position, its small population and its isolation from the world’s great trade routes. But the underlying reasons for its internal disorder are closely related to the forms in which its wealth has been exploited, which have been typical of the semi-colonial nations, and these, in turn, can survive only under the control of international cartels.
75.	I should like to comment on the basic criterion which, in contrast to the analysis I have given, the competent organs of the United Nations applied in dealing with the problem of technical assistance to Bolivia. The report on which the agreements between Bolivia and the United Nations were based could not include all the information which circumstances required, because the sources providing the information were interested in maintaining and consolidating the conditions in which the mining industry and the Bolivian workers were being exploited. As mining was not only the main but also the only positive activity of the national economy, radical remedies were necessary, and not mere palliative measures which would in the long run only intensify administrative disorder and governmental instability. There were two main gaps in the report: the absence of data on methods of establishing smelting-works for tin and other minerals in Bolivia and, secondly, the lack of any critical analysis of the conditions under which the mining industry operated. It was impossible to make an objective study of the Bolivian economy without considering these two matters. Unfortunately, they were not taken into account, and the result was a gap which is now becoming apparent in the United Nations plans for technical assistance to Bolivia. It would be unfair, however, to blame the technical mission for these gaps. It began its inquiries at a time when the political situation of the country was such that there was particular official interest in concealing the truth and in misleading the experts, who had in the end to follow the lines laid down by the great mine owners through a government that was completely subservient to them.
76.	In view of what I have said, the Bolivian people wish, to enjoy the assistance of the United Nations. The United Nations and its specialized agencies can do much, not only for the direct benefit of my country, but also — and this is the most important aspect — for the benefit of mankind, which is impatiently seeking means of balancing population growth with expansion of the means of production to eliminate hunger and poverty.
77.	From its liberators, Bolivia received as a heritage an extensive and rich territory which is at the service of mankind. I do not feel that I am exaggerating the scope of these problems, which are closely related to technical assistance, when I say that the problem of my country’s economic development is not a strictly national question but a matter which affects the community of nations. The Bolivian problem deserves special understanding for one reason in particular, that it is the result of a conflict initiated by external factors. Now that vigorous domestic forces are seeking to reorganize its economic structure, Bolivia requires, and requests through this great assembly of nations, the support which is needed to solve its basic problems, so that the sacrifices of its people, who are striving with unparalleled vigour to overcome the obstacles created by its unfavourable geographical position and against powerful international interests which seek to perpetuate its semi-colonial status, may not once more be vain.
78.	Under the Constitution and mining laws of Bolivia, the State’s right to expropriate concessions, which have given rise to a power openly opposed to the national interests is indisputable. Under our law, the expropriation and withdrawal of such concessions are called for by two constitutional principles: the social function of property and the public interest. The principle of political independence is fully recognized in the constitutions of Member States. However, side by side with this legal and democratic provision, without which an international organization could not exist, there are economic forces which believe simply that might is right. The relations between small producers and large buyers are becoming increasingly difficult. Although there have been and still are producers’ associations, it is equally true that there are buyers’ monopolies. Faced by such forces, a country without reserves can easily be upset. Apart from these factors, countries whose economy depends on one or two basic commodities are subject to a policy of extortion, whose purpose I fail to understand. Under this policy, low prices are fixed for certain commodities when they are in short supply and there is a demand for them, and they are thrown on the free market when the supply increases. This policy has been followed in the case of certain essential commodities and is an undisguised threat to the security of the under-developed countries. This restrictive and extortionist policy destroys the reciprocity and solidarity which should mark the economic relations of the small, medium-sized and large countries. International disputes and national liberation movements emerge, like inexorable historical corrective phenomena, as a result of such unjust relations.
79.	The Bolivian liberation movement has taken the irrevocable decision, to nationalize the large mines in accordance with the law as a first step towards bringing the national economy under the control of the State. Mining profits will be used to raise the present level of productivity, to carry out a land reform which Will enable the rural population to participate fully in the national life, to establish new industries which will make it possible to take advantage of other minerals, other sources of power and other natural resources, to improve living conditions and to make the benefits of culture and civilization available to the whole population. When political independence is thus coupled with economic sovereignty, there will be social peace and progress in Bolivia; this will contribute directly to the harmonious development of the other peoples of America and of the world, and will help to achieve one of the objectives of the United Nations with regard to countries in a similar position to mine. The degree of success of this vital process will be reflected in the United Nations and in the under-developed countries in their common struggle for progress and freedom. I therefore appeal to the understanding of the tin-purchasing countries; I am certain of the solidarity of the countries which have problems similar to ours. My delegation reserves the right to speak again in this general debate if an international situation arises which affects my country during the period of nationalization of the mines. And now, in conclusion, I must turn to a problem of general concern.
80.	The system of collective security is undoubtedly the most remarkable historical experiment undertaken by the human race in its endeavour to ensure world peace. During the first half of the twentieth century, men have striven to perfect this system, which is the most effective means of warding off the scourge of war and eliminating aggression. The real obstacles to peaceful development are the disturbances affecting the relations among the great Powers whose destinies involve the fate of the entire world. The small and medium-sized nations have placed their hope in moral principles, the sine qua non of that spirit of peace which is necessary to create a situation in which peace among men is possible. My people earnestly desire the establishment of a lasting and enduring peace under the auspices of the United Nations and consider that moral and spiritual factors offer the best guarantee for the progress of man towards his goal.


===== Session 09 - 1954 =====
Two years ago, at the seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly, the Vice-President of the Republic of Bolivia and Chairman of our delegation described [384th meeting] the Bolivian people’s victorious fight to enforce the principle of the nationalization of the sources of production and thereby to achieve economic independence and consolidate the country’s political sovereignty. The exhaustive analysis he made at that time constitutes a document of the utmost significance that will always serve for the guidance of the leaders of under-developed countries who are fighting to restore to their peoples the benefit of their sources of wealth, wrongfully withheld by those who represent backward and oppressive feudal systems.
13.	At that time, the Uruguayan delegation played a part that earned it a place of honour and the gratitude of the Latin-American countries. The resolution recognizing the right of peoples freely to exploit their natural wealth and resources [resolution 626 (VII)] was adopted by the General Assembly, and its adoption won for the United Nations the gratitude of many peoples throughout the world.
14.	The decisive support given to Bolivia by Uruguay is fully explained by a study of the glorious origins of the latter country, which achieved independence through the efforts of a man representing the rural element, the peasant element, in the setting of the wars of independence, in contrast with the oligarchical and urban element that moulded our political emancipation in other parts of America.
15.	In justice it must be recognized that Jose Artigas was the forerunner of the popular struggles of our time. The Uruguayan hero gave expression to the longings of the masses, who perceived intuitively that political independence was not enough, because at that time it meant chiefly that the economic wealth of America would be transferred from the ousted colonizers to the victorious indigenous oligarchies.
16.	During the first fifty years of its existence as a republic, Bolivia lived in a Middle Age that, while it had no philosophers or Gothic cathedrals, possessed feudal lords wielding power over life and property. That society, proud of its European origin, occasionally produced brilliant men who tried to improve their country’s lot, but who encountered an obstacle to their desires in an economy based entirely on agricultural production, which exhibited serious deficiencies owing to the use of primitive farm implements.
17.	In that half-century the Bolivians learned a terrible lesson: that if a people has large territories but is weak, it must inevitably face war. As Balzac aptly said: “Qui terre a, guerre a” (He who has land has war).
18.	The jurists to whom the Assembly has assigned the difficult task of defining aggression will always find it profitable to read the history of Bolivia. As in the Biblical episode, aggression occurs when the strong man slyly observes the circumstances of the weak and, having armed himself, attacks him who lacked the foresight to arm himself. Bolivia, an economically weak country with a badly-designed social structure in which the majority was subjected to forced labour in the fields and the mines, could rely for the defence of its territorial integrity only on a characteristic doctrine of American public international law: the uti possidetis of 1810, which proved to be but a poor weapon of pen and ink against the effectiveness of rifle and cannon.
19.	For these reasons the Bolivian delegation listened with interest and satisfaction to the words spoken in this forum by the representatives of the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics concerning mankind’s longing to halt the armaments race and to bring about the control and prohibition of weapons of mass destruction. The atomic bomb in the hands of unscrupulous people is in reality the scientific expression of the will for aggression that manifested itself thousands of years ago when a man armed himself with a stone or a stick against another who, through improvidence or idealism, remained unarmed.
20.	Some of the representatives who spoke before me referred to the spread in world public opinion of scepticism concerning the efforts of the United Nations to maintain international peace and security. The mass psychosis created by the fear of nuclear weapons and the conviction that the atomic war is inevitable is the most menacing danger that this international Organization has yet faced. Yet it must be said that, apart from the urgent need for agreement on the prohibition and control of atomic weapons which I have mentioned, it is essential that the United Nations should launch a veritable psychological crusade, through all its organs and by securing the co-operation of all men of good will throughout the world, to banish from the minds of the peoples the terrifying assumption that atomic war is inevitable.
21.	I believe that, in the minds of the peoples distressed by the description of the Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Bikini and other more recent explosions, that manufactured sun, the hydrogen bomb, has become a kind of legendary monster whose whims, wickedness, cunning and growing intelligence are feared. It is essential that the public should have a more logical conception of the reality and should be convinced that the bomb is not dangerous; for — as the French writer Denis de Rougemont says in his book Lettres sur la bombe atomique (Letters on the Atomic Bomb) — the bomb is not dangerous in itself, because it is an object; it is man that is terribly dangerous. He has made the bomb and is preparing to use it. Control of the bomb is a good thing, but what is needed is control of man.
22.	This “control of man” must be the immediate aim of us all. We must correct the error in human thinking that has made the atomic bomb the most effective instrument of mass psychological imbalance. It is the duty of the United Nations to launch a worldwide campaign and to charge the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization with its implementation. The attainment of a sounder basis of judgment with regard to all that concerns nuclear energy would soon become the most effective factor in the system of international control which the President of the United States has proposed with such humanity and wisdom.
23.	The Bolivian people, which always associates itself with the champions of peace, justice and law precisely because it has had first-hand experience of the impact of aggression, has still another ground for anxiety concerning the atomic problem. A mixed committee of engineers and scientists from Bolivia and the United States recently explored part of Bolivia's territory and verified the existence of immense deposits of radioactive minerals. Consequently, Bolivians are now wondering with alarm whether, after having mined tin for half a century with no result other than fifty years of living in poverty, illness, illiteracy and oppression, the Bolivian miners, who are among the continent’s most politically-minded, are to be condemned to wrest from the bosom of the Andes the raw material which will enable man to manufacture an imitation sun to destroy, to annihilate, the tireless creative work of that star.
24.	On the threshold of the hydrogen age, Bolivia has ceased to be a mining camp. With the great tin mines nationalized and the legitimacy of that all important measure sanctioned by resolution 626 (VII) of the United Nations General Assembly, dated 21 December 1952, my country found itself faced with the dramatic problem arising from raw-material prices. I quote the words of the Minister for External Relations of Bolivia on a matter that is of interest to all raw- material producing countries: “We are a mineral-producing country, our chief product being tin. During the Second World War we contributed to the defence of democracy with approximately 200,000 tons of tin, sold at controlled prices not in the best interest of the Bolivian economy. At that time, as at other times, we were urged to increase our production whatever the effort or sacrifice, a process which is always costly and difficult. It has happened again and again that, while we have been producing at full capacity, world market prices, which are beyond our control, have fallen sharply, with disastrous effects. Not even in times of high prices were we able to secure what we felt was due us, because at such times some method was always found of imposing a maximum price for tin, while nobody took care to prevent a fall in prices. It may be said, therefore, that there has never been, and there is not now, a free market for tin.”
25.	At the present time, although we have maintained and even increased the export volume as a result of the policy of nationalization, Bolivia has received less money owing to the fall in prices. The prices fixed in all contracts of sale for tin are determined by world mineral market quotations, and are therefore unremunerative.
26.	It is the duty of the United Nations to co-operate in solving this acute problem, which affects all raw material producing countries alike; and it is the moral duty of those who govern highly industrialized countries to respect the impartial judgment of those who hold that the prices of manufactured goods must be brought into harmony with the prices of raw materials.
27.	It is unreasonable that while some countries enjoy a high standard of living, in others, such as Bolivia and India, the per capita income is so small as to be ridiculous, or that the tin miner should be working in such wretched conditions that his average life expectancy is barely 27 years, a fact which warrants our accusing of genocide the oligarchy that ruled my country during the last fifty years.
28.	In order to remedy the tragic condition of the Bolivian working classes, President Paz Estenssoro and his comrades-in-arms have, despite the limitations imposed by the current price of minerals, given effect to the relevant points in the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement’s programme. Family allowances, housing subsidies, a minimum subsistence wage and collective contracts of employment have been introduced and the unpaid services which were common in the feudal system of agriculture have been abolished. In that connexion, I again quote the Minister for External Relations of Bolivia: “But in addition to those concrete benefits, which merely supply long-felt needs, the workers have been given the status and respect to which they are entitled, because it is their contribution that counts most in the country’s development. For example, there exists in my country a trade unions statute which protects labour leaders from the persecution which, in general, is the response to their demands. Workers are included on the managing boards of the two largest State undertakings which administer the nationalized mines and oil wells, and the efficiency of those organizations has been improved through a system of workers’ control. Lastly, the Government itself includes four responsible and alert ministers who are workers. I do not mention these facts for purposes of mere propaganda, but because they are intimately related to the efforts of international organizations to safeguard workers’ interests.”
29.	I should mention in addition to the foregoing my Government’s ratification of six international instruments in the social field originating from meetings of the International Labour Organisation and the decree prohibiting the possession by any property owner of more than one hectare of vacant land in an urban area and providing for the expropriation at a fair valuation of land in excess of 10,000 square metres except where it is the property of an industrial enterprise which needs a larger area of land. This decree, which marks the institution of urban reform in Bolivia, was enacted to protect the middle and working classes by providing them with the accommodation to which every human being is entitled and defeating the selfishness of those who used to acquire vast areas of urban land and keep them for purposes of speculation.
30.	On 2 August 1953 the Legislative Decree on Land Reform was enacted to amend the semi-feudal conditions under which land was worked, and it was immediately put into effect: plots of land which peasants under the old system had been allowed to cultivate in exchange for various unpaid services became the property of those who cultivated them. The same decree further provided that wages must be paid to the peasants for the work they did on the land which remained in the possession of the former owner. Once the peasants had become the owners of the land, their efforts exceeded all expectations: the last harvest, the first since the land reform, greatly exceeded previous ones. Thus the facts have given the lie to the pessimistic predictions of certain reactionary circles in the continent as to the results of Bolivia’s land reform, and have even contradicted the experience of other countries.
31.	For over a hundred years the peasants were subjected to an inhuman servitude characterized not only by unpaid work for their masters, but also, and what is more important, by contempt for their status as human beings. The point was reached where they were even denied access to the centre of a town. The land reform has put an end to their oppression and humiliation and has helped to awaken in them a profound awareness that makes them feel that they are an integral part of the national life as free citizens of a free country.
32.	Allow me to digress for a moment to review, in the perspective afforded by this time and place, what has been accomplished in a little over two years. In this General Assembly I can raise my voice in the name of my country to affirm with justifiable pride that Bolivia is fulfilling the solemn obligation which it assumed in signing the Charter of the United Nations, in which the peoples express their determination “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom” and “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person”.
33.	Since the destruction of the Inca empire, Bolivian territory has been the scene of a continuing process of biological democratization. Nowhere in the continent is there any country more Indian or mestizo than Bolivia. Even those whose skins are white are genuine Bolivians, because they have assimilated the characteristics of the mestizo through their five senses. That is why Bolivia is always in the forefront of the fight against racial discrimination. My country’s delegations to the seventh and eighth sessions of the General Assembly were co-sponsors of draft resolutions on the problems of racial discrimination and the status of the Indian minorities in the Union of South Africa. In this connexion and in connexion with the anticolonial tradition of Bolivia’s international policy our position is unchanged, and will remain so.
34.	In order to bring the indigenous peoples once and for all into the stream of Western culture and civilization, the revolutionary regime has introduced universal suffrage. To that end the obstacles previously imposed by the exploiting minorities in the form of legal impediments — as by prescribing that the voter must be able to read and write, that he must have a certain minimum income, and so forth — in order to prevent the working masses from participating in the nation’s political life, were eliminated.
35.	During, the last ten years the Presidents of the Republic were elected by less than 50,000 votes in a population of approximately four million, which clearly shows that democracy existed only in theory. Now that suffrage without discrimination as to sex, income or education has been introduced, we hope that at the next parliamentary elections the total vote will come close to one million.
36.	The nationalization of the mines and the land reform have created the necessary conditions for attaining the third great objective in President Paz Estenssoro’s programme of government: the expansion and diversification of the national economy. Despite the low prices of minerals on the world market, and _although the land reform is only at the first stage of its implementation, the progress achieved in this part of the revolutionary programme has been considerable.
37.	The President of the Republic and leader of the national revolution made the following statement: “In order to attempt the expansion and diversification of the national economy with any prospect of success it was essential not only that we should have available the proceeds of our exports, but also that the State should be free to plan exclusively in the national interest. It was necessary to liberate the productive forces which had previously been held in check by the feudal system of agriculture, and to expand the domestic consumer market, as is being done. “The backwardness of the Bolivian economy is apparent not only in the reduced volume, but also in the nature, of the national production. An extensive agriculture like ours, that is restricted to a few crops, and an exportable production that consists almost exclusively of mining products, make us heavily dependent on the outside world and therefore extremely vulnerable in the event of a decline in the world mineral market. That is why it is vitally important that we should develop and diversify the national economy.”
38.	Under this plan the Government has given priority to increasing petroleum production, both because of the importance of oil as a source of power and because it can be made into a profitable branch of our export trade. Today, Bolivia does not need to import a single drop of petrol or kerosene, and we are constructing an oil pipeline which will link Cochabamba, where there is a large refinery, to the port of Arica, to supply the countries of the South Pacific with Bolivian petroleum. Bolivia has immense petroleum reserves and we are seeking the co-operation of foreign private capital to exploit them, as the country lacks the necessary resources to carry out such an ambitious plan. Furthermore, under agreements concluded with Brazil and Argentina, we are preparing the full exploitation of vast oilfields, which in time will transform Bolivia into a supplier of fuel for the principal South American States on both the Atlantic and the Pacific coasts.
39.	Owing to its advantageous geographical position in the continent, my country is the pivot of South America’s political balance. Exposed to forces from all directions, our territory helps to eliminate antagonisms by reconciling interests which, if they clashed, would certainly disturb the peace of the hemisphere. Our wealth is at the service of all the sister republics which are our neigbours and with which we live on terms of friendly co-operation. That is why it may be of interest to the representatives in this Assembly to know of the efforts that are being made to diversify our economy and to achieve high production levels in oil and rubber and in the iron of the fabulous mountain of Muffin; these efforts will benefit not only my own country, but also Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay and Peru in particular.
40.	The delegation which I have the honour to lead temporarily will express in the Second Committee its interest in the establishment of the special fund for the economic development of under-developed countries. My Government considers, in this connexion, that there is no justification for relating the outcome of the problems of disarmament to the problems involved in the establishment of the fund. The great Powers hold that only the savings resulting from disarmament could provide the basis for carrying out this project. This is simply unacceptable, because the need to establish the special United Nations fund is urgent and the solution of the problems of disarmament is unfortunately slow in coming. It is therefore the duty of highly industrialized countries with vast accumulations of savings to grant their co-operation to the backward nations under the terms of the United Nations Charter.
41.	With the co-operation of the United States we are engaged in carrying out the great work to which I have just referred. On 1 October an event occurred in Bolivia that is of the utmost importance to my country and to the continent: the Cochabamba-Santa Cruz Highway, 500 kilometres in length, was opened, in completion of the railway system connecting the Pacific Ocean with the Rio de la Plata, making the oil, agricultural and livestock wealth of the sub-tropical region and the Bolivian valleys accessible to the countries belonging to these geographical systems.
42.	The completion of this project was made possible by the credits totalling approximately $34 million granted by the United States Export-Import Bank. All the expenditures in Bolivian currency — local purchases, supplies, wages, salaries paid in the country — were defrayed by the Bolivian Government, in addition to a considerable part of the cost of studies and of other dollar expenditures. Taking into account the credits granted by the Export-Import Bank and the Bolivian Government’s contributions, the total cost of the highway exceeds $45 million. Now that this magnificent undertaking, the outcome of Bolivian and United States co-operation, has been completed, we trust that United States aid will be increased until it reaches the scale necessitated by the magnitude of the plan for the diversification of the national production, for the execution of which the Co-ordination and Planning Board, under the chairmanship of the Vice-President of the Republic of Bolivia, is responsible.
43.	We are interested in private capital, but it would be wilful self-deception on our part to hope that all our needs can be met by private investors. It is important to analyse the influence which the investment of purely private capital would have on the economies of the under-developed countries. There can be no doubt that more capital has been exported from Latin America in the form of profits than has been brought in. Hence it is obvious that, in view of the urgent need for capital that is common to the Latin-American countries, we cannot expect it all from private investment. This does not mean that we do not want this kind of contribution. On the contrary, such contributions are welcome in my country and are protected by the Act of 17 October 1945, drawn up by Victor Paz Estenssoro, at that time Minister of Finance under the Villarroel regime, which affords to foreign private investors the necessary securities and guarantees for the return of the capital through annual amortization payments.
44.	It is, however, necessary to set forth the problem of economic co-operation in realistic terms. Undoubtedly the best method consists in the grant of development loans on favourable terms by agencies whose main objective is not to reap unlimited profit. When the loans had been paid off, the capital goods acquired with their aid, the developing agricultural and livestock industries and the hydroelectric plants and roads which would be built, would remain in the country and would have the additional advantage of providing better conditions for possible private investment.
45.	In conclusion, it affords me the utmost pleasure to refer to the technical assistance which my country is receiving from the United Nations specialized agencies.
46.	The Revolutionary Government of Bolivia, on finding some defects in the Agreement concerning Technical Assistance signed by the military junta formerly in power, negotiated with the United Nations the Revised Agreement concerning Technical Assistance which lays down the manner in which this assistance is to contribute to the solution of Bolivian problems in accordance with the unshakable principle of national sovereignty. Under this important agreement a group of advisers and experts is at present at work in my country; their activities have at all times earned the support of the Government and the approval of public opinion in the country. It is fitting that I should mention here the consummate skill and great wisdom with which the Secretary-General of the United Nations selected the members of this group and has always guided them.
47.	We consider that the work which the Technical Assistance Mission is performing in Bolivia is an experiment of great importance to the under-developed countries. I therefore take the liberty of proposing that scholarships should be instituted for students of nations whose economic and social conditions are similar to those of Bolivia, to afford them the opportunity of profiting by the experience which the Mission is acquiring. I can assure you that this brilliant group of men from various countries of the world has won the respect and gratitude of the Bolivian people and has strengthened their faith in the future of this international organization which, notwithstanding scepticism and ill-will, continues to be mankind’s greatest hope.


===== Session 10 - 1955 =====
79.	I should like, first of all, on behalf of the people and Government of Bolivia, to express our hope for the speedy recovery of President Eisenhower.
80.	The tenth session of the United Nations General Assembly is meeting under encouraging auspices. We are leaving behind us the days of bloody conflict and bitter trials. Signs of peace are appearing on the horizon. Our planet is ceasing to be a theatre of rivalries issuing in fratricidal battles. The desire for tranquillity, the longing to live free from fear, which is one of man's strongest aspirations, is triumphing over the tumultuous influences that were demanding the supreme sacrifice of another world tragedy.
81.	This scene of harmony, which today gives hope to the world, lends singular importance to the discussions that are taking place in this Assembly of the United Nations. Twenty odd years of war, crisis and catastrophe had sown scepticism in the heart of man. Peace had come to be regarded as a remote prospect, and the failure of past efforts to promote understanding between the great Powers confirmed the sad doubts of the pessimists. For many years almost all sectors of public opinion were permeated by the mournful idea that war was our destiny and that there was no escape from the Dantesque cycle of periodical holocausts and endless suffering.
82.	The history of the United Nations has in fact been a long series of incidents, conflicts and quarrels that have kept the spirit of mankind suspended over a terrible abyss. Our Organization was born out of an alliance for war and a longing for peace, but the military victory won through the close co-operation of all democratic peoples held the germ of conflict, and the world entered a period not of that peace which had been sought so desperately in the trenches, but of anguish marked by the armaments race and by constant anxiety. Korea was a danger which carried us to the very brink of world-wide disaster. In Indochina a similar danger threatened the tottering structure of peace. And Formosa saw hours of tension that seemed to be a prelude to the inevitable clash. From all sides came the sounds of war, and the era of harmony promised us by the statesmen who had founded the United Nations was reduced to no more than a fragile hope,
83.	Nevertheless, man has always been endowed with moral forces which exert a restraining influence when primitive passions threaten to prevail. In the darkest periods of history, when civilization has appeared to be on the point of foundering, the voice of reason has exercised its restraining effect and restored calm to the minds of men. At the very moment when we were all voicing the most dire predictions, certain ideas were put forward which were able to alter the contemporary political scene. Hope is now beginning to appear in a world where the most utter disillusionment had prevailed. Humanity has not lost its virtues and it will be able to achieve its most ambitious dreams.
84.	In 1953, we heard in this hall the words of President Eisenhower, inviting all nations, on behalf of the people of the United States, to utilize for peaceful purposes the diabolic power of the liberated atom [470th meeting]. That attitude on the part of the President of the United States began what we might call the unfreezing of international politics. From die moment that his speech resounded throughout the world, it was clear that calm conversation between the Powers was possible. Slowly, at the rate characteristic of great ideas, the movement towards universal understanding began gaining its first victories, until it has at last penetrated all minds. The division of the world into factions that seemed unable to approach each other save for purposes of controversy began to decline, and over the barriers that separated men, friendly conversation started.
85.	The recent Conference of the four great Powers at Geneva is not art isolated event, the result of a sudden whim that came unheralded and will have no geographical or political consequences to the world. The agreement on Indochina, which healed an open wound, the exchange of trade union delegations’ between countries of Eastern and Western Europe, the visits of prominent Western statesmen to the Soviet Union and of Soviet economic experts to the United States of America, together with the presence of Soviet leaders in countries with which they had formerly engaged in unpleasant controversies, had created the necessary atmosphere in which the spokesmen of the great Powers might meet for calm discussion of the problems of the world. Geneva is only a signpost, a promise that only the future can confirm, a trend that may become a permanent achievement.
86.	The great increase in military expenditure and the infinite capacity of destruction inherent in atomic weapons have made total warfare an unmistakable threat to the whole world. Behind the hydrogen bomb lies collective suicide. No rivalry, no aspiration to power, no political doctrine can persist against such an enormous danger. Mankind is now faced with the sovereign dilemma: to reach agreement or to perish. All the concepts of our imagination, all the feelings engendered by our afflictions/ all the desires that we have nurtured, are confounded by the spectre of the annihilation of mankind that threatens us if we dare to unleash the forces that have now been discovered in nature.
87. For the small countries, which make up the majority of the world, the prospect of peace is indeed welcome, for the wars have been costly to us in frustration. While armies are fighting, the price of our raw materials remains static or declines, and the interruption of normal trade hinders our progress. With the advent of peace and its promise of a brilliant future; we find that the promised world does not exist, for new dissensions, charged with explosive possibilities, threaten the world that was so recently flowing with blood. For us, progress depends upon peace.
88.	Now that there are signs of progress towards disarmament, let us hope that the negotiations now taking place between the great Powers will not only reduce the enormous expenditure for war, but will also do much to develop the peaceful uses of these awesome scientific discoveries 6f recent years. The atom is a diabolical threat, but it is also a promise of life and prosperity if we can link it to the great aspirations of mankind; like life itself, it will reflect man’s proclivities for good or for bad. It is the solemn, inescapable duty of those who have mastered nuclear energy to ensure that it is used to promote peace and to do away with the terrible spectre of war.
89.	We must not think, however, that understanding among the great Powers is a kind of magic wand that will dispel all the problems of humanity. To do so would be to indulge in exaggerated optimism. If the disarmament which we are hoping to achieve is to become a reality, it must extend to all the countries of the world. We should have gained very little indeed if disarmament were limited to the more powerful countries. In the small nations, too, the desire for peace must result in a reduction of their armed forces and of their wasteful accumulation of the machinery of war.
90.	In recent times, taking advantage of all the talk of war, some of the small States have shown a marked tendency to strengthen their armies and to acquire excessive stocks of armaments. These practices have created a state of affairs that is not conducive to universal peace, owing to the aggressive spirit fostered by the possession of large accumulations of instruments of war; moreover, they are a heavy burden on the peoples who have to bear the cost. Many opportunities to advance the cause of progress and human dignity in underdeveloped countries have been lost because of this wanton mania. The instruments of work have been replaced by instruments of war — a cruel paradox in countries whose peoples have neither food to assuage their constant hunger nor means to illuminate the darkness of their minds. The building up of military power, moreover, tends to foster the class system and anti-democratic practices, especially in regions which, in their struggle against force, are not equipped with the moral resources derived from a broad political education or from deeply-rooted civic tradition.
91.	The Bolivian delegation believes that the reduction and limitation of armed forces and armaments should apply to the under-developed countries, and it will in due course present a motion to that effect in the General Assembly. In taking this step we are prompted solely by a sincere desire to contribute to the preservation of international peace and to promote the progress of countries whose tragedies and conflicts have so often endangered the structure of world peace. If, as has been so often stated, peace is indivisible, we must not forget that it must be safeguarded in all parts of the world.
92.	Nevertheless, a peace that does not bring with it a transformation of the political scene would be a poor victory for those who regard human progress as a condition for any sincere effort at reconciliation. Recent years have brought, especially in the hitherto underdeveloped countries, a real epidemic of minority regimes which have used military force to destroy even the most rudimentary forms of coexistence between men of the same nation. If we are to move towards peaceful coexistence between the different political systems that exist today, it is reasonable to hope that we may also advance along the path to coexistence between the citizens, groups and classes which make up every nation. A peace without social justice, seasoned with the bitter ingredient of absolutism, would be a deliberate flouting of the desires of so many peoples who, from the depths of their anguish, cry out for human redemption. To live free from fear is the least we can achieve for all those who place their hopes in our deliberations.
93.	One of the difficulties in the way of peaceful coexistence is the desire of colonial peoples for freedom. My country struggled 15 years for freedom, and by the time it attained freedom its vital forces were so weakened that its rehabilitation was an arduous process. This occurred over a hundred years ago, at a time when slavery was still permitted in some countries. In this century, however, which has seen the statesmen of the great Powers, in two successive world wars, cite as the justification for their military action the great human ideals which they ultimately inscribed in the United Nations Charter, the time has come for those ideals to become a reality, without bloodshed and without hatred, and without obstructing the progress of countries held back by ignorance.
94.	The present situation of the under-developed countries, of which Bolivia is one, should be the subject of the most careful attention on the part of the various agencies of the United Nations. In order to avoid mere generalizations, I shall devote this part of my statement to what is happening today in Latin America,
95.	The latest survey of the economic situation of Latin America, prepared by the secretariat of the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA), includes some very valuable statistical data for an assessment of the economic position of that vast and promising part of the world. The investment coefficient declined from 17 per cent in 1952 to 14.9 per cent in 1954. The terms of trade index of a group of Latin American countries dropped from 110 in 1951 to 92 in 1954. Imports of capital goods, which represented 40 per cent of all our foreign purchases in 1940, now represent only 37.5 per cent. In 1954, $96 million flowed into Latin America in the form of investments, but our remittances abroad in payment of interest, profits and amortization amounted to $630 million. This complex of indices and data is reflected in an increase of 1.5 per cent in the per capita, gross product. If we contrast this figure with that for the United States of America, which was 2 per cent in 1954, we can see quite clearly that, far from narrowing, the gap between industrialized and underdeveloped countries is increasing in a spectacular fashion.
96.	The backwardness of the under-developed countries is a dangerous and permanent cause of insecurity for the entire world. The peace which we desire and the first harbingers of which are already to be observed will coincide with a crisis of incalculable proportions if the world economy continues to be unjustly divided into two groups of nations of unequal wealth and power. Prosperity, like peace, is indivisible; if poverty and ignorance persist in the under-developed countries, the economies of the advanced countries will be faced with the explosion that is inevitable in any mechanism that has no safety valve. The urgent necessity of helping the disinherited regions of the world on their path to progress is not merely a problem of human solidarity; to put it bluntly, it is of vital concern to the preservation of international stability. There is but one alternative; either we must foster the development of the large group of nations that still live on the periphery of civilization, or we shall be overwhelmed by an economic disaster which will shake the very foundations of world organization.
97.	The representatives of the great Powers have again spoken in this Assembly of the vital need to solve the problem of the unification of Germany, and have even gone so far as to say that disarmament will be an idle dream if the present division of that country continues. Peace, too, the social peace that the peoples of the world are eagerly seeking, will be no more than a Utopian concept if there is a continued separation between some groups that possess every facility for development, and others — the majority — which lack the means to enjoy the full benefits of civilization. To find a suitable means of eliminating this division of the human family is as serious a problem for the under-developed countries as is the unification of Germany for the great Powers.
98.	Fortunately there has of late been concrete evidence of a growing understanding of the problem which holds promise for the immediate future. President Eisenhower has expressly stated his desire that the enormous savings achieved by the halt in the armaments race should be used for assistance to the under-developed countries. Mr. Fame, the Prime Minister of France, speaking in more concrete terms, has suggested the establishment of an international fund which would study investment projects in areas whose economic development requires stimulation. The industrialized nations of Europe and North America have abundant and varied resources which, if used in accordance with a sound policy of international solidarity and enlightened self- interest, would help to speed up the task of eliminating backwardness in the world. The International Monetary Fund has stated that the reconstruction of Europe is now completed. If we interpret that announcement correctly, it is now time to proclaim that the highly developed countries, which until recently have focused their attention on restoring the regions laid waste by the recent world war, should now turn their eyes across the seas to assist in the progress of peoples who have not yet been able to enjoy the full benefits of civilization.
99.	This line of reasoning is the fruit neither of selfish national aspirations nor of a disgruntled patriotism. Bolivia has received repeated and growing proof of solidarity and the desire to help. In the arduous task of building up a nation, friendly hands have come to our assistance, bringing with them messages of consolation in our trials and of confidence in our ideals. Such action is not enough, however and, noble though we know it to be, it cannot solve all problems. The aid and assistance sporadically rendered to the under-developed countries must become a dynamic creed, part of an international code for our times. What we need are not isolated gestures, however valuable they may be as examples, but a general crusade which will mobilize with sufficient speed the enormous potential in the hands of the mightiest nations of the earth. A proposal that the industrialized Powers should devote the savings from a reduction in armaments expenditure to the development of the rest of humanity would constitute the corner-stone of that society of the future which it should be our concern to create.
100.	I have said that Bolivia has been fortunate in that its people, now freed from feudal oppression, has received welcome evidence of international solidarity. But, as part of the new vista opened up to the world by the prospect of peace, this solidarity should be expanded and diversified so that its effects may be commensurate with the demands of the new international situation. Now that we are passing a milestone in the history of peoples, the time has come to take brief stock of the aid received by Bolivia and of the ways in which it could be rendered more effective and its scope enhanced.
101.	Bolivia, like all countries which have been shaken by the fertile fever of revolution, is passing through a temporary but disquieting phase of economic disequilibrium. The revolutionary process which destroyed the old social structure coincided with an abrupt fall in the price of minerals on world markets. Two contradictory trends have emerged in the national economy. On the one hand, mass consumption has grown beyond all expectation, since the peasants, now released from serfdom and incorporated into the monetary economy, have been enabled to acquire a variety of manufactured goods and improve their diet and dress. As against this increase in consumption, there has been a slight but significant fall in the rate of investment. The country, deprived of foreign income by the fall in mineral prices, has not been able to meet fully the need for increased capital investment, since to have done so would have been to deal an undeserved blow to the hopes of the population.
102.	It is this conflict between consumption, expressing man’s legitimate desires, and investment, hampered by the adverse trend of prices on foreign markets, that has produced the inflationary cycle from which Bolivia is now suffering. The timely aid forthcoming from the United States Government has helped to maintain the levels of consumption in Bolivia which had been abruptly raised by the revolution. The United States Government, by its repeated contributions, has enabled us to obtain those foodstuffs which our foreign exchange resources would never have enabled us to obtain on a scale commensurate with the country’s needs. In 1954, we received food and other goods to a value of $13 million. In 1955, the amount we received rose to $25 million.
103.	In the matter of scientific investigation and up-to-date techniques — essential elements in stimulating production —  the United States Government has helped us through the collaboration of its various specialized agencies. New plant varieties, unfamiliar means of pest control, and advanced methods of cultivation have been popularized in Bolivia by the agencies implementing the Point Four programme. In the struggle against the diseases which sap our vital forces, United States experts, side by side with my own countrymen, have fought momentous battles which hold out the promise of strength and well-being to so many people racked by disease.
104.	In Bolivia, as in so many other countries, the key to development undoubtedly lies in raising the rate of investment. The amount allocated to capital investment during the present year is estimated at barely 12 per cent of our probable national product. To appreciate the inadequacy of this sum, let us remember that the old nations, for centuries in the van of progress, devote more than 15 per cent of their national product to, reproductive investment. Consumption in Bolivia will continue to grow, and must increase with the extremely wide range of needs that characterizes all newcomers to a life of human dignity. Our production cannot keep pace with this phenomenon and our foreign income in the immediate future will continue to be small in the absence of any sign of improvement in mineral prices.
105.	Long experience, based on established facts, teaches us that the development of backward countries cannot be undertaken without the assistance of foreign investment. All the countries which have reached the peak of human progress have called in outside capital to speed their growth. Regardless of the political system they may have adopted, they have found foreign technique and resources to be one of their mainstays. In Latin America we need, with all the urgency born of ineluctable facts, an increase in foreign investment. This need, manifest throughout the entire hemisphere, is particularly marked in Bolivia, which lacks the capital required to expand its fields of activity and to give its people, initiated into the civilized way of life, the standard of living which they demand.
106.	But future investment in under-developed countries must conform to certain standards compatible with national dignity and with the economic levelling-up dictated by our times. The age of colonialist investment, seeking only easy money regardless of the means employed has gone forever. Nowadays, investments must comply with the principles of equity. Foreign capital, in return for the confidence and security offered it, must help to diversify the economies of the countries in which it finds a home and to raise its peoples to a higher level of human dignity. These principles have already met with such success that the technical services of the United Nations have accepted them unreservedly in some of their more recent documents.
107.	Fortunately, investors seem to have understood the spirit of the. new times and are trying to adhere scrupulously to its precepts. A recent example of this in Bolivia is the agreement by our Government with a United States gold-mining firm. Under this agreement, the Bolivian State will receive royalties and other payments amounting to more than 50 per cent of the profits from working the gold. Full and explicit recognition is given therein to the principles of reinvestment of profits, payment of attractive wages to workers and thorough government inspection. Bolivia is a fertile field for investments that conform to these standards. Now that the mining monopoly which kept our country fettered to the will of three absentee magnates has been destroyed, now that the rural masses have been freed from the feudal yoke, the obstacles to capital investment and the diversification of the economy have been swept away.
108.	The future will offer the United Nations excellent opportunities for widening the scope of its technical assistance. The greatest organization in the world cannot remain aloof from the movement towards peaceful coexistence and solidarity which is in process of development and in which all peoples must share. An order of priority must be established in the granting of technical assistance so as to give preference to those countries in which the population as a whole can enjoy its share of the national wealth and constitutes the principal factor in public life.
109.	Technical assistance cannot be conceived of in the abstract, as something which can be applied to any region of the earth or be effective in any political situation. If the mass of the people are isolated behind a barrier of contempt, or if a gulf of suspicion or open strife divides the Government and public opinion, the help and guidance of experts will be lost in the clash of conflicting interests. Technical assistance should be, indirectly, an instrument of democratic progress. It is inconceivable that so important a venture as the provision of technical assistance to under-developed countries should not, in addition to contributing to their economic development, contribute also to enhancing respect for human dignity and promoting political advancement in those countries.
110.	In Bolivia, technical assistance has become particularly effective since the revolution of 9 April 1952, which made it possible to develop and diversify the national economy. Up till then, the ideas and advice of international technical assistance experts had been no more than generous ideals that had been met with incomprehension. Now technical assistance has really become a part of the life of the country, and we can already see some of the positive results.
111.	United Nations experts have helped to reorganize the Ministry of Finance and have recommended the adoption of modern methods of preparing the national budget. The taxation system has been simplified. In the field of public administration, the international experts, assisted by some of our best officials, have prepared a civil service law which will give government employees prestige and stability and make the various public services more efficient. The problems involved in industrialization and agrarian reform, and the need for a planned expansion of the rural economy, are also being studied by the technical assistance experts with keen interest. As regards education, technical assistance has tended to take the form of the modernization of primary and secondary education and collaboration with the competent government departments in carrying out educational reform laws.
112.	Our particular gratitude is due to those officials who have in turn directed the work of technical assistance in Bolivia. Mr. Goodrich began the first experiments of the United Nations in this field in our country with a tact and skill acknowledged by all. His successor, Mr. Carlsson, brought to the task manifest qualities of training and wisdom. Lastly, Mr. Oropeza Castillo, the present head of the mission, has used his undoubted administrative ability with a flexibility that contributes greatly to furthering the success of technical assistance in our country.
113.	Despite the achievements of technical assistance, the development of the receiving countries requires to be stimulated by international bodies in other ways too. Experts are playing an outstanding part in solving many problems, but their efficacy is necessarily limited, since, in addition to qualified personnel, progress requires machinery and tools with which to exploit natural resources. The United Nations, through the medium of the specialized agencies, should see to it that the modern equipment which abounds in the industrialized areas, thanks to their advanced techniques, is made available to the under-developed areas.
114.	The proposal for a Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development should be regarded in the light of these general considerations. According to the documents on the question, the intention is to set up a body to provide, free of charge, those means which the under-developed countries require to speed up their development. There are some countries in the world —  Bolivia among them — which, having only recently achieved social emancipation, lack the means to avail themselves of international credit to the extent that they would wish, since such credit, traditionally, involves some interest and redemption payments, however moderate. One of the characteristic features of our times is that many of the previously oppressed peoples have acceded to the highest forms of political organization. Among all the under-developed areas are in fact undergoing this inspiriting process. Vast multitudes are beginning to enjoy rights and actively to demand an improvement in their standards of living. Generous revolutionary ideals compel Governments, in countries where justice has acquired due recognition, to adopt an encouraging attitude towards the desires of the masses. But the adoption of such a policy leaves scanty resources with which to obtain credit abroad. Hence the special fund offers an exceptional opportunity of solving the problem of economic development without prejudice to the social rights of the peoples.
115.	The special fund should come into operation as early as possible. The studies of the experts appointed to consider the various aspects of its activities warrant an attitude of temperate optimism. Some observations must, nevertheless, be made with a view to avoiding from the outset certain obstacles or shortcomings which might detract directly from the efficacy of the fund. The sum of $250 million suggested for the fund appears inadequate in view of the new international outlook and the ideas which are already beginning to assert themselves in the plans for collaboration between nations. The General Assembly resolution inviting Governments ‘•to review their respective positions as regards extending their material support to a Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development in accordance with changes in the international situation” [resolution 822 (IX)] is very sound and to the point.
116.	However, the fund should commence operations even before all the contributions that may be pledged have come in. In this connexion, the proposal made by the French delegation at one of the recent meetings of the Sub-Committee of the Disarmament Commission [DC/SC 1/27], that the savings resulting from a reduction in armaments expenditure should be transferred to an international fund for mutual assistance and development, such savings being earmarked for use in their countries of origin so that the under-developed nations might acquire capital goods in those countries, could be of decisive assistance in overcoming any difficulties that might arise. This proposal is very wise and based on elementary common sense, for the fund, if partly financed with money saved by reducing armaments expenditure, will ward off the danger of a depression caused by the sudden halting of operations in factories producing for defence.
117.	It view of the purposes of the fund, each country should have only one vote on its board of directors, since the fund would be more in the nature of an international co-operative than a financial institution in the accepted sense of the term. The fund should see to it that a healthy balance is maintained between outright grants and the loans which are also envisaged in the plans drawn up by the experts who have studied the establishment of such a fund. In any case, the fund will be the practical instrument which will have to ensure equilibrium in the new phase on which the world is now entering, by making a proper allocation of surplus resources among those areas where economic development is not just a distant aim, but a pressing need.
118.	The time is approaching when it will be necessary to give a higher status to certain dependent bodies of the United Nations  — the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), for instance, which, in spite of its. brilliant performance in child welfare and care and in the eradication of endemic diseases, has not received adequate funds. Specific formulae should be evolved for establishing a scale of contributions to this body. The campaign against malnutrition, sickness and destitution is quite as important as any ambitious project for economic development.
119.	Even if international aid to the under-developed countries from the United Nations or foreign Governments attains a volume and scope adequate to the new situation upon which we are entering, it will still be wasted if the great Powers do not take immediate steps towards re-establishing trade relations between the various parts of the world. Trade undoubtedly contributes towards peace by fostering confidence and opening the way to a mutual understanding dispelling all suspicions.
120.	Looking at things from the standpoint of the under-developed countries, we might add that trade in peaceful goods between the great Powers would make progress possible in all parts of the world, many resources being not fully developed at present because there is no way of selling them on markets hedged around by political barriers or by excessive customs or currency regulations. The re-establishment of trade throughout the whole world, by giving a tremendous impetus to economic activity, would tend to supplement and perhaps, in the not so remote future, render unnecessary, or at least reduce, the enormous amount of technical assistance and financial aid at present required by the under-developed countries.
121.	Bolivia, despite all the difficulties inherent in any great task, is making great strides towards perfecting its democracy. Our country is making gigantic efforts to face the challenge of the new times with a clear eye and a firm step. We have freed from feudal oppression some 2 million peasants who, since the dark days of colonialism, had been living in hopeless ignorance. Today, those peasants are taking part, without ostentation but also without timidity, in the political and economic life of the country. With a sense of responsibility only acquired by peoples when they have won their rights, they are organizing a system of production thanks to which the fruits of economic progress will soon be added to the achievement of social equality.
122.	Over the destinies of Bolivia no longer looms the fateful shadow of the mining empire which for so many years made of us a mere toy at the mercy of caprice. We have ceased to be the defenceless trading post of certain moneyed interests which combined to monopolize some of the most valuable resources of the earth and to shackle the peoples that produced them. For the first time in our history, we are a sovereign people that no longer needs to dangle on the strings of the puppet-master Greed. And to the discomfiture of the many who foretold disaster because we were considered incapable of managing our own affairs, there has arisen a vigorous Bolivia that looks after and develops its own natural resources.
123.	Two fundamental measures — land reform and the nationalization of the great mines — have laid the foundations of democracy in Bolivia. We do not believe that democracy can flourish when it is based on the degradation of the people or on the reduction of countries to vassaldom by selfish private interests. If there are to be free citizens, wealth must belong to all and national sovereignty must be more than a mere catch-phrase. Democracy was never compatible with the cunning but cruel forms of slavery, nor with national humiliation.
124.	Let it not be believed, however, that we incline towards a purely positivist interpretation of the democratic system. We know that culture, too, is a means of training people to enjoy their prerogatives and to shape their country’s institutions by active participation in its affairs. So that literacy may no longer be the monopoly of the privileged classes and become the birthright of men formerly despised and enchained, we have brought schools to the remotest confines of the country. Two thousand new rural educational institutions have been founded since the triumph of our revolution, and educational reform will quickly give all classes access to higher and technical studies.
125.	Our revolutionary movement came to power under the banner of harmony among all Bolivians. We did not sink to the depths of a policy of reprisals or offer the world the barbarous spectacle of those shootings and outrages which have left the stain of spiritual degradation on other revolutions in backward countries. We relegate the memory of the persecutions we suffered to the secret depths of our hearts and minds. In the hour of victory, there bloomed an ideal that bade us construct a democratic order. Our vanquished adversaries, misled by images of the past in which revolt was a chronic source of instability in Bolivia, plunged into the turmoil of conspiracy and, with each new defeat inflicted on them by the people in defence of its revolutionary institutions, adopted more sinister methods, until they reached the final degradation of assassination, which sets the ultimate seal of moral bankruptcy on any political movement.
126.	Next year, the whole people of Bolivia, in orderly assembly, will be electing its government. All political groups, including those which have raised the vain standard of disguised violence, will enjoy unrestricted rights and may put forward candidates. We wish this civic occasion, which will demonstrate the sincerity of our democratic Government, to be an opportunity for a display of political tolerance by all sectors of national opinion, for we know that a revolutionary regime, when it really wishes to transform a country, needs healthy criticism within the framework of a democracy free from discrimination.
127.	We have an unshakable faith in the creative possibilities of peaceful coexistence, which appears now to be passing from the misty realm of dreams into the field of practical reality. We identify ourselves with that immense majority that longs for the coming of a world in which peace and democracy will make it possible for I man to live and to hope. We believe that, with the establishment of a sincere understanding between all the nations of the earth, there will come an era of historic reparation in which old injustices will be wiped out by the welcome hand of an international law that will not measure its action by the yardstick of force or influence. We wish the international community to accord to Bolivia that minimum right to which a people is entitled, namely, the right to progress. May divine Providence enlighten our deliberations!


===== Session 11 - 1956 =====
On behalf of the Bolivian delegation I wish to congratulate Prince Wan Waithayakon upon his election to this high office, which he so richly deserves.
108.	We are meeting in this eleventh session of the United Nations General Assembly at so critical a juncture in world affairs that we are moved to reaffirm our faith in the United Nations, whose purpose it is to maintain the peace and security without which the Governments represented here would find it impossible to ensure the well-being of their peoples.
109.	For that reason, collective security will have to be our main and continuing concern. The world yearns for the day when people will be able to live free from the fear of war and aggression and from any threat of foreign intervention in their domestic affairs. Unfortunately, our concern is today rendered more acute by the position taken by those who invaded Egyptian territory, and those who violated the fundamental principle of non-intervention by interfering in the internal affairs of the people of Hungary. Those events, on which the attention of the Member States of this international Organization is concentrated, impel the under-developed countries, more particularly, to take joint action for the protection and safeguarding of the fundamental rights enshrined in Article 2, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Charter.
110.	When I say that the preservation of those rights is of particular concern to the countries that are in the early stages of industrialization, I have in mind the fact that only if we have a clear understanding of the effectiveness and objectives of collective defence applied through the United Nations, can those rights be safeguarded. The great Powers are capable of defending themselves and it is only the small nations that run the risk of aggression or illegal intervention. The General Conference to review the Charter which is to be convened in due course, will have to make a careful study of Chapter VII with a view to strengthening the measures provided for dealing with threats to the peace or acts of aggression. Such acts could be halted immediately, if provision was made for machinery that could go into operation without delay; that would not imply any disregard of the special rights accorded by the Charter to the permanent members of the Security Council.
111.	We understand that the main object of the General Conference to review the Charter, is to appraise the merits and the shortcomings of the Charter in accordance with Article 109 in the light of the experience accumulated in the ten years it has been functioning. We should remember that on balance the achievements of those ten years are rather more encouraging than discouraging. The fact that the United Nations has managed to survive such events as those of Korea and Indo-China and all the phases of the cold war, which were serious enough to have destroyed any international institution of weak structure, leads us to conclude that the Charter is a legal instrument of more than ordinary effectiveness. It is not perfect, of course, but the practical results achieved by the United Nations under its rule are substantial, specifically with regard to the maintenance of world peace and the benefits provided by the specialized agencies and by United Nations technical assistance.
112.	The United Nations is at present faced with the worst international crisis in the last ten years. The disputes between Israel and the Arab States, which have never been settled despite the repeated efforts of the United Nations, have helped to sharpen the conflict between Egypt on the one hand and France and the United Kingdom on the other over the Suez Canal. These circumstances produced a combination of interests which caused two great Powers to disregard their obligations, as permanent members of the Security Council, to work for the maintenance of international peace and security. The resort to violence, which is prohibited by the Charter, converted Egyptian territory into the scene of a war of aggression which is from every point of view reprehensible, for whatever the reasons invoked to justify the three-fold invasion of Egypt and the claims put forward in support of them, it is inadmissible in our time that violence should be made the arbiter of international disputes. The Suez problem should and can be settled, after the withdrawal of the occupation forces from Egyptian soil, by peaceful negotiations and the application of juridical principles which respect both the sovereignty of Egypt and the universally accepted right of free passage through the Canal.
113.	Once the question of free passage through the Canal has been settled — and that is not impossible because the only question to be settled in that connexion is the dispute between Israel and Egypt — the only outstanding problem would be the economic relations between Egypt on the one hand and French and United Kingdom capital on the other. On that point, the Bolivian delegation holds that Egypt has an irrefutable sovereign right to nationalize the Canal, a right endorsed by the international community in General Assembly resolution 626 (VII). In our view, the Suez Canal represents a substantial source of income to the Egyptian economy and Egypt is entitled to exploit it as profitably as possible. The Bolivian delegation also considers that, under the same resolution, the Universal Suez Canal Company is entitled to compensation. That is how Bolivia acted when it nationalized the tin mines owned by the great Bolivian mining companies. Ever since the day that the historic nationalization decree went into force, the Bolivian Government has been allocating a proportion of the proceeds from sales of tin to the payment of compensation, the sum allocated amounting by now to more than $US 13 million.
114.	If the question of nationalization of the Universal Suez Canal Company were dealt with in that manner, the only problem would be the amount of money the Egyptian Government owed the Company; that matter could be settled with proper respect to the sovereignty of Egypt and it is no justification for a military offensive which has all the characteristics of colonialist intervention.
115.	Turning to another question, I should like to say that at the present time Bolivia is not directly concerned with the question of the territorial sea. It is, however, interested in the question of free passage, which should be applied without restriction to normal passage through the territorial sea, through straits and canals open to commerce and through territories bordering on countries which have no outlet to the sea. It is in those fines that the Bolivian delegation will approach the relevant General Assembly agenda item [53] in the Sixth Committee.
116.	In connexion with the principle of equal rights without distinction as to race, set forth in Article 55 of the Charter and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, I am glad to say that Bolivia is proud that its national revolution has enabled it to put those principles into practice. This is the deep significance of agrarian reform in Bolivia: it has enabled the rural workers, for the most part indigenous Bolivians, fully to enjoy and exercise their rights, not only fundamental human rights, but all the civil and political rights Bolivia allows all its citizens, beginning with the chief economic right, namely the right of human beings to derive full benefit from the product of their labour and not to be exploited by others.
117.	Thus the Bolivian revolution has made the Indian a free human being, master of his own fate, by restoring to him the ownership of the land which he lost more than 400 years ago; it has made him an architect of the new Bolivia because he can now take an active part in political life through universal suffrage; it has made him capable of helping to forge the historic destiny of Bolivia, for it has given him access to Western culture through the vast primary and fundamental educational programmes established under the Bolivian Education Code, while at the same time he can contribute to the national spirit the tradition of the magnificent foundations of one of the oldest cultures in America. In this gigantic undertaking, my country has had the benefit of international understanding in the form of an educational development scheme under the United States Point Four Programme, the Andean Mission of the International Labour Organisation and United Nations technical assistance.
118.	This entire process of integration has now been recognized in article 4 of our new Constitution, which states: “In the Republic of Bolivia, there are no slaves, nor may there be any kind of servile obligation or privilege based on economic situation, race, sex, degree of education or any other grounds.” It is this deep conviction of revolutionary Bolivia that will guide our delegation in continuing to denounce segregationist policy wherever it may prevail.
119.	In line with the anti-colonialist policy of the Bolivian people, our delegation in the United Nations has been supporting the cause of independence for Tunisia and Morocco ever since the seventh session of the General Assembly. In the world of today, peoples are moving steadily forward toward self-government and independence. The emergence of new States is the most important event of our time and it is futile to attempt by the use of violence to impede the historical evolution toward freedom and independence which is now changing the face of the international community. Bolivia, born of a long and heroic struggle for freedom, stands shoulder to shoulder with all the peoples in the world who are fighting for their political and economic emancipation. The revolutionary Government of my country firmly adheres to Bolivia’s traditional anticolonialism and offers its brotherly greetings to the new Members of the international family which, like Tunisia, Morocco and the Sudan, have recovered their sovereignty through sacrifice and the blood of their sons. It views with the greatest satisfaction the admission to the United Nations of sovereign States which had been excluded for over ten years, through no fault of their own, and it hopes that the United Nations will also receive those countries which fulfil the requirements of the Charter and are still awaiting admission.
120.	We must not forget that the United Nations played an important role in helping those States which I have mentioned, as well as the noble State of Indonesia, to gain their independence. Actions of this kind constitute a practical application of the right of self-determination and thereby fully justify the existence of the United Nations and make of it an effective instrument for peace and international stability.
121.	The principle of self-determination is in essence the right of peoples to choose their own destiny once they have attained the necessary stage of maturity. It is a right closely akin to freedom because the existence of free men is inconceivable in societies which have not achieved the state of freedom. Only those human beings who are at liberty to determine their social, economic and political destinies and manage their own affairs can really enjoy the freedom which is man’s birthright. Even in those societies where a system of force has established itself, there is, if that system has been imposed from within, a possibility that it can be overthrown and be replaced by a juridical system that guarantees the free exercise of all rights. The same cannot be said of societies whose fate is at the mercy of a foreign Power, for they must first win their independence before they choose their own destiny.
122.	Men long for independence in the same way as they long for freedom, and they are prepared to fight for it as once they fought to abolish slavery and servitude. However, in choosing the path of violence, they must pay a heavy price in lives and suffering. This may in a way be compared with a painful birth the agony of which the United Nations is called upon to alleviate or to avoid altogether. Thus, consideration must be given without delay to Algeria and Cyprus, which are seeking self-determination. The Bolivian, delegation feels that the political and economic independence of peoples and their right to decide on their own future are the initial steps toward ensuring the complete enjoyment of human rights.
123.	Another principle which is closely linked to that of self-determination is the right of sovereign peoples to be completely free from any foreign interference in their internal affairs. Not only is non-intervention in the affairs of other States an obligation, but it must be respected as an indispensable principle that enables peoples to live together. The Bolivian delegation therefore deplores the fact that this principle, embodied in Article 1, paragraph 2, and Article 2, paragraph 4, of the Charter, has been violated at the expense of a small State.
124.	That State is Hungary, and in the case of Hungary, the Bolivian representative felt compelled at the second emergency special session of the General Assembly to suggest that a way should be found to enable the Hungarian people to express their wishes freely. We fully realize, however, that the nature of the problem is such that the General Assembly must be very careful not to give the impression that in defending the principle of non-intervention it is advocating interference in the domestic affairs of a sovereign Member State,
125.	At the same time, the presence of Soviet armed forces inside Hungary makes this a clear case of intervention by a foreign Power in the domestic life of that State. The situation can in no way be justified by the request of the present Budapest Government for foreign troops, since no Government may call upon a foreign Power to settle its own internal affairs. The unwarranted presence of the Soviet army shows that the Hungarian conflict has become an armed attack against the Hungarian people which is all the more serious in that it brought about the overthrow of the Imre Nagy Government. The United Nations must therefore do everything in its power to bring this intervention to an end. Only when the Soviet troops have ceased to occupy Hungarian territory will the problems we are now facing revert to Hungary’s own jurisdiction.
126.	The discovery by science of nuclear energy, and especially its adaptation to peaceful uses, offers the world almost unlimited opportunities for progress. The prospects of harnessing nuclear energy are today so great that mankind is on the one hand torn by the fear of annihilation and on the other buoyed up by the hope of improving its lot by control of the forces of nature. On the one side is the danger of the thermo-nuclear bomb and on the other the wonderful vista of future progress made possible by the use of nuclear energy for the industrial advancement of all the peoples of the earth. Such a prospect holds out the hope of an era characterized by new and deeper human relationships and by fresh manifestations of human knowledge.
127.	One man of goodwill has realized the decisive possibilities as well as the dire implications of this portentous discovery. I refer to President Eisenhower who, in a memorable speech before this General Assembly [470th meeting], pointed out the need for linking the atom with a mission of peace and progress. With this aim in view, the Conference on the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency was held from 20 September to 26 October 1956 at United Nations Headquarters and was attended by representatives of eighty-two States and of the specialized agencies. As the result of the work of this, the greatest international Conference of all time, the international Atomic Energy Agency was established.
128.	At the 13th plenary meeting of the Conference a proposal for the establishment of a world university of the atom, which had been introduced at the ninth and tenth sessions of the General Assembly by the Bolivian delegation, was moved by that delegation and seconded by the distinguished delegation of Ecuador. By unanimous agreement this proposal was referred for study and action to the Board of Governors and the General Conference, which are the main directing bodies of the new nuclear agency. The International Atomic Energy Agency and the future world university of the atom represent the first embodiment of a desire for equality which, if fully satisfied, will provide a firm basis for a new international society that will enjoy all the benefits of nuclear science.
129.	The establishment of both bodies — the Agency and the university — is aimed primarily at eliminating the danger of a monopoly of the theory and use of nuclear energy, for if one or a few Powers gained such a monopoly, a hegemony would be established which would result in the total domination of the world by the strongest of the nuclear Powers or at best the division of the globe into zones of influence. The Bolivian delegation feels that only by making scientific knowledge relating to the atom generally available and by extending its benefits to all peoples can the rights of the medium-sized and small countries in the so-called atomic age be safeguarded.
130.	My delegation would like to stress the economic problems faced by the under-developed countries, of which Bolivia is one. Owing to the concentration of technique and capital in certain areas, the modern world is divided into countries that are highly developed and those whose development has been retarded. The latter countries show incipient signs of economic progress but cannot themselves solve their present economic problems because of the continuing tendency, which is apparent in both the East and the West, of capital and economic development to be centred in the larger countries. This magnetic attraction of the great economic masses accentuates more and more the differences between the highly developed and the underdeveloped countries.
131.	According to the report on Measures for the Economic Development of Under-developed Countries, prepared by a group of experts appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in 1951, Latin America, which has one of the highest rates of population growth, needs $2,540 million to increase its national per capita income by 2 per cent and thus appears to be the area of the world that shows the smallest deficit. In other words, of the five areas into which the underdeveloped countries are grouped in the study, Latin America has the least headway to make up in order to enter upon a period of normal economic activity which would enable it to cope with its own agricultural and industrial development. With the progress thus made, it would soon become one of the areas sufficiently advanced to co-operate in raising the standards of needier areas.
132.	For this reason the development needs of Latin America should receive priority treatment from both the Assembly and the Second Committee. It should be added that the economic problems of Latin America, though not serious at the moment, are tending to worsen. Up to 1952 the high prices obtained for primary commodities resulted in a favourable rate of economic growth and allowed up to 18 per cent of the goods and services making up the gross income of Latin America to be reinvested. However, this figure has fallen sharply to 13.5 per cent, thus reducing the increase in per capita income to about 1 per cent. Owing to the present inadequacies of the Latin American economy, a country requires a minimum reinvestment rate of 20 per cent of its gross income in order to carry on its development programmes by itself. We therefore reach the conclusion that the problem of Latin America is among the most urgent.
133.	Within this general economic framework, Bolivia is the country with the lowest per capita income and the lowest rate of economic growth and development. It is still passing through a pre-capitalist stage and cannot cope unaided with its development problem. The Bolivian revolutionary movement sought to diversify the national economy by introducing new forms of economic activity and launching public works programmes designed to provide additional sources of income. As a result, however, of the rudimentary nature of the Bolivian economy, this effort brought on an acute outbreak of inflation which compelled the country to take energetic measures in order to avoid disastrous consequences. The stabilizing process will nevertheless mean the inevitable postponement of plans to diversify our economy. This experience of ours illustrates the tragic dilemma of under-developed countries as regards their economic prospects.
134.	In these circumstances, the relief that might be afforded to under-developed countries through an increase in international trade is somewhat less than a panacea because of the present inability of these countries to increase their production of saleable or changeable commodities. Only a larger influx of capital can therefore help to promote the development of these countries. In Bolivia, however, which is still facing the difficulties inherent in its pre-capitalist economy, and has immense areas of undeveloped land and a low volume of power output, the favourable conditions created for the investment of capital by such measures as the new Petroleum Code, the new policy governing the export of minerals and the expansion of the domestic market — as the result of land reforms which, by providing employment for 2.5 million peasants, have opened up new prospects for agriculture and industry must be supplemented by interest-free loans so that the conditions necessary for attracting foreign capital on a larger scale may be established and preserved, for if investors are able to repatriate their profits and capital, they will be encouraged to make a real contribution to our country’s economic progress.
135.	Many countries must accordingly first of all prepare a favourable climate for investments, and in this connexion the enormous importance of the creation of SUNFED to countries with weak economies is quite obvious. The proposal for SUNFED was first made in the United Nations and the studies relating to it are now almost complete, but the establishment of SUNFED is being postponed on the ground that disarmament should come first. We must nevertheless bear in mind that disarmament has become a chronic problem in the United Nations whereas the desperate situation of the under-developed countries, involving as it does the welfare of nations and thus of human beings, is a matter for urgent attention.
136.	The Bolivian delegation believes that this Assembly should find a way of making SUNFED, which we all so much desire, a reality. While it is true that the industrialized countries will be able to contribute larger sums to SUNFED when the arms race is over, it is no less true that the need which many countries have for SUNFED is now so urgent that some way should be found for setting it up immediately. Later, when considerable savings have been achieved in the highly developed countries through disarmament, the resources of SUNFED will be further expended.
137.	Finally, we must not forget that the efforts and resources of the smaller countries, which now find themselves in a state of backwardness, have contributed much to the advancement of the industrialized countries. A realization of this fact underlies the United States plans for assisting countries in different parts of the world. I would like to take this opportunity of expressing Bolivia’s gratitude for the generous aid which has been given to us and is helping us to overcome the difficulties inherent in our weak economy. The Bolivian delegation accordingly believes that SUNFED will help the under-developed countries to strengthen their economies and enable them to reap the full benefits of their independence.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
I	should	like to begin by congratulating Sir Leslie Munro most heartily on his election to the distinguished office of President of the General Assembly.
2.	In recent years, confidence in the results of United Nations action has grown stronger, and it is a fact that the Organization has been very successful in many of its efforts. But it is equally clear that the great objectives which our Organization originally set itself involve more than purely political problems. I believe that it is our duty to persuade the great Powers that there are serious structural problems still unsolved in many countries which are probably as deserving of consideration as the maintenance of international peace or, on a different level, the application of the right of peoples to self-determination. In reality, what is at stake is the destiny of mankind, man’s right to live Indignity. We should not, therefore, consider that only certain objectives are deserving of our attention.
3.	It is evident that the majority of the countries in the international community have been unable to progress at the same speed as certain others. Since the Second World War, the more fortunate countries have been advancing towards the conquest of material well-being at a pace which makes it all the more noticeable how difficult it is for others to benefit from the new inventions of science and technology. That is why certain countries, despite the high level of their civilization and the wealth of their cultural tradition, today regard the progress made by the privileged countries as if it had been accomplished by men from other worlds. It is tragically Ironic that the latest scientific accomplishments should seem to the under-developed nations to be the work of Martians or creatures from science fiction.
4.	The rapidity with which the material world has been transformed during the last decade has accentuated the social and economic differences between the great Powers and the smaller ones. While the former are today enjoying the benefits of technology, the latter are confronted with fresh and more pressing problems caused by the imbalance between the countries which are prosperous and those which are not.
5.	Accordingly, it is the function of the United Nations to take the lead in efforts to ensure that the living standards of the people of the poorer countries are gradually brought up to the level of the inhabitants of the other States which are today enjoying prosperity. For this purpose it will be necessary to take advantage of every move designed to translate into economic reality the principles of technical assistance. Bolivia, which is receiving such co-operation from the United Nations, is today a perfect example of this need to proceed from theory to practice.
6.	For this reason, my country strongly supported the establishment of the Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development. We consider it most encouraging that the United Nations should have drafted the legal framework of this instrument of economic co-operation. However, until such an instrument becomes operative, we must take care to maintain normal international trade, especially between the countries which produce raw materials and the industrialized countries which consume these materials.
7.	Conditions in the past caused certain countries to develop a mono-productive type of economy; in the case of Bolivia, the economy is based on minerals. Trade in these primary materials — such as the lead and zinc referred to by the Foreign Minister of Peru in his statement [683rd meeting] is today threatened by tariff barriers. I refer to measures tending to establish discrimination by reason of the origin of such primary materials.
8.	If the markets of the highly industrialized countries should be closed, what would be the future of these extractive industries, and what would be the effect on the vulnerable economies of the mono-productive countries? We hope that this situation may be understood by those who, if they were to apply measures of excessive protection, might cause irreparable harm.
9.	In the much discussed problem of disarmament, which the Assembly will discuss again, as it has done in former years, a solution could be found if the great Powers approached it in the spirit in which the President of the United States approached it when, speaking before the United Nations General Assembly [470th meeting], he appealed for the peaceful utilization of discoveries in the field of nuclear physics.
10.	However, it is clear that in connexion with this important problem we must consider the limitation and reduction of conventional armaments, and that this is a matter of direct concern to the under-developed countries. In this problem, as mothers confronting us, it is the responsibility of the smaller countries to commend to the great Powers the path of wisdom, by means of unmistakable evidence of goodwill.
11.	In 1955, during the general debate at the tenth session of the General Assembly, Dr. Siles Zuazo, then head of the Bolivian delegation and today President of Bolivia, stated [523rd meeting] that it was in the higher interest of mankind and of the maintenance of international peace to limit the armaments of the under-developed countries. He stated bluntly that a large part of the huge resources employed by the small countries for the acquisition of arms should be applied to the development of production in all phases of economic activity.
12.	My delegation considers that President Siles Zuazo's statement is still timely, and that it is even more urgent now than formerly for the smaller countries to disarm, or at least to reduce their armaments to the level consistent with the necessities of internal order and international security. This security, I might add, is determined by the change which has occurred in the very concept of defence, for conventional armaments mean little or nothing as compared with the hydrogen bomb and intercontinental missiles. It would also be naive to claim that the under-developed countries or those distant from the critical areas will play any decisive military role in the event of a world conflict.
13.	Owing to adverse circumstances, Bolivia is now a landlocked country. Cut off from the sea ports that were a part of its territorial heritage, Bolivia has persistently sought means of compensating for this anomalous condition, which has a decisive bearing on the need to ensure free and unrestricted transit to the great sea lanes of the world.
14.	In the United Nations — where the needs and aspirations of all peoples of the world find expression — it was decided last year [resolution 1105 (XI)] to convene an international conference on the law of the sea. One of the principal items on the agenda of this conference will be the study of the problems affecting the landlocked countries, a matter which concerns one-quarter of the States Members of this Organization. My Government is profoundly interested in this conference, since we believe it is destined to have a most important influence on the maintenance of international peace and security and on the development and prosperity of the world economy.
15.	The economic development of my country, specifically the exploitation of petroleum and the necessity of transporting petroleum to foreign markets by means of pipelines through neighbouring countries, poses new problems relative to freedom of transit. The forthcoming conference will undoubtedly consider with particular care the conditions governing the transport of petroleum originating in landlocked countries, with a view to laying down general principles.
16.	In this connexion, I take pleasure in paying a tribute to the generous understanding shown by the Governments and peoples of all the neighbouring countries which have granted Bolivia facilities for the construction of pipelines. Nevertheless, we consider that the conference which is to meet in Geneva next year ought to adopt regulations governing freedom of transit and the fuller exercise of this freedom.
17.	In conclusion, I wish to state that my delegation will spare no effort to co-operate with all the delegations present here for the accomplishment of the purposes of this Organization.


===== Session 13 - 1958 =====
68.	First of all, Mr. President, permit me to add my delegation’s congratulations to the many which you have received in connexion with your election.
69.	Speaking as I do on behalf of a weak country, I realize the limitations which this imposes, even though contemporary history shows that words are acquiring an Influence that does not depend on the possession of huge stocks of fearful weapons. The weaker countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America — and even the European countries which are trying to consolidate themselves in the no man's land between East and West — have nothing to pit against the great masses and accumulations of power but their sense of human dignity, their sympathy for the simple, basic aspirations of man and their observance of the rules of law. It is the existence of these values which makes it impossible to classify nations solely by reference to the size of their population or the volume of their trade. On what can the weaker nations rely for their defence but on the intangible weapons provided by international law, on the responsibility which power imposes on the great nations and on solidarity and understanding among themselves?
70.	However, the problem of establishing a system of international law is affected not only by the growing disparity between the great and small countries, which has been widening the political and cultural gap between them, but also by the trend of relationships and associations among the weaker countries. Those who hope or expect to see the power relationships among the great nations transformed into a true system of international law — one with its own organs and with rules which are inviolable and not subject to the overriding influence of the strongest — do not base their hopes on the possibility of the great Powers 'developing not only the material basis of power but the corresponding moral and political capacity to wield that power for the benefit of mankind. They base their hopes rather on the fact that only the rational  limitation of power — the increasing exercise of self-control- can guarantee the survival of the great Powers. The era of the Pax Romana and that of empires based on absolute rule by a single great Power have passed into history. We are living in an age in which the great Powers cannot Increase their strength by means of war and can gain peace only by accepting their vast responsibility and effectively limiting their own sovereignty. The view which my country expressed in 1944, as the Second World War neared its end, is more than ever applicable today: "Power exacts its price. Power exacts its penalty."
71.	We have arrived at a stage in human history at which the security of the weaker countries depends on the insecurity engendered by the great nations' armaments; on their own capacity to unite in defence of right, and on a rapid rise in the living standards and level of knowledge of their backward peoples. The accumulation of atomic power no longer affords any nation a sense of security: for the weak, the wide distribution of nuclear weapons provides the best and perhaps the only defence against them. For what is at stake for the great Powers is no longer merely a vast number of human beings or the fate of subjugated countries, but their own fate and their own existence. Realization of this simple and quite irrefutable fact is resulting if not in a new conception of international security, then at least in a policy of security and an inescapable trend towards the increasingly responsible use of power.
72.	This trend in the International policy of the great Powers at the present stage in history is serving to further and reinforce the efforts of the weaker countries or, to be more accurate, of the weak, underdeveloped areas of the world. The weaker countries justly maintain that a better life can be achieved only as the, result of a policy of assistance directed by the great Powers — a policy which would cover financial and technical aid and would ensure stable export markets and an equitable relationship between purchase and sales prices. While the great Powers' programme of assistance to the under-developed countries — which is a logical result of the unequal distribution of power and economic resources in the world —  is capable of being expanded and improved so as to achieve a better balance between the interests of the donor and those of the recipient nations, this approach will prove inadequate and somewhat ill-timed, unless the weaker countries themselves, as a basic prerequisite for any international efforts to promote higher levels of living, tackle the urgent task of their own integration and the problem of their mutual relations. While the more highly industrialized nations of Europe are joining forces in a common market and pooling their capital resources and experience in order to establish an iron and steel community, the countries of Latin America believe that they can cling to the luxury of some competition with one another and yet succeed in setting up a common market, a regional fund to finance industrialization, or a regional association of food and raw-materials producers.
73.	Although there has been some improvement in the system of inter-American law, the countries of Latin America, living Side by side, are hedged about by customs barriers and other institutions which isolate them from one another; in other words, while the machinery of diplomatic solidarity is being strengthened and the political need for Latin-American unity is becoming clearer than ever, the economies of these neighbouring countries are moving further apart and competition among them is becoming more Intense.
74.	This means that the development of policy is lagging far behind that of ideas and that our practice belies our theoretical assertion regarding our common destiny. We shall not be able to achieve this common destiny so long as our markets are watertight compartments, our frontiers are barriers which obstruct the free flow of persons, capital and goods, and each country buries itself in its own domestic problems as though in a sealed vault. I must say in all candour that the Latin-American countries have made little or no progress in this task of transforming insular provincialism into integrated regionalism, that is, into a type of association which is designed to co-ordinate their financial and material resources and expand the volume of their economic activity. This regionalism should aim not at excluding certain nations or making them subordinate to others, but at providing a practical basis for a new sense of solidarity and at paving the way for the new kind of Latin-American community, which has been our ideal ever since the stormy era of our wars of independence.
75.	It was at that juncture in history that we achieved a perfect fusion of idea and reality — the idea of solidarity and the reality of the association of the Indo-Hispanic peoples of America in a common destiny. For more than a century, Latin-America has been expounding the doctrine of integrated regionalism and continental nationalism. It is therefore surprising that the forces of isolation have prevailed over the need for interpretation, a static, regressive policy over a dynamic policy of joining together to work and make common cause against the world's problems. If the peoples of this hemisphere had achieved the maturity required to make Latin-American nationalism an economic and political reality, their foreign economies would not be so conspicuously vulnerable and so completely dependent on foreign financial and commodity markets, nor would their industries be on so small and limited a scale.
76.	But although this idea of Latin-American solidarity was the first of its kind in modern history, the Latin-American countries are now lagging behind the backward countries of Asia and Africa: African and Arab nationalism has taken the lead in pointing out avenues for action; it is seeking to resolve by joint effort the problems which the small countries can no longer resolve individually and separately. The prerequisite for effective co-operation between the weaker countries and the great Powers — for genuine co-operation rather than an unstable relationship based on dependence — is that the weaker countries should unite together and merge their economies and their national frontiers.
77.	It is this thesis — which has so long a history and yet has been so little applied in practice — that my country wishes to put forward here in the United Nations. My country, which is one of the poorest in Latin America and is land-locked, has had the courage to carry through far-reaching revolutionary changes in order to complete the work begun in the wars of independence and to make the organs of Government fully democratic. Bolivia believes that the problem of its tin, its tungsten, its basic minerals and its oil must be attacked not only on a national basis but also in conformity with its sense of geographical solidarity and of involvement in the destiny of the Latin-American countries. American geographical solidarity must be based on the principle that all the peoples which share in our common destiny have common spiritual frontiers.
78.	At the present time, my country is faced by Soviet economic aggression, which aims at the gradual destruction of the world tin market. The fearful prospect of armed aggression with modern weapons of war tends to. overshadow the fact that economic aggression also breaches the innermost defences of the country attacked and spreads ruin and intolerable misery in its midst. The Soviet Union's aim in dumping huge quantities of tin on the world markets can only have been to demoralize the peoples which live by the export of that mineral and to capitalize on the resulting discontent and social unrest.
79.	My country has effected far-reaching political, economic and social changes. The people is free, and the country is sovereign. No form of oligarchy exists. If the Soviet Union's conduct was consistent with its own propaganda, it would respect this country which has made such efforts to emancipate its people and regain its dignity. The reason for the present Soviet attitude is that our revolution was accomplished without foreign tutelage and without invoking any doctrine alien to the Christian tradition of its supporters. The fact is that my people is today the victim of an economic war unleashed by distant enemies which have selected Bolivia as the latest target of their many-sided worldwide offensive. I appeal to the free countries to ponder this grave situation which has arisen.
80.	I wish to point out that Bolivia has carried out a revolution designed not only .to guarantee Its people the right of self-government, but also to co-ordinate its economy with the economies of the entire region and to give new meaning to its nationalist policy. Bolivia's revolutionary nationalism is expressed and confirmed in the conventions on economic and highway co-ordination which it has signed with all its neighbours. Under these conventions, Bolivia's oil, minerals and coffee are to contribute towards improving conditions in those of its sister nations which lack these vital elements for their development. This is only an isolated effort, however; Bolivia wishes to see it transformed into a common aspiration and translated forthwith into a policy of gradual integration.
81.	A Latin-American common market — which is certainly the economic prerequisite for the systematic industrialization of the region — must be a target for today, not tomorrow. The same applies to the establishment of a regional investment fund to promote the creation of a Latin-American capital market and channel more funds into agricultural, industrial and service, enterprises, and also to the formation of regional co-operatives and associations of metal, fibre, coffee and oil producers. By establishing a proper relationship between the price, of exports and imports, integration along these lines will do more to promote market stability and fair prices than constant complaints and pleas at regional and international conferences. What is needed is for the weaker countries to begin practising solidarity at home instead of placing all their reliance on the adoption of a policy of co-operation and assistance by the great Powers.
82.	It is also time that the Latin-American countries, by employing multilateral clearing arrangements, adopted a system of trade suited to their shortage of foreign exchange in gold and dollars. We have reached a point where bilateral clearing arrangements, such as those in force between Bolivia and Chile, Bolivia and Argentina, and Bolivia and Brazil, are too narrow and restricted. Hence the vital necessity of converting these bilateral arrangements into a broad, multilateral system, which will provide for the transfer of credit and debit balances and will greatly extend the ability of countries to purchase and pay for Latin-American goods. The staple products of the Latin-American economy must be used to build up and increase purchasing power within the Latin-American area.
83. The methods by which this purchasing power would be increased are very simple: application of the doctrine of solidarity which has been propounded since the Liberation of 1810, substitution of the principles of co-operation among nations for those of competition, and adoption of procedures for economic integration. What is required of us at this time is not a new regional or International philosophy but a new mode of behaviour; that is the purpose of the appeal voiced by my nation, which though small feels itself inspired and moved by a higher cause-that of Latin-American nationalism. It is our duty to learn the lesson taught by the nationalist movements which — regardless of what their political content may be — are uniting the Indians, the Indonesians, the Arabs and the Africans. I hope that this appeal may serve to focus world attention on Bolivia's problem with regard to tin and basic exports and on the gross inadequacy of the international loans and investments available to the backward countries at a time when the Soviet Union is conducting an offensive designed to undermine the world tin market.
84.	Bolivia has had the same experience as those Latin-American nations which cannot hope to obtain in the foreign market the capital required for their industrialization and development not even an institution as sound as the Bolivian State Petroleum Organization, with its numerous oil concessions and plentiful fixed capital, has been able to obtain the dollars it needs in order to carry out large-scale extracting and refining operations and transform its output into a motive force for Bolivian agricultural, industrial and mining development. The institutions for the financing of economic development in the underdeveloped countries, which are attempting to combine investments by foreign Governments with those from private sources, are quite inadequate to the needs and aspirations of those countries and are doing little, towards ensuring that the rate of productivity increase keeps pace with the rate of natural population increase. However, it would be more constructive to help establish new institutions to promote investment, economic protection, integration and genuine co-operation rather than attempt to reorganize existing international agencies, since the latter already have a well-defined structure, policy and method of operation.
85.	I am convinced that this is not only the best contribution that Latin America can make to its own overall development, but also the best contribution it can make to the cause of achieving international cooperation and a just peace in the world. I say this because what I have proposed will promote not only industrial development but also social and political progress, by removing the limitations caused by a purely local and parochial outlook.
86.	The practical force of international law depends not only on relations among the great Powers but also on the extent to which the weak, backward countries of the world unite to form new economic and political groupings on a regional basis. Responsibility for world peace rests not only with the strong but also with the weak countries, to the extent that the latter cease to form ineffective groups of countries with no philosophy of their own and transform themselves into integrated associations playing an active part in the settlement of International Issues. That Is why Latin-American Integration is not only an internal problem of the Latin- American countries which are seeking a more suitable mode of national expression, but is also closely bound up with the need for a better by stem of peaceful international relations governed by law. To the extent that such new associations are developed and forged, an improvement in relations among the great Powers will be possible — since their vast burden of responsibility and their heavy reliance on their respective arms resources will have been reduced — and the world will be able to approach a new and realistic concept of a "world state based on law".
87.	It is the opinion of Bolivia and of its revolutionary people and State — an opinion based on the tenets of the Bolivian revolution — that progress in this direction is the responsibility and the mission of the Latin-American nations and the weaker nations of Asia and Africa. It Is their mission not only as Latin Americans, Arabs, Indonesians or Africans but also as members of the human race who share its common destiny and are militant in the cause of its indivisible unity.

===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
175.	I have great pleasure, Mr. President, in offering you my warmest congratulations on the well-earned tribute paid to you in your election to the Presidency of this great. Assembly. This honour has an added significance for my country, which is linked to Peru by ancient ties of origin, tradition and brotherhood, since it is an implicit recognition of the values which we in Latin America uphold.
176.	More than fourteen years ago I had the honour and the unusual good fortune to take part, as head of my country’s delegation, in the San Francisco Conference which was convened to study the Dumbarton Oaks proposals and, using them as a basis, to draft the Charter of our Organization.
177.	This the first occasion I have had since then to attend the General Assembly, although I had the honour to take part in the drafting of the Assembly’s powers in political and security matters as Chairman of Committee 2 of Committee n of the San Francisco Conference of 1945 which drafted this part of the Charter,
178.	In the years between, mankind has gained much in experience. Many of the dreams we cherished at that time have faded, while in other fields the outline of reality has become sharper. In 1959, perhaps, we can view with greater clarity and realism the prospects of attaining peace, security, good relations and mutual respect among all the peoples of the organized international community.
179.	The theory behind the planning for peace was based on the ideal of complete understanding between the great Powers which have permanent seats in the Security Council and under the current system of voting enjoy the right of veto in matters concerned with the maintenance of international peace and security. But at the same time one cannot overlook the immense contribution made by the small countries which, in their eagerness to proceed with their development in an atmosphere of peace, have shown even greater zeal and enthusiasm in seeking ways to eliminate factors likely to undermine the peace and security they value so highly, and create instead a basis of justice and respect for the dignity of man.
180.	In this Assembly some of us may well recall from time to time that the credit for the great victory for mankind which was achieved when the right of collective self-defence was established in Article 51 of the Charter belongs to the countries of Latin America that thronged to the San Francisco Conference, and to their passion for peace, justice and respect for the sovereignty and dignity of peoples throughout the world.
181.	However, alliances of certain sectors and regional groups cannot by themselves maintain stability based on respect and fear, and so guarantee peace and security. There are other factors too, which may not be so sensational and coercive as armed aggression, but still go on undermining the foundations of peaceful coexistence. I refer particularly to the immense differences in levels of living in the modern world, which has grown so much smaller and, with the new perspective provided by more rapid communications, has at last Come face to face with the tragic reality.
182.	Fourteen years ago at San Francisco I made a statement to the effect that the foundations of universal peace would be laid as soon as there was equal remuneration in every part of the world for the same amount and type of work.
183.	We cannot overlook this keen desire for equality, which is one of the mainsprings of human progress. At first, this desire was elemental and intuitive, a striving after a utopian equality to which all men were entitled by the mere fact of their birth. Modern society on the other hand takes into account moral, intellectual and physical qualities in its concept of equality: and that is undoubtedly why we still get the injustice of situation in which the remuneration, for a given unit of effort, is larger or smaller merely because the person concerned was born in a certain part of the world or is the product of a certain background.
184.	In modern law mankind has succeeded, after many trials and tribulations, in advancing from a concept of individual privileges based on an uncompromising interpretation of the right of property and its uses and abuses to a social concept of this right. Thus, we have gone beyond mere charity and humanitarianism, and have now arrived at a concept of social security and the right to work which no one in modem society would dispute. This concept must now be extended and applied to the international community in the same way as to the relations between individuals. There is no doubt that mankind is moving progressively in this direction,
185.	As society progresses, so a number of assumptions about human nature, once regarded as incontrovertible, are tending to be modified. The idea of the survival of the fittest — the law of the jungle and of the barbarian eras — is now being replaced by a principle of fellowship between the weak and the strong. In this form, the notion of human society approximates to the revolutionary ideas of Christianity and of the philosophers who have championed the superiority of spiritual over material values.
186.	To turn to other fields, human society has also made some progress in methods of government by abolishing the political privileges attached to certain families or social classes. Although there are still great differences in political and economic systems, all States have one. feature in common, namely that any person can rise to the highest position in the administration of his community, provided he is qualified to do so by his abilities and talents, regardless of birth.
187.	All this is striking evidence that the world has entered a new era in which power is to be used not so that one man can hold sway over another, but to provide individuals, or communities which for one reason or another are under-developed or in distress, with opportunities of overcoming their difficulties.
188.	Having made these general remarks, I would like to make some comments on the relations between developed countries and the so-called under-developed countries. There are a number of different points of view from which a country can be regarded as developed. Apart from geographical factors, one contributory element is undoubtedly a country^ firm decision to apply in its national policies the positive outlook inherent in the application of science to technology and of technology to industrial development; at the same time many countries today regarded as underdeveloped may be under-developed only in this material sense, because their national outlook is such that they prefer to devote greater efforts to the development of spiritual forces as yet not fully tapped.
189.	On the other hand, the inescapable fact that nations have been brought closer together through the development of communications has revealed wide differences in material standards which none of us can overlook, however great our preoccupations with other matters may be. Hence all peoples are now clamouring for the same rate of material progress as that achieved in the developed countries.
190.	We must not forget that in the exercise of human power, be it of man over man or of nation over nation, material factors have always predominated and have acquired a stranglehold; and though some of them may be regarded as of ephemeral importance in the history of mankind, they are still powerful enough to make a deep impression on the minds of the great majority of people. All peoples are eager to overcome their material weaknesses and shortcomings.
191.	We cannot forget that within a few years of the signing of the Charter, the world was threatened once more by the prospect of another world war. Small nations and undeveloped countries, which need an atmosphere of peace if they are to develop and exploit their natural resources, have felt the repercussions of this threat, with the inevitable armaments race and the instability of the status of labour.
192.	The perplexity aroused by the conflict of interests between the great Powers and the clash of ideologies is such that the man in the street frequently feels thwarted in his efforts to achieve individual and collective economic emancipation. Thus many of the countries concerned are experiencing the consequences of the uneven development which occurs when there is an immense increase in consumer demand without a proportionate increase in productive capacity.
193.	If we remember too that recent technological progress has tended not so much to make the machine the servant of man as to make man a slave to the machine, it is obvious that our civilization must undertake a fundamental reappraisal of its values and some readjustment in its methods.
194.	The immediate effect, already experienced by societies which are economically weak, has been inflation. Efforts have been and are being made to combat inflation by methods out of keeping with the intellectual development of the peoples concerned. The latter are not always prepared to accept patience, austerity and thrift; as an answer to perpetual poverty; these virtues are surely of value only to a society which has once enjoyed plenty and a high level of living, and has lost them, and may then resort to such methods to regain them.
195.	In addressing the Assembly on behalf of my country, I might mention that Bolivia, like other countries, has shown immense interest in the exchange of visits between the Chiefs of State of the United States and of the Soviet Union.
196.	In this connexion I would like to indicate a few objectives which, I think, sum up in part what the under-developed countries of the free world are aiming at and would like to see as the outcome of this exchange of visits: Maintenance of world peace, based on respect for the freedom and dignity of all peoples; genuine interchange between peoples, which would gradually eliminate existing cultural and ideological differences and bring the world closer to the ideal of a single human family; disinterested assistance by the developed countries in placing all the discoveries of modem science at the disposal of the backward peoples, so as to accelerate their progress and end the disparities caused by different levels of development; a serious and whole-hearted effort to fix a scale of rewards for human labour, wherever such labour is performed, and the establishment of a more fair and proper ratio in the matter of work done by producers of raw materials and work done in the manufacturing industries. This could lead to the establishment of standards for prices and rewards for labour, and to the removal of disparities which cause so much upheaval in the world today; freedom of transit by land, inland water and sea transport; the right of access for all peoples to sources of scientific knowledge and artistic inspiration; abolition of privilege in regard to technical knowledge, as a means of establishing overwhelming power by a single State; respect for all the spiritual activities of man, and complete freedom of belief and worship.
197.	This year there have been many spectacular achievements in the field of science. The great Powers have already taken the first step towards the possible mastery of outer space. If these efforts continue at a rate which now seems feasible, many of our ideas about security and sovereignty will have to be radically altered. Mankind with all its advances in applied science is now approaching the critical moment when it will have to decide its fate — whether to survive and attain greater heights, or to be the instrument of its own destruction. Never before has so much responsibility rested upon so few, and our work at this fourteenth session of the General Assembly must therefore be worthy of this momentous hour in the history of mankind.

===== Session 15 - 1960 =====
The Bolivian delegation wishes to add its congratulations to those which the President has already received from the representatives here assembled; his appointment is no more than a recognition of his valuable and outstanding services to the international community.
2.	The problems which demand the attention of the Assembly are many and difficult. At the same time, all of them are of the utmost importance since their consequences involve all mankind; they include such matters as peace and disarmament, human rights, the end of discrimination and the social well-being of mankind. However, without detracting from the worldwide importance of the fundamental items which will be considered at this session, there are some of special importance to many of the States represented here, the solution of which ought now to be emerging from the stage of theoretical discussion in order to be embodied in satisfactory decisions, in accordance with the spirit of the Charter, relating to the vast and vital needs of the under-developed countries. Under-development is the principal problem of the countries of Latin America, as well as Africa, Asia and Oceania. To conquer under-development and secure a civilized I standard of living is the aspiration of millions of human beings now engaged in political and economic movements which they hope will lead them to this much desired goal. Revolutionary processes of this kind, which disturb and change old systems, need to be interpreted to the international community, because of their tremendous human significance. These transformations cannot be ignored or checked. They are legitimate outbreaks against centuries-old injustices in the social order.
3.	The Bolivian delegation firmly supports what the United Nations is striving to achieve under its technical assistance and economic aid programmes. However, at this stage in the life of our Organization, it is obliged to associate itself with the comments of several of the delegations here present regarding the limited resources available and the methods by which these resources are distributed, which occasionally makes it more difficult to reap their full benefit. Perhaps the time has come to undertake a review and readjustment of the policy of international co-operation, with a view to making it more co-ordinated and dynamic, in accordance with the requirements of the developing countries, whose rate of economic need is faster than the rate at which they are receiving assistance.
4.	We believe that until there are new plans to expand and develop the resources of the under-developed countries, there will be a chronic state of economic and political malaise, with attendant anarchy fomenting subversion. Self-development is impossible without capital. Hence, both the plans of the United States Government and Operation Pan America proposed by President Kubitschek of Brazil are ambitious attempts to solve this particular problem.
5.	We believe that it is time now to put into effect the recommendation adopted at the Seventh Meeting of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics in a resolution submitted by the Bolivian delegation proposing the establishment of a system to protect the economy of the Latin American countries against constant fluctuations in commodity prices on the international market and increases in the prices of manufactured goods consumed by the under-developed countries. We believe that until an objective solution is found to this problem which is fundamental to all our countries, there will be no positive progress in the search for solutions to remedy the unfairness of the present system.
6.	In this connexion, it should be borne in mind that the level of development in Latin America is far from even. While some countries have made modest progress, others, hampered by structural defects in their geo-economy, have not even achieved the degree of under-development attained by other backward countries in other parts of the world. The Bogotá Conference therefore agreed to establish a scale of priority for countries which are in a truly critical situation and others — including Bolivia — which are land-locked and without access to the sea.
7.	The development of the Latin American countries is a long-standing problem which has unfortunately not been faced in the last nineteen years. Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States, suggested certain solutions which were postponed because of the Second World War. Of all of the under-developed areas in the world, this area is the closest to entering the stage of industrialization. The Economic Commission for Latin America has made a detailed study of the vulnerability of Latin American exports, and the shrinkage of Latin America’s markets at a time when the continent is undergoing the greatest population explosion in the world. The Bolivian delegation believes that we must seek out solutions within the system that are commensurate with the pressing problems of Latin American economic life. For all these reasons, and bearing in mind the spirit of the United Nations Charter, the Bolivian delegation trusts that the Organization of American States will take continuing and positive action in regard to the community's problems without waiting for temporary or passing crises to awaken its concern.
8.	I should like to dwell here for a moment on Bolivia’s experience at the last United Nations Tin Conference, held in New York in May 1960. The delegation of Bolivia, which was virtually isolated by the nature of the topic under discussion, as the only country in Latin America producing tin on a large scale, was unable to get any support for its just demands for remunerative prices based on the imperative vital factors in the producing countries. While expressing our gratitude to the Mexican delegation at that Conference for its constant support for the Bolivian delegation's position, I should nevertheless like to draw attention to the need for joint action by the members of the Organization of American States and all the under-developed countries with similar problems in matters relating to the defence of commodity prices on the international export market even when they are not themselves producers and are not therefore directly concerned.
9.	Bolivia, like other countries of the continent, welcomed the United States Government’s decision announced at the Bogotá Conference, to inaugurate a new era in the assistance extended by that country to the other members of the regional organization. When the initial sum was divulged, the Latin American countries formed the impression that this was only a beginning in effective collaboration and that in future there would be new operations designed to resolve systematically the structural, problems of economic development,
10.	Eight years ago, the Bolivian delegation came before the United Nations Assembly at a time when dramatic changes were being initiated in the economic, social and political structure of Bolivia as a result of the 1952 revolution. It fell to our delegation to explain for the first time the causes, background and future plans of this national revolution, at a time when the accomplishment of such reforms was looked upon with suspicion and incomprehension. The Bolivian revolution, which began and ended in response to national historic realities, was not at any time supported by outside elements. It was Bolivian in the fullest sense of the word, and thus remained free of any influence other than the supreme interest of the country and the welfare of its inhabitants. We can say now, before the Assembly, that all the purposes of our revolution have been achieved and its programmes are in full course of completion.
11,	Eight years have gone by under the revolutionary régime; we have passed through three stages of constitutional government and today we can say with pride that our revolutionary nationalism is an evolutionary process which is approaching maturity; its basis is in the collective conscience, its aims are social health and labour solidarity, it respects different creeds and races as well as foreign enterprise and property wherever these are not in conflict with the national interest. It is a new conciliatory and Christian humanism. Here the individual end the State are not mutually destructive: they are integrated and able to live in harmony.
12,	Revolutionary nationalism makes the constituent parts of the community complementary; it means agreement between the classes; equality of opportunity for all; an economy of participation in which all may progress in accordance with their capacities without prejudice to the rights of others. To us Bolivians, nationalism does not mean xenophobia or class hatred; it is based on the juridical and social order in harmony with economic and political factors. The nationalist revolution has created in Bolivia a new status in economic and social relations whose expression is the national State, the organ of the people and not the sectional instrument of any group or social class. As the President of Bolivia, Dr. Victor Paz Estenssoro, has said, ”… the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement is a happy combination of workers, peasants and members of the middle class, closely allied by their common interest, in opposition to the political and economic despotism of the mine-owners and feudal land-owners, which has changed the physiognomy and character of Bolivia and brought justice for all, whereby privilege has vanished and only ability is recognized. From slaves, it has made freemen, and it has set free gigantic productive energies over the face of the land.”
13.	One of the most outstanding aspects of the Bolivian revolution is that it has given human dignity to all the Indigenous peasants of Bolivia, a status they did not enjoy formerly because of the pitiless exploitation to which they were exposed. Today the peasants are free and enjoy all the same rights and are subject to the same obligations as the rest of our citizens. Two million of them have become landowners through the application of the Land Reform Act. What is our purpose in this? We believe that besides having satisfied an ancient yearning for justice, by transforming the anachronistic feudal system of land tenure and forming a more equitable redistribution of the land among those who work on it, we have raised the Bolivian level of production.
14.	The social importance of land reform i3 such today that it has been recognized even by the Assembly, which will discuss it this year as an item on its agenda [74]. My delegation is in a position to make an important contribution to the discussion of this very important item, because of our first-hand experience based on the application of principles which harmonize the interests of the State, the interests of those who work on the land and even the interests of those progressive landowners who have joined in, this process of transformation under the new regulations laid down by the Land Reform Act.
15.	My Government is interested in promoting the industrialization of Bolivia and in making use of the tremendous economic potential which lies in its undeveloped natural resources. In order to achieve this purpose, we require international co-operation, but co-operation of a kind that will enable us to assist the basic industries which are destined under the Government’s plans to increase public wealth. In his speech, the President of Bolivia added the following; "The international co-operation afforded by the great Powers, to every part of the world, is of sound inspiration and consonant with the interdependence of contemporary life; it made possible the construction of the European countries after the Second World War and it is now assisting the underdeveloped countries of three continents to proceed stage by stage in their economic development. We would not be sincere if, while reiterating our gratitude and that of the whole Bolivian people for this valuable assistance, we did not at the same time stress our firm belief that international assistance would yield more immediate and beneficial results if it was increased and above all if it was directed into specific development projects.”
16.	I do not wish to trespass longer upon the Assembly’s attention by drawing up a balance-sheet of the revolutionary accomplishments of the Bolivian Government, The delegations here present are fully informed regarding the process of revolution in Bolivia and its results. Many States have given us proof of their respect and understanding for the-social and political movement in which we are engaged. Some of them, indeed, such as the United States, have given us direct support through technical assistance and economic co-operation that has not in any way involved any political commitment or any influence on the internal or external life of Bolivia--something that our revolutionary Government and our people, both jealous of their sovereignty and independence, would never permit.
17.	These special characteristics of the Bolivian process have clearly determined our international position since 1952. We believe that the maintenance of a keen sense of justice against all forms of imperialism which enslave weaker nations economically or politically is compatible with the profound democratic and peace-loving convictions which inform our existence; therefore, now as before, my delegation regards with the deepest sympathy all processes of liberation and is on the side of all nations which are struggling to raise their peoples to higher levels of justice and social well-being.
18.	The desire for peace is innate in man. We have seen how all countries, through their representatives, have expressed here their determination to bring it about. The representatives of the two Powers which lead the world today have also reiterated their determination to preserve peace through disarmament. There is therefore a basis, a general consensus, which must be given due recognition for it expresses hot only the thought and the position of representatives put also of the people whom they represent. The problems of disarmament do not arise out of its essential nature. They arise out of the process of putting it into effect, the procedures which one nation or another wishes to apply in order to achieve the aim.
19.	Various proposals have been made. The problem is naturally complex, but in our view it requires above all a state of mind in the great Powers which will facilitate an understanding. Whether this is smaller large is not important, provided that in some way it opens up the possibility of agreement which will enable mankind to recover its faith in the security of its destiny.
20.	Through the Trusteeship Council, the Trust Territories are fast emerging into independence. Bolivia was elected to the Council last year and has been contributing to its noble task by advocating a system of principles covering equitable land distribution, universal suffrage and the improvement of economic, educational and health conditions in those Territories. In the rapid process of liberating the Non-Self-Governing Territories, the Administering Powers have in some specific cases been unable to provide the new nations with viable economies.
21.	This state of affairs, which is also met with in the colonies that are not under trusteeship, means that the colonial Powers’ unfulfilled obligations must become an international charge. The Bolivian delegation believes that these Powers still have residual obligations, and that the first source of international cooperation for the new States must consist of action initiated by the colonial Powers under the supervision of the United Nations.
22.	The situation in the Congo (Leopoldville) is a constant source of concern to all those countries which, like Bolivia, have faced the exertions, sacrifices and paradoxes of emancipation in the relatively recent past. We refute those who allege that such a crisis is the product of premature liberty, lack of political maturity and other affronts to the dignity of this great African people, by affirming that the path towards complete sovereignty, towards order and constitutional government, is always complex and painful and marked by advances and retreats which seem to complicate and hamper its course. Nevertheless, what prevails in the end is the determination to be free.
23.	Freedom too can flare up and leave us blind for a time. But what we must do — and this is one of the reasons why the United Nations was created — is to prevent this transition from being an object of political interference and manoeuvres contrary to the interests of the infant country. While the constant announcement of scientific advances raises optimism and confidence among countries which are constantly threatened by disease, shortage of arable land, and backwardness, and makes them think of prodigious conquests, when they hear of man’s ventures into the microcosm of bacteria and those projects which will lift him out of this planet into the unknown universe, and while the common man takes comfort from this knowledge, at the same time he cannot forget that this same science is working actively towards the discovery of new and yet more sinister instruments of destruction.
24.	The first astonishment of the people at this incongruity, incompletely justified by political reasons — has yielded not only to uneasiness, but to rightful indignation, which arises act out of ideological positions or political alliances or even mere helplessness, but out of the sacredness of humanity.
25.	The right to destroy cannot be argued about. If man has been given the mission to create, he must refuse himself the right to destroy. At this session of the Assembly we should try by every means in our power, to bring about a ban on nuclear tests and prevent the dissemination of nuclear weapons.
26.	Before leaving the theme of peace and disarmament, my delegation wishes to express its lively hope that the conflicts which are today embittering and disturbing various neighbouring countries in different parts of the world, holding up their progress and wasting their energies, will be settled by the participants in a spirit of justice, not only because it is their duty to do so, but because it is the duty of the whole international order, now that the international community is growing so much larger.
27.	I should like to say, in connexion with the part played by the Secretary-Genera]., that that part has always been governed by the wishes of the Assembly and the requirements of the Charter which are in practice a reflexion of the majority view of the Member States. That is the spirit in which we have judged the latest activities of the Secretary-General, without reservations of any kind.
28.	Last year’s session of the United Nations General Assembly was described as the "Assembly of Peace”. Certain ominous signs would seem to indicate — and this impression has not yet been dispelled — that the current session of the Assembly, if it had a name, would bear that of insecurity, mistrust and the cold war. We would seem to have arrived at a very desperate point, with no solution in sight. However, there is in Spanish literature a very old proverb: "The darkest hour comes just before the dawn".
29.	Perhaps out of this session of the Assembly, so full of confusion, will be born that tranquillity which the world so much desires. We hope so indeed. This is what mankind demands.


===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
﻿The delegation of Bolivia is happy to associate itself with the general satisfaction at the unanimous and well-deserved election of Mr. Slim as President of the General Assembly at its sixteenth session. In conveying to him my sincere congratulations, I would express my earnest hope that his responsible task will be crowned with complete success.
2.	This regular session of the United Nations General Assembly has opened in an atmosphere of grief and mourning owing to the tragic death of the Organization's Secretary-General, Mr. Dag Hammarskjold. The grievous impact of this event compels us to meditate, calmly but at length, on the great responsibilities of the moment. Man is at present faced with the gravest problem in his history: how to bring about a permanent and honest agreement for the maintenance of peace, the one indispensable condition for his own survival.
3.	Dag Hammarskjold died in the service of peace, the most noble cause of mankind; but he died while holding high the banner of this cause, and by sacrificing his life he laid upon us the obligation to keep that banner flying amid every danger. The delegation of Bolivia pays the most deep-felt tribute to the memory of the Secretary-General we have lost and of the servants of the world Organization who died with him.
4.	Fifteen years ago, when the United Nations was founded and the Charter approved, all mankind saw in that event a reason for hope. It seemed that, after considerable uncertainty, a road had been opened towards the satisfaction of the peoples' age-old longing for peace. The new international institution was to substitute reason for force, and its legal structure provided for the equal rights of nations and demolished the odious distinctions of power, race, creed and culture. It seemed that the sufferings of man over the centuries had at last convinced him that with war all is lost and that with peace, based on reason, while everything may not be gained, war, at least, is eliminated. Fifteen years have passed.
Today the number of States is twice that of those which gathered at San Francisco to inaugurate the new age of hope. New peoples voice their views in this hall. The political geography of the world has been transformed. The rainbow of flags has expanded. One would have thought that the oppression which was a feature of past eras would have disappeared or been in process of extinction, and that the hopes born fifteen years ago at San Francisco would have matured and become fully productive. Yet our anxiety, far from disappearing, has grown deeper and broader.
5.	The agenda of this General Assembly, now approved, contains items of vital importance for the destiny of mankind and the future of the Organization, Incontestably, the principal one is that relating to peace. We stand before an inescapable choice: either we find a way to peaceful coexistence within the legal order which the evolution of human civilization is creating and perfecting, or we plunge into the abyss of the complete destruction of the human race. Man's inherent anguish, which steins from the knowledge that he is mortal, becomes more acute if he loses all hope of surviving in the generations to come.
6.	Bolivia maintains and will constantly maintain its traditional support for the cause of peace, to which it has always contributed, even at the sacrifice of its own interests. Yet we know that we, like the great majority of the countries which are economically and militarily unequipped for the newest methods of warlike competition and conflict, have nothing to bring to the discussion and solution of the problem except the moral authority of our good will and sincerity in the wearying task of persuasion, in which we have persevered for so long. We know very well that force in its various forms, from intimidation to the imposition of its brutal argument by means of accomplished facts, is still the preferred way of settling controversies, disputes or conflicts of interests, for those who rely solely—and perhaps over much on their formidable military power. History teaches us that this method has, unfortunately, prevailed, rather than the moral- weight of reason and responsibility. Despite this discouraging experience, the people and Government of my country firmly believe that today, more than ever, we must maintain these values until reason conquers intransigence and gives pride of place to proper respect for the future of mankind.
7.	The threat facing us is not the same as that presented by the classical type of dispute, in which resort to force affected only those who were directly or indirectly involved. It is a threat which, if translated into action, will destroy everything and everyone— aggressors and victims of aggression, belligerents and non-belligerents, guilty and innocent, those involved and those not involved in the dispute.
8.	The people of Bolivia regard the world's entire cultural and epistemological. heritage aft a single 
whole, as the indivisible heritage of men and of peoples. Scientific advances and the new technology are due to the common efforts and discoveries of mankind. They are not, therefore, the exclusive property of anyone. From the days of cave paintings, throughout the slow and painful stages of civilization, ill have contributed to the amazing results which we now behold. Man is barely more than a creature of nature. He is not the Creator. By what right therefore does this culmination of knowledge and intelligence bring in its train the threat to exterminate life? .
9.	These familiar considerations may seem very simple ; but apparently we must return to the expedient of simple formulas if we are to realize the gravity of the danger menacing mankind5 when the complexity of argument and counter-argument draws us into a kind of vicious circle, when the debate becomes more and more heated and involved and it becomes more and more difficult to understand and solve the problem and to find a reference point in our search for a better world, free from the fear of war.
10.	Bolivia adds its voice to those of the weak countries, which have no protection other than the legal authority of this Organization, in demanding that the small group of great Powers should comply strictly with the obligations specified in the San Francisco Charter for the ensuring of peace. As has been rightly said from this rostrum, the privileged treatment given to them in the Charter requires them faithfully to discharge this responsibility. In other words, their power does not entitle them to impunity in the use or abuse of their strength; still less does it entitle them to bring about, in that way, the destruction of life. Their power gives them exclusive responsibility for the strengthening of peace. Bolivia, in its sincere desire to persuade, will never tire of repeating this injunction, voiced in 1944 by an eminent thinker of my country, the then President of its Legislative Assembly, as the sound of the world war's last battles died away.
11.	As a real and positive contribution to the fulfilment of this fervent hope of men throughout the world, my country will support any honest attempt to eliminate the possibility of war through agreements for general, complete, real and effective disarmament and, above all, for the banning of nuclear and all other weapons of mass destruction.
12.	My delegation therefore insists, as it has done on many other occasions, that the great conquests of science in the control and exploitation of nuclear energy should be used only for the constant advancement of the well-being of the community of nations. The peaceful application of these achievements of the human intellect opens up such promising prospects for progress that to go in the opposite direction, towards the abyss of the most horrible war ever imagined, would be to deny the higher destiny of mankind.
13.	At the moment, the international situation does not seem to justify excessive optimism about the future of peace. We are in the presence of a conflict of interests, in which the ever-increasing sharpness of tone is accompanied by a deployment of forces, involving even the adoption, of unilateral decisions to the effect that nuclear tests shall be resumed, with great danger to the health and safety of all peoples. If no agreement is reached in good will and good faith, it is clear that at any moment, perhaps as a
result of Unforeseeable factors, the situation can turn into a disaster. Even if we try to cling to hope until the last moment, on the theory that there will never be complete extermination, to what extremes will man be driven by the knowledge that he is on the verge of annihilation? Can the universal values of the spirit survive ?
14.	Despite this dark prospect, the delegation of Bolivia believes that this great organ of the international community, by calling upon the great,Powers to fulfil their duties and responsibilities, can and should have a decisive influence in the preventing of greater disagreement and friction which would bring the outbreak of the last of all wars nearer.
15.	Despite the often inexplicably severe criticism levelled at it on the score of its efficiency, the international Organization, in the various emergencies which have arisen since its establishment, has already carried out a praiseworthy task in accordance with its principal purposes of averting war and preserving and strengthening peace whenever its powers and resources give it the means and opportunity to do so. We are certain that, as on those other occasions, it will act resolutely to encourage and sponsor full and effective negotiations.
16.	The arms race must be ended, not merely because of the dangers it creates but because of the waste it involves; if the vast resources squandered upon it were used to promote production and peaceful progress, much of inestimable value would be done to reduce the present appalling differences between the peoples' levels of development. At the tenth session of the General Assembly, the Bolivian delegation spoke of the need to limit the armament of the under-developed countries. I believe that this proposal is still pertinent and that its principles and purposes should, indeed, be made of general applicability.
17.	The recent achievements of man in embarking upon the control of space, while creating the most extraordinary dread, have led to a new appraisal of his scientific ability. This implies the need to expedite the study of a system of rules for the peaceful use of these achievements. The great Powers responsible for these advanc3s which are a source of pride to mankind are thereby provided with a promising opportunity to reach a constructive agreement in an area not affected by the geographical tensions of the cold war. To this end, the Bolivian delegation thinks that the General Assembly should act resolutely to achieve the purpose of the resolution [1472 B (XIV)] on this matter, adopted at its fourteenth session, before the end of the period indicated in that resolution.
18.	Bolivia supports and will continue to support the principles of the self-determination of peoples, meaning the free expression of the will of the majority. This principle is for peoples what freedom is for the individual; and, since it is of universal application, we must say explicitly that we share the general concern about the situation of the German people, and particularly about the city of Berlin, which is one the critical points in the present crisis. Bolivia, true to its traditions, thinks that the only way of resolving this problem and the crisis resulting from the disputed status of Berlin is to give the principle of self-determination full play.
19.	My country warmly welcomes the admission of new independent States to the international community. In congratulating the new Members, particularly Sierra Leone which has just been admitted, we wish to draw attention to the far-reaching significance of this event for the efforts which some of the world's peoples are still making to liberate themselves. .
20.	In all its action throughout the history of the United Nations, Bolivia has resolutely supported every attitude and. expression of anti-colonialism. Our historical tradition and the glory of our long and bloody struggle for national independence oblige us to take this course.
21.	Bolivia's attitude in the Trusteeship Council has always been inspired by this principle, and we have spared no effort to fulfil the noble task entrusted to the Council by this Organization. Together with the distinguished representatives of Dahomey, Finland, Malaya and the Sudan, my country's representative— who was honoured with the post of chairman of the sub-committee set up, by an explicit decision of the General Assembly and the Security Council, to study the situation m Angola—has tried to persuade the Portuguese Government to co-operate with the United Nations in the study and eventual solution of this problem. The objections raised by that Government have, unfortunately, prevented this international body from carrying out its task.
22.	Opposed as we are to every traditional form of colonialism, we are equally opposed to any form of neo-colonialism.
23.	As an integral part of the regional system to which it belongs, Bolivia will observe all its obligations in this respect, as it has always done, in the same spirit of co-operation and solidarity that it brings to the consideration of all world problems.
24.	This unchanging attitude is based on faithful observance of the principles which inspire and define the outlook and purposes of the American regional association. Thus we advocate and shall continue to advocate respect for the principle of non-intervention in matters which are within the sovereign jurisdiction of States, because to do otherwise would amount to challenging the independence of peoples.
25.	Since 1952, my country has been seriously occupied with its own development. However, since its single-product economy is still in its early stages, development has not yet gone forward in the way and at the rate expected. On several occasions, indeed, the process has been in danger of complete paralysis and we have been faced with grave alternatives. Many factors, arising mainly from fluctuations in the price of our chief exportable product on the international market, deliberately created in disregard of the regulations and operations of the International Tin Council, have resulted in the loss of resources which were to have been used in our economic recovery plans under this programme; and the same thing may happen again.
26.	But my country needs something more than its own very limited resources if it is to develop steadily and systematically and achieve the positive results at which it aims. Last August it was represented at the extraordinary meeting of tae Economic and Social Council of the Organization of American States held in the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, at which the programme of economic development and social progress known as the "Alliance for Progress",  proposed by the Government of the United States of America, was given form in the Charter of Punta del Este.
27.	In Bolivia many of the basic reforms in this programme, such as agrarian and educational reform, are already a reality. At that meeting my Government submitted a "National Plan for Economic and Social Development", to be carried out between 1962 and 1971. The Plan was drawn up, after lengthy study and investigation, by the Bolivian National Planning Board with the co-operation of an advisory group formed by the Economic Commission for Latin America, the Bureau of Technical Assistance Operations and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and in a Decree of last July has already been approved by my Government.
28.	Its significance will be clear from the following statement of its purposes, which I venture to quote for the information of the General Assembly:
"The present Plan sets forth certain aims and considers the way in which they can be achieved. It is based on one central idea: that it is necessary and urgent to clear the way for a frontal attack upon stagnation and to direct our efforts towards the final elimination of the main obstacles, as the only means of preventing present conditions from deteriorating further and social problems from becoming more acute.
"The efforts of the last few years may largely be described as an anxious search for a solution of immediate problems without any real opportunity of tackling fundamental problems. This policy was rendered necessary by circumstances, but its results have been economic stagnation and the frustration of the hope of large sections of the country's people that their living conditions would improve. Various factors have thus accumulated in such a way that it would not now be enough to set moderate targets, designed to correct a limited number of faults or to bring about a few modest improvements while once more postponing the solution of essential problems.
"To illustrate the magnitude of the task to be faced in the near future, suffice it to say that the gross internal products, which was over $110 for each inhabitant in the three years 1950-52, was little more than $90 per person in 1957-59. This fall in average income levels, coinciding with a period of highly significant social changes which have enabled large numbers of the country's people to move into the towns, would in the long run be incompatible with social progress and even with political stability, if it were not accompanied by an urgent policy of development, holding out prospects of really significant improvement.
"Bolivia's people understand and have accepted the sacrifices required by a strict policy of monetary stabilization, whereby a timely stop was put to a process of uncontrollable inflation; yet they realize that stabilization cannot be an end in itself, but must be the means to a process of growth. The fruits of this attempt at stabilization would be endangered if this policy were not supplemented and justified by the execution of a development plan, holding out prospects of future improvement sufficient to compensate for past sacrifices."
29. We realize that political independence is hot enough to bring about the happiness of peoples. The world has not marched smoothly along the road of
progress. Great economic, social, political, geographical and cultural differences have increased the distance between countries and between societies. The opulence of the great Powers stands contrasted with the poverty of the under-developed countries which, despite their potential wealth and the efforts of their peoples, are faced with obstacles that seem insuperable.
30.	We believe that the great collective effort required by the Charter of Punta del Este, as an expression of international solidarity and co-operation, will soon enable us to solve the serious problems which beset us.
31.	The vacancy in the post of Secretary-General, caused by the death of Mr. Hammarskjold, should not and cannot continue indefinitely. It is of the highest importance for the Organization, particularly if its action on behalf of peace and international co-operation is to succeed, that immediate steps should be taken to restore the present difficult situation to normal. This is what all the peoples represented here demand. It is something which cannot be postponed, if the efficient working of the Organization itself is to be ensured.
32.	Any attempt to make such steps dependent upon prior agreement to reform the composition of the Secretariat would mean condoning the use of illegal violence against the powers of the constituent parts of the United Nations. The great majority of weak countries belonging to the Organization see the Charter as the defence, protection and guarantee of their freedom, their sovereignty and their right!" to the material and spiritual progress of their peoples. Their indisputable title to these rights, which cannot be renounced, is based on the legal structure of the international community as freely agreed upon and solemnly covenanted at San Francisco. All that is necessary, then, is that everyone should carry out his established obligations, which must be faithfully and loyally observed.
33.	Any amendments to the Charter which may be thought necessary are another matter. There are elementary reasons, relating  to the dynamics of human relationships, why no one could oppose such amendments. But, in view of my delegation's previous arguments, it is logical for us to point out that such action can be taken only at the proper time, as a result of agreements freely reached and properly studied and discussed beforehand. It should never be the result of duress in an emergency, a state of things which we should avoid by all the urgent means necessary in order to prevent the international situation from deteriorating further.
34.	When these amendments are to be studied and debated in the proper circumstances, Bolivia will contribute willingly to the common effort directed towards their adoption, in so far as they have the higher purpose of strengthening the authority and increasing the effectiveness of the Organization.
35.	With regard to the composition and powers of its main organs, we shall certainly be guided by the same principle—which is that these organs, instead of falling into a state of complete confusion and thus depriving the Organization of its reason for existence, should be so constituted that the work of the United Nations is rendered even smoother and more effective. The only way of ensuring the efficient development of the Organization is to have a Secretary-General
who cannot be deprived of his executive authority and can carry out his tasks in absolute political neutrality.
36.	Mr. President, gentlemen, may I remind all the distinguished representatives in this Assembly of the grave responsibility which mankind has conferred upon us. The destiny of man and the continuance of the wonderful civilization we have achieved on this planet depend upon the wisdom and equity of our deliberations.


===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
To begin with, I should like to congratulate the President heartily on his election.
152.	On behalf of the people of Bolivia, I wish to extend a fraternal greeting to all the peoples represented here and to speak from this, the highest rostrum, first about the ideals and aspirations which have shaped our principles in international affairs and then about our opinions on the problems confronting this Assembly.
153.	Bolivia is a small country of great contrasts which for the past ten years has been undergoing a revolution. This revolution is being carried out at the national level in order to ensure that Bolivia's natural riches shall benefit the Bolivians, and at the individual level in order to achieve two ideals — economic security and freedom — which we believe to be the inalienable right of the human person.
154.	Bolivia has been generously endowed by nature. It undoubtedly possesses all the resources it needs to sustain a healthy and expanding industry and to feed its population more than adequately. Suffice it to note that with the produce of Potosi a bridge of silver could have been extended across the Atlantic. Nevertheless the possibility of utilizing these resources to promote the well-being of the bulk of the population was denied us until ten years ago.
155.	In 1952, the year in which our revolution began, the principal sources of Bolivian wealth were the mines and the land. Of our mining production, which accounted for 94 per cent of our total exports, 76 per cent came from mines owned by three individuals, while 70 per cent of the usable land, which had to feed some 4 million inhabitants was in the hands of 100 families.
156.	The mining barons and great landowners not only amassed fabulous fortunes but, what was worse, invested their wealth outside Bolivia, giving rise to such world-wide monopolies as that of tin. On the other bleaker side of the medal, the average individual income of the great majority of the population was barely $40 a year. These great contrasts of such clear and dramatic injustice both explain and. justify a revolution.
157.	Our revolution began with the nationalization of the mines owned by the three individuals and thus we did away with a concentration of private economic power which was greater than that of the State itself and whose influence on the Government had been decisive and corruptive. Land reform was carried out on the principle that the land belongs to those who work it, and today we can assert with justifiable pride that there is not a single Bolivian peasant who does not possess an adequate piece of land.
158.	The nationalization of the mines and the land reform were decisive factors in the effort to bring the benefits of Bolivia's wealth to the Bolivian people and they made a fairer distribution of wealth possible. The substantial reduction in the disparity between the excessively rich and the excessively poor has resulted in an increase of 120 per cent in the average annual income per caput. The peasants have entered the consumer market, expanding it fivefold, and the working people and middle class now enjoy an advanced social legislation which protects them from birth to death.
159.	The better distribution of wealth not only brought the ideal of economic security closer but opened the doors which had barred our way to freedom. The peasant, who could be sold with the estate on which he worked, is today no longer a serf but a citizen. The number of schools has risen more than tenfold and the right to vote, which was restricted to 60,000 persons — those with a certain level of income — is now exercised by all who are of age, without any distinctions whatsoever,
160.	The Bolivian man, master of his country's fate, has found a new dignity in his responsibilities and is entering the mainstream of world culture with a worthy contribution which retains his own distinctive stamp.
161.	The Bolivian revolution, despite the features it has in common with other similar processes in under-developed countries, has its own individual character, since it arose as an expression of the deepest yearnings of a particular people at a particular stage in its historical development. It acknowledges its sources of inspiration but does not recognize ideological or political vassalage, and it does not claim to be an example but simply an experiment which other peoples might find helpful.
162.	It Is inevitable, however, that the principles which inspired the Bolivian revolution should determine the conduct of Bolivia's representatives in matters relating to international affairs. It is because we waged a long struggle to possess our own country that we resolutely support the principle of self-determination, and it is because we recognize the right of all other peoples to do likewise that we resolutely defend the principle of non-intervention,
163.	At the root of the principles of self-determination and non-intervention lies, we believe, the will of the common man. We think that it is the people who are called upon to decide the destiny of their land and that once they have taken this decision it must be respected by all others. We do not think that our role as representatives of our countries is to deliberate on the fate of other nations, but rather to co-operate in helping the peoples of these nations to deliberate for themselves.
164.	That is why we feel, too, that in relations between nations no form of economic dependence or political subjugation can be justified. We sometimes hear it said that a certain people Is not ready for freedom. But this argument advanced internationally inevitably brings to mind the argument that all national tyrannies have used to justify their existence. It may well be that a new nation will need the cooperation of others in its early days, but in our opinion there is no denying that preparation for freedom is acquired by the practice of freedom and in no other way. For that reason we have invariably supported the emergence of new States, which today are an adequate reason to justify the existence of the United Nations and the best proof that mankind is moving forward.
165.	Disregard for the principles of self-determination and non-intervention has brought about a dramatic and artificial situation in which we find peoples that are denied the possibility of expressing their wishes, countries that are involuntary fields of battle between other countries, nations that are occupied and nations that are divided. In the existing circumstances it might well appear naive to claim that in every case the common man should be enabled to decide the fate of his country considering that this dramatic and artificial situation is largely dependent on the conflict of interests between the great Powers. Despite this, however, we firmly maintain our view that these interests, however powerful they may be, do not beget rights and that where the fate of nations is concerned the only right worthy of that name is the right of the common man who is born in each nation and who is therefore its true master.
166.	Furthermore, we believe that the element of force in international affairs must be replaced once and for all by obedience to the law. We think that the means to this end lie in disarmament with sufficient control to avoid suspicion, in the development of the machinery of international law and in the continuous strengthening of the bodies responsible for its enforcement.
167.	As regards disarmament, our conduct is governed by a long-standing conviction. As early as 1954 Bolivia urged the necessity of disarmament for Latin America in order that the resources expended on military preparations prompted by mistrust could be directed to the more important task of combating backwardness, ignorance and want. Today we reiterate this opinion and do so with even greater force. It is easy to foresee the severity with which history will judge the incredible paradox of today's huge expenditure on the technical development of atomic weapons that are destined to streak through the skies of, foreign countries whose masses are ill-fed, ill-clothed and ill-housed,
168.	The small nations cannot disregard this paradox, when a mere fraction, one twentieth of the military budgets of the great Powers would be enough to accelerate their progress considerably and when today the danger of a conflict is total, as are also the threats.
169. The inauguration of the United Nations Development Decade by the General Assembly at its sixteenth session has aroused increasing hopes throughout the world and has thus placed upon the United Nations a heavy responsibility.
170.	I trust that it is not out of place for me to describe some of the problems which Bolivia faces as an under-developed country, for I do so in the knowledge that other countries in the same position are facing similar problems and in the belief that our experience may be of use to them.
171,	Once we had put a stop to the outflow of our wealth, had distributed it more equitably and had thus created an adequate framework for fuller freedom, we turned our efforts towards increasing the volume of that wealth by developing and diversifying our production.
172.	In that field, first alone and then with the co-operation of other countries, to which we pay a tribute, we have achieved some worthwhile results. Ten years ago we were importing 60 per cent of the hydrocarbons we needed from abroad; today, we export hydrocarbons. We are self-sufficient in sugar and rice, which we formerly had to import; we have greatly increased the volume of our exports with the addition of new products, and our industry is growing at a significant rate. Furthermore, under the terms of the Charter of Punta del Este, we are launching a ten-year plan, at the end of which we hope to have doubled our per caput income for the second time.
173.	Notwithstanding these achievements, we still have much to do. We believe that three factors must operate concurrently if we are to succeed: our own efforts, international co-operation and fair treatment for our raw materials.
174.	The overwhelming majority of the Bolivian people have vigorously and seriously applied themselves to the task of overcoming their present state of under-development and becoming an integral part of the century in which they live. They are well aware of the urgency of that undertaking and of the need for sacrifice.
175.	We rely to a certain extent on international co-operation. Indeed, it seems obvious that the task of overcoming under-development and reducing the wide gulf separating the rich and the poor nations is a duty and a necessity for both groups: for the rich nations because, firstly, they must have a continuously expanding market in order to preserve their prosperity and, secondly, it is wise to avert the explosive effects of resentment and frustration built up when those who have everything live side lay side with those who have nothing; for the poor nations because their peoples are lightly clamouring for their share in the enjoyment of the wealth which they have helped to create.
176.	Nevertheless our own efforts and international co-operation are not the only factors in the task of overcoming under-development. Fair treatment for the raw materials produced by the under-developed countries is just as important, or even more important.
177.	Dependence on the price of raw materials is one of the most striking features of under-development. For example, Bolivia today depends to the extent of 65 per cent on its exports of tin in order to cover its import needs, which amount approximately to 90 per cent in machinery, 60 per cent in manufactured goods and 30 per cent in foodstuffs.
178.	Consequently, the price of tin is of paramount importance to Bolivia. In the last ten years, however, while the price of tin has remained the same, the price of the machinery required to produce it has increased by 30 per cent. Moreover first the Soviet Union and then the United States have invaded the international tin market, upsetting its normal equilibrium by offering large quantities for sale.
179.	To take the example of Bolivia, it is fair to say that no under-developed country can hope to develop if the price of the raw materials it exports remains the same while the price of the machinery it has to import to produce them goes up. Any country has reason to despair of its future when the normal equilibrium of the primary commodity markets on which it depends remains at the mercy of the big countries, which can upset them with impunity.
180.	The United Nations would riot be living up to the responsibilities it has assumed in launching a Development Decade if it failed to develop an effective, workable and adequate method of protecting primary commodity prices as a factor in international co-operation.
181.	The problems of under-development and its possible solutions, namely the country's own efforts, international co-operation and fair treatment for raw materials, are common to many countries. Bolivia, however, has a further problem of its own which is a serious obstacle to all its efforts: namely, the lack of its own direct access to the major channels of world trade.
182.	Of course, Bolivia is not the only land-locked country. It is, however, one of the very few which have no waterway linking their large population centres with the rest of the world and whose commercial traffic is therefore subject to foreign laws and the will of other countries. Moreover, it is the only country in the whole world which was deprived of its coastline — over 150,000 square kilometres — by an unjust war. Every Bolivian, without exception, burns with an unquenchable desire to return to the sea. In this era of the rule of law, when new concepts of international solidarity are being established, there is no reason why a nation, an entire nation, should continue to remain imprisoned.
183.	Bolivia will appeal in due course to the spirit of solidarity of all peoples, to which it has contributed so much, so that a just remedy may be found for the tragedy of its isolation.
184.	In conclusion, I would express the most fervent hope that the ideals of this Organization, in which so many place their faith, will soon be realized in the interest of the happiness of all peoples.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
76.	Mr. President, in congratulating you upon your well-deserved election as President of this General Assembly, I salute in your person the nations of the African continent, and especially your own country, Ghana, x also extend warm greetings to the new Member States, Malawi, Malta and Zambia, I hope that their attainment of freedom and sovereignty will lead them resolutely along the path of peace, solidarity and progress.
77.	I have not come to this rostrum to speak about local political issues, nor do I consider that this is the proper occasion to do so. I must, however, make two brief statements in order to explain the objectives of the Military Junta of the Bolivian Government.
78.	In recent years, Bolivia has been the scene of a social and economic transformation, the goal of which was to redress age-old injustices and to place the responsibility for their destiny in the hands of the Bolivian people. History has, however, shown once again that social democracy cannot exist without political freedom. The free and unimpeded right to vote, respect for the dignity of man, and a legal system which limits power and guarantees public freedom are the essence of any democratic system. The restoration of those values, regrettably forgotten if not disregarded, was the goal of the popular movement launched at the beginning of November. The sole purpose of the presence of a Military Junta at the head of the Bolivian Government is to restore democracy and to arrange for free elections to be held.
79.	The second statement refers to the fact that some of the Latin American Governments have not recognized Bolivia's Military Junta. The classic doctrine of recognition requires objective verification of two points only: that the de facto Government is maintaining law and order and that it is fulfilling its international obligations. The Military Junta has amply satisfied both requirements. However, a subjective type of doctrine, such as that upheld by some in the name of defending democracy, would lead to the consideration of domestic matters, which are not and cannot be within the competence of other Governments, and would run counter to the self-determination of peoples. In this respect, allow me to point out, within the confines of the United Nations, the danger involved in any prolonged policy of non-recognition in terms of its effects on the internal order and sovereignty of the State of Bolivia.
80. In a few days we shall begin the International Co-operation Year, in accordance with resolution 1907 (XVIII) adopted by the General Assembly on 21 November 1963. Our present labours should serve as a preparation for this event, but this will not be possible unless we show, with the eloquence of deeds, that the United Nations has made progress in the three matters which are without any doubt the pillars of international co-operation: namely, the reduction of armaments and the control of atomic weapons, economic and social development, and the strengthening of the United Nations as a guarantee of peace and security among peoples.
81. In regard to the first, the annual report of the Secretary-General [A/5801] shows signs of scepticism, and we have gained the same impression from the statements of some of the representatives who have spoken from this rostrum. For example, in the introduction to the annual report [A/5801/Add.l], the Secretary-General states that "the treaty banning nuclear weapon tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water remains neither universal nor comprehensive". In regard to disarmament, the same document, while drawing attention to some progress that has been made, states that "the expectations of the eighteenth session of the General Assembly have not been realized". Nor can it be said that the Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament has achieved encouraging results, at least up to the present.
82.	It would seem logical to ask what is, or should be, the position of the countries which have no atomic power but which make up the majority of the United Nations. It is true that the reduction of armaments, the prohibition of atomic tests and the control of such tests is a matter for the great Powers, for which they must bear the maximum responsibility. But when we see that more than a hundred countries are able to send their representatives to take their places round the conference tables here and to participate in the discussions in this world forum that is the General Assembly, we may say that their responsibility is in direct relation to their force as world public opinion. We have had many examples in recent years of the power of public opinion. For example, when the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted, there was some scepticism about its practical effectiveness; but today no one can deny that it is so deeply embedded in the consciences of civilized nations that any violation occasions protests and denunciations, which are actually more effective than measures of coercion. Similarly, owing to the intelligence of the majority of people, the concept of colonialism has changed in the world and a new mentality which rejects racial discrimination has developed. As a result of these changes in man's thinking, it has been possible for many political transformations to come about in an atmosphere of peace and moderation. At this very moment, the Latin American and the African countries are proposing the establishment of denuclearized zones as an expression of their determination to oppose any threat of atomic destruction. There can be no doubt that the great Powers recognize this right of the weaker countries and it is not going too far to say that denuclearization will become a reality to the extent that we ourselves are able to demand it.
83.	Anything connected with economic and social development deserves close consideration in our debates, for it is impossible to speak about international co-operation unless positive efforts are made to raise the level of living of the developing peoples and to enable them to make rational use of their natural resources. As was pointed out at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, development problems are creating tension between North and South, which is as serious and dangerous as the political tension between East and West.
84.	The Conference has been judged pessimistically, particularly because many of its resolutions were adopted as doubtful compromises, designed rather to preserve the prestige of the Conference than to be of useful application. We feel, however, that the success of the Conference lies in the fact that it has evolved general and special principles which, if accepted equally by the industrial Powers and by the developing countries, would constitute a serious basis for future action. I need only quote General Principle Four to indicate the really impressive scope of the text adopted at Geneva. It reads as follows: "Economic development and social progress should be the common concern of the whole international community and should, by increasing economic prosperity and well-being, help strengthen peaceful relations and co-operation among nations. Accordingly, all countries pledge themselves to pursue internal and external economic policies designed to accelerate economic growth throughout the world, and in particular to help promote, in developing countries, a rate of growth consistent with the need to bring about substantial and steady increase in average income, in order to narrow the gap between the standard of living in developing countries and that in the developed countries."
85.	Another success achieved by the Conference was the establishment of machinery which, under the authority of the United Nations, will be called upon to put into effect, on a continuing basis, a wide variety of principles and programmes concerning the international division of labour, the integration of regional economies, the readjustment of prices of raw materials, the balance between imports and exports, free access to markets, and international trade routes, the elimination of customs barriers, and financial and technical co-operation. To sum up, the bases have been laid for constructive, work. We fully support the establishment of permanent machinery for the Conference and we request the General Assembly to take the necessary decisions to enable it to go into operation without delay.
86.	In examining the results of the Conference, the Bolivian delegation cannot fail to mention what the Conference has done for the land-locked countries by establishing the following universal principles: "The recognition of the right of each land-locked State of free access to the sea" and "free and unrestricted transit, in such a manner that [it has] free access to regional and international trade in all circumstances and for every type of goods".
87.	Pursuant to the Conference's recommendations, a Committee of twenty-four members met in October 1964 to prepare a draft convention on free transit for land-locked countries. A Conference of Plenipotentiaries will be held during the year 1965 for the purpose of studying and approving the draft convention. Bolivia will take an active part in this Conference and hopes that the decisions adopted will be useful and fair to the countries whose geographical position in the world makes development and progress difficult.
88.	The strengthening of the United Nations entails complex political and legal problems. There can be no doubt that, politically, what has been called "decolonization", i.e., the development of a people from a state of colonial dependence to independence, has in many cases necessitated United Nations action and has constituted a real challenge to the solidity of its structure. Mr. Leitao da Cunha, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Brazil, spoke here, with ample justification and considerable perspicacity, about the problem of decolonization and violence, and suggested the establishment of a standing United Nations force whose purpose would be "not to punish or to repel aggressors, but, by their presence, to prevent the outbreak of armed warfare and to ensure respect for the cessation of hostilities" [1289th meeting, para. 24]. Instances of violence in many countries progressing towards sovereignty are still fresh in our minds and it is obvious that United Nations intervention has had no effect. Accordingly, any proposals which aim at giving the United Nations practical and effective means of acting deserve consideration and support* Decolonization and the self-determination of peoples require guarantees of peace and order.
89.	From the legal point of view, the strengthening of the United Nations depends not so much on the revision of the Charter as upon the acceptance of new concepts of international law. Hitherto, relations between States have been, governed by an exclusively contractual system, as was shown by the recent codification projects of the Special Committee on Principles of International Law, established under resolution 1966 (XVIII). Doctrinal concepts are still cast in the mould of private law. The will of States is unquestionably the most important source, of international law, but it is equally certain that the evolution of the contemporary world necessitates formulae which are more dynamic and effective, such as those which would be derived from international law or which would take account of the compulsory nature of the general principles recognized by all civilized nations.
90.	If there is a moral order consisting of those values which all men and all nations recognize as essential for their coexistence and well-being, why should it not be possible for international law to set its seal upon those values, making them binding on all States, beyond their own volition? Clearly the difficulty lies in the lack of a supranational authority, but it is precisely here that the United Nations has a new role to play. It would, of course, be premature to concentrate legal, still less political, power in any one organ of the United Nations. But it is clear from the facts that, in certain circumstances and for certain matters, a body like the General Assembly or a specialized conference can and should lay down regulations having binding force.
91.	The mind of man has invented the most intricate technical instruments and man is now embarking upon the conquest of space, but at the same time he has forged the instruments of his own destruction. Moreover, man has not succeeded in mastering the factors of social turmoil: the population explosion, the gulf between wealth and poverty, illiteracy, hatred and anarchy. There is a disproportion between power and duty. We have been generous in proclaiming principles and have established institutions of peace, justice and co-operation; but we have begrudged them effective means of action. The task is difficult and there is not much time in which to make the hopes of the world come true.
92.	This year, for the first time, Bolivia has a seat in the Security Council. We hope that our voice will always express the concerns of the developing world and will speak with the ring of truth. We have no wish to interfere in the domestic affairs of other nations, but we accept the responsibilities of collective security. We advocate the strengthening of the organs which are responsible for the maintenance of peace and for taking collective action against aggressors. We favour regional pacts and organizations, within the spirit of the Charter signed at San Francisco and we want their procedures and findings to be more effective and severe. Bolivia has shown its unfailing loyalty to the principles of international order and hopes to find a solution to its own problems through diplomacy and understanding. Lastly, we share the faith of the ever-growing number of nations which wish to live in peace and harmony under the aegis of the United Nations.

===== Session 20 - 1965 =====
107. To begin with, my delegation deplores the unfortunate accident which deprives us of the presence of our distinguished President, Mr. Fanfani, to whom we express our wishes for a prompt and happy recovery. In any case, I wish to make the following statement with regard to him, to appear in the record.
108. On behalf of my delegation and as representative of the Bolivian people and Government, I have great pleasure in conveying to Mr. Fanfani our congratulations on his election to the high office of President of the United Nations General Assembly. The distinguished speakers who have preceded me have fully enumerated the intellectual and moral gifts with which he is endowed. In order to avoid repetition, I shall say only that anyone who, like him, is a citizen and eminent leader of a people so outstanding in the annals of history and culture, has every qualification to preside over our debates. He brings to them a desire for progress that derives from wisdom and the spirit of peace and justice which is born of wisdom. Bolivia, a traditional friend of Italy, salutes Mr. Fanfani with all respect.
109. This hall still resounds with the inspired words of His Holiness Pope Paul VI, who, by an unprecedented decision that bears witness to his vigilance and his desire to contribute to the achievement of peace and justice, has honoured us by transferring the throne of Saint Peter to this Assembly Hall. He came to express his concern at the tragedies afflicting the peoples of the world and to remind us of the eternal truth of the evangelical precepts. In a voice that twenty centuries have not been able to silence, he appealed to us to exercise the sense of responsibility and harmony which should preside over our deliberations. Our delegation pays devout homage to the person of the Supreme Pontiff and, in the name of the age-old submission of the people of Bolivia to the Holy See of Rome, expresses filial acceptance of his lofty supremacy.
110. In its capacity as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, Bolivia took part in the drafting and adoption of the resolutions which, in pursuance of the provisions of the Charter, recommended to this Assembly the admission of Gambia, the Maldive Islands and Singapore as Member States of the United Nations. Having taken part in this previous action, we have a special reason for sharing in the satisfaction felt by free peoples upon the accession of three new States to the rights and duties of responsible international co-operation. We take this first opportunity of wishing these three new Member States a prosperous life accompanied by the benefits of peace.
111. Elected at the eighteenth session of the General Assembly as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, Bolivia joined that important body in January 1964 and its term of office will expire at the end of this year. Following the prescribed order, Bolivia occupied the Presidency of the Council in January and December 1964 and will do so again in November of this year. The Bolivian representatives in the Council have at all times sought, to discharge with dedication and impartiality the responsibilities entrusted to us by this Assembly.
 
112. In such arduous debates as those relating to the Panama crisis, the situation in Cyprus, the question of Palestine, the events in the Congo and Santo Domingo, the claims of Senegal, the situation in Southern Rhodesia and innumerable others, we have served in a calm spirit of impartiality, always bearing in mind the provisions of the Charter, respecting the powers of the Council and the duties and rights of the regional organizations, analysing the risks entailed in extremist and subversive ideological incursions against peace and democracy, upholding the principles of freedom and self-determination and fighting openly for the elimination of the last vestiges of colonialism and of all forms of political, religious or racial discrimination.
113. Bolivia has tried to fulfil with honesty and discretion the mandate entrusted to it by this Assembly in the Security Council. We are proud to have achieved during our Presidency of the Council, with the invaluable co-operation of all Member States, certain objective responses to the problems of Panama, Cyprus, the Congo and the armed incidents along the Palestine frontier.

114. Bolivia’s seat in the Security Council has enabled our country to understand with special clarity the limitations imposed on our task by the organizational crisis of the United Nations. Our delegation considers that one of the wisest remarks made during this session of the Assembly [1334th meeting] was made by the distinguished Foreign Minister of Brazil, Mr. Leitão da Cunha, when he said that "the United Nations Charter, however flexible, represents a style of political architecture that ... has been superseded by reality". A generation that has the audacity to promote and accept the most spectacular technical innovations should not hesitate to enter, with measured but bold steps, the field of great moral responsibilities and to discuss serenely and profoundly those new aspects which would give greater and more practical effectiveness to the Charter and offer firmer guarantees for the maintenance of peace.
115. I shall not conclude this part of my statement without paying a tribute to the memory of Mr. Adlai Stevenson, who was a noble friend of us all and who, in my opinion, gave up his very life to the tensions, responsibilities and frustrations of the Security Council in its endeavour to preserve world peace.
116. With a view to remedying an intolerable anomaly of international life, the United Nations, in pursuance of a recommendation adopted at Geneva in 1964 by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, convened this summer a Conference of Plenipotentiaries to discuss the transit problems of landlocked countries. It was my duty on that occasion to state on behalf of Bolivia what I now reaffirm before this Assembly, namely, that the international conscience recognizes that Bolivia is not a land-locked country but a State which, owing to transitory circumstances, is temporarily deprived of access to the sea through its own coast.
117. We nevertheless took part in the Conference of Plenipotentiaries because we are members of the Trade and Development Board, in whose work we place great hope, and because we were convinced that that Conference was the first of the many steps that must be taken to ensure that the development of the landlocked countries is not hampered by the unilateral will of the transit countries, which are not content to profit by the geographical position which has given them free access to the sea, but directly or indirectly impose prejudicial conditions on the transit trade of other sovereign States, which are thus subjected to difficulties and humiliations deriving from their land-locked position in addition to the evils of underdevelopment.
118. We repeat now what we said then: that just as it is no longer possible, in the sphere of human freedom, to imagine slaves in chains, so it is no longer possible, in the sphere of commercial freedom, to accept the idea of land-locked countries being restricted in their right to trade and limited in their ability to develop by the unilateral will of certain transit countries.

119. Without prejudice to our efforts to ensure, by every available means, the restoration of Bolivian sovereignty of the Pacific coast — a right which we consider inalienable and imprescriptible and which constitutes a great void in the vital needs of our people—we Bolivians, together with the United Nations, are closely following the salutary development of a current of world public opinion favouring free access to the sea for the land-locked countries, which first manifested itself at the Conference of Plenipotentiaries and should be resolutely fostered.
120. I must now refer to what Bolivia considers the crucial problem of our time, namely that of devising, under United Nations auspices, an international trade system — planned, 'world-wide and compulsory — which will give the emerging nations, especially those producing raw materials and primary commodities, a fairer and therefore much greater share of the profits from trade in those commodities. Those nations are, by a revealing coincidence, the less developed nations; they are the nations in which the population explosion is most serious and it is the people of those nations who are rightly clamouring, violently and urgently, for a better life. I am referring to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, and in order to express Bolivia’s views on this question, I need only repeat, with your permission, some of the ideas I expressed at the first session of the Trade and Development Board here in New York a few months ago [12th meeting].
"We who have the honour of representing our peoples in the international conferences of our time are witnessing, perhaps without fully realizing its significance, a moment of decisive change in the history of international co-operation and in the dialectical perspectives of human destiny. I am not referring to the spectacular technical revolution which is incorporating outer space in our patrimony, but to the social revolution which is beginning to use new tools for the good of mankind. It is obvious that this social revolution, which requires neither laboratories nor armies, since it takes place in man’s conscience, has existed since the world began, since the dawn of history, when as a result of different natural conditions, and sometimes as a result of unjust depredations, mankind was divided into the great and the small, the strong and the weak, the rich and the poor, the well-fed and the hungry. This revolution rejects the arbitrary privileges and differences established by inertia and oppression and affirms that human beings — white or black, believers or atheists, poor or prosperous — are human beings first and foremost, that their rights in life and their duties to history are exactly equal and that the only differences that can and should be admitted in the hierarchy of values are the cultural differences deriving from the level of ethical, aesthetic and intellectual development attained by each individual.
"For thousands of years, religions and philosophies have striven to proclaim this equality among men, confirming with the blood of prophets and martyrs a belief that is rooted in the essence of our nature. For thousands of years this revolution has been thwarted; sometimes suppressed by selfish interests, at other times dispersed by the isolation of peoples, the vastness of the world, the difficulty of mutual communication and understanding, or diverted from its noble and peaceful aims by the violence of political sectarianisms, which it would be inappropriate to analyse here.
"What is now happening is that the technical progress of recent years, by shortening distances, disseminating information, expanding educational facilities, drawing individuals and peoples closer together and mingling them, is promoting a creative symbiosis in the political and social thinking of all races. Three quarters of the peoples of this planet now know that they belong to an under-developed, region; that they provide valuable primary commodities to sustain the prosperity of other nations, but that bread, hospitals and. schools are often beyond their means; that they buy at high prices and sell at low prices; that their misfortune is the foundation of others' happiness. We say these things without bitterness but we are glad to be able to say them. We respect the prosperity of the big nations, for we know that it is not based on our primary commodities alone but also on the creative genius of their races, the efficiency of their Governments, the disciplined work of their peoples and the vision of their intellectual and political leaders. This is all a thing of the past, a settled account, and the peoples of the under-developed regions, far from wishing the big nations any harm, want to learn from their technology, to follow their example and to engage them in a friendly dialogue so that we may seek together a solution to the problem of the hungry man. Our aim is to achieve the material prosperity that they already possess. Their aim is even more important; it is to preserve their dignity as cultured nations by assisting us, not with charity, but with justice.
"This is the decisive change to which I referred earlier. It first appeared at Geneva in 1964 and we must consolidate it. We must realize that the Trade and Development Board is not seeking to promote a duel between conflicting interests, but a world-wide agreement, in order that through general prosperity we may save the two things that must be saved: world peace and man’s faith in his own destiny.
"In the work of this Board, the eternal social revolution is trying to find, for the first time in history, a constructive, peaceful and universal method, namely the establishment of an international trade system designed to harm no one but to stress unequivocally, dramatically and urgently the duty to increase by every possible means the incomes of the emerging nations.
"Steps must be taken to ensure as soon as possible that in the Far East half of the world's population shall no longer live on scarcely one quarter of the food produced on our planet; that vigorous Africa snail no longer struggle in frustration, lacking the means to create the infra-structure needed for development; that 200 million Latin Americans shall no longer languish on their rich fields and inexhaustible mines like 'a beggar on a golden chair', receiving for their labours scarcely enough to keep body and soul together.

"It is a terrifying thought, but we should do well to recall that the population of the Far East is increasing by two million a month; that each month sees the birth of a million and a half Chinese, half a million Latin Americans and another half million Africans. All these mouths must be fed, all these bodies clothed, all these minds educated, and to this end it is essential to develop the productivity of all continents, rationalizing agriculture, trade and the extractive industries, avoiding useless duplication of effort and drawing upon the surplus available to some in order to provide a bare minimum for others. The spectre of the population explosion, of hungry men and angry peoples, is knocking like a giant at the door of our era, while the United Nations discusses Article 19, the Berlin Wall and the bombing in Viet-Nam. A bell is tolling but it is not tolling for us, for we are the disinherited, the countless throng."
121. We know that the path of the Trade and Development Board will not be smooth. We are threatening immense interests, traditionally founded on our inertia and impotence, and they may be expected to fight hard before withdrawing.
122. A few months ago I took part, as the representative of Bolivia, in the United Nations Tin Conference, convened pursuant to the Geneva recommendations to discuss a new international agreement designed to regulate the fluctuation of world market prices for that metal. All the producing countries (which are under-developed countries), acting with exemplary unity and open sincerity and wielding convincing evidence based on facts, fought in vain to have included in the convention — I shall not say a higher price for tin, although the limited world production of 20,000 tons would entitle us to such a price — but simply a "higher scale of prices" which would enable the buffer stock to function effectively in relation to the real market price.

123. The developed countries participating in the Conference, i.e., the buyers, expressed deep sympathy for our problems but finally said "no". They ignored the non-recoverable nature of this wealth, the dreadful sacrifice and poverty of the miners, the rising price of the machinery needed in the mines, the need to stimulate long-term investment through remunerative prices and, what is most serious, they forgot the Geneva recommendations and all those great objectives, now nothing more than empty words, which once expressed our hopes. They even told us that it would not be advisable to increase the price of tin because great progress was being made in the development of substitute materials, and so, answering our anguished demands with veiled threats, they left us where we were.
124. Countries with non-commercial tin stocks have continued to make sales which are totally unrelated to the free functioning of the market and are intended only to regulate prices directly, taking the buyers' interests into account but sacrificing the producers' expectations. We may therefore conclude that as far as tin is concerned the ideals of Geneva and the influence of the United Nations are unable to raise the scale of prices to a realistic and remunerative level, to check the substitutes race which eventually may well deprive an entire nation of its income, or to persuade the powerful Governments of both East and West to refrain from disguised dumping, which helps powerful international industries but leaves the producing countries in their customary poverty.
125. We may learn some important lessons from this: the Trade and Development Board, and especially the Committee on Commodities, must aim at gradually transforming their theoretical documents into worldwide executive instruments compelling all States to agree on prices for raw materials which are fair in relation to development needs. The Committee should devise objective and mandatory legal measures to eliminate the danger of substitutes as long as the commodities concerned are vital to the economy of any one country. The Committee should also propose procedures designed to prevent anyone from altering the arrangements agreed upon in international commodity agreements through indiscriminate sales of non-commercial stocks. If these three things are not done, we shall regretfully be obliged to conclude that as far as the vital question of commodity prices is concerned the Trade and Development Board has written in the sand.
126. Bolivian history, which is characterized by frequent conflicts and many tribulations, is the story of a proud people who from the beginning of their history have been obliged to fight a continuous, heroic and dauntless battle for freedom. Our nation has now been freed from colonial political domination and our economy from exploitation by foreign monopolistic interests; our peasants are free to own their land and our people are free to participate in the sometimes bitter conflict between ideologies, but our battle continues.

127. We have yet to free two million indigenous inhabitants from ignorance; we must free large sections of our population from endemic diseases and malnutrition; we must free our territory from the effects of its own diversity and magnitude by establishing an adequate economic infra-structure; we must free our development plans from the complexities imposed upon them by the diversity of climates and races; we must free our productivity from the high costs resulting from unreliable and outdated technical conditions which we cannot improve owing to a lack of resources; we must free our own freedom from the penetration of extremist ideologies which seek to destroy it; lastly, we must free our nation as a whole from the absurd and intolerable land-locked position imposed upon it by armed aggression followed by territorial mutilation.
128. We are not ashamed to tell the truth, because the accurate diagnosis of disease is the first step towards health and because it is others, not ourselves, who are to blame for Bolivia's condition. Furthermore, it is this fact that is receiving the attention of the military junta which governs my country and of the people as a whole, in a crusade of discipline and work which is already in progress. It is not by chance that this Assembly is being told the truth about Bolivia.
129. Under-development imposed by the iniquitous exploitation of the past? That is Bolivia. Illiteracy, limited educational facilities, lack of hospitals, inadequate economic infra-structure? That is Bolivia. An economy based exclusively on mineral production, low and arbitrary prices for those minerals, sales by other nations of non-commercial stocks which deal a death blow to our exports of raw materials? Development by other nations of the production of substitutes, which may one day cause the collapse of our balance of payments? That is Bolivia. Continually rising uncontrolled prices for the industrial, agricultural and manufacturing machinery we need? An increasingly unjust and dangerous disequilibrium in the terms of trade, an insidious campaign against any eventual substitution of imports? That is Bolivia.
130. It is for all these reasons that Bolivia looks with great respect to the United Nations, to the high intellectual and moral qualities of the Secretary-General, U Thant, and to the technical and administrative efficiency of the United Nations staff. The exploitation and plundering to which solitary countries were subjected in the shameful days of colonialism and aggression will be rectified and will disappear in this era of united countries, before this Assembly, which man has created in his own image: that is, with obvious imperfections and contradictions but with an inflexible desire for peace, justice and goodness; in his own image, because man is good.


===== Session 21 - 1966 =====
45.     Mr. President, the Bolivian delegation is very pleased that you, whose intellectual and moral qualities are acclaimed in international circles, have been given the responsibility of presiding over the twenty-first session of the United Nations General Assembly. In congratulating you, Mr. Pazhwak, I am honoured to wish you every success in carrying out your important duties and to express my certainty that you will be a worthy successor to Mr. Amintore Fanfani, who presided over the twentieth session to the satisfaction of all.

46.    I feel in duty bound to express the hope that U Thant will continue at the helm of the Secretariat. His outstanding personality, his untiring efforts to keep the Organization in good working order, his meaningful contribution to peace and understanding among peoples — all demonstrate how desirable it is for the United Nations to continue to benefit from the diplomatic experience and impeccable moral integrity he has shown in fulfilling his duties.

47.    My country is highly honoured to have been elected to fill one of the posts of Vice-President of this Assembly. I can assure you that, in keeping with this honour, the Bolivian delegation will actively cooperate with all States seeking to solve international problems and will strive for the success of the Assembly's discussions, just as it did when similarly entrusted with a seat as a non-permanent member of the Security Council.

48.    I should like to recall that when my country took its seat on the Security Council it had just emerged from a grave political upheaval. Yet despite the fact that Bolivia was still feeling the effects of this serious crisis, its Permanent Representative solemnly announced to the Security Council [1167th meeting] that the Military Junta then in power would shortly make the difficult transition to a constitutional and democratic government. That promise has been kept, and the Government headed by General Rene Barrientos wishes to reaffirm, through me, its unswerving devotion to the ideals and purposes of the United Nations proclaimed in the Charter.

49.    I must also mention the humanistic and Christian significance of the Holy Father's presence in this hall in October 1965 [1347th meeting], particularly in view of the timeliness his words have acquired with the recent Encyclical appealing for world peace. It is encouraging to note on the vast world scene, where symptoms of crisis and moral decay coexist with the inspiring achievements of science, that mankind seems willing to accept with submission and reverence guidance from the great centres of spirituality and intelligence. Now we have the above-mentioned Encyclical, with a new call for peace directed particularly at the South-East Asian problem.

50.    In this serious matter, Bolivia wishes to express, echoing the leader of Christianity, its most fervent desire that peace will come to Viet-Nam as soon as possible, a peace based on justice and freedom and which will take into account the right of the individual and the community, a lasting and stable peace.

51.    My country also wishes to express its pleasure at the admission of the new South American State, Guyana, and the return of Indonesia to the United Nations. When a nation becomes a State and assumes control over its own destiny as Guyana has done; when a nation decides to join us again, as Indonesia has done, the Members of the United Nations have reason to rejoice, for they feel that one of the main functions of the Organization is to support the sacrifice peoples make to realize their full potential, and to welcome all nations that wish to pool their efforts, fulfil the lofty purposes set forth in the Charter of the United Nations and contribute earnestly to the cause of world unity and peace.

52.    In tills connexion, I also wish to express my Government's staunch support of the German nation’s legitimate desire for reunification.

53.    With regard to progress on the road of cooperation and solidarity among nations, the Bolivian Government also wishes to repeat its firm hope that weapons which threaten to destroy mankind, and whose production alone is a cause of backwardness and poverty in vast population sectors, will be banned and placed under effective control.

54.    The arms race and wars are, however, only the most striking and spectacular forms of destruction and death. We must realize that there are other factors in the relations and trade between States which, because they involve unfair compensation for a nation's efforts and the labour of its workers, are decisive causes of sickness and death, hunger and anguish, leading to sullen hatred and also to outright violence.
I am referring, specifically, to the low prices paid for raw materials and, particularly, for strategic reserves.

55.    Year after year the developing countries have brought before this august Assembly the problem of the gradual but steady decrease in the prices for their primary commodities, the price paid for the commodities whose export and sale are the very underpinning of their budget, national economy and their peoples' level of living. But, unfortunately, they are only listened to with polite attention, and the problem — which affects dozens of countries and hundreds of thousands of people — remains unsolved and actually grows worse year after year.

56.    Let us hope that this time these pleas will not be futile, that they will not fall on deaf ears. We wish to awaken the world's conscience to one of the most serious and crucial problems mankind faces, a problem which it cannot shirk and must solve with the utmost urgency.

57.    The deterioration of the terms of trade affects nothing less than the economic and political stability of the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America. I do not wish to over-dramatize the situation in which three fourths of the world's people live. To stress this point, I need merely point out that the countries that buy our primary commodities are solely responsible for this constant slump in the prices paid for our products and in the remuneration paid for our work-prices and remuneration which determine our stability and our progress. But they are more anxious to protect their own interests than to give our workers fair compensation to help meet our peoples' urgent needs, or to support our Government’s sacrifices and efforts to overcome poverty and stagnation. A former President of Colombia was thus correct in saying that "we are not undeveloped but rather underpaid continents".

58.    This applies to coffee, copper, fruit and specifically to Bolivian tin. All the gigantic efforts made by the mining industry to organize its work, all the hopes we have sought to fulfil in a century and a half of upheaval affecting our security, stability, progress and peace are in serious peril.

59.    Our peoples still hope, but there are densely populated areas that despair. We can still propose constructive plans as the Bolivian delegation will do during this session for regional development as a major step towards continental integration. But tomorrow it may perhaps be too late, and the patience of seventy-seven nations whose plea for justice and co-operation went unheeded may give out with violent results. This would not be the first case of generalized outbreaks that intelligent and, above all, timely action could and should have forestalled.

60.    We must recognize, finally, that the United Nations, in admitting many nations, has given millions of human beings undergoing decolonization a voice in international affairs. We hope that a new process will ensue, in which efforts will be made to ensure equitable compensation for work throughout the world, in which the glaring differences between nations will be eliminated and in which the economic subjugation of some countries to others will be prevented.

61.    As it has on all occasions and in all forums, Bolivia feels obliged to draw attention once again to the problem of its situation as a land-locked country. This situation affects relations between nations, particularly between those for which unity and fraternity are most imperative, and makes it excruciatingly difficult for Bolivia to raise its level of living. But there is more to it than that. Bolivia is deprived of an outlet to the sea in a continent where, according to the distinguished President of the Inter-American Development Bank, Mr. Felipe Herrera, 90 per cent of inter-American trade is transported by sea since other means of transport are lacking. This not only delays our progress but also throws the collective economic development of the area out of gear and thus hampers efforts to bring about continental economic integration.

62.    Economic integration, which is probably the decisive factor in our efforts to establish peace and well-being in the modern world, finds the nations of the world in obvious, and sometimes dramatic disarray: some have the elements that generate progress and carry it forward; others lack even the most rudimentary means with which to develop their human and material potential.

63.    Sociologists, economists, men who look to the future and businessmen all agree that these disparities are an almost insurmountable obstacle to the execution of plans for a more just and stable order in the relations between nations and individuals.

64.    My country, Bolivia, is now waging a difficult and decisive fight to reach the take-off stage of vigorous internal development which will enable it to make a valuable contribution to the joint efforts of surrounding nations; but our land-locked position is a major obstacle. Thus, the outcome of a war which deprived my country of its seaboard today hampers fulfilment of great plans for the progress of our region and continent. In other words, while the closing in of Bolivia was never an exclusively Bolivian problem, it is even less so today, for the truncation of its territory prevents my country from attaining a level commensurate with its efforts and sacrifice, hampers smooth development, delays regional balance and impedes progress towards continental economic integration.

65.    Someone once said that the countries of Latin America would eventually be united or enslaved; but it is an elementary fact that unity can only be attained with understanding, and can be built up only through economic co-operation and harmonious development. If there has never been a sound and lasting international union among States at substantially different levels of power and development, such a union is even less conceivable now that the industry and wealth of one State can stifle progress in another.

66.    In this context, reaffirming the justice of Its cause, Bolivia will propose in a plan for co-operation that the problems of economic integration should be studied, placing its faith in the high-mindedness of the rulers and nations around us, so that a fair Latin American solution can be found.

67.    In the second part of my address, I wish to bring a regional problem before this world assembly in its historical and geographical aspects. For we feel that a large-scale common economic development policy in this part of the world would not only improve the situation of 200 million inhabitants, but would also enable Latin America — known as the continent of political Instability, scientific and technological backwardness, and as a producer of almost nothing but raw materials — to cease being a hindrance to other centres of greater power, to cease being part of what Myrdal called submerged mankind, so that it can make a greater contribution of its own to the culture and progress of all mankind.

68.    After the Latin American people's herculean effort in the Fifteen-Year War for freedom, which at times threatened to annihilate them; after substituting autonomous government for Spanish domination and republics for monarchies; after discarding the theocentric concepts which had prevailed for three centuries under the empire's Unitarian organization in favour of world outlook engendered by the French Revolution; and after making the transition from the Middle Ages to modern times much faster than Europe, our people were exhausted after their terrible ordeal.

69.    This sudden and radical change generated such great effort and tension that for a long time its originality, authenticity and creative potential were reduced to such an extent that our nations, though in the prime of youth, seemed to have exhausted their vital reserves. In fact, for a long period of time — its effects continued until the Second World War — the Latin American people went on living under the confining systems established in 1825, the year the last Spanish garrison in South America surrendered.

70.    The old unity disintegrated. The provincial version of the "small motherland" of guerilla fighters supplanted the brilliant and far-sighted concept of Bolivar, the Liberator. And from then on we were dislocated. Although we shared a common language, origin, religion and history, we were an invertebrate society, a disjointed society with no inter-communication.

71.    We then bent our efforts to the most urgent task of the day, that of giving our nations a formal structure in keeping with the spirit of the times and with the new status of independent republics they had achieved. But this task was undertaken by small oligarchic cliques and degenerated into mere legalistic, external, imitative action, patterned on foreign constitutional models but lacking the sense of social awareness that had been flourishing in Europe since about the middle of the previous century. In the second place, these efforts were confined within each country's borders and were almost completely devoid of a sense of purpose, enterprise, expansion, unity and a spirit of integration.

72.    Subsequently, as an expression of belated Latin American reaction to the European ideologies of the past century, a series of convulsions — preceded by isolated and generally ineffective incidents — shook most of the republics of Central and South America towards the end of the Second World War.

73.    Although inspired by the obvious and irritating inequality in the distribution of wealth and the frequent incapacity of those in power, these movements generally had no guiding philosophy. They depended on superficial plans and the intuitive powers of some of their leaders, and in the end they thought that by merely ousting the ruling cliques or destroying old institutions — more specifically, by liquidating local oligarchies and two or three monopolistic companies — they could raise the level of living and put an end to the economic dependence of their States.

74.    Some of these movements, when they took over power in our countries, succeeded in destroying the old oligarchies and the structures which supported unjust privilege, nationalized the major sources of wealth and broke up large estates. But, in some cases at least, they were unable to replace the ruling cliques or consolidate the changes made, and thus left ruin and a vacuum which nature abhors.

75.    These movements often failed to consider man as the ultimate aim of public action. They often lacked a philosophy and a modern outlook; they did not understand scientific and technological advances or the law of economic development; they were not fully aware of the unity of our nations, nor were they firmly determined to integrate their economies. These movements lacked a forward-looking, pioneering spirit; they did not set a new goal for our collective efforts, as each generation in the United States had done, from the first thirteen colonies to the present "New Frontier", nor did each in turn bear a message in keeping with the times.

76.    That is why our impetus did not carry us much further than the advances of the Incas or the cities founded by the Spaniards. The Andes formed a mighty physical barrier, and the myopia of our leaders a mighty barrier of incomprehension. Both retarded our civilization and settlement, so that only the loneliness of the jungle remained beyond our narrow horizon. In brief, the legacy of strictly legalistic or merely subversive movements was that of a disjointed community, a purely peripheral civilization, which merely bordered on the coasts of the two oceans surrounding the continent, without conquering the Andes or penetrating the depths of the jungle.

77.    In fact, the territory stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific has not been crossed, as the North Americans conquered what was once the "Far West", Venezuela has not been linked with Argentina, as the British of the past century linked Egypt with South Africa. No link has been established between Lima and Rio, such as the French created when they advanced from West Africa to the Red Sea after the Fachoda incident. From Panama to Buenaventura, from Buenaventura to Guayaquil, from Guayaquil to Callao, from Callao to Antofagasta, there are thousands of kilometres of jungle, desert and mountains, which one can cross without finding a single town of any size on the way, where there is no highway or railway joining them, so that these ports seem like huge depots. Inland, vast expanses of land such as those between Caracas and Santa Cruz de la Sierra or between the Atlantic and the Pacific, are almost totally uninhabited. And towards the heart of the Andes, we find the vast pampa and the surging Amazon.

78.    Nevertheless, the most recent movements — true blind forces of nature which have found their most vivid and desperate expression in the terrorism which has flared in some capitals, in the brigandage which has swept through rural areas, in the guerilla activity in some countries, and in the spirit of revolt which underlay some of our attempts at revolution — are beginning to give way to new concepts that are far from clearly defined.

79.    A new Latin American trend has begun to make headway during this decade. It takes different forms in different regions, but its essence remains very much the same. Its characteristics are realism, a revolutionary policy, clear thinking, and a serious, responsible constructive attitude. It is attempting to make a clean break with confusion, the superficiality and imitativeness of past programmes, and unreliable and half-hearted efforts.

80.    In all our countries, this new generation demands technological research, such as the Economic Commission for Latin America is carrying out; it calls for regional development such as Colombia and Ecuador are undertaking in their frontier regions; for penetration into the interior, following the example of Brasilia and the roads radiating from Brasilia throughout all of Brazil's vast territory; for economic integration, as promoted by the Latin American Free Trade Association or as carried out by the Central American Common Market; for a link between the Paraguayan plains and the Peruvian mountains, between the Ecuadorian and Colombian tropics and the Marginal Jungle Highway. It is no mere coincidence that the architect of this latter project is President BelaQnde of Peru.

81.    We are thus breaking up the purely nationalistic pattern which has persisted since 1825, for a century and a half, and which has led to a situation in which inter-American trade accounted for only a low 8 per cent of our total exports during the past decade. The statement that no significant creative ideas have come from this part of the world since the Panama Caned was opened is beginning to lose its validity.

82.    This change is not a reflection of economic dilettantism or some technocratic trend, for industrial revolutions that have led to terrible social inequalities are a matter of historical record. It is a "new broom", but the keynote is realism, for experience has shown that social revolutions have caused terrible economic setbacks. The aim is to change specific social institutions, but it is felt that they are often inadequate or inefficient because they are limited to small centres and neither understand nor venture to make far-reaching changes in the process of continental integration.

83.    Of the Latin American Republics, Bolivia has perhaps felt its past most deeply and has pursued its destiny with the greatest intuition.

84.    What is today Bolivia was once the Inca Empire, which encompassed five of the present nations of our hemisphere. During the colonial era it was part of the Viceroyalties of Peru and Rio de la Plata. During its republican period it made one of the most serious attempts ever undertaken in our hemisphere to create a confederation. An international war subsequently deprived Bolivia of its access to the sea, thus forcing it to seek refuge in its mountains, to isolate itself and to fall back on its own resources.

85.    But Bolivia's geography — which places it in the heart of South America, with five frontiers, with vast territory extending towards three of the southern continent’ s four great river basins — could hardly fail to exert a great attraction. As a result of this geographical situation and Bolivia's long-standing tradition and staunch Latin Americanism, the new generation does not view our country as a "buffer" State, but rather as a "land of contact", a crossroads that ties Latin America together.

86.    Perhaps without knowing it, by necessity and intuition, Bolivia is the only nation which has gone into the Andes mountains and established roots there — a feat not always acknowledged — and is now starting to leave the Andes behind, to conquer the tropics and go down to the plains. A quarter of a century ago, when continental integration was a vague romantic dream in Latin America and development was not yet even talked about, Bolivia linked its plains to Brazil and Argentina with railways and to the highlands with a highway. It moved people from the mining region to the tropics and devoted all its energies to the development of that area.

87.    But the keynote of this new effort is resolute realism. Bolivia paid dearly for its innocent idealism and is today firmly convinced that now that the broad outlines of a policy of continental integration have been drawn, Latin America should build itself up as advocated by Robert Schumann — the man who, with de Gasperi and Adenauer, laid the groundwork for a new Europe — not on purely political declarations, but on common achievements and common efforts.

88.    That is why Bolivia proposed regional economic development as a constructive step towards continental integration, and with regard to ourselves, specifically we urge the immediate study of three large-scale and ambitious undertakings: the development of the Amazon Basin, the River Plate Basin and the Pacific Basin, in all their aspects.

89.    One writer calls the Amazon Basin the "uninhabited interior". In addition to Brazil, most South American States share this Basin. Until recently there were no roads going through the area; technical and health facilities were not advanced enough for us to try to conquer it; areas adjacent to the cities apparently could supply all the needs of their inhabitants. In short, there was no compelling need for our peoples to attempt its conquest.

90.    The situation has changed completely within only a few years. Our peasants need land which our land reform programmes often cannot provide, and our urban populations are growing at a dizzying rate, the fastest in the world.

91.    There will be no place for small isolated States in the world of tomorrow, just as the small feudal units of Europe disappeared with the formation of national States, which in turn are heading towards continental integration today. The modern world requires mass production and consumption centres. And there the Amazon Basin lies waiting, with its 7 million square kilometres, the world's largest reserve of natural resources.

92.    Once the course of the rivers has been regulated, and once their falls and rapids have been eliminated, we can build dams, control floods, open vast expanses of land for animal husbandry and farming, and develop hydro-electric power throughout the Amazon region.

93.    Great civilizations have followed the course of great rivers, such as the Nile. The damming of the Paraguay and Parana rivers in the River Plate Basin and the opening of a Bolivian port on the Paraguay would provide the entire Basin with a system of waterways for the benefit of five countries.

94.    Finally, with regard to the Pacific Basin, the transformation of the forbidding and hostile geography of the highlands and the desert seaboard should be considered and studied.

95.    The development of these immense resources would change the geography and economy of South America, for it would bring more than half the area of the hemisphere into productive use.

96.    In Latin America, regional plans requiring international co-operation have not yet been launched, in contrast to various projects in other parts of the world being carried out under United Nations auspices. We need cite only the development of the Mekong River Basin in South-East Asia, which benefits Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Viet-Nam and Burma. Even war has not held up these projects'. We might also mention the studies which are being carried out under United Nations guidance on the Senegal and Niger Rivers in Africa.

97.    Turning to Latin America however, I would stress that what we need is a grand enterprise to unite us, and the creative imagination to choose a goal which we can pursue, which will arouse our enthusiasm and mobilize our youth. Life today in Latin America might be described as sordid in the extreme, a mere and often unsuccessful struggle for one's daily bread. We have moral values and vitality which could do wonders; but proper use cannot be made of these assets amidst the great ignorance and poverty that prevail. Hungry masses easily succumb to demagoguery, resentment and subversion. We are struggling with truly fundamental problems and needs and we cannot create the momentum we need to devise vast projects and plans.

98.    Yet despite these drawbacks, great ideas for the future are taking shape. Among other projects, Peru plans to move towns from its plateau to the tropics. The Bolivian road network is continuing to spread from the centre eastwards and northwards, and thousands of people have been moved from the mining regions to these areas, Brazil is completing a magnificent highway which will soon reach its border with Bolivia and Peru, as part of what President Castelo Branco has called "Operation Amazon". The possible mining of iron and manganese in the Bolivia-Brazil border area, the export of Bolivian natural gas for the Sao Paulo industrial complex and for Argentina, and multilateral industrial projects now being developed, are all schemes that are now under way or that will be studied at forthcoming international meetings.

99.    It is to be hoped that ideas such as those I have described will continue to make headway, firstly through the organization and financing of preliminary surveys and the assessment of natural resources which can serve as the basis for drawing up specific regional development or continental integration programmes. This appeal is addressed particularly to the Organization of American States, to the more industrialized countries, to technical and banking organizations such as the Inter-American Development Bank, and particularly to the United States which, through the Alliance for Progress, has begun, although recently, to co-operate in the economic development of Latin America.

100.    As to the United Nations, not only is it at present fulfilling its main function of ensuring peace at the legal and political levels, but it is also becoming increasingly involved in the economic, social and cultural development of nations, without which neither domestic nor international peace will be secure.

101.    In conclusion, I only wish to add in this context that the ideas I have just outlined — that is, regional development as a constructive and definite step towards continental integration — are intended to contribute to the attainment of the most lofty purposes of the United Nations in our search for a better life for man.


===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
75. First of all, Mr. President, I wish to congratulate you on behalf of the delegation of Bolivia on your election to the high office of President of the General Assembly. I am sure that, with your personal and professional qualities and your experience of the political problems of our time, you will conduct our deliberations in a firm, unruffled and enlightened manner. I should also like to place on record our gratitude to Mr. Pazhwak of Afghanistan, who presided over the debates of the General Assembly with great wisdom throughout a particularly difficult year.
76. It was a very sound move on the part of the General Assembly at its twenty-first session to reelect U Thant for another term as Secretary-General of the United Nations. The wisdom of his decisions and the absence of bias in his conduct of affairs has invariably helped not only to ensure that everything possible was done to solve difficult problems, but also to keep alive our confidence in the possibilities of achieving international peace and co-operation. 
77. It is not necessary, nor is it possible, to refer in this statement to every single item on the agenda. The views and the influence of a small country on many of the important problems with which the United Nations has been concerned in the course of this year would have no effect on the march of events and would be largely a waste of time. I shall therefore just touch on some of those items as being of special significance for the peace and well-being of the peoples of the world, and especially for the small countries.
78. This past year has seen an increase in international tension and a deplorable intensification of warlike events. The Viet-Nam war is growing to alarming proportions, and the prospects of a solution appear to be remote, since there is no slackening either in the infiltration from the north which provokes the trouble or in the military measures on the part of the allies of South Viet-Nam to stop it.
79. With regard to the problem of South West Africa, Bolivia greatly regrets that the resolutions adopted by the General Assembly, which sought to apply to the case of that Territory both the precepts of the Charter and the immanent principles which require the elimination of all forms of discrimination and colonialism, have not yet been translated into specific progress towards bringing the gifts of freedom and self-determination to the people of the Territory.
80. The outbreak of war in the Middle East was a violent corollary to the state of belligerency which has prevailed in that area for the past twenty years. The right of the State of Israel to sovereign existence is indisputable, and it was the failure of other States to accept that historical fact which sowed the seeds of conflict. It is held as a moral precept in Latin America — and the historical experience of Bolivia particularly well bears it out — that conquest bestows no rights, and that any acquisition of territory by force of arms is null and void. My delegation firmly upholds that precept, while recognizing that, in the case of the crisis I am referring to, it was and still is essential to offset the withdrawal of troops against the ending of the state of belligerency in order to avoid a recurrence of the conflict. That was the stand taken by Latin America in the course of the debate at the emergency special session, and Bolivia adheres inflexibly to that view. 81. I will do no more than add my voice to those of other Latin American representatives in saying that, in our opinion, the worst threat to peace would appear to lie in the growing gap between the industrialized countries and the developing nations. There can be no doubt that in the last few years the share of the developing countries in world trade has diminished rather than increased. This means that, while wealth is increasingly concentrated in a few highly developed countries, poverty is intensifying and spreading in larger and larger sections of the world's population.
82. No stable or lasting peace can be built on that basis, whatever military or political procedures are resorted to, since the hard social and economic facts I have mentioned are liable to frustrate any such action. In other words there is, in our view, an ineluctable correlation between poverty and violence, or, conversely, between peace and development. The interdependence of nations, which becomes closer every day, does not allow any country to act in a self-sufficient manner; its well-being and indeed its very existence may be threatened by the increasing inequality of which we are all aware but do nothing to alter.
83. Clearly the small countries, however much they may wish to help to solve these serious problems, cannot do much; hence the main responsibility falls jointly on the highly industrialized countries. The creation of conditions in which peaceful coexistence based on social progress and economic well-being for all peoples will be possible depends more than ever on their magnanimity.
84. Bolivia is a member of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and a member of its Committee on Commodities. As such it cannot but express the hope that the Second Session of that Conference will achieve more success than has been achieved so far.
85. We should like to see practical measures taken to correct the situation 1 have described and to obtain wider agreement on the principles which must govern world trade relations and trade policies conducive to development. We want stable prices and markets, so that we can forecast our earnings and consequently our national investment possibilities. For us, every cent of reduction in the price of a pound of the tin we sell means a fall of about half a million dollars in our revenue. If the developed countries dump on the world market non-commercial stocks of primary commodities such as tin, they are seriously jeopardizing our foreign exchange earnings. That is why we repeat our hope that this dumping will finally cease.
86. We can add another reason for our concern in this matter. Bolivian tin purchased a few years ago at roughly a third of its present price — even taking into account the devaluation of the currency — brings those who sell it a considerable profit — at the expense of a small country. We do not believe that this is strictly a matter of economic gain, since such profits, which could mean so much to Bolivia, do not affect the economic position of the sellers either way. It seems to us that it is rather a case of insensibility and lack of interest in solving this problem. 87. Here I simply must point out our special concern with the work of the UNCTAD Committee on Tungsten, which might well be the germ of an agreement on that commodity. We should also like to see a similar committee or group set up to deal with antimony. In both cases we note that progress towards concluding international agreements on the commodities in question is made very difficult by the consistently unwilling attitude of the consumer countries, which are in fact the most highly industrialized.
88. Where organs of the kind mentioned do exist, as in the case of the International Tin Council, what happens is that the buffer stocks are financed exclusively by the contributions of the producer countries, while the consumers, who have so much influence on price determination and are interested in maintaining stable price levels, contribute nothing at all. That is just one more proof, however slight, of the validity of the general comments I have just made.
89. Inevitably, any discussion of these topics leads us to note the vast difference in scientific and technological progress between the industrialized and the developing nations. Without applied science and technology, even if there were a change in the structure of the terms of trade, there is little that the small countries can do. The paradox in this Is that, just like economic resources, the human resources trained in science and technology are also subject to a process of absorption by the developed countries. We train scientists, engineers and technicians at great cost to ourselves to serve our countries; but since we cannot offer them the advantages which are easily obtained in the great nations, ultimately we lose them to those nations. Then there is the proliferation of committees, commissions, working groups etc. established by the major international agencies and which become a Mecca for specialists from the developing countries. If the work of those who became international civil servants or employees of large corporations were at least of benefit to us, we would have no objection; but It seems to us that at times the developing countries lose first-class people in the field of science and technology who end up as well-paid bureaucrats in the corporations of the highly industrialized countries or In international organizations.
90. In contrast to the threatening atmosphere of world politics and the economic and technical disparities liable to give rise to new upheavals in the future, the outlook for Latin American regional policy is encouraging.
91. Latin America prohibited the use of nuclear weapons in a treaty signed in Mexico of 14 February 1967. In this connexion I must point out that, although we have no facilities in Bolivia for contributing to research into the uses of nuclear energy, we believe, together with other Latin American countries, that this prohibition should not be interpreted as ruling out research on the peaceful uses of this vast source of energy.
92. The Presidents of the Latin American countries who met at Punta del Este together with the President of the United States in April of this year signed a Declaration which forms the corner-stone of the process of economic integration of the continent. Within fifteen years beginning in 1970, it is expected that the 250 million Latin Americans will form a market capable of promoting the development of Industry, of creating a flourishing trade through the abolition of tariff barriers, and of establishing a common external tariff.
93. All this holds a promise of further development for the Latin American Free Trade Association, in the context of which it is proposed to establish an integrated sub-regional organization comprising the Andean and Pacific countries. Furthermore, the five nations including my own which form the great basin of the the Rio de la Plata are planning to study ways and means of putting in hand multinational infrastructure projects.
94. If I may remind you of my country's geographical position, Bolivia lies in the very centre of South America, with a territory that forms part of three great river basins of the continent. We are a nation of the Pacific and the Andes, and also of the Plata and the Amazon. However, at present most of our population gravitates towards the Pacific area, and it is across the Pacific that we obtain more than 90 per cent of our imports and ship almost all our exports. In this region we also possess natural resources such as petroleum, gas, minerals and water resources of great importance.
95. I mention these various factors because, taken all together, they might well constitute a basis for multinational projects which could even transform the physical characteristics of the region, turning desert coasts into productive farmlands through controlled irrigation, besides generating considerable quantities of hydroelectric power which, in turn, would be used to process many of the raw materials we now export without any processing. These possibilities are not a mere pipe-dream, for in other parts of the world projects of greater technical and economic complexity have been carried out.
96. Of course, it would first be necessary to spell out and solve political and diplomatic problems arising out of previous international events, and to overcome considerable difficulties of a geographical, economic and technical nature.
97. Among the political and diplomatic problems I would mention as the most important the fact that Bolivia is landlocked: this fact does not affect my country alone but has consequences for the whole continent. I wonder whether a programme could not be devised which would combine satisfaction of Bolivia's right to an outlet of its own to the sea with the multinational infrastructural development of some of the areas of the South Pacific coast countries. If that were possible, the political and diplomatic problems I have mentioned might be solved simultaneously for the benefit of all those concerned, while at the same time the great resources of this region would be used to joint advantage.
98. In a programme of this type, which might be put forward as a "package deal", to use a fashionable expression, the United Nations, together with other regional organizations and the financial institutions of the public sector, could perform an extremely important task. So convinced I am of this that if what I have said is favourably received here, my delegation will revert to this matter with more specific detail in the appropriate Committee.
99. None of the ideas I have just put forward implies that Bolivia is withdrawing or renouncing its right to obtain, by any other means compatible with the peaceful coexistence of States, a remedy for the absence of an outlet to the sea from which Bolivia has suffered as a result of an unjust war.
100. Because of events occurring in Bolivia as a result of what have been called the "guerrillas", I feel I should offer some clarifications of the factors and policies involved. In doing so, I shall try to remember that the views I am now voicing will he judged by future generations within the general context of Latin American history.
101. During our War of Independence, the struggle of the patriots took the form of guerrilla warfare, precisely because it stemmed from the innermost feelings of the people and did not rely on any foreign help. In contrast, the criminal activities to which I am referring are started, organized and financed from abroad and have found no response in the hearts and minds of the people of my country.
102. Two propagandist arguments are being used as a pretext to justify these acts of violence. First, it is alleged that sectors of the population such as the peasants are being exploited within the country itself, and must be freed forthwith; and secondly, it is said that there is a need to combat United States imperialism.
103. There is in fact in Bolivia a considerable peasant population with social, economic and linguistic characteristics which have persisted since the time of the Incas and have left a vigorous imprint on all spheres of the national life. As a consequence of this, large-scale structural reforms had to be introduced, two of which were specifically intended to benefit the peasants, namely land reform which gave the ownership of the land to those working it and universal suffrage, which has given the peasant masses a predominant voice in democratic national affairs. The peasants have a bloc of deputies and senators more numerous than that of any other political or civic organization, and they also have a Minister of State in the Cabinet.
104. These are facts, not words, facts which explain why the peasants totally repudiate the so-called "guerrillas". It is simply childish, in the name of an ideological abstraction to ask the workers of the fields who now own their land to hand over their title of ownership to the State in exchange for some form of collective usufruct laid down by the would-be bureaucrats. This would amount to losing the right of ownership won for them by the Bolivian Revolution for the benefit of the former landowners or of a totalitarian Government.
105. Two conclusions follow inevitably from what I have said. First, there is no need for any action from outside to liberate the Bolivian peasants. Secondly, the so-called "guerrillas" were planned and organized from the outset with complete disregard for the national facts of life; that is the reason why their movement has no future and why their purpose is doomed to failure. 106. As regards relations with the United States and the question of American imperialism, we have no invasions, troop landings or territorial encroachments to report from that quarter, though we are not unaware that the treatment received by Bolivia and other Latin American countries in economic and political matters has often been unjust and prejudicial to our interests. However, we do concede that there have been quite considerable changes and transformations in these relations since the end of the Second World War.
107. Indeed, with the good neighbour policy, nonintervention and respect for the sovereignty of States has become institutionalized. Moreover, the system of strictly bilateral relations which the United States used to maintain with the Latin American nations as a way to divide and rule is yielding ground to the realization that it is in the interest of North America, as well as in our own interest, to co-operate actively in the process of integration, development and political co-ordination of our countries. This does not mean that there is no problem in our relations. There is much to be done. There is clearly a need for greater understanding on the part of American public opinion of the concerns, needs and goals of our peoples. But it cannot be denied that achievements such as the Alliance for Progress indicate a more promising outlook for the future.
108. If these observations correspond to the truth, there is no need for "guerrillas'' to solve the problems of our relations with the United States. Hence it can be said on this point, as on the previous one, that those acts of violence do not reflect the present-day situation as it is but would seem rather to be a belated reaction to the experiences of the past.
109. I need hardly add that the above-mentioned views are necessarily relative, because if United States policy were to revert to what it was in the past, or remained ossified in its present shape, there would be a need for representations and action which might prove that those who call themselves guerrilla fighters were in the right. But this is not the case now; the most that can be said of them is that they are pawns in the chess-game of world politics, serving the purposes of agitation, disorder, anarchy and propaganda.
110. Whatever the theoretical designs, the protagonists, the organization and the foreign financing of the process of violence with which we are confronted, we can state categorically that we Bolivians will never allow our motherland to be wrested from us and our fate to be decided by others. As President Barrientos has said, we will pursue the struggle which has been imposed on us from abroad. While always mindful of fundamental human rights, we shall stand firm in the defence of representative democracy which we have chosen as the basis of all our institutions.

===== Session 23 - 1968 =====
72. Bolivia is particularly gratified that the office of President of the General Assembly at its twenty-third regular session has been entrusted to a distinguished Latin American statesman, diplomat and jurist, justly renowned for his ability; the fact that he is here to direct the proceedings of this world assembly is a source of satisfaction and an honour for all the peoples of our continent. I should like, on behalf of my Government, to offer him my warmest congratulations on his election and to wish him every success in his duties.

73. At the same time, I should like to convey to Mr. Corneliu Manescu, President of the General Assembly at its last session, my congratulations on the skill and patience with which he guided the work of the twenty-second session. I also wish to express to our intelligent and dynamic Secretary-General the appreciation and confidence of the Bolivian delegation for his untiring efforts in the cause of world peace and the advancement of the developing nations.

74. The agenda for this session includes a number of items which are not of equal importance to all countries. This is why my delegation will dwell on some of them at greater length. This does not imply a lack of interest in the other problems which are to be discussed here. It simply means that I wish to submit for the consideration of the Assembly the views of Bolivia on the questions which are of most interest to the nation that I have the honour to represent.

75. The first United Nations Development Decade is drawing to a close in an atmosphere of frustration. The goal of eradicating poverty, hunger and ignorance and closing the gap separating the peoples of the world has remained merely an expression of good intentions, unaccompanied by the necessary determination to take prompt and effective action to bring about a radical transformation of the present inequitable economic and commercial structures.

76. Bolivia attended the second session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, held at New Delhi from 1 February to 29 March 1968, with the same eagerness as the other countries belonging to the Group of 77. There is no doubt that all the smaller countries, quite rightly, had high hopes of such an important meeting. Our representatives returned from India gravely disappointed. The most important issues discussed at the Conference remained unresolved. It was hoped that definite agreements would emerge for the establishment of a new policy for international commodity trade, the elaboration of a generalized system of non-discriminatory, non-reciprocal tariff preferences for exports of manufactures and semi-manufactures from developing countries and the achievement of a substantial increase in the volume of international financial assistance that would reflect the growth rate of the industrialized countries. However, apart from a modest programme of action for certain commodities, mere recognition of the need for a generalized system of tariff preferences and some improvement in the policy of external financing, it cannot be said that much headway was made at New Delhi.

77. The situation of the relatively less developed countries received very perfunctory consideration. The little that was achieved in this regard at the second session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development will be of scant benefit to these countries, whose situation should be a matter of greater concern not only to the highly developed countries but also to those at an intermediate stage of development. In this connexion, it must regretfully be admitted that there are disagreements and conflicts of interest between the developing countries which prevent them from defending their viewpoints collectively and from resolving the problems which affect them.

78. The Conference on Trade and Development adopted resolution 11(II), which deals with some of the problems peculiar to land-locked countries, and recommended special measures to be taken in favour of those countries. Although the content of this recommendation is not entirely satisfactory, it does at least highlight the special difficulties which the lack of a sea coast creates for nations in this predicament.

79. I wish to emphasize this because, for reasons which are well known, my country has a special interest in the matter. Bolivia believes that it is essential to establish a special system for co-operation in this field which would combine the efforts of the industrialized Powers, international organizations and transit countries. Under the guidance of the UNCTAD secretariat, the international agencies should undertake studies to pinpoint with greater accuracy and clarity the various special problems of the land-locked countries and possible solutions. One example will suffice to support this view. Little-known factors resulting from its land-locked position have a considerable influence on Bolivia’s economy; for instance, the unilateral fixing of port charges, which are outside its control and are changed without its knowledge or consent. Such a situation creates a
dependent relationship which, in addition to being an affront to the concept of sovereignty, is extremely harmful to the country which finds itself in this situation.

80. We are called upon to face paradoxical situations. On the one hand, we Latin American countries are embarked on a process of integration through the Latin American Free Trade Association, which we feel is not always making satisfactory progress; we therefore want to organize the Andean sub-region, which would consist of six countries anxious to achieve practical results within the shortest possible time. We also intend to resolve important infrastructural problems affecting five nations, through agreements between the countries of the River Plate basin. This whole process of integration naturally presupposes broad co-operation among the countries concerned, on a completely equal footing. Otherwise, these projects would be doomed to certain failure. And yet we are confronted with a lack of understanding and difficulties which seem small when viewed from afar but which in fact, in addition to causing economic harm to sizeable segments of our population, are fostering a climate of suspicion and resistance to the cause of integration.

81. In this connexion, I must repeat that, so far as my country is concerned, in view of the particular circumstances of its land-locked situation, interest in a new system of international co-operation does not imply abandonment or shelving of its legitimate claims for its own sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. As it has stated on many occasions, the Government of Bolivia considers this to be the only real solution to the problem — a solution which we hope to achieve in a manner which will take into account the mutual interests of the parties concerned. It may be felt that this Bolivian claim is a special question concerning my country alone and that it therefore does not seem appropriate to mention it in this great Assembly. This is not so. Bolivia’s land-locked situation is a Latin American problem. Its ramifications affect other nations in various ways which I shall not enlarge upon here. It is holding up the execution of extremely important infrastructural projects. It is impeding the harmonious and balanced development of a region with 250 million inhabitants and disturbing relations between several peoples. It is self-evident that all these factors must be overcome, particularly if this can be done without harm to anyone, and to the benefit of all.

82. In discussing the results of the second session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, I feel bound to mention my country’s concern at the failure to solve such important problems as those relating to commodities, the financing of buffer stocks and the guidelines for policies for the disposal of strategic reserves. It is regrettable that in this connexion it was not possible to reach agreement on a system that would guarantee growing, stable export earnings for the developing countries. Approval of these principles is essential, if the constant deterioration in the terms of trade is to be halted. In addition, as regards the provisions in international commodity agreements for the financing of buffer stocks, we cannot continue to follow the traditional idea that the financial burden should be borne exclusively by the producing countries, which are precisely those with the least resources. We believe that this burden should be shared between producers and consumers, since the maintenance of suitable price levels is in the interests of both parties.

83. One further point must be made in this connexion. Paradoxically, some countries which are traditionally consumers of a particular commodity intervene in the market from time to time as sellers of that commodity, in competition with the natural production of the developing countries, whenever they wish to dispose of their strategic reserves. The least that can be expected in this respect is the establishment of consultative machinery on a case-by-case basis, so that the disposal of such strategic commodity reserves can follow mutually acceptable guidelines, since unilateral and arbitrary decisions are extremely harmful to producing countries, as Bolivia has learnt from painful experience in the international tin market. 

84. General Assembly resolution 2340(XXII) of 18 December 1967 established an Ad Hoc Committee to Study the Peaceful Uses of the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor. This resolution was sponsored by the delegation of Bolivia, which sent an observer to the meeting of the Ad Hoc Committee at Rio de Janeiro. Consideration of this question may well be somewhat premature but, precisely because of Bolivia’s land-locked situation, we should like to
state our views on the matter as soon as possible.

85. If the riches contained in the sea-bed and the ocean floor and the sub-soil thereof belong to nobody in particular and if we are trying to find an intelligent and equitable way of ensuring their use by the international community, it would be unfair to deny such benefits to nations without a sea coast, when the obvious conclusion is precisely that these nations should receive proportionately greater benefits to compensate for their special situation.

86. The Government of Bolivia is aware that the road to securing world peace is beset by great obstacles, unforeseen contingencies and frustrations. But we believe that, before resorting to other means of achieving peaceful coexistence, countries must renew their faith and make a joint effort within the United Nations. We are convinced that the progressive improvement of its basic structures will enable the United Nations to serve the high aims that inspired its creation and to become a truly effective instrument for moderating the antagonisms dividing the world today. 

87. We do not think that the nuclear balance, as a factor capable of eliminating the possibility of a third world conflict, is a sufficient basis for maintaining peaceful coexistence. On the contrary, the armed peace requires a disproportionate financial and human effort that runs counter to the urgent needs of the developing countries and inevitably restricts the assistance and co-operation essential to their progress. This preoccupation alone — not to mention all the others that concern the whole of mankind — explains and justifies the anxiety of a small country with regard to problems to whose solution it can contribute very little.

88. By world peace, I mean not only a situation in which there is no direct armed conflict, but also a situation of genuine coexistence in which there are no factors making for antagonism and division. The armed peace and the cold war, which have not been eliminated, are keeping the world in a state of dramatic upheaval; and so it is the urgent duty of the United Nations, through a convergence of political will on the part of all its constituent States, to reduce the tensions by means of the normal instruments and machinery available to it.

89. This year a number of serious international problems have remained unresolved and there have been a number of outstandingly important events in the international sphere. It is to be regretted that so far no solutions mutually acceptable to the parties have been found for the conflicts in Viet-Nam and in the Middle East, and that the factors that exacerbate tensions and war still persist. So far as the Viet-Nam conflict is concerned, we hope that the official Paris talks, despite their meagre results to date, will help to restore harmony to South-East Asia. In the case of the Middle East, we must repeat that Bolivia upholds the right of freedom of navigation and does not recognize territorial conquests by the use of force. Bolivia respects, and in many cases admires, the progressive reforms that are being made by the peoples of the Middle East, and hopes that an understanding will emerge that will pave the way for realistic solutions ensuring the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of that region.

90. The international community has recently been much moved by the forcible occupation of a small country. We witnessed, to our sorrow, the invasion of Czechoslovakia and the violation of the principles of sovereignty, non-intervention and self-determination of peoples. It was a painful experience, especially for small nations like my own, whose hopes of maintaining its integrity depend on the maintenance of an international legal order that is binding on all States. Once more force has prevailed to the impotent consternation of the rest of mankind.

91. In speaking of intervention, I cannot refrain from mentioning the case of my country, which, as everyone knows, has also been the victim of an aggression master-minded from outside and aimed at suppressing fundamental freedoms, obstructing the achievements of the people during years of tireless struggle and preventing their consolidation. The Bolivian people unanimously rejected the foreign guerrillas and defended its way of life, which is geared to progress and social justice. We do not want to restore the old oligarchic order; nor do we want to destroy democratic institutions and replace them by dictatorships imposed in the name of an ideology which is foreign to us. The peasants, the workers and the middle class, which constitute the vast majority of my country’s population, defended the national sovereignty and way of life which we inherited from our forefathers. We are superseding the feudal structures which used to be characteristic of the land tenure system; we have restored the main sources of wealth to national control; we have given the opportunity of active participation in public life to the vast masses that were formerly excluded; we have begun to reform education, making it accessible to all sections of the population; through structural reforms we have eliminated economic and social stratification, we have opened up new prospects for everyone and we have embarked upon a development programme geared to a more equitable income distribution. We know what our road is and we do not need to import revolutions.

92. In connexion with what I have said, I must recall that this is the International Year for Human Rights. In our view, representative democracy has proved itself to be the best social and political system for preserving the freedom and dignity of man. Yet democracy and poverty are incompatible and this is true of nearly all the countries of the third world. We do not claim to have achieved perfection in this field; but it is obvious that we have overcome great difficulties and remained true to our institutions, thus safeguarding fundamental human rights and giving proof of our adherence and loyalty to the various international covenants.

93. With regard to Non-Self-Governing Territories or territories in the process of decolonization, the Bolivian delegation has maintained a consistent stand in favour of independence and self-determination for all the peoples of the world, and at this stage all I wish to do is to confirm that stand.

94. Racial. discrimination is a phenomenon unknown in my country, where the population is of diverse origin and is going through the process of adapting its characteristics to the environment. Our opposition to any form of discrimination is simply a reflection of that situation.

95. I wish to express my sincere hopes, Mr. President, that, under your guidance and through the constructive action of the delegations of Member States, this new meeting of the nations of the whole world will achieve the results which mankind is expecting. The United Nations will be strengthened if it is able to find solutions to present-day problems and if it is able, even to a small extent, to direct the action of the whole international community towards the maintenance of peace and the promotion of the spiritual and economic progress of all mankind.

===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
1. Madam President, I do not wish merely to
congratulate you on your election as a matter of form, but
rather to recall something of the spirit of hope and vitality
which you expressed in your introductory address, especially 
when you said that the United Nations is:

”...the best means of international co-operation that
mankind has had at his disposal since the beginning of his
history and we have to nurse it and cherish and cultivate
it, or else we shall one day perish and not even the moon
or the knowledge of space will save us.” [1753rd meeting,
para. 50.] 

2. It is likewise my duty to convey to the representative of
Guatemala my Government’s condolences on the premature
death of its distinguished Foreign Minister, Emilio Arenales,
who so skillfully guided the deliberations of the
twenty-third session of this Assembly.

3. The conquest of space, travel to the moon, the probes
sent out to Mars and Venus are triumphs for technology
and hence for human intelligence. Yet, how little man has
achieved for himself! How small he seems when he looks
into his own soul and realizes the weakness of the moral
forces which sustain him and the narrowness of the limits
of his power on earth! The formulas for social balance
have not yet made their appearance, and this century
knows no elixir of well-being or happiness. It is useless to
stimulate the yearning for the infinite while man, like this
planet on which he dwells, remains hopeless and alone.

4. It will soon be twenty-five years since the United
Nations came into being as a promise of peace and hope for
the peoples who once overcame the destructive power of
nazism. The United Nations was not, however, conceived to
enhance man’s glory and pride, but to serve him, to bring a
little light into the darkness of poverty and ignorance.
Where, then lies the hidden source of the blight which is
spoiling the fruit of so many illusions?

5. It will soon be twenty-five years since the founding of
the United Nations; ten years since the Declaration against
colonialism [resolution 1514 (XV)]; the Second United
Nations Development Decade is soon to begin; Human
Rights Year has been celebrated, and another year is to be
dedicated to education. Noble and beautiful promises — yet
nuclear weapons still proliferate and men die in Viet-Nam,
in the Middle East and in Biafra. There are leaders who
export revolutions, and racial hatred discriminates against
the child in school.

6. My country can contribute little to the solution of
these major problems, but it has taken a firm and consistent
position in defence of the principles that inspire the Charter
and uphold the right of peoples to freedom and justice.

7. The war in Viet-Nam must be brought to an end as soon
as possible, without sacrificing the peoples who aspire to
govern themselves. In the Middle East we have to take as
our starting point the existence of Israel as a sovereign State
recognized by the world community and a Member of our
Organization. Any independent nation has the right to
protect its security, but from our own historical experience
we firmly maintain the principle that conquest gives no
rights.

8. We are against all forms of colonialism. We are in favour
of the observance of human rights throughout the world.
We consider that the First United Nations Development
Decade has been a disappointment, and we hope that the
Second will be backed by a more generous attitude on the
part of the industrialized countries, so that the growth of
the developing countries may pass from the phase of noble
sentiments to the achievement of specific objectives which
will make it possible to narrow the gap dividing the great
Powers from the small countries. The Second Development
Decade, therefore, entails a great responsibility for the
United Nations and confronts its various organs and
agencies with a cast-iron dilemma: to make progress or
perish.

9. It would not be right for me to confine myself solely to
the negative side of United Nations affairs. This Assembly
can and must respond positively to many causes of concern.
There is, of course, a group of new items which, precisely
because they are new, may lead to beneficial arrangements:
the use of outer space for peaceful purposes; the establishment
of nuclear-free zones; the reservation of the
sea-bed for the benefit of developing countries, including
those that have no coastlines.

10. The Secretary-General, whose position enables him to
perceive the risks that threaten mankind, has just proposed
that we devote a decade to disarmament starting in 1970.
His programme is simple and, at the same time, practical:

“A concerted and concentrated effort during this
Disarmament Decade to limit and reduce nuclear and
other weapons of massive destruction, to reduce conventional 
weapons and to deal with all the related
problems of disarmament and security, could produce
concrete, measurable progress towards general and complete 
disarmament by the end of the decade of the
seventies.” [A/7601/Add.1, para. 43.]

11. This would, moreover, coincide with the United
Nations Second Development Decade, and no perspicacity
is needed to recognize that the two programmes are
parallel. If the resources which now serve to maintain the
arms race could be diverted to development instead,
mankind would have fulfilled a mission, not only of peace,
but also of progress and happiness. The Secretary-General,
U Thant, has rightly said that development is the long, slow
road that leads to peace. This is not just a phrase inspired
by the disappointments or hopes of a hundred peoples in
pursuit of well-being. There can. be no doubt that a
sustained effort to promote economic co-operation and
investment is impossible unless the resources now being
earmarked for arms manufacture are released and channelled 
elsewhere. Proof of that lies in the experience of the
United Nations and in the meagre results of the many
measures approved by this Assembly, such as the giving of
voluntary contributions to the Capital Development Fund
and the Industrial Development Organization.

12. Nor are the results of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) encouraging. Many
countries have received with bitterness the recent confession 
of the Trade and Development Board to the effect that
it had made very little progress in its contribution to the
strategy for the Second Decade. We are still far from
implementing the decisions adopted by UNCTAD at New
Delhi in 1968, and now there is a growing prospect of
further frustration for a world divided between hunger,
despair and illiteracy.

13. In Latin America development is closely linked to
integration. Its goals seem to be necessarily bound up with
the establishment of economic units within a broader
market, balanced and harmonious economic growth, the
formation of industries designed to complement one
another, a common external tariff system and the joint use
of internal and external financial resources, as well as with
the planning of the infrastructure and the increased
productivity, of the agricultural sector.

14. The Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA),
conceived originally as a mechanism for freeing trade within
the area, is gradually evolving into a common market, and
in the course of this year we have established, within the
framework of LAFTA, the Subregional Integration Agreement, 
which brings together Bolivia, Colombia, Chile,
Ecuador and Peru in an up-to-date attempt to overcome the
isolation of countries with small populations and potential
wealth.

15. Within this process of subregional integration Bolivia
has, however, persisted in its view that this process cannot
be a substitute for its claim to have its own sovereign exit
to the Pacific Ocean, a claim that combines the need and
the right to solve a problem which restricts its development
prospects and freedom to communicate with the world.

16. In May of this year the Latin American nations
approved the Consensus of Viña del Mar, a document
which summarizes the position taken by that part of the
world in regard to international co-operation. It is an
expression of the collective personality of peoples who
share a common tradition and destiny but are weighed
down by the shackles that hinder their development. We are
convinced that nothing can take the place of our own
efforts. However, they are not enough in themselves, and to
some extent they depend on the co-operation of the
international community, especially of the industrial
Powers which possess the technical and financial means to
bring about progress.

17. There is yet another postulate that must be repeated
here: economic development cannot be an end in itself. It
would lack foresight if it did not include the concept of
social development. Indeed, there would be little value in
stimulating the growth of national wealth unless it secured
a better standard of living for the world’s population and
enabled it to enjoy the benefits of civilization and culture.

18. In the light of these reflections, it is not easy to
understand why the United Nations has still not reached
agreement on the drafting of a declaration on social
development. It must be recognized, however, that this
Organization is constantly concerned with social questions,
especially with those that relate to land reform and the
participation of the people in development. Bolivia, in
point of fact, is one of the countries which fifteen years ago
put into effect a plan of land reform that has turned the
peasant into a land-owner and freed him from his serfdom.
Having achieved these objectives, we must now look to
rural development, and to that end a financial, administrative 
and technical corporation has been established.

19. It is gratifying to record the assistance Bolivia has
received from the United Nations in this regard and the
work done by the various missions that have been sent to
my country. It is equally a source of satisfaction to note
that the agenda of the present Assembly session includes
matters in which the Organization is doing fruitful work,
namely housing, building and planning; a review of the
World Food Programme; the elimination of all forms of
religious and racial intolerance; freedom of information; the
United Nations Children’s Fund; and the promotion and
defence of human rights.

20. From this lofty rostrum it is right to applaud any
contribution to peace and solidarity among nations. It is
therefore fitting to stress the work of the Organization of
American States and what it represents as a regional
arrangement within the meaning of Article 52 of the
Charter. Barely two months ago a conflict that had arisen
between El Salvador and Honduras brought the regional
machinery into play. The meeting of Consultation of
Ministers of Foreign Affairs succeeded in restoring peace
between the two peoples, while at the same time reaffirming 
the validity of two principles essential to international
coexistence: the one which proscribes the use of force in
disputes between States, and the other which relates to the
dignity of the human person and the rule of a universal
moral law.

21. To those principles, which form the framework of the
United Nations, there must be added the principle of
non-intervention, which denounces those who export revolution 
and foment subversion and hatred in other countries.
As everyone knows, Bolivia has been the subject of
certain amount of international notoriety which we did not
seek and do not wish to see repeated—notoriety caused by
just such foreign intervention, the only result of which was
the death of Bolivian citizens, some as victims of violence
and others because they were deceived by the seductive talk
of foreign agents.

22. Furthermore, the sterility and futility of such methods
is obvious. Bolivia has a democracy which, without being
perfect, ensures respect for human dignity, guarantees
freedom of expression, and establishes the people’s vote as
the source of political power. In recent years, moreover,
substantial reforms have been initiated, giving the people
control over their own destinies, allowing a fair distribution
of internal income and enabling the country’s wealth to be
exploited in the national interest and for the common
good. This reality cannot be destroyed either by scheming
guerrillas, by urban terrorism or by the preaching of hatred
and anarchy.

23. In concluding this statement I should not wish to leave
an impression of scepticism. I believe that it is everyone
duty to strengthen our will to act and to work unceasingly
for the ideals that inspire and motivate the United Nations.
It has been suggested recently that the time has come to
revise the Charter, perhaps with the idea that the years that
have passed since the San Francisco Conference have
brought fundamental changes in the international order.
This is not a crisis of principles, however, but rather one of
action. It is clear that the Charter sums up the aspirations
that history and civilization have succeeded in defining and
formulating for the welfare of man and the progress of
peoples. All that is lacking is the will to live in peace and
freedom, to practice tolerance, to uphold justice and to
respect the worth of the human person.

24. Bolivia believes in these principles and is convinced
that, through them, understanding and co-operation among
nations will become a reality filled with promise.

===== Session 25 - 1970 =====
135.	  I wish to congratulate the President on his well-deserved election. His personal qualities and the noble tradition of service to the fundamental values of mankind and peace which are the characteristic of the Norwegian Government give him ample claim to preside over this Assembly of the peoples of the world.
136.	I wish also to congratulate Mrs. Angie Brooks Randolph, who ably directed the work of the twenty- fourth session.
137.	To SecretaryGeneral U Thant I wish to convey again the cordial greetings of my Government. His concern and exemplary dedication to the cause of the United Nations have earned our gratitude and satisfaction.
138.	Also I should like to pay a tribute to the founders of this Organization, which was established twenty-five years ago to strengthen unity and understanding among men. We express our gratitude and admiration to those who fought and died in two world wars defending the right of peoples to live free from oppression, fear and want; to the statesmen who drafted and signed the Charter of the United Nations; to the intellectuals, scientists, soldiers, workers and peasants who supported and made possible the existence of this forum; and to those who continue working, fighting and sacrificing their lives to ensure that peace, justice and progress for men and nations may become a fruitful reality in every comer of the earth.
139.	The Revolutionary Government of my country conveys to the Members of this Assembly, through me, this message of friendship which, in the first instance, constitutes an act of faith in the United Nations. In this connexion I may say that, like other nations, Bolivia believes in international peace and security; we believe in the principles of coexistence and cooperation; and we believe that the still undeveloped nations will obtain justice and progress through the exercise of self-determination and respect for the sovereign equality of States.
140.	We have faith in the intelligence, the creative capacity and the peaceful vocation of mankind; we restate our belief in the vast potential which joint actions by Governments can open up for the future. We affirm our belief in the future of the young nations, in their ability to unite effectively in the effort to transform international society, to overcome conditions of oppression, poverty and dependence which are characteristic of the present age and to decide on the emergence of a world in which mutual respect, harmony and interdependence will constitute the basis of international coexistence.
141.	The Government that I have the honor to represent assumed office on 26 September 1969. The twelve months that have elapsed have been marked by the application of a clear national leftist program which advocates economic transformation, social justice and liberation, in the revolutionary sense, as regards its internal actions. Bolivia has proclaimed an independent foreign policy which, above and beyond considerations of ideological confrontation between East and West, makes it possible to open the door wide to all countries members of the international community and permits the closest solidarity with the interests and aspirations of the peoples of the third world. Thus our foreign policy is the decisive complement of our national effort to overcome structures that shape the system of dependence and presupposes broad popular participation.
142.	Just as the rate of economic and social change is closely linked to the degree of effective participation given to the people in the definition and application of development programs and the general policy of the country, the commitment and support of the people is an essential guarantee for national emancipation and for the fulfillment of the goals of our development strategy and of our foreign policy. In the light of the lessons of history, we see that the smaller States that do not have large armies and vast economic resources can rely for their security and progress only on the confidence and will for change that motivate their own peoples.
143.	Our international policy, therefore, expresses the position of the people of Bolivia, who are seeking the affirmation of their own personality. It is reflected in a frank, objective, friendly and constructive attitude; it does not conceal its positions, disguise its intentions or act by slogans or by preconceived notions; it looks at the realities and expresses its best will to participate in any initiative that will make it possible to ensure peaceful coexistence among the countries of the world. That is the approach that we hope will be reflected in a new diplomacy; it is the approach which the young generations expect of us.
144.	All the principles proclaimed by the United Nations Charter constitute the essence of the concept and practice of peaceful coexistence. It will be impossible for States to ensure harmony and coexistence unless they respect the territorial integrity of other States, unless they refrain from intervening in the internal affairs of their neighbors, ignoring the sovereign equality of all, overlooking the right to self determination or disregarding their duties in respect of cooperation and international solidarity.
145.	However, by definition coexistence fundamentally presupposes pluralism. Those who try to make the world uniform under a single religion, a single way of life, a common ideology or identical cultural values are mistaken. We proclaim the right of peoples to affirm their particular national characteristics and their own form of development, to utilize their natural resources, to trade and sail the high seas freely, to define their foreign policy and establish their institutions in accordance with their internal requirements. The only possible limitation is respect for the right of other States and for human freedoms. Coexistence inevitably is based on diversity; it should be' guaranteed and observed at the world and at the regional level, in the United Nations and in the Organization of American States, in Europe, Asia and Africa in other words, wherever more than one organized society exists.
146.	"Unity in diversity", which was the theme of the last meeting of nonaligned countries in Lusaka, sums up very succinctly the concept that I have set forth.
147.	Convinced as we are of the contribution that an effort at mutual understanding among peoples can mean towards achieving this spiritual disarmament that we long for, we entertain the most cordial diplomatic relations with the United States Government and with the Soviet Government. The traditional links which tie us to Latin America and numerous countries of Europe are now extended to the socialist world and to the new States emerging throughout the world. As part of this policy of opening the way to new horizons, we seek to win friends, to eliminate ideological barriers in international relations, to open channels for discussion and brotherly cooperation and to make possible new formulas of mutual cooperation.
148.	The friendly attitude that we have adopted towards all the States of the world asks in turn only a recognition of our own right to self-determination and compliance with the principle of nonintervention. The reasons are clear, inasmuch as the recognition of States and Governments, leaping over the barriers of the cold war, constitutes an un-renunciable sovereign right which we are not prepared to cede or to make conditional upon the will of third parties. It will be applied when we consider that it suits our own national interests.
149.	Like all other delegations here, we are concerned about the problems of world security. They are of special concern to us because of the peaceful tradition of Bolivia and because our country, like many others, has never attacked anyone. We can affirm with legitimate pride that not a single inch of Bolivian territory was won in an international war.
150.	Therefore, when the question arises as to which are the peace-loving nations, we can answer clearly that peace is endangered by those that stockpile arms, those that place imperialist and colonialist interests above the common advantage of the international community, those that flout the declarations and resolutions of the United Nations and its organs, those that exploit, invade and pillage other countries, those that refuse to recognize the right of others to freedom, equality and economic development.
151.	It has been said that it is illusory to think that world peace depends on the United Nations and that, on the contrary, the Organization depends on peace between the world Powers. We do not share that opinion and we admire everything that the United Nations has done to avoid war.
152.	However, we recognize the need to ensure through a process of democratization of international relations that the influence of smaller and medium States is really effective in the decisions affecting mankind. The developing countries cannot confine themselves to playing the role of instruments for preserving the interests of the super-Powers. Bolivia is not nor does it desire to be an aligned country or a country that is a satellite of any of the superPowers.
153.	Probably the greatest risk to the United Nations now lies not in the danger that it might cease to exist, but rather that through its exclusion from political decisions, it would end by becoming converted into a technically useful but politically innocuous organization.
154.	The world will not accept a pax romana, understood to mean order imposed by the powerful. At this juncture of civilization the international community has sufficient means available to it to solve large and small conflicts. It is only necessary to adopt the effective measures that are spelled out in the Charter, to prevent and eliminate threats to the peace and to repress acts of aggression or other breaches of the peace. It is also necessary that States should take the decisions and assume responsibilities incumbent upon them. How much more reasonable the world would be if only the principles of the Charter were complied with.
155.	With respect to the future of the United Nations  and we are now celebrating its twenty-fifth anniversary we should take timely care to ensure that this Organization does not meet the fate of the defunct League of Nations. In the case of the League, "the triumphs went unnoticed while its failures were publicized in resounding terms". We still have time to adapt this Organization to the needs of contemporary international life. Moreover, we should not forget the telling lessons of the past: just as the non-participation of the United States in the Covenant of the League of Nations constituted its fundamental weakness, so the absence of important States divests these deliberations of universality.
156.	In the face of a specific situation recognized by a large number of countries, we must apply the rule of universality. Otherwise the United Nations will end by converting itself into a limited association. As we understand this principle, we cannot support an exclusive position which would claim to set aside any State whose existence is an unquestioned reality. This argument is valid in all cases. Accordingly, the President of my country, General Alfredo Ovando Candia, recently stated in respect of one of these States in clear and categorical terms that within the framework of his international policy, Bolivia would like to see represented in this Organization both the Republic of China, a country with which we maintain traditional diplomatic relations, and the People's Republic of China.
157.	We are well aware of the difficulties inherent in this position, but we are more concerned about the consequences that may flow from the fact that a large proportion of the world's population is absent from the United Nations and does not share the obligations of the Charter.
158.	On previous occasions we have stated that our delegation vehemently condemns the survival of colonial regimes and the emergence of a system of neocolonialism problems which are worsened by the maintenance of situations of racial discrimination and the flouting of human dignity. Unfortunately, it would appear that the declarations and resolutions adopted to overcome these situations prove ineffective in the face of the lack of understanding of Governments determined to retard the course of history and persist in an attitude of continuing violation of the fundamental principles of the Charter. However, we are encouraged to learn that the developing awareness of mankind of such serious problems and the desire of the colonial peoples to emancipate themselves will in the long run, finally, overcome this deplorable situation. In this same connexion the struggle of the African peoples has been exemplary and commands general admiration.
159.	The evils that colonialism afflicts on countries are serious indeed. Not only does it destroy their population and their economy, but in addition it distorts the historical process of countries in such a way that even after the lapse of many' years, the damages inflicted are difficult to repair. The conflict in the Middle East is one of the worst legacies of a similar past. Accordingly, we are sure that the problems that we solve in our time are the evils that we will be sparing future generations.
160.	Bolivia has always refused to recognize the legality of territorial conquests achieved by force. We have not changed this position of principle. Neither have we changed the criterion that we adduced in 1947 when we supported the creation of a new State in the Middle East. If conquest and victory do not justify or consolidate rights, much less can they justify situations of injustice for the original population of a territory. All peoples, large and small, should have an equal opportunity to organize their societies and live in peace with their neighbors. Accordingly, any steps originating in the United Nations, or any action of Governments of goodwill, which are designed to find an adequate solution, will receive our support and certainly that of the majority of the international community. We express the hope that the final outcome of these events will bring peace to this region in turmoil.
161.	The questions that the great Powers left unsolved at the end of the Second World War the sequel of the cold war and the division of the world into areas of influence are also difficult.
162.	However, in the midst of uncertainty, we are pleased to note as a positive step the Treaty recently signed between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Soviet Union. Humanity will receive with relief the announcement of similar agreements between Eastern and Western States which, although having different political and social systems, are trying to live together in peace through dialog and recognition of indisputable realities.
163.	The anguish and the worries confronting the world continue. The events which have been occurring for the past years in SouthEast Asia constitute another dramatic and disquieting issue. A people which, like every other people, aspires to live in peace is suffering the consequences of the universal confrontation of our age. Although total war has so far been averted, armed conflicts localized in various regions clearly endanger world security and call into question the ability of the international Organization and the great Powers to ensure peaceful coexistence. Unquestionably, one of the reasons for the dissatisfaction and the revolt of the younger generations throughout the world stems from the fact that it is impossible to explain events such as those which are occurring daily in VietNam. The repeated demonstration of the useless waste of life and material resources cannot fail to cause demoralization, impotence and frustration, not to say desperate reactions, that would seem to find their justification in these facts. To put an end to such a serious problem, as part of the contest of confrontation, the parties most directly concerned must devote their greatest efforts to the task of reconstruction and development in these regions which, instead of being the testing grounds for war, should be the arenas of constructive and helpful competition.The point of departure in such an undertaking would, of necessity, have to be the recognition of the right of these people to self-determination. Otherwise we would see fulfilled the old proclamation of the prophet Isaiah, who asserted "the ambassadors of peace shall weep bitterly".
164.	I do not believe that the failure to consider or even to refer to the delicate problems of the international community contributes to the finding of adequate solutions to those problems. Nor will the mere passage of time help to solve these problems. We are fully aware that these are burning and difficult issues and that, accordingly, they generate contrary reactions. We are convinced, however, that in presenting our own positions in a fair and honest manner we will facilitate a better understanding among States. How much suffering could we have spared mankind if we had applied this simple idea. Moreover, a duty of friendship and solidarity that my Government has towards the other Members of this Organization compels me to be consistent with this principle. Public opinion in Bolivia knows that my words accurately reflect its convictions and feelings.
165.	The fact of pinpointing questions that are awaiting solution can never be interpreted as a denial of the important progress and victories achieved by our Organization for the common good. The United Nations has contributed significantly to the development of international law, to the rendering of invaluable services designed to combat disease and hunger and to promote culture and education, to bring about a better understanding of social problems, to ensure specialized administrative cooperation, to render technical assistance and to confront the complicated problems of international trade and development. But, above all, the United Nations has avoided total war for a quarter of a century. We feel a sense of satisfaction for such contributions and we express our gratitude to and recognition of the help of the States, the institutions and the men who have made this possible.
166.	One of the most important records that the United Nations will leave for posterity is the invaluable legal structure set up to deal with a wide variety of concepts. Starting with the Charter of the United Nations, the treaties and other agreements worked out within the framework of the Organization lay down rules governing ever-wider aspects of international relations. My Government has approved many of those conventions, and in the next few days I shall have the pleasure of depositing personally new instruments of ratification.
167.	Among the questions that the Assembly will take up this year, we are particularly interested in the question of reserving the seabed and the ocean floor, and the subsoil thereof beyond the limits of national jurisdiction exclusively for peaceful purposes. It is already universally recognized that those resources are the common heritage of mankind and that they constitute a valuable resource which must be preserved and exploited rationally for the common good. The practices of depletion and waste which darken the history of the exploitation of natural resources in general should not be repeated in the rich regions of the seabed.
168.	In defining the legal scope of this question, it is essential to guarantee both this general interest as well as the legitimate rights of the riparian States. In the same fashion it would be impossible to ignore the special position of those countries which, for one reason or another, have no coastline of their own and which make up one quarter of the Members of this Organization, approximately one half of them being developing countries. A special meeting of the landlocked countries to examine those matters would help to find adequate forms of solution.
169.	Bolivia is prepared to continue rendering its fullest cooperation to the perfecting of the basic principles which will prevail in this field. In addition, we should like to offer our support to the concepts supported by the majority of the developing countries. To do so, we ask only that future exploitation and utilization of the resources of the seabed and the ocean floor should substantially alleviate the restriction imposed upon a country which cannot count on the benefits deriving from an independent coastal area of its own. This will also require the perfecting of a system of free access to the sea, including the possibility of building the necessary means of communication by agreement with the riparian countries, in order to make this right effective and to enable those countries to participate in the preferential development of the area in quantitative and qualitative terms as is the rightful due of those countries that are placed in an inferior position because they have no coastline of their own. When this item is taken up in the First Committee, my delegation will speak again on the point in greater detail.
170.	On many occasions in the past we have said that the Bolivian aspiration to have sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean is unwavering and independent of the foregoing proposals. In restating this position, the President of Bolivia, General Alfredo Ovando Candia, further stated that he is prepared to engage in a frank conversation which would lead to an honorable and constructive understanding with the Republic of Chile, considering the reciprocal interests of both countries, that would make possible the solution of the old problem which divides us and so pave the way for a new stage of friendship and cooperation. An agreement along those lines would prove the best step forward in the cause of Latin American unity, a magnificent contribution to coexistence and an example of international understanding.
171.	The third world, which is the world of the poor countries, is going through the adventure of independence and freedom. But, paradoxically, at times and in circumstances in which foreign contribution to the development of those countries should be more effective, it is discouraging to note that the first Development Decade has not satisfied either the aims or the expectations of the peoples. By comparison we can affirm that the past decade represents to the world what at the regional level the alliance for progress has meant to Latin America.
172.	It would be naive to claim that any country should sacrifice its national interests on the altar of international cooperation. It is certainly by no means a question of demanding anything that is not in the common interest. We only hope that people will understand that poverty in two thirds of the world is of concern above all to the prosperous countries, which .should realize that their comfortable existence cannot be permanent in a world beset by dissatisfaction.
173.	Obviously, the developed countries have encountered particularly acute difficulties in the period that is just coming to a close. None the less, history
and economic science show that societies will never be completely free of problems. If compliance with the duties of solidarity had to be delayed pending the advent of exceedingly favorable and lasting economic cycles in the developed countries, no cooperation would ever actually come about. Just as the European reconstruction program was carried out under the most adverse conditions for victor and vanquished in the Second World War and yet achieved complete success, so we can assure the Assembly that the tensions of the present world do not allow us to wait until there has been a total and perfect adjustment of the domestic situation of the countries which are duty bound to cooperate in this task. The complicated internal situations that face them are, in many cases, closely linked to the serious deterioration of the world's economy and will find simultaneous solutions only within the framework of a global strategy.
174.	Probably an inadequate understanding of the meaning and scope of the concept of international cooperation has helped to cause the past decade to fail. For some time cooperation has ceased to be an expression of charity or philanthropy. Apart from the aspects that are linked to debts of justice and reparations for the distortions originating from colonialism and the defective structure of world trade, international assistance is, in the terms of the Charter, in the nature of an inescapable legal obligation. It also constitutes an inherent right of the developing countries. And, lastly, it is a necessity in a life of international relationships and a basic prerequisite for safeguarding the necessary interdependence which world peace requires. In preparing the strategy for the Second Development Decade, the United Nations will have to think about the general theoretical framework and clearly lay down the reciprocal rights and duties, the commitments that will be assumed, the timetable to be followed, and will have categorically to affirm the will to change the painful present realities by a systematic long range effort.
175.	A special analysis should be made of the situation of the lesser developed countries in the whole group of developing countries. They are the opposite pole of the opulent consumer societies that accumulate the wealth of the world. There, the principal social tensions are concentrated and, therefore, there lie the greatest potential threats to peace and security. In these regions, more than anywhere else, we find lacking the postulates of justice and progress which constitute the motto of this anniversary year.
176.	The granting of large scale credits on terms in inverse proportion to the degree of development would help to bring about their capitalization. The immediate opening of markets for their exports would relieve the throttling of their foreign trade. Energetic action designed to correct social and geographic inequities would step up their progress.
177.	Many of the fundamental ideas on economic relations have repeatedly been set forth. They can be found in the agreements and resolutions of the United Nations Trade and Development Conferences. The Group of
Seventy-Seven summed up its aspirations in the Algiers Charter, and Latin America did the same in the consensus of Viña del Mar. Now, the important thing is to admit that this does not involve a group of isolated and fortuitous measures, but, rather, a coherent, long range program, destined substantially to change the forms of cooperation and trade.
178.	It is no longer possible to accept the contradiction inherent in the transfer of limited financial resources on the one hand, with on the other hand the impatient, not to say overhasty, recovery of capital and dividends, which have not had the necessary time to achieve their initial development goals.
179.	Certainly, private foreign investment does not represent a generous contribution. It is useful when it promotes industrialization and when it is adapted to local development plans. But we should not forget that, primarily, we are talking about a business which, like all others, must cope with the contingencies inherent in businesses of its kind, without hoping for privileged treatment that would nullify the interest to be derived by the recipient country. The ideal social and political climate, which has so often been called for, can never be provided in societies that are afflicted by necessity.
180.	Moreover, the process of recovery of natural resources in the strategic sectors of the economy is not only irreversible but, in addition, it forms a part, as has been said on some occasion, of the recognized rules of the game. Obviously, the format will be different, depending on circumstances.
181.	It has been stressed that the ties on foreign loans should be eliminated to make it possible to use these monies in accordance with the best choices open. Some progress has been made but it is necessary to go even further. Other ties of apolitical nature still persist and in this case, as in previous cases, I am not referring only to the United States of America which indirectly confine the area of decision open to the countries receiving this assistance. It is to a certain extent understandable that the policy of cooperation should be linked to national objectives of the countries providing the cooperation. But such ties are sometimes so rigid that they prevent countries from taking advantage of other equally interesting, financial, technological and commercial opportunities.
182.	Lastly, it is high time to provide a solution to the long-studied question of stable remunerative prices for basic resources.
183.	There can be true cooperation only in the exercise of an authentic independent foreign policy, for otherwise cooperation would prove to be the result of a situation stemming from subordination, servitude or dependence.
184.	And as an expression of the height of absurdity, the old technology of the Egyptian plough, of vehicles drawn by animals, the sailing vessels and the watermill, continues to be the basis of the economy of three quarters of the earth. And not because these peoples are devoid of talent, but, rather, because they were deprived of access to modern life. Here we find a new and fertile field for the United Nations: to awaken the dormant energy of peoples and launch them upon the adventure of thought, science and self-transformation.
185.	In the effort to promote progress, cooperation among the developing countries will play a primary role. The expansion of markets, the broadening of cultural horizons, better opportunities for technological research, and, finally, the exchange of people, ideas and goods, will promote solidarity and strengthen economies. In this connexion we have vigorously supported the process of Latin American integration at the regional and subregional level, and we trust that these efforts will meet with success.
186.	All that has just been said does not, of course, mean we fail to recognize that the primary responsibility for development devolves upon the parties directly concerned and, above all, on their leaders, which in any event presupposes that the necessary changes will be introduced to ensure social mobility and a better distribution of income. It is not a question of transferring our own obligations to a third party, but, rather, of creating a common undertaking of general interest for the benefit of all mankind.
187.	Recalling past errors and events of the relatively recent past, in which the will of the stronger knew no limitations and was subject to no rules of any kind, we can realize that time has not passed in vain for the United Nations. It is true that the present imperfections are many and that the path ahead is very long indeed. However, a universal awareness of common values has matured, which undoubtedly will off set and moderate the excesses of power politics. This may well be the most important task achieved by this Organization. Because of this mission fulfilled, we joy fully welcome the celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary.
188.	The achievement of the commitments of today is projected into the future. Therefore, it will be up to the coming generations to assume with serenity the resultant responsibilities and to build a society where peace, justice and progress will become an obvious reality.
189.	Youthful expressions of dissatisfaction and protest, which are the reflection of a dehumanized world, will acquire a constructive and creative physiognomy at the dawn of the new history to which we aspire for all peoples: a true and completely human history.


===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
50.	 Mr. President, I take pleasure in congratulating you upon your well-deserved election to the presidency of this Assembly, and I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Edvard Hambro upon his successful tenure of office at the previous session.
51.	To U Thant, on behalf of the Government of Bolivia, I should like to express our sincere appreciation; he has earned the confidence of many nations during his long tenure of office, in which the destiny of humanity has wavered between uncertainty and hope, and he has measured up to his task.
52.	My welcome goes to the young countries of Bhutan, Bahrain and Qatar on their democratic entry into the United Nations. They will surely contribute to our cause with their force of spirit and their creative energies.
53.	I bring to this Assembly a message from a country situated in the centre of South America, from a people great in terms of its virtues and sacrifices, a people which has been able to overcome, worthily, many misfortunes and from a nation which emerged at the dawn of time with the appearance of our original races and which married the Spanish conqueror and then gave birth to the Republic. That was a social compact to which we in Bolivia pay homage and because of which we cannot strike out about 500 years of history; we can deny neither the motherland of Spain nor the motherland of our own native soil, which brought us their faith, their beliefs, their traditions, their culture and their languages in harmonious combination, making of the New World, together with its prodigious natural wealth, the hope of the human race.
54.	My country has undertaken structural changes, from 1952 on, in order to liberate the common people from feudalism and to attenuate the rigors of plutocratic exploitation. The dispossessed of the countryside have ceased to be slaves and the tin which brings income into our Treasury no longer benefits its former possessors. Such are the virtues of the agrarian reform and the nationalization r T mines.
55.	Petroleum, gas, zinc, gold, timber, sources of water- all our natural resources form part of the heritage of the nation. In my country it is no longer possible for an economic super-State to arise which would challenge the State itself.
56.	Revolution is proceeding now in Bolivia on the basis of a unanimous consensus and long the glorious path of full nationalism. It will always be welcome in America, as elsewhere, so long as it preserves its autonomy and the hallmark of genuine authenticity. When the revolution tries to transfer its own sovereignty it becomes anti-national and hence anti-American.
Mr. Molina (Costa Rica), Vice-President, took the Chair.
57.	This is precisely what happened in Bolivia under the former administration, which relinquished control of events to outside influences and permitted itself to pervert freedom and to prostitute justice and to cover up political crimes, to make the law its tool, to disregard institutions and deny democracy. All this was done to replace the national sovereignty with another sovereignty and to raise up petulant popular assemblies which were made up of false  representatives appointed arbitrarily, and was done by setting up irregular courts designed to imprison free citizens and to consign the opposition to the firing squad, all of which was openly avowed with unwonted arrogance.
58.	We are all aware of the principles of America which proclaim justice, which we all admit and we are all accustomed to defend with a certain readiness and boldness. But no one can ignore that these also compel the countries of America to preserve human and civil rights, to preserve their independence in the face of all forms of
outside interference in their internal decisions, and to repel jointly any kind of aggression.
59.	Yes, we have been able to carry out this sacred task imposed upon us by the revolution and the free and civilized conscience of America.
60.	In order to save the freedom of our country, which was on the point of being alienated by outside forces, in our policy we have applied the maxim of "help yourself.
61.	In order to obtain this, Bolivians have been inspired by lofty sentiments, as, for example, in Colombia where liberals and conservatives joined hands and forgot their old quarrels in order to serve their country better. Our two great rival parties, the Bolivian Socialist Falange and the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement, both with popular and nationalist roots, both equally pugnacious, have decided to join forces in the face of the danger threatening Bolivia. And this political instrument, forged with such detachment and grandeur, has served the armed forces of the nation to rise victoriously, hand in hand with the people and under the leadership of Hugo Banzer Suarez, leader of the Nationalist Popular Front, which governs my country.
62.	Contrary to false and self-interested versions alleging non-existent fascism and a reaction which no longer is active in Bolivia, the new Government is inspired by profound democratic faith and by the conviction that it is preferable to run the risks of liberty. As soon as the circumstances of the political crisis which now confront us have been overcome, the powers of the nation will be established through the free exercise of universal suffrage. Parallel to this psychological preparation of the Bolivian people for the ennobling exercise of the ballot box, we are seeking a beneficial counterweight to control of the public sector by the State through incentives to private initiative and proper guarantees for foreign investments. Bolivia is a country which requires capital for its development and needs currents of immigration which will help it to grow. Social achievements such as the trade-union movement and workers' movements are being maintained unchanged. National universities have been suspended until next March while we undertake their restructuring on a modern basis, as has been done in other American universities. The reforms of 1930 are outmoded, anachronistic and inadequate. These reforms did not include in higher learning the new disciplines which are indispensable in our day. Economic and social development, the investigation of local realities and the training of medium-level scientists and technicians were not part of its objectives. In order to bring up to date our institutions of higher learning what we will need are sustained efforts, apart from the necessary resources and technical assistance from international organizations.
63.	It is all very well to say that there exists a third world made up of developing nations or by nations considered to be backward and dependent, including Bolivia. My party, the Bolivian Socialist Falange, 30 years ago, at the end of the Second World War, spoke of a third point of the triangle, a third position distinct from the exploiting right and the anarchistic left. Today we are pleased to observe that our idea has been implanted democratically in the conscience of the countries which do not have the power of decision in world politics and need the understanding and solidarity of the strong and powerful States.
64.	In the process of development, of industrialization through international co-operation, the concept of a third world distinct from the major Powers in conflict is naturally proper. At a time of definitions, at the supreme moment when the destiny of man and the fate of nations will be at stake, among the opposed and hostile forces which "third worldism" presupposes, each country is faced with a critical choice. There is no room for neutrality in the great historical contests. ii sexual indeterminacy of certain species does not permit biological transformation neither can there be in social terms a fruitful conciliation of the neuter with well-defined and categorical characteristics.
65.	Quite a few members of the third world are considered to be non-aligned countries. This non-alignment is more apparent than real. listening with due attention to the magnificent speeches which have been made in this hall at this present twenty-sixth session, it has been possible to observe that the Governments of our respective countries are in fact clearly aligned in taking a stand on each of the great subjects which perturb mankind today, and, even in dealing with specific problems of each nation, we observe a well-defined position which indicates a certain philosophy and a camp in which action is taken. The results of the final votes will show us better than anything else that we are all aligned in one way or another.
66.	Some people involved in the atmosphere of "third worldism" have unfortunately been given to violence, to terrorism and to urban and rural guerrilla warfare. These people confuse the moral and the economic posture of the countries of the third world, a posture which should be understood in a constructive way with a facile and convenient appeal to subversion and disorder for criminal ends.
67.	Violence, and there is no way of denying it, is the great midwife of history. But violence is legitimate and proper when it is exercised by the weak against the strong, by the exploited against the exploiter, by slaves against their masters. Blind violence through motives of revenge or resentment or as reprisals for a defeat which ha. been sustained, or the expression of impotence with regard to fighting openly is reprehensible and cowardly and deserves the most energetic condemnation.
68.	A political doctrine which practices organized criminality and for this purpose resorts to anti-social elements is not of course something which reveals the virtue of its principles, but a diabolical spirit which is intrinsically anti-natural and perverse, that of the Cains who swarm over the face of the globe and who will never be able to raise the standard of human hope.
69.	Along with the terrorism which is practiced as a political system, we find this tendency to intervene in the internal policies of other countries. Bolivia has been a victim of this kind of foreign aggression with the guerrilla fighters in Nancahuazu. The death of their leader in La Higuera attests to the fact, and attests to the violence done to the American principles of self-determination and non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States.
70.	During the last attempt to "Viet-Namize" Bolivia, there was public incitement to revolt from foreign rostrums. Well-known guerrilla fighters from another country have made their headquarters in the Gabriel Rene Moreno University in the east of Bolivia.
71.	Our case is not an isolated one. Among other countries, Guatemala, as we have been told here by its Foreign Minister, has also "suffered from an intensive divisive campaign, inspired and supported from outside the country, which afflicted the country with ways of violence and subversion by extremists and clandestine factions". [1947th meeting, para. 92.] He concluded with the justified complaint that "the measures adopted [to prevent and punish acts of terrorism, kidnapping and violence] have not been as efficacious as we have hoped", a situation which, in his judgment, "threatens international peace and security" [ibid.].
72.	In the noble and democratic American community there is no place for ignoring anyone except States which exclude themselves by their own actions in promoting, in defiant ways, the undermining of public order in other countries. The right to the recognition of one's own personality begins with respect for the free determination of other peoples and the right to govern themselves in conformity with their own will.
73.	That the leaders of independence of America intervened in our countries is not historically true, nor does it. fit the present situation. Bolivar and Sucre, San Martin and Artigas, just to mention four of our distinguished liberators, belonged to one and the same country, which was able to preserve its unity but which, for the good or ill of our continent, split up into various countries. These republics today constitute different countries which have agreed in embracing certain principles and whose violation is a grave condemnation of the country which commits them.
74.	Happily, the United. Nations cultivates the same extremely noble and basic ideals as America and is determined to preserve human freedom, the security of nations and universal peace. Within its competence also we find the promotion not only of economic development but also of social development of countries struggling with an overwhelming scarcity of resources due to their situation of producing only one product, countries which are lashed by the scourge of evils ., r k .i sow fear and give us this lack of confidence in the fut /a.
75.	No less important and significant is the task which the United Nations has assumed of stimulating the processes of integration. This phenomenon, which is characteristic of the time in which we live, is due to the growing interrelationship between States and a growing interdependence which requires dialog and a positive policy of international co-operation. There are attempts to integrate in Europe as well as in Asia, Africa, Oceania and America.
76.	In South America there is a problem which affects Bolivia and Chile and which has effects also on the policy for development and integration of the Andean Group. The land-locked situation of my country is well-known, as well as its historical background, so that it would be redundant for me to dwell upon this. It would be better to approach this question in the light of the integrationist thought which concerns us all in more or less degree in accordance with the standing of our countries and the nature of the problem.
77.	Chile is facing a difficulty that has its origins in the capricious insular nature of its territory, which is isolated from the continent by the Andes. With a coastline of more than 4,000 kilometers it has a reduced territorial mass and its extensive northern area is desert. That is why it is interested in geographical factors which Bolivia might offer to it in guaranteeing not only the security but also the flourishing of regions which lack natural resources. The fresh water of the cordillera, the petroleum of the eastern part of Bolivia, the flow of trade in the departments of Oruro, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz, are "non-territorial compensations" which their statesmen and strategists have been thinking about since 1930.
78.	Bolivia, on the other hand, is an enormous continental mass of more than a million square kilometers, an area which is greater than Chile, without a single centimeter of coast on the Pacific. It is obvious that a country with such an unusual geography must seek out its own supplementary maritime facilities.
79.	It would seem that Chile had found the means for solving this difficult situation in its provinces in the north by means of integration with Bolivia through the Andean Group. Possibly it thinks that this is a way to help it to achieve its objectives. Bolivia, on the other hand, by integration merely through the ways of development which it has been using, will not be able to satisfy its urgent need for rounding out its development through a sovereign access to the sea. The principal leaders of the Andean Group have a very heavy historical responsibility which is related to the future of our sub-region and the peace of the southern part of the continent.
80.	Furthermore, as fax as Bolivians are concerned, our incorporation in the western ocean is more pressing since the sea is considered now to be an inexhaustible emporium of food reserves and of staggering natural resources. This wealth is even more abundant since the territorial sea has been expanding to a width of 200 miles and the world is also beginning to legislate concerning the sea-bed as a common and universal dominion.
81.	Making this approach more specific, we can say that the sea for Bolivia and the non-territorial geographical factors for Chile, will make it possible for the Andean Group to bring its far-seeing policy of integration to its fullest and happiest conclusion.
82.	Next, I should like to express my concern about the stability of the United Nations; in other words, the life itself of the Organization. This stability rests fundamentally on the prestige which the Organization can achieve, based on its fidelity to principles which it has proclaimed and the unswerving correctness of its conduct and the efficacy of its decisions.
83.	Once the prestige of the League of Nations was compromised, the League came to an end without sorrow or glory. As a healthful exercise, let us refer to some of the efforts which contributed to that dissolution. In that way we will see to it that the United Nations, which raises greater hopes, in spite of the skepticism of some of its Members, is able to meet its grave historical responsibilities.
84.	One of the faults of the League of Nations was the withdrawal of the United States from it, after it had sponsored its creation in the Treaty of Versailles. This event came on top of the previous isolation of Germany and Russia, which were the big Powers of the time. Today the United Nations counts on the active participation of the United States and the Soviet Union, as well as new Powers, although others of undisputed importance are being ignored.
85.	One thing which weakened the League of Nations morally was the institution of an International Court of Justice which could apply an optional arbitration without mandatory force. This implied an abandonment to the stronger countries of the solution of conflicts between the weaker countries, since the former did not have to use the arbitration of the Court. In our Organization some of this is occurring on some levels and it is endangering its effectiveness.
86.	Universal disarmament, in order to achieve peace, stumbled over insuperable obstacles in the League of Nations and its results, of course, could not prevent countries from arming themselves and from preparing a new war. Uien we spoke simply of the "manufacture of arms and munitions" and the "reduction of arms". Our generation is alarmed to see the production of nuclear weapons and the massive destructive power which they have. To limit and to dismantle this apocalyptic race towards a catastrophic extermination of men and nations is an unavoidable duty which cannot be escaped by the prominent Members of the United Nations.
87.	The Foreign Minister of Peru referred [1947th meeting] in detail to the risks of pollution of the atmosphere and the waters of the seas as well as the insecurity which is involved in atomic tests. In so doing, he was wise to emphasize the great urgency in adopting means to avoid proliferation of these deadly tests and in having an improved convention banning thermo-nuclear weapons. We might note, in this connexion, the reassuring words of the representative of France, a country which however is not the only one carrying out this research.
88.	Hie image of the League of Nations was affected also by the process which was followed in the admission and rejection of new States. Some were rejected, others were accepted, and this was based on discrimination which was often not well founded. The rejection of Armenia had special characteristics which we ought to recall.
89.	The case of Armenia was debated, and it was said that the League of Nations ought to support a new State whose existence was being threatened. All the members of the Assembly agreed that this step ought to be taken, but they fonH that the League did not have the weapons, armies or funds to do so. Later on, when the recognition of Armenia came up again, *he League of Nations, in a contradictory manner, decided to reject it, and in that way it wounded its own authority and prestige.
90.	In looking at this background we can see the negative influence which might be exercised in the United Nations if we are to accept and expel Members, to say that there is protection and not to bring about that protection because of insufficient means or operative inefficiency. That is why the Foreign Minister of Spain hit the mark when he said that the United Nations ought to find out whether constitutionally it is able to meet the challenges of the present time [1949th meeting para. 13].
91.	These references, as illustrative examples, strengthen our conviction in saying that the admission of the People's Republic of China ought to take place both in the Assembly and in the Security Council, and that the Republic of China ought to be kept in the Organization. There must be discretion in the acts of the United Nations if we are not to commit the mistake of harming its moral vigor and detracting from its political authority.
92.	Let us not regret the delay in the necessary incorporation of the People's Republic of China into this world Organization. The fact is that we are proposing it today as a matter of justice in the face of the principle of the universality of nations, which has been invoked by so many outstanding speakers and because of what might be called the doctrine of realities. Continental China is a country which cannot and should not be ignored because of the size of its territory, its enormous population, the strength and expansion of its economy and because it is an organized State. Bolivia is especially interested in speaking to China, about the production of antimony, wolfram and tin, and about the whole policy of prices.
93.	At the same time and using the same principles and reasons, we can in no way reconcile this with the expulsion of Nationalist China from this great amphitheater of peace, progress and solidarity of nations. A State which has 14 million people, a flourishing industry with exports of about $4,000 million a year, which is the same as the exports of the People's Republic of China, with a high cultural and technical level and which is in a position to give valuable assistance to other developing countries, cannot be refused, as Armenia was in the past, without the Organization compromising its serious purpose, and even less so now when the country involved has been one of its principal Members from the very outset.
94.	If, at the beginning, in the opinion of some, Formosa was a "fictitious State", at present the Republic of China shows the attributes of a modern State and is an example to others with its virtues of organization and its historic will to exist and to nourish lofty and constructive ideals.
95.	There might also be an impression that, if we were to abandon the island of Taiwan, there would be a hidden intent to allow that State to become the victim of the use of force. The reconquering of territories is a dangerous precedent which might be transformed into a terrible boomerang for the United Nations, some of whose Members might find themselves in similar situations. This risk flows from the words of one head of a delegation, when he said that Taiwan should be recognized as part of China and that representatives other than those of continental China should be expelled.
96.	With respect to the conflict in the Middle East, the framework of which is the Arab-Israeli conflict, this is a matter which should be duly sorted out and properly settled. Two principles should be pointed out here, the importance of which cannot be doubted by anyone and the rational application of which might lead to the result which we all desire. These are the principle of dialog, which is a worthy means of human understanding, and the principle of non-recognition of territorial acquisitions resulting from armed conflict.
97.	Both doctrines form a single whole for Bolivians. Direct conversation, enlightening dialog these are unchanging policies which Bolivia wishes to cultivate with Chile in solving its own problems and which it would like to see applied now in controversies such as the one which exists between the Arab States and Israel. The non- recognition of territorial annexations through the use of force has always been the key position of the Government of my country, and now we are pleased to hear this from the Minister for Foreign Affairs for Chile, when he says that Israeli troops should be withdrawn from the occupied territories and that any attempt to annex territories should be condemned, under Security Council resolution 242 (1967), which embodies this principle and which is to be found in international public law in Latin America as one of its guiding doctrinal concepts [1948th meeting, para. 168].
98.	No less censurable would be an attempt to bring about the destruction of Israel as a State. Even though Israel is a young State, it belongs to an old nation, whose origin goes back to biblical times and the beginning of man on earth. Israel in its short life as a modern State has astonished the whole world by its extraordinary capacity to organize itself, to preserve its independence and to advance resolutely forward along a broad road towards progress and the structuring of a just society, one which favors science, the arts and letters.
99.	To guarantee the security of Israel would seem to be just as important as to guarantee the territorial status of the Arab countries. Let reason and prudence, the mother of wisdom, and equity, upon which rests the theory of balances, of the "golden mean" spoken of by the ancients, let these, rather than tho clouded intellects and frustrated wills of sectarianism, say the last word in this controversy between nations worthy of admiration and respect.
100.	The armed struggle in Indo-China has not only become unpopular, as all wars do which become prolonged, but it has become a blind and irrational fact which is incomprehensible for most men. This conflict has incorporated a new term in the human lexicon the idea of "Viet-Namization" as the division of countries through ideological motivations. The threat of "Viet-Namizing" Bolivia or dividing it if necessary was made by a labor union leader from the grounds of our legislative palace which was converted into a sort of Paris commune, but not to bring about a revolution in favor of the Bolivians, as was carried out in France in favor of the French, a revolution which was made on the march, a nationalist, realistic and profound revolution, but one which -was intended to yoke the Bolivian State to foreign Powers, forgetting that America must become leader of its own destiny. The inclusion of the People's Republic of China in this Organization might constitute a decisive factor in favor of re-establishing peace in Viet-Nam. The present Government of the United States of America, in turn, with its comprehensive and constructive attitude, might win the palm of victory in this manner. It would be a victory for the cause of peace, which is so deeply yearned for by the long-suffering people of Indo-China, by United States citizens and by the citizens of the entire world.
101.	Among the main problems before the world is the question of the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic, into which the Third Reich was divided after the last war. In the territory of the old Germany, which was unified by the Iron Chancellor new European borders were laid out separating the leading Powers of the world. Some favor the admission of both Germanys as Member States of the United Nations. Actually, I would say that each Germany West Germany and East Germany deserves a seat in this great Assembly. We are pleased in this way to pay a tribute to a hard-working nation whose industry and human intelligence have contributed to progress and the ideological orientation of mankind.
102.	It would possibly be better to leave it up to the Germanys to settle their big problem now or in the future. No one could agree more than the Germans that they are a single nation which has been temporarily divided into two States because of transitory differences and that foreign interests have raised between them a wall of hateful connotations. This is a wall which, because of human comprehension and the transcendent unity of a people, will no doubt be demolished to give rise to an active and fruitful understanding which will prepare for the future the reunification of the German nation in a single State, with the democratic understanding of the great Powers.
103.	It would be premature to arrive at conclusions on the various items concerning the problems of the seas to be considered by the plenipotentiaries who will take part in the conference on the law of the sea to be held in 1973.
104.	In the broad field of the law of the sea, the problems of land-locked countries have relatively little meaning for the international community. Nevertheless, they take on vital characteristics when the interests of States lacking i sea coast are at stake, as in the case of Bolivia.
105.	Of course the right of free access to the sea is given to land-locked countries. In this connexion, I should like to point out that the improvement of this law, which is a matter of concern to my country, does not mean now, nor will it ever mean, giving up the rights that are helping it to hold its own sovereign rights in the seas of the world.
106.	There is another aspect which should be pointed out. The universality of the law for the use and the exploitation of the sea, which the twenty-fifth session of the General Assembly proclaimed in a solemn declaration of principles,  would be partial and incomplete if it were applied only to coastal States and if the legitimate rights and aspirations of land-locked countries were to be forgotten.
107.	The international community began to confirm and to codify in 1958 various principles relating to the right of access to the sea, in the Convention on the High Seas  as well as the Convention on the Transit Trade of LandLocked States.  In addition, there are hundreds of bilateral agreements in this field. This matter has been the subject of special studies carried out by the Secretary and by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development [UNCTADJ.
108.	As UNCTAD has quite correctly pointed out, landlocked status is one of the factors which ought to be taken into account in identifying the characteristics of countries having a relatively lower degree of development. It is obvious that, as is the case in the Andean Group, account should be taken of the fact that there are not only countries having a relatively lower degree of economic development but also land-locked countries that are less developed, and those countries ought to be accorded a doubly preferential treatment.
109.	In the organization of international machinery to administer the exploration and the exploitation of the resources of the sea-bed, consideration should be given to the fact that the recognition of preferential rights for coastal States over extensive areas adjacent to their coasts, would automatically transfer to land-locked States access rights to the deepest and most inaccessible ocean trenches, thus making such rights purely hypothetical ones. Such a situation would become even more absurd if it were established that land-locked countries have no right to the living resources even of the adjacent sea.
110.	At the end of this month and at the beginning of next month there will be a ministerial meeting, in Lima of representatives of the Group of 77 to prepare a joint plan of action to guide their deliberations during the third session of UNCTAD to be held next year in Santiago, Chile.
111.	Bolivia will be present at both meetings and will deal, with a special interest, with the important problems that concern the developing countries in their permanent relationship with the highly developed countries. I should add to this that Bolivia has complete solidarity with the views expressed by the Group of 77 in favor of co-operation for development, balanced and just international trade, the transfer of technology, special measures in favor of the relatively less developed countries and the special problems of land-locked countries, in order to comply with the objectives of the International Development Strategy of the Second United Nations Development Decade [resolution 2626 (XXV)].
112.	Without going into further analysis I wish to add at this point that Bolivia will give its support to improving regional organizations, the expansion of the number of members of the Economic and Social Council and, if necessary also to modifying some of the present characteristics of that body which do not correspond to the demands of our time and, finally, to examining closely the conditions for implementing the Second United Nations Development Decade.
113.	The Bolivian delegation has maintained and will continue to maintain its systematic and consistent attitude against all forms of colonialism and against racial and religious discrimination which are still afflicting various peoples of the world.
114.	Furthermore, my country reiterates its concern at the situation in Belize, the MaMnas and Gibraltar, which is of interest to Guatemala, Argentina and Spain and which endangers relations between those countries and the United Kingdom. The same thing can be said for the Canal Zone, whose recovery is being sought by Panama.
115.	Among the interesting matters before this body is the Convention of the Central American Community, which this Organization ought to welcome with great pleasure. This event shows us that Bolivar did not plant seeds in the desert. Bolivar's ideal for an American union, proclaimed in the amphictyonic Congress of Panama and in the Treaty of Confederation of 1848 in Lima, is being brought back to life and is gaining a new expression with the new Central American Community.
116.	Five nations of the same origin and the same destiny in the continent, tied by the same tradition and similar ideals, have manifested their desire to band together to create a Central American Community of Nations. Let us hope that such a generous effort will reach a definite crystallization for the good of America and the general fate of the world.
117.	In 1907, at the beginning of this century, an outstanding Brazilian jurist, Ruy Barbosa, the father of the Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil, defended in The Hague the principles of the juridical equality of States, which has become the corner-stone upon which this modern edifice of great international organizations has been raised. With the welcome passage of time, we now see the forming of a corollary doctrine, the idea of the economic equality of nations in international co-operation for development.
118.	The first thesis has led us to the concepts of regional and world security, as well as of the recognition of the rulers of self-determination and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States.
119.	This second thesis must lead us to the establishment of sure markets and stable prices for the raw materials of the developing countries. At the same time, it should make it necessary for us to safeguard freedom of trade and the stability of currencies.
120.	All that can be possible if we faithfully follow the international rules which we accepted and if, at the same time, we reject movements for hegemony in the eager search for a great universal concert of nations.
121.	Science, technology and the great processes of industrialization today should not be used for destruction and death. We are facing a great challenge to man: a new and great adventure for his intelligence. That will be what will make it possible for us to become aware of and to dominate the forces of nature in the service of mankind and not of war in order to bring about the miracle of the realization of our ardent desire for justice, progress, universal peace and a better knowledge of the mysteries which the universe holds.




===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
The presence of the illustrious economist and Polish diplomat and politician, Mr. Stanislaw Trepczynski presiding over the General Assembly of the United Nations is an open tribute to his outstanding ability and an implicit tribute to his great country. Poland, the land of heroes and artists, a nation of heroism and sacrifice, has always given us persons of great valor. We are sure that our President will guide the work of our Organization with the hand of a master.
137.	I also wish to take this opportunity to express to Mr. Adam Malik the appreciation of my delegation for the wise and correct way in which he presided over the twenty-sixth regular session of the General Assembly.
138.	On 1 January of this year, Mr. Kurt Waldheim replaced U Thant as Secretary-General of our Organization. UThant carried on his shoulders for many years the enormous responsibility as the executive and co-ordinating organ of the United Nations before relinquishing his post. The Bolivian delegation wishes to reiterate our tribute and admiration to the ex-Secretary-General, and we express our hopes for success to Mr. Waldheim, who has arrived at a moment of great concern, of grave risks, but also one of noble hopes and expectations. We trust that Providence will enlighten his mind and that the United Nations, under his administration, will regain the faith and confidence of the peoples of the world under a single ideal of peace and justice.
139.	A year ago when I first appeared before this great forum, in speaking of my country I was able to state:
"Revolution is proceeding now in Bolivia on the basis of a unanimous consensus and along the glorious path of full nationalism. It will always be welcome in America, as elsewhere, so long as it preserves its autonomy and the hallmark of genuine authenticity. When the revolution tries to transfer its own sovereignty it becomes anti-national and hence anti-American." [1957th meeting, para. 56.]
140.	Today, after a reasonable time has elapsed which has allowed us, as a dynamic young nation to get an over-all view and glimpse the main trends and goals, I can say now that the impression I had then, far from being lost or attenuated, has become clearer, and today the Government is supported by a great majority of the people, which is a source of great satisfaction to those of us who entered into a solemn commitment with history.
141.	Bolivia today is living through a glorious moment in its republican history, because it lives in peace and order, which are daily being strengthened, because it is based on the peaceful governing of the national life, on the rebirth of our institutions and on the moral and economic rehabilitation of the country after a number of years of turmoil and of anxiety.
142.	I expressed to this Assembly at that time my hope for the flowering of my country. At that time it was a certainty based on faith, on my knowledge as a fighting man and a man who knew my people well. But I was also encouraged because I shared the concerns and the dangers of a leader of outstanding virtues and patriotism, Colonel Hugo Banzer Suarez, who at that time was beginning his term of office. Today it is different. Intuition based on a sound approach to one's civic duties has given way to a conviction strengthened by what the nationalist regime has done for the people of Bolivia, and I am honored to represent that nationalist regime in this distinguished gathering today.
143.	I digress for a moment because I believe that the United Nations is not, nor can it be, disinterested in what happens among its Member States. In an organization of this nature I believe that there are no irrelevant problems, that mankind's destiny is a single one, and for those of us who compose the international community the hope and disappointments, successes and failures of any Member must affect all the Assembly, which is the home of all where both our joys and our sufferings must be heard.
144.	The main concern of the nationalist and popular regime of Bolivia has been to bring law and order to our society. We have guaranteed all forms of freedom, the only restrictions being those that flow from a need to maintain social peace and to fight against all terrorist tactics that had plunged the citizenry into a state of constant fear. Here the Government has been inflexible and severe but just, because the excesses that occurred during the two previous Governments took a heavy toll of innocent victims and brought the country to the brink of chaos.
145.	Due to the overweening arrogance of the extremist forces and the impotence of the authorities which were very often guilty of complicity, unprecedented crimes took place in Bolivia, including the cowardly crimes that caused victims among journalists, the assassination of the peasants' leaders, the trials of the combatants who were accused of desertion, and the kidnappings that, on the pretext of raising money for subversion, paved the way for a new form of extortion hitherto unknown in my country.
146.	The basic desire of my Government to encourage the rule of law and the unimpeachable majesty of the courts of justice led to the enactment of a new organic law of the judiciary. This body of law is based on a broad sense of humanism, and in accordance with the most modern of juridical techniques, gives added vigor to procedural and administrative acts for more speedy and just administration of justice.
147.	But we did not stop there. The Republic of Bolivar and Sucre was living under the ancient codes of the Napoleonic law proclaimed by Marshal Andres de Santa Cruz, whose name they bear. But in a spirit of juridical renaissance, President Banzer has just prepared the new books of law in Bolivia that will enable him to remain in office as a wise and intelligent leader.
148.	Another problem that we tackled with decision and courage, as well as with probity and patriotism, is that, of the reopening of the universities. The new statute of the Bolivian university was received with obvious enthusiasm, and it returns to the university its specific function to promote cultural growth and education. Without in any way impinging on the university's autonomy, in the true revolutionary and humanistic sense, but on the other hand, defending its authority and its right to disseminate ideas, the universities have resumed their specific activities in an atmosphere of security and with guarantees for all those who come to the classrooms with the sincere intention of receiving training in the arts and letters, in science and in technical fields. It is with great satisfaction that I can declare that we have restored to the university its high standing, and we are sure that, after the experience acquired in the recent past when it was turned into a terrorist arsenal and a laboratory for nefarious subversive practices, such shameful and criminal acts will never recur.
149.	I want clearly to state to this world-wide gathering, where the fate of man on earth is at issue, that in Bolivia we have the widest freedom of opinion. No one is persecuted for his ideas. Human intelligence is not imprisoned in dogmatic cells or sectarian molds. We prefer to run the risk of freedom of expression, the source of culture and the cradle of mankind's growing civilization. We firmly believe that economic and social development must be agreed to and shared and not the result of imposed decisions. Those who suffered sanctions did so not because they disagreed with the Government or because they professed one doctrine or another, but because of the degree of danger that they represented to the life of the nation.
150.	Thanks to the moral authority with which the Government is now acting, and its determination to defend peace and fraternity among Bolivians, my country has taken a stride forward in the material achievements leading to economic development.
151.	Here we might mention the completion of the oil pipeline that carries 150 million cubic feet of gas a day from the eastern part of Bolivia to Argentina. Because of the chauvinistic demagogy of the previous Government, this work had been long held up and the national economy seriously damaged.
152.	In the course of the year that has elapsed a number of estimates have been requested regarding wide-scale industrial projects, such as the oil plant in Villamontes, in the Department of Tarija, which calls for the sizable investment of $12 million.
153.	Another project under way is the construction of silos for grains that has recently been signed in the city of Santa Cruz with a very important and trustworthy Colombian firm. And thus our agricultural workers will have a modern system of storage for their products and enjoy better marketing conditions.
154.	We might also mention the volatilization plant that has been established in order to improve the grade of our minerals for export; this has been done with the efficient co-operation of the Soviet Union. The smelting plant of Vinto has been expanded with the technical and financial assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany. This will be a true liberation from the economic dependency which was keeping us in the position of a country that only produced raw materials.
155.	Quite apart from all this is the highway from Cochabamba to Villa Tunari and from Puerto Villarroel to Puerto Patino, roads known as 1 and 4, which, from primitive roads to the fertile area of the Chapare, have been converted into first-class paved roads. I am sure that they will very soon be a powerful factor in helping to promote national integration.
156.	The Abapo-Izozog project, designed immediately to irrigate 300,000 hectares, with this figure being raised soon to 2 million, has also been provided with considerable finances. Once this irrigation project is concluded, Bolivia will export products of the land and we shall carry out great settlement work and shall have sufficient foodstuffs. This will save currency, today being spent in the amount of $40 million a year, for the purchase of food.
157.	Hospitals, new roads linking zones and provinces that are today far removed from progress and the productive activity of the nation, public works of local progress, exploration of underground waters in the plateau for the purpose of irrigation, freezing plants, highways, mining camps and settlements, schools, the draining of rivers, national and international airports such as that of Viru-Viru, with an investment of more than $16 million, city halls, the paving of cities, the urbanization of rural areas these and many other works very difficult to list in a speech of this nature reflect the beneficent and progressive work of the State at present.
158.	I should like to give a brief outline of the important and significant contribution of private enterprise to the creative efforts of the Government. It has not been alien to the great changes going on. Indeed, it has shown great social awareness as well as a great sense of historic and patriotic responsibility. Without the assistance of private enterprise, it is obvious that national progress would limp along and would be unilateral and it would not be in keeping with a society that belongs to the Western world by its philosophy and its fundamental structures. In the area of cotton alone, despite difficult climatic and other conditions and adverse circumstances, employment and the volume exported this year lived up to what had been planned in March.
159.	We have increased capital and reinvestment as announced by the national bank and foreign banks, which provided financing in the amount of $12 million to the Mining Corporation of Bolivia, which is in charge of the nationalized mines.
160.	Eighty-two new large, medium, and small industries have been set up in my country. The National Institute of Investments is at present weighing 48 new projects with a total investment of $35 million. It is an organ to encourage new fields which offer opportunities for foreign capital and to guarantee its flow to the country.
161.	The spontaneous contribution of private industry of 10 per cent of its profits for the encouragement of new projects in a few months has provided considerable amounts of capital. The interest of investors from Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and other countries has been awakened, and we have thus set up bi-national companies for the development of certain industrial projects.
162.	These and other initiatives of the private sector in such a short time are already eloquent proof of the confidence that has been awakened in the minds of investors by the popular and nationalist regime directed by Colonel Banzer, with its sights set squarely on a great future for the Americas and the world.
163.	As my Government has carried out intensive work to ensure harmony in the Bolivian family and also to encourage development, we have not overlooked projecting Bolivia's image to the outside world. The President of the Bolivian people has made State visits to the leaders of Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay. At these interviews, which went beyond mere formalities, the most important aspects of bilateral relations were studied. Principles of an international nature were reaffirmed. Future action was projected, both in regional and subregional relations and with regard to our contribution to the maintenance of peace and the settlement of the grave problems that endanger our civilization.
164.	These bilateral relations at all diplomatic levels have been established with our continental and geographical neighbors. We do not carry out a policy of preferences but one of harmony, complementing the economies of the other Latin American countries. Thus, with Peru last year we submitted to the Inter-American Development Bank a request for credits to finance the paved road between Ilo and La Paz. With the Buenos Aires Government we agreed to carry on the construction of the road that links Bermejo with Tarija and Potosi. With the nationalist administration of Paraguay, led by General Alfredo Stroessner, we have agreed on the necessity of immediately completing the trans-Chaco road and linking it with the Bolivian roads of Santa Cruz and Sucre, which would bring the Pan-American highway and the marginal road of the forests to the capital of Asuncion, which presided over the task of opening up and settling the Rio de la Plata region in colonial times. At the same time, we have been pursuing a similar policy with Brazil, the country of Pedro II, Rio Branco and Ruy Barbosa. With that Government, we have planned to link up the eastern network of Bolivia with the western network, thereby joining Santa Cruz de la Sierra with the terminal point of the railroad of Cochabamba. This is an important undertaking for Bolivians, on which we base our policy of national unity and also our policy of promoting our development, a task that cannot be postponed any longer. Similarly, an undertaking of continental significance is the linking of our countries and also the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. It is an undertaking that has its important and transcendental counterpart in the railroad going from Santa Cruz to Trinidad in the north, which was carried out by Argentina and which will link the plateau with the Amazon, thus bringing a fertile land into international trade and joining peoples in the common task of working together for the future of the Americas.
165.	Yes, Bolivia located in the very heart of South America, will be criss-crossed by international traffic in the future and will provide shorter routes from the Strait of Magellan and the Panama Canal for certain countries.
166.	That is our function today and our destiny. We are the bridge between the coastal countries of our hemisphere, bringing new benefits to mankind. To fulfill this function and destiny, we count on the enlightened understanding of our neighbors and the forthright co-operation of their distinguished leaders.
167.	The visit to Bolivia of the Foreign Minister of Colombia, Mr. Alfredo Vasquez Carrizosa, opened up a new stage in the relations between my country and the country of Santander, whose armies covered themselves with glory in Junin and Ayacucho, consolidating the independence of upper Peru. That visit led to the creation of a joint commission to study trade relations between the two nations. There is also the forthcoming trip of the Foreign Minister of Ecuador, Mr. Lucio Paredes, to my country, which will link even more closely the peoples that saw the fame of Sucre in Pichincha and Potosi.
168.	A separate subject is the foreign policy of Bolivia vis-a-vis Chile. This year, in accordance with what was stated by me last year[1957th meeting], we have started an open dialog with representatives of the Government of the Palace of La Moneda by the establishment of a joint committee. It is by directly studying the factors of integration that Chile and Bolivia can unite, over and above whatever differences we may have, so that we may arrive at a policy of understanding. There are no insoluble problems or insurmountable differences. Reason, which persuades men and peoples, can lead us to modern and constructive ideas. Security does not lie in our own capacity to commit aggression or to defend ourselves, but in joining our efforts with those of others and putting together the resources we have. For all those reasons, I wish to express my hope here that through sound integrationist reasoning, within the framework of the Andean Pact, Bolivia and Chile will find a way to unite and build a better tomorrow.
169.	In times like these, characterized by the principle of universality, there can be no partisan or exclusionary positions. The La Paz Government, convinced of this, is cultivating relations with all those countries that express a desire therefor. We are closely tied diplomatically and commercially to the members of the capitalist as well as the socialist communities. A number of cultural agreements and agreements of technical assistance and scientific cooperation and exchange are eloquent proof of this and they represent what we trust is a far-sighted policy.
170.	This conduct in no way jeopardizes our doctrines. Today the peoples of the world cannot ignore one another for we all need one another. Man has awakened to a new era in which he has decided to improve his future and widen his sphere of action in the universe. But to do this the combined efforts of all nations are necessary. The struggle to conquer outer space has confronted ih with a new reality, and that is that our limited frontiers are narrow and egotistical. We can no longer say that our State is ours and concerns us alone. The commitment not to interfere in the affairs of other countries become today more understandable and categorical. We trust that all Governments will act accordingly and thus ensure fraternity throughout the world.
171.	In keeping with this universalist philosophy I must infer specifically to the relations which Bolivia would hope to establish with the prodigious constellations of countries of Africa that victoriously have entered the international community. It is an ancient world which appears new, a continent pillaged for centuries that is now emerging to civilization and culture with the formidable talent of a race that is equal to any and which in a very short time has given proof of such creative capacity. The African nations are beginning to be heard when great historic decisions are made and their importance will continue to increase. Therefore it is our duty to offer them cordial and fruitful ties of friendship.
172.	From this experience to which I have referred so briefly my Government has arrived at a very favorable conclusion as to the meaning of this international Organization. Its deficiencies are doubtless many. It may well be that it lacks sufficient decision-making power. But it is a positive fact that it exists and that in its short existence it has fostered the birth of many nations.
173.	This fully justifies the existence of the United Nations. It is an Organization that can not only bring together almost all of the nations of the world but constantly create new States in the everlasting struggle against colonialism It is a living, dynamic organization, in keeping with the aspirations and the desires of the peoples. The harmonization of the widely differing interests of Member States is indeed a complex undertaking. These are sovereign wills that should try to act in concert to maintain peace, but we must have faith that full knowledge of the risks of a modern war will permit the United Nations to strengthen itself as a universal parliament in which nations compare their interests and try to find harmonious positions in the interests of civilization.
174.	Bolivia was represented at the meetings of the third session of UNCTAD, at the Second Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77 in Lima, which preceded them and at the meetings of the non-aligned countries, to which we brought our sincere aspiration for political plurality in international relations, mutual respect and friendship for all the nations of the world and indefatigable defense of the self-determination of peoples and the rejection of any form of dependence.
175.	My country believes that we have fully carried out our obligations as a Member of the United Nations, because our presence in this building is a consequence not of fleeting circumstances but of profound democratic conviction.
176.	We believe that the Charter is a basic document for peace among peoples and for the rule of social justice, without hegemonies, without exclusive sectarianism, without unfounded privileges and based only on the law. If all the Members of this great conclave of nations were to proclaim our faith in the Charter, if we were all to combine to comply with the terms of the Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I believe that mankind would have gone far towards the achievement of permanent peace. Unfortunately that is not the case. We are still living in a dangerous period of armed peace, a peace based more on fear than on love.
177.	We have the Charter and we recognize that it is a most valuable instrument of understanding and harmony, but we lack the decision and the sincerity to comply with it in all its aspects instead of just when it is in line with our interests. The Charter must not become a mere expression of hope or of an unattainable Utopia. But that will depend not so much on the smaller nations as on those that have the resources of power; it will depend on the great Powers.
178.	My country, together with all the other countries of Latin America, has subscribed to and ratified the Treaty of Tlatelolco.  We, the Latin American nations, are still on the threshold of the atomic era. To a great extent that might appear to be one more disadvantage that separates us from the developed countries, but if we consider the substance of the problem we must agree that it is instead an advantage. We hope for and desire reactors and laboratories where we can take advantage of this marvelous source of energy for peaceful purposes while still preserving our geographical area from nuclear pollution. In this connexion our position is firm and determined and we supported Peru and other countries which expressed their justifiable fears a short while ago when France exploded nuclear devices over the Pacific.
179.	So far the Protocol to the Treaty of Tlatelolco has been acceded to only by the United States of America and the United Kingdom. My Government considers that the Latin American aspiration to isolate our geographical area from the dangers of radiation is perfectly justifiable. Therefore I would remind those countries which have added nuclear weapons to their arsenals that Latin America fervently desires to see the Treaty of Tlatelolco strengthened by the firm adherence of others.
180.	On the initiative of Ceylon and the United Republic of Tanzania the General Assembly last year declared the Indian Ocean a zone of peace [resolution 2832 (XXVI)]. My delegation believes that this felicitous idea should be applied to other seas and continents which have so far been spared the dangers of war. In this .way we should be preserving geographical sectors, and would thus be able to isolate areas of conflict so as to eliminate the germs that generate danger.
181.	Latin America, which gave proof of its peaceful spirit with the Treaty of Tlatelolco, would be very interested in a similar declaration regarding the Indo-American area.
182.	The history of the world could well be summed up in one phrase: man's struggle for freedom; for without freedom there is no dignity, since in indigence man can only be humiliated and not free. Man has always struggled for this inalienable right, which is just as much part of his vital needs as air, or bread, or water, and he has done so devotedly. As Jesus exalted the most humble and preached equality among men, so my country rebelled against the authoritarian Powers and liberated itself from a slavery which it could not bear. Thus we follow with great interest the process of independence in which many peoples of the world are involved. We are aware that misery and oppression spawn rebellion, but we consider rebellion to be the last stage in justified protest. If the dikes of prudence and fear are shattered and man engages in a heroic undertaking against his oppressors, he must meet them face to face. The struggle against misery is always unequal as far as means are concerned, but it is usually impelled by an ideal and the powerful stimulus that is given by the knowledge that the fight is in a just cause.
183.	But terrorism is not that. When you struggle for the rule of justice in the world it is neither lawful nor human nor acceptable, nor even tolerable, to compensate for the hunger for change by the sacrifice of innocent victims who have nothing to do with the maintenance of the situation that is being fought against. The greed for power very often hides in the most extreme tendencies. It seeks supporters among the disgruntled. Psychology is made to serve politics and becomes a very powerful weapon.
184.	In this international parliament I must speak sincerely and with vehemence against the use of these practices, which are an affront to our civilization. Today more than ever before the oppressed people have a rostrum here from which to denounce their oppressors. Each year, at each Assembly, we hear denunciations of abuses by the strong against the weak.
185.	This means that the peoples which struggle are not without means. The international community has not turned a deaf ear to their cries. Furthermore, there are always institutions, peoples and individuals ready to assist them to achieve the justice to which they aspire and are entitled. Therefore, we cannot complacently watch acts of insanity such as those that recently shocked the world, because the victims were not those who caused the sufferings but were merely the victims of an outpouring of irresponsible hatred.
186.	My Government believes that the United Nations should put an end to this new type of violence, particularly because it is premeditated, evil and destructive; it seeks its victims among those who have nothing to do with the problem, as though cruelty wished to drink the blood not only of its chosen victims, but also of humanity as a whole.
187.	I should like now to refer to the fight against pollution. At the recent United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, this problem was debated at length; but the problem calls also for some comments from us. We must recognize right away that the concern must be shared by all men. Its significance could be compared to the concern of an astronaut on this spaceship which we call earth. He, too, must worry about his environment, means of life and safety during this extraordinary adventure of life.
188.	We agree with principle 20 of the Declaration of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment. It is quite in keeping with the Declaration of Asuncion, approved on 3 June 1971 at the Fourth Conference of Foreign Ministers of the Plata Basin. In the matter of the utilization of international waters, the up-river countries must do whatever is necessary to meet their needs, with the sole condition of not causing tangible damage to the nations down-river. This principle, added to the principle of not changing the river bed from one geographical basin to another is a doctrinal concept that Bolivia has consistently supported, in keeping with universal principles of law and reason.
189.	Although there is a general trend today not to accept the creation of new international organs because of the burden they represent for Member States, we believe that the case for creating a small body to study the human environment is one worthy of applause. The suggestion by the United States has the widest support of my delegation since it fills a felt need.
190.	One final comment. With reference to the question of pollution, it is only natural that this "phenomenon alarms those countries suffering from it. We are speaking of the highly industrialized nations. But it is for us to tell then; that in the young and still unexplored continents of African and America there is sufficient green space, the necessary oxygen and it is neither rare nor contaminated. In our opulent land can be built new industries without endangering human health. Those industries, in the process of industrial de-concentration and promoting the development of the backward countries, could strengthen their economies and lessen the degree of their dependence.
191.	This does not mean that we are unaware of the situation of the countries and cities which suffer from the pollution of their environment. We are at one with them in their search for adequate solutions.
192.	From the very moment when, on the initiative of Malta, the question of the sea-bed and the ocean floor was raised in the United Nations, Bolivia has taken a great interest in that question. We were elected a member of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction and our representatives have contributed greatly to clarifying the problems of land-locked countries as far as the sea is concerned.
193.	This concern over the questions of the sea by a country which has no coast is neither paradoxical nor extraordinary. Bolivia, together with the other land-locked countries, has a direct, immediate and urgent interest in anything that deals with the oceans of the world.
194.	Our participation in the clarification of those problems will not for obvious reasons which we consider circumstantial at the moment-be extended to questions relating to the width of the territorial sea, the continental shelf, fishing or international straits, on which we lack experience. We will therefore limit our discussion to the questions of land-locked countries, their consequences and possible solutions.
195.	The process of elaborating principles in the legal field is now under way. The recognition of the sea as belonging to mankind is a positive fact. That means that the wealth of the sea-bed is the common heritage of mankind.
196.	We must note that the practical application of those truths is very unequal and, in some cases, non-existent. Although the land-locked countries were ignored in the past, since the Barcelona Agreement and the Geneva Conference of 1958 the international community has turned its attention to the problems confronted by the land-locked countries. We must recognize, however, that the principles thus far approved are deficient. We must, without referring to the specific condition of each landlocked country, recognize the general nature of the right of all countries to benefit from the use of the wealth drawn from the oceans and the rivers; otherwise the universality of the sea would be purely nominal so far as the land-locked countries are concerned and their possibility of utilizing the resources of the sea-bed and the ocean floor would be illusory.
197.	Naturally, in the exercise of those rights in one case as well as in another, there must be different characteristics and features, and their legal formulation is the second point that must be considered by the General Assembly and the sea-bed Committee.
198.	Some of these concepts have already been included in the topics and issues to be dealt with at the forthcoming Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea at the plenipotentiary level. We have contributed drafts and amendments which, fortunately, to a large extent were accepted at the Geneva meetings. We expect to put forth those same concepts in this Assembly in the forthcoming meetings of the sea-bed Committee and particularly at the conference of plenipotentiaries in 1973, whose convening we support.
199.	Only a few more words, addressed particularly to my colleagues the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and the permanent representatives of the other land-locked nations. My Government considers it right and proper that, in the course of the present year and prior to the holding of the conference of plenipotentiaries, the land-locked countries meet to study joint formulations which while improving their depressing geographical situation are acceptable to the coastal States. We know that there are various regional realities which require different approaches; but we must recognize that they must be in keeping with certain principles of universal validity. Therefore, my Government intends to act systematically and to make the necessary efforts to make possible the conference of the land-locked countries. In due course we will hold the necessary consultations.
200.	In the meantime, we want to draw attention to the two resolutions approved at Santiago during the third session of UNCTAD.  They place a singular responsibility on the land-locked countries to ensure implementation. The first refers to the danger to the under-developed countries of the exploitation of minerals on the sea-bed; and the second warns the industrialized nations that no claims based on past, present or future activities over any part of the zone or its resources will be entertained, and appeals to those States which have made such claims to refrain from doing so until an international regime governing exploitation of the sea-bed and the ocean floor has been established.
201.	Land is a universal common asset; and, therefore, it is natural and logical that the sea and its wealth also be considered the general heritage of mankind, to be used for the benefit of all nations. This same general idea relates to what we said last year in our statement concerning the economic equality of States, in keeping with the principle of their legal and sovereign equality. We must say the same regarding the Mexican proposal made during the third session of UNCTAD for the drafting of a charter of the economic rights and duties of States. The daring idea of collective economic security put forward by the Brazilian delegation [2038th meeting] is in keeping with the same idea. By studying these ideas and discerning these fraternal purposes, we are led to believe that mankind is heading towards a future of peace and wider international justice. Success in mankind's earnest efforts for a better future depends, in the last analysis, on the determination of the great Powers and on the understanding their leaders show in assisting the development of the less favored nations of the world.


===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿276.	 We, the representatives of the international community of nations, meet again in this hall under the terms of the Charter. We have come from every country in the world in the name of all races, all peoples, who speak the most diverse languages and profess the most different faiths, but we do so prompted by a common desire for understanding for the sake of peace and justice on earth. Thus, the United Nations possesses the necessary condition of universality and is an expression of the natural and healthy principle of unity in diversity.
277.	I wish before this distinguished gathering to convey a message of friendship from the people and Government of Bolivia to all the nations represented
here: our solidarity with their efforts and sacrifices to forge the destiny of man; our satisfaction at their achievements in the economic, political and social fields; and our sincere desire for a greater rapprochement so that we may get to know each other better and help each other more in effectively supporting so many shared ideals.
278.	As a Latin American, and in particular as a citizen of the favourite child of Bolivar, which with Ecuador maintains a lengthy and beautiful tradition of sharing the same glorious and historic sufferings, I am particularly gratified to see raised to the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly an enlightened Ecuadorian statesman and diplomat, Mr. Leopoldo Benites. His wise election is a continuation of the presence of Latin America in the United Nations which began with the Foreign Minister of Brazil, Mr. Oswaldo Aranha, followed wisely by Mr. Luis Padilla Nervo of Mexico, Mr. Jose Maza of Chile, Mr. Victor Andres Belaunde of Peru, Mr. Carlos Sosa Rodriguez of Venezuela and Mr. Emilio Arenales Catalan of Guatemala. We are convinced that the difficult task that the world has entrusted to you, Mr. President, = will be crowned by success.
279.	May I also express my cordial congratulations to Mr. Stanislaw Trepczynski for his wise and able conduct of the past session. In truth, his election was a wise decision, for in the course of our deliberations he guided us with great skill and talent.

280.	I am also particularly gratified to express my sincere appreciation of the valuable and fruitful work of our Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, whose strong personality enhances the prestige of our Organization and confers the seal of seriousness and responsibility on his very difficult and special tasks.
281.	My delegation is sincerely pleased at the admission to our Organization of the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic. In the case of the latter, my Government has recently established diplomatic and trade relations.
282.	The presence of both Germanys, a single nation divided into two States, is a living and consistent expression of a pragmatic policy with a great capacity to adapt to contemporary realities and an important contribution to the ideals of peace nurtured by mankind.
283.	I am convinced that both Germanys, representing a people who have known as much as any other the hardships of war, will make a valuable contribution to our work, a contribution that brings with it an age-old flow of wisdom, discipline and creative sense.
284.	Similarly, I extend the most fraternal welcome to the State of the Bahamas which not long ago proclaimed its independence and is a new member of the Caribbean group of nations within the American system. This young nation so full of vitality and hope will, I am convinced, inject new
strength into the visionary action of Latin America in our Organization.
285.	My country is living the drama inherent in all countries suffering from limitations in the exploitation of their natural resources. Rather than a problem of dependence, it is a matter of means and of the use of adequate technology. That is why we seek in international co-operation the way to fill these gaps.
286.	Like other nations both in our own geographic area and in other parts of the world, we struggle against the chronic evils of fiscal deficit and monetary instability. The constant deterioration of the terms of trade has a direct bearing on this economic phenomenon.
287.	The situation to which we have referred leads to a progressive increase in the cost of living and its inevitable counterpart, popular discontent and systematized subversion. But it is worth while stressing that, as we have said, this is not due to bad or ineffective administration.
288.	Ours is the fate of the poverty and backwardness that characterizes so many countries side by side with strong, powerful and wealthy nations. The solution, then, is not so much in ourselves as in the highly industrialized rich countries, which are called upon to show with deeds the solidarity they claim and the global approach they advocate.
289.	International social justice is not to be based on the indifference of prosperous States in the face of the afflicting situation of needy nations, nor can it stem from an international division of labour which condemns the latter to produce in favour of the former. In human societies it is no longer admitted that man should work for the exclusive benefit of a fortunate few.
290.	Just as we seek to consolidate world peace, we must guarantee social peace among our peoples. The former must be built on mutual respect, the balance of power and the observance of the institutions and the principles that govern them; the latter can be based only on a communal society in which the concept of the dignity of the human person prevails and which is spared the misery, the poverty and the acute social ills of our time.
291.	So long as we do not achieve a structuring of the world society in which resources and the resulting benefits of their application are for the benefit of all, we shall need international financial assistance and a rationalized transfer of technology. This is what my country needs to achieve a relative well-being for its people and to create with the other countries on the continent and in the world a better future. Whatever happens in the private context of nations also happens in the international sphere.
292.	If financial assistance to carry out development works is curtailed or" denied, Governments may feel tempted to resort to illegal sources of foreign currency in
the black market — sources that hurt the image of the dignity of States because of the particular profit they produce and the humiliation they impose on those who engage in such practices.
293.	After the Revolution of August 1971 it is true that Bolivia received substantial support from the Government of the United States of America to overcome the crisis and establish a process of growing democratization, which culminated in the convening of elections for next year. We must sensibly finance our five-year development plan, which is to give our country a great new start in life.
294.	So much is said of the popular explosion on earth and of the shortage of food-stuffs that one wonders why the necessary assistance is not provided so that these may be produced in abundant quantities in countries like Bolivia. Irrigation schemes such as that of Abapo-Izozog have been conceived to irrigate initially 300,000 hectares, with prospects of arriving at the ambitious figure of 2 million. The El Bala dam, on the Beni river basin, in the gorges of the eastern Andean mountains in the Department of La Paz, was declared at the last Conference of Foreign Ministers in Lima as being of interest for all the countries in the Andean basin. Other minor projects, like the Oquitas project, also await the magic wand of international contributions and financing from regional and world credit institutions.
295.	One problem that disturbs the Bolivian people because it affects its sovereignty and hampers its free progress is that of its status as a land-locked country. As regards this important question, we are not making complaints. We place ourselves in the current of modern trends which seek, in the last analysis, to establish a world community of nations. To embark upon this road, which may appear Utopian to some, is in fact to solve many of the peremptory needs which exist in the world, such as that of Bolivia.
296.	We have always maintained that Chile and my country complement each other. The nation of O'Higgins appears to me to be more imprisoned between the sea and the Andes than my own country, which has direct contact through five open frontiers with five Republics. An outlet to the Pacific would firmly establish friendship between Chile and Bolivia and dispel so much mistrust which darkens the future of the southern tip of America.
297.	Inspired by the most laudable American sentiments, we have proposed a dialogue so that through direct talks we may devise a solution which is in keeping with our great problem and which will enable Chile, by way of reciprocity, to obtain benefits in keeping with its interests and which would guarantee the welfare of its people, the prosperity of backward regions and the security of northern Chile. We nourish the hope that now that its present Government is devoted to tasks of moral and material reconstruction, soon the necessary favourable conditions to open negotiations will exist so that these two countries may arrive at an important agreement governing their future.
298.	In the regional context, Latin America continues its inevitable course towards unity. There is a general awareness of this. It began in the Amphictyonic Congress of Panama convened by Bolivar in 1826. Before that, both extremes of South America had met, with the same desire for universality, in the famous interview of Guayaquil, which brought together Bolivar, the Liberator and San Martin, the Saint of the Sword.
299.	That unionist trend gained renewed topicality and importance with the Continental Treaty of 1854 and the Union and Defensive Alliance of 1865, concluded in Lima. With the subsequent constitution of the Pan-American Union and the present Organization of American States, Latin America succeeded in creating a Central American Common Market and the subregional organizations of the River Plate basin, the Andean Pact and the Amazon countries.
300.	The Latin American Free Trade Association [LAFTA], that is, the Latin American common market, despite its shortcomings, pursues the achievement of its laudable purposes. CECLA, that is, the Special Committee on Latin American Co-ordination, is achieving the purposes for which it was established.
301.	All these bodies reflect pressing needs and undeniable realities, although there is a general demand to make their structures adequate to the requirements of a changing world and to the challenges of human intelligence with its awe-inspiring creations and daring feats in space, which are leaving behind and unsolved the most acute problems of our world.
302.	We agree with what was said by the most enlightened statesmen on our continent in this world forum to the effect that the great problem of Latin America is the problem of under-development. To overcome this condition, we have been striving to create broader markets in a joint effort of economic association.
303.	The marginal condition of vast masses of mankind is another of its conflicting realities. Social and economic structures must be changed, beginning with an agrarian reform, a policy for the distribution of national revenue for the benefit of man's health, housing, education and food.
304.	Political stability, on which the progress of Latin American countries is based, does not depend on the will of its leaders, but on the economic and social conditions in which their peoples live. That is why there is urgent need to contribute collectively to the improvement of such conditions if truly we seek to take a long leap in history. The criticisms levelled against the instability of many of our Governments must go hand in hand with co-operation and aid. Anything else is like regretting the fate of a patient to whom we do not give the medicine he needs to get well.
305.	Apart from Bolivia's problems of access to the sea, we have in Latin America the case of the Panama Canal, sovereignty over which Panama claims and in this it is backed by the other Governments of the continent. The
same thing happens with the sacrosanct cause of the Bolivians which has found such great understanding among the Governments of Caracas, Bogota, Quito and Lima, on the occasion of the recent tour of those countries by my country's President, General Don Hugo Banzer Suarez.
306.	With regard to the colonialism subsisting in our region, our nations are at one in demanding its total elimination and the protection of the right to self-determination of our peoples.
307.	I could not end this part of my statement without expressing my feelings upon the tragic death of the President of Chile, Mr. Salvador Allende, whom I had the honour to meet in the interview we had in the city of Buenos Aires when General Lanusse handed over power to ex-President Campora. That death recalls that of Balmaceda, another distinguished Chilean President, and reveals a profound human quality in President Allende. The leader of Chilean socialism fell like a courageous captain at the head of his cause and in defence of his Government, like Mayor Gualberto Villarroel, a leader of nationalism in my country, immolated in the Quemado Palace on the altar of his ideals, and of Oscar Unzaga de la Vega, founder and leader of the Bolivian Socialist Falange, who lost his life in an open fight for freedom, justice and democracy.
308.	Now let me speak of America, but not of its special peculiarities. Historically and geographically its unity is. absolute. Columbus and Americo Vespucio discovered it and gave it its name. It is unnatural to exclude from it North America. We cannot conceive of a unit without one of its parts. We constitute a hemisphere, the hemisphere of human hope. Why not think rather of adding Canada, which shares our common territorial heritage and, like all our countries, emerged from the same historic adventure of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries? Let us move forward rather than backward.
309.	I have been particularly concerned about the situation of the relatively less developed countries in South America, namely, Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay and Uruguay. That is why, in the Andean Pact, we came to an agreement on the holding of a meeting between these countries to assess the meaning of the integration agreements, the treatment of these countries in the UNCTAD classification, the forthcoming negotiations to be held under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade [GATT] and the financial co-operation of international institutions, as well as the general progress achieved in this policy of development.
310.	The aforementioned analysis within the continental, framework must cover the Central American and Caribbean nations, members of the Central American Common Market [CACM] and the Caribbean Free Trade Association [CARIFTA].
311.	To that meeting, to be held in the Bolivian city of Cochabamba in the second half of January 1974, representatives of LAFTA, the Andean subregion, the River Plate Basin, the Economic Commission for Latin America, the Latin-American Institute for Economic and Social Planning, UNCTAD, GATT, FAO, the United
Nations Development Programme [UNDP], the World Health Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the International Labour Organisation and the International Monetary Fund. The financial institutions to be represented are the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and the Andean Development Corporation, and, as special guests, representatives of the CACM and CARIFTA with their regional banks and financial institutions and the International Union of Catholic Employers' Associations.
312.	We believe that this event, which is to be held under the auspices of the economically less developed among the countries of South America, on the initiative of the Foreign Ministry of Bolivia, will be crowned with success. A vast organic and rational agenda, which has already been transmitted to the parties concerned, will highlight the historic importance of this international forum.
313.	Until not long ago the human spirit was disturbed by the doubt that it might not be able "to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war" — one of the most noble principles in our Charter.
314.	It would appear that we did not feel able "to practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours" and "to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security" as also prescribed by the Charter.
315.	However, thanks to the innovating initiative of President Nixon and his personal aid, Mr. Kissinger, the present Secretary of State, there has been a relaxation in international relations between the great Powers and peace has been brought to areas of the world that were either beset or threatened by war.
316.	The policy of decolonization is also being strengthened and it is possible that in the near future all forms of political, religious or racial discrimination will disappear.
317.	Fratricidal violence and inhuman terrorism, cloaked in apparently altruistic aims, calls for common legislation to characterize them and sanction them. Sectarian convenience or electoral interests should not be allowed to protect them or to mask them under the cloak of feigned ignorance when such facts are objective and condemned by universal conscience.
318.	As regards international pending problems and latent conflicts, a desire for war, or the wish of the strong to dictate to the weaker, serve no purpose. What we need is a negotiated solution which is beneficial to all and falls within the framework of the Charter.
319.	No one can maintain that conquest gives rights. Before the United Nations, the American doctrine of 3 August 1932, which condemns territorial acquisition derived from war, had anticipated this concept.
320.	But there are essential elements in the life and sovereignty of a country, elements without which a State cannot feel secure. Bolivia claims its frontier on the Pacific
Ocean, There, in the beginning of the universal road of the seas, it finds its security.
321.	The Organization must watch over the subsistence of its Member States and must assimilate all the national entities that are not yet Members or have been left outside the Organization.
322.	The right to international life does not depend on the vote of a council or the consensus of an assembly. Nations, like' men, have a right to respect for their existence.
323.	Reason does not obey the dictates of the strong or the whim of the majorities. The truth is one, luminous, undistortable, like the sun that gives us light.
J24. You may divide nations but you cannot change nature. When you try to change nature it reacts with greater violence. It is like history, which is presided over by the law of Karma, of which the thinker, Lin Yutang, speaks so eloquently.
325.	Justice, human and international, cannot be fettered. It is the beacon that lights the way of universal conscience and guides man along the paths of history. There are entelechies, like justice, that are stronger than the power of the dominators.
326.	In view of all this, there is a hope in the minds of hungering peoples and of nations in subjection, a hope that they may achieve their liberation and come under the benevolent regime of free and civilized coexistence.
327.	Instigation to violence, material assistance to subversive underground warfare, concealment of terrorism — all these in fact do not favour peace or contribute to justice. Warlike actions are just as tragic as those deriving from violent and treacherous conspiracies.
328.	Occurrences involving bloodshed, systematic hatred and destruction must be prevented in all countries. Such is the unavoidable necessity for all who are born into this world and for all who do not wish to perish in the whirlpool of senseless human passions.
329.	The greatness of nations does not reside in the capacity to dominate our planet or to conquer outer space, but in the careful consideration and wisdom they should contribute in guiding mankind to the full realization of its destiny.
330.	Man does not base his happiness on the heady wine of material victories at the expense of his fellow men, but rather on the subjective realization of relative well-being and on the search for his origin and his destiny. All else is an affront to the freedom of his conscience and reduces him to the lowest level of the zoological scale.
331.	Along with all of this, we hear a great deal about detente. After the relaxation of international tension, where do we go? To smother danger is not to build a new order.
332.	Mankind must go to the root of its troubles. Resources can be found by Powers to arm themselves and to explore outer space; but there are no means to be found to
combat disease, illiteracy, the hardship n: which millions of human beings must live, hung* unemployment and poverty.
333.	It is proposed that military expenditure be reduced by 10 per cent for the purpose of assistance to developing countries. Armaments, as everyone knows, are a prelude to war. This phenomenon is taking place, paradoxically, in the present-day world, where some go begging for their bread while others waste their money on weapons. It is to be hoped that the aforementioned suggestive idea will not remain simply a demagogic playing with words or a mere lyrical pose. Let us arrive at an agreement in this regard and let even the medium-sized and small nations participate in that endeavour — those very nations which should not, in addition to the misfortune of their under-development, have to suffer the catastrophe of an armed struggle.
334.	In ancient times, as is well known, people armed to prepare themselves for war. Some centuries have gone by and it may be hoped that the human mind has changed in some respects. Peace is secured by suppressing wars at their very root. There is neither justice nor virtue in poverty. The source for brotherly human coexistence is to be found in well-being. Let us therefore cultivate the earth rather than produce in our factories the tools for destroying and cutting short human lives.
335.	If happiness is the magnetic north that guides mankind, freedom is the natural atmosphere in which the life of nations is lived. International relaxation of tension can thus be reflected in economic relations, but it is anachronistic indeed if there remain captive peoples as a consequence of a war.
336.	There are Powers that have decided on how not to interfere in the internal life of other countries. Their trick consists in converting other countries into satellite nations through armed occupation. It is of no help if the victims maintain the contrary in praise of their executioners.
337.	Man is free by nature and he broke the chains that enslaved him many years ago. We cannot condone the existence of subject peoples. It is not true that self-determination encourages a retreat from independent life and from the autonomous and sovereign right of people to govern themselves.
338.	It is usual to see the mote in the other's eye but not the beam in one's own, as the Holy Scriptures tell us. It is for that reason that some call for the withdrawal of certain armies from occupied territories. But we see no example of such withdrawals on the part of the forces which are subjugating nations that have been free for centuries.
339.	Some are loud in denunciation of armies that overthrow governments. It is commonly forgotten that the armed forces of a nation form a substantial part of the people. Much more serious is the case of the troops, the tanks and aircraft that invade countries and conquer peoples with age-old cultures and independent traditions.
340.	The history of peoples cannot be enclosed in chapters, as happens with the citizens of a country when they are placed in concentration camps and prisons and
subjected to torture. The life of nations is continuous and permanent. Their lands and their right to govern themselves can be taken from them, but never their life, never their presence as stars in the wide firmament of mankind and of time itself.
341.	The time has come to think more seriously about a sort of universal human society on earth. With the elimination of international rivalries and the quenching of the mad thirst for universal domination, there will come about a joining of efforts, of technologies and resources in the exclusive service of all mankind.
342.	Governments do not last for ever. All our traditions confirm this. The elements of power vary with the passage of time and the effects of circumstances. Powers decline and new ones emerge. The balance of power varies and we must seek therefore to avoid as far as possible its periodic fluctuations. This does not mean we must try to stratify history, which would be deadly for man, but rather that we must avoid using national resources for wasteful purposes of conquest and domination.
343.	It is important that international coexistence be safeguarded. Ideological pluralism is a fact and a doctrine, if you will. We are compelled to respect other peoples. They have the right to choose whatever form of political life is best suited to them. What must be fought against is precisely any disregard of the right to self-determination. It is this that separates Governments and not the nature of the regime that rules.
344.	International organizations base their existence on constitutions. There are declarations recognizing the rights of men and of citizens. There is need for the Mexican document which defines the economic rights and duties of States. There is much to be said concerning this and it is both logical and proper for the small countries to go before the great countries in a dramatic demand for international justice together with effective and sincere co-operation in development.
345.	Several nations of America, Europe, Africa and Asia are awaiting the establishment of rules that will define and guarantee the inherent powers enjoyed by land-locked countries. The legislation in this regard must apply to all universally. Just as with the sea-bed freedom of navigation and direct access to coasts and fisheries cannot remain within the framework of mere declarations.
346.	Preferences are established in favour of the economically less developed countries with regard to subregional, regional and world bodies. This has been stated in Tokyo to the Director-General of GATT and the representatives there assembled. Bolivia, with justice and good reason, requests the special consideration of this matter, one that will embrace all the peoples which, furthermore, lack a sea coast.
347.	Among the rights of man there is the right of free transit and residence. It is a law of men that cannot be restricted as it is recognized throughout the world. The contrary would be to recognize slavery and to prevent children from returning to the homes of their elders.
348.	My delegation cannot but express its concern over the debates in our Organization. It could be said that we often forget the spirit of the Charter. We seek conciliation among men, yet we are accustomed here not to employ the dialectic of intelligence, but rather that of frozen attitudes.
349.	The clearest and purest essence of democracy lies in the right to dissent. To be able to exercise this right without the risk of annihilation, man has shed his blood throughout his journey through history.
350.	The right to express one's view is as precious as the right to existence and a worthwhile life. Only animals produce sounds without meaning for us, like the roaring of the blind tempests of nature. To deny that right is equivalent to turning man into an animal.
351.	The policy of special privilege is contrary to justice. A few cannot live at the expense of the poverty of the great majority of mankind. Nor does exploitation by industrialized countries of the producers of raw materials contribute anything to peace.
352.	National income should be distributed among the ordinary citizens, just as it is necessary to adopt a policy of equitable regulation of what is bought and sold by countries of differing economic conditions.
353.	Finally, we must talk about faith — about the faith of man in himself, about the faith of peoples in their creative capacities, about the faith of the international community in its organizations and the precepts that nourish them. I wish to state, in the name of my Government, that the Bolivian people believes in the effectiveness of the subregional and regional groupings to which it belongs. It believes in the River Plate Basin and the Andean Group. It believes in the Organization of American States. And, finally, it believes in the United Nations, the Organization to which we look to guarantee universal peace and without which there would be no security for either man or nations. And the Bolivian people expresses the hope that it will be able, moreover, to stop the resumption of operations in the Middle East.

===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
I wish to state that it is a signal honor to address the Assembly from this rostrum the highest expression of world thinking where illustrious statesmen from the most distant corners of the world have come to carry out a dialogue, which is a means of understanding par excellence between peoples and between men. This is possible because of the growing universality of the United Nations, which at each session of the General Assembly enables us to greet new States that have joined the system.
2.	On behalf of my Government and my people, in our language which is a language of peace, I greet all the nations represented here. We wish to practice friendship without reservations or exclusions. We are a developing country, a part of the earth which shares the limitations, hopes, disappointments and impatience of those countries which earnestly seek their progress in an atmosphere of stable peace, based on the broadest co-operation.
3.	I wish to express to the President of the Assembly, Mr. Abdelaziz Boutefiika, the eminent statesman from Algeria, our most cordial greetings and our best wishes for his success. To the outgoing President, Mr. Leopoldo Benites, and to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, we express our appreciation of their unflagging work for world peace.
4.	I also wish to extend a brotherly welcome to the new Members of the Organization, the States of Bangladesh, Grenada and Guinea-Bissau. As my country has from the outset maintained cordial relations with Bangladesh, we can only rejoice at its entry into the United Nations. The same holds true in respect of Grenada, a State which is also within the
American region, thereby making its presence in the United Nations a twofold source of very great satisfaction to the Latin American group of States. As regards Guinea-Bissau, we again have many grounds for satisfaction in view of all that its presence represents.
5.	The General Assembly heard with deep consternation Mr. Cesar Batres, the Minister for. Foreign Affairs of Honduras [2242nd meeting]. His words brought to us the tragic confirmation of the gravity of the disaster which has struck his country. He made us feel as our own the pain and devastation which the Honduran people have been suffering. We know that there are tragedies in respect of which words are meaningless. But we know too that the ideas transmitted in this august Assembly are the expression of an international solidarity profoundly moved and stimulated by the marvelous sense of human brother-hood, a brotherhood which in the midst of pain, and perhaps because of it, will bring spiritual comfort, moral encouragement and material assistance to the sister State of Honduras, with which the Government and the people of Bolivia feel a deep sense of solidarity in these moments of sorrow and affliction.
6.	As I was saying, every year we meet here - countries which are united and separated for many reasons quite apart from geographical distances. We come here seeking a pledge, bringing our concerns and our hopes. This is the most eloquent proof that our faith in the supreme world body has not faltered. We believe in the ideals and postulates of the San Francisco Charter, which was masterfully conceived 29 years ago.
7.	These principles have not lost force with the pas-sage of time, and they are as valid today as they were then in promoting an international conduct designed
to enable mankind 	1 so many ways, to
follow a road le^u. ^ ihe attainment of a destiny of happiness and prosperity.
8.	The items to be debated in the Assembly are many and complex. Among them there is no order of priority with which to determine their importance. All, every one of them, are intimately connected with the lofty purposes of the United Nations; but it is quite true that some are of greater concern to us.
9.	Accordingly, I shall refer only to some of the items which, in our opinion, require priority attention and immediate action by the States Members of this Organ-ization so that through adequate adjustments we may promote success in the great tasks which the inter-national community seeks to complete ,
A/PV.2259 and Corr.l
10.	At this stage in our civilization, when man, through his inexhaustible ingenuity, has solved the mystery of outer space, mankind cannot consider wars to be inevitable. There is therefore no acceptable justification for mass destruction. 
11.	For this reason, from this rostrum of peace, where we nobly endeavor to arrive at understanding and friendship among peoples, my delegation wishes to express its most earnest hope that the efforts of the Security Council will strengthen peace on Cyprus and that the international community will endorse the initiative of the Secretary-General to bring comfort to the populations affected by the conflict.
12.	But the aims of peace cannot be secured except by political action designed to prevent possible confrontations. At present, the elimination of world tension must be sought, basically, in a frank and determined co-operation for development, which will make it possible to establish a just order in economic relations among States in the knowledge that external aid and co-operation have ceased to be an act of philanthropy and have become a duty which the most advanced countries can no longer shirk.
13.	These motives gave impetus to the drafting and implementation of a major effort -the international development strategy for the First United Nations Development Decade. We recognize, in all its auspicious intention, the essential achievements of that program, even though it must be pointed out that they were not sufficient to solve the complex problem of underdevelopment. This circumstance led to a feeling of frustration which, with the useful lessons learned from the earlier attempt, we must try to dispel and overcome. The desire to achieve the advancement and prosperity of peoples is a goal which, despite frustrations, cannot be abandoned. The will of nations must persist in its purpose to achieve those aims. Were this not to be so, we would be committing a blunder with unforeseeable consequences for the future of mankind.
14.	With these irrenunciable aims still in view, the Second United Nations Development Decade was started in a spirit of renewal. The responsibility shoul-dered by the international community is greater at this stage than in the past because new expectations and prospects are being nurtured. These must be satisfied lest our peoples become inevitably exposed to a crisis of confidence in the mechanisms of world co-operation and in the very system of international economic relations.
15.	It is not our intention to encourage pessimistic prophecies, but if our peoples have to continue to bear fresh disappointments the consequences will doubtless be catastrophic. Faith will have been weakened, and we shall have further removed the goal of progress to which the most numerous part of mankind aspires for its complete fulfillment.
16.	For these reasons, my delegation feels that it is both desirable and urgent that the industrialized countries, and the developing countries replace the present state of near-confrontation by a broad and constructive understanding so as to arrive at an economic alliance through the same channels which made it possible to reach a political detente, designed to create a sound and lasting world understanding.
17.	My delegation wishes to reiterate its complete endorsement of the principles, objectives and policies contained in the basic documents adopted at the sixth special session of the General Assembly. We consider that they faithfully reflect the interests and aspirations of the economically backward countries.
18.	Hence, we not only appeal for understanding from the industrialized nations but we also require their dynamic participation in this undertaking, through generous and concrete expressions of their political will, with a view to establishing a more balanced and just economic system.
19.	There is clearly the threat of a world-wide economic dislocation. It is a time of trial and of urgent decisions. Joint action and solidarity must go beyond simple statements. Positive altitudes conceived of with imagination and executed with boldness are what is needed.
20.	It is of the utmost importance that we obtain a progressive revaluation of the exports of the developing countries. But we believe that this will only be possible if we adopt an appropriate mechanism which will link and automatically adjust, starting with equitable levels, the evolution of prices of the exports of the least developed nations with the manufactures of the industrialized countries.
21.	It is also of priority interest to strengthen the organs for these purposes so as to achieve a greater transfer of financial and technological resources for the benefit of States which seek to develop.
22.	Another legitimate means to prevent any possible crisis might be found by the international community if, with a criterion of equity, it agrees to promote and facilitate the processing of natural resources in the regions where they are found, that is to say, for the benefit of the soil itself where nature placed these riches. It is also important to assist in the process of regional and subregional integration.
23.	Another chapter which deserves our attention is the one regarding a draft Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States.
24.	We should like to make it possible, in brief, that through joint efforts, as the original element of the voluntary act, the intelligence of man may conceive of and apply a system whereby the growing prosperity of the richer nations does not become a threat of greater poverty for the small nations. The entire effort represented by the Second United Nations Development Decade would not be effective, however, unless we promote with like interest and will to act the Disarmament Decade. It is of the utmost importance that substantial resources previously intended for destruction now be used for work that will raise the well-being of all peoples.
25.	On the other hand, we were justly alarmed to hear some expressions here in regard to the rising prices of raw materials and energy supplies, which augur an escalation of confrontation in world trade. We trust that, with the creative capacity of man and a predominantly just spirit, channels of understanding and balance will be found. Thus, we shall serve the aspirations to well-being and, above all, solidarity among nations.
26.	Another item which is current in the common concern of mankind for maintaining peace refers to the quest for an adequate conciliatory formula so as to finally remove the violence of the convulsed regions of the Middle East. The Government of Bolivia is sensitive to the suffering of the Palestinian people. Therefore, we express our most whole-hearted hope that the negotiations started in Geneva will prosper and be consolidated. We believe that, in order to achieve genuine peace in the Middle East, the parties to the conflict must continue effective negotiations, covering the interests of all, without outside interference or impositions.
27.	Let us encourage what is constructive. We believe that the quest for peace requires many sacrifices. The situation in the Middle East, therefore, calls for the most serene reflection and requires that we pave a smooth way for the negotiators.
28.	My country, which traditionally has opposed colonialism in any form, wishes to greet with satisfaction the fundamental changes in attitude which are taking place in this field. These are not isolated successes but proof of the ability to adjust to the new molds of history. It is, in brief, a triumph of the international community.
29.	In this way, the first step has been taken for new States to come into being and they, we are sure, will enter the international community to practice the principles advocated by the Charter of the United Nations, which places the ideals of peace above any resentments of the past.
30.	This year has been a period of doubts and achievements. There have been frustration and also hope; and the hope for a new era more just and in accordance with the concerns of our peoples is shown precisely in the context of America. The widespread acceptance of dialog, resulting from understanding, has enabled us in America to break the lack of communication and has made it easier to seek joint formulas for an effective coming together on a basis of complete solidarity. Tlatelolco and Washington, and shortly Buenos Aires, are landmarks of a new policy and of an edifying example. Developing countries and one of the world Powers, on a footing of equality, decided to review their relations in every sphere so as to reconcile interests and, what is more important, to establish mechanisms Of co-operation which will give content to the ideals of solidarity.
31.	We, the Latin Americans, believe that the roads are free and clear and that a future of happiness and understanding depends, then, on our ability and imagination and the vast scope of common objectives. Dialog is again a synonym for understanding.
32.	America, too, looks for justice. America has taken a historical decision to apply solidarity. America is resolved that on its soil sterile confrontation should end, giving way to harmony and mutual co-operation among its peoples. Finally, America has united its will and launched the challenge in Atlanta, at the Fourth regular session of the Organization of American States (OAS): conflicts do not contribute to well- being, and their solution is an imperative of our times. To do away with suspicions, to defeat acceptance of injustice, it is recognized "that hemispheric solidarity constitutes one of the essential foundations of the' inter- American system", and we declare, with the unanimity of causes of noble origin, "that it is of fundamental interest for the continent to solve the problems which disturb solidarity, lessen co-operation among the American nations or threaten peace, and represent barriers to their economic and social development".
33.	My Government has thus brought to Atlanta its words of peace for the solution of the injustice arising from the geographical enclosure to which my country is confined. In this world society I must reiterate it more broadly, together with our willingness for a constructive dialog. The solution of the landlocked status of Bolivia is a continental problem. It is a challenge to America which wounds the spirit of understanding of just men and peoples. The return of Bolivia to the sea is the most deep-rooted feeling among its citizens. We trust that we shall not witness the centennial of our enclosure, because we see the foreshadowing of fruitful understanding free from formalisms and with a profoundly practical sense. America has so decided.
34.	With these same principles, full of the vocation for peace and progress, the Nationalist Government, under the presidency of General Hugo Banzer Suarez, has continued the task of national reconstruction. For the past three yea* s Bolivians have enjoyed the benefits of stability and order and have found that it is possible to build their own historic destiny, through the genuine national entity. The task has been an arduous one, and we still foresee a stage of work and sacrifice.
35.	The Bolivian nation faces many problems -among them, strengthening its economy and its political system, which embraces both the nation and the people, and institutionalizing its republican life. But our will is strong. With the help of all Bolivians, we shall overcome and lay the foundations that will enable future generations to have a free country, a country that is just and full of opportunities.
36.	I would not wish to end my statement without reiterating the faith of the people and Government of Bolivia in the United Nations. At this General Assembly session we again express our hope that mankind, here represented, will engage in a more vigorous quest for the happy future we must seek, as the result of the construction Of a truly integrated international society.
37.	There are, to be sure, many problems facing the contemporary world. But I am convinced that if we exert all our efforts, and with the sincere purpose that guides our peoples, we shall find the right path that will lead us to universal brotherhood.
38.	The very fact that more than 130 countries come together in this ecumenical gathering to express their hopes and aspirations and to reaffirm their faith in peace confirms our conviction that mankind is moving towards systems of loyal communication, solidarity and shared effort. That is faith in our destiny. That is support for harmonious coexistence. That is, finally, the certainty that in this changing world, where man himself is astonished by his accomplishments, ways to happiness can be found.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====
2.	  I come here to this high rostrum as a head of Slate to speak on behalf of a nation which, serenely and surely, is traveling the path of history. I do so in order to bring the concerns of the Government and people of Bolivia about some of the most pressing problems that mankind faces in a world as yet beset by crises, conflict, fear and poverty.
3.	I should like to begin by most cordially greeting the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Luxembourg, Mr. Gaston Thorn, who is so ably presiding over the thirtieth regular session of the General Assembly. 1 should also like to greet the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Algeria, Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who, brilliant statesman that he is, presided over two sessions.
4 f should also like to greet the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, whose tireless work is all the more admirable and useful for purposes of this Organization, because he is imbued with deep humanism and with a serenity with which he has tackled the gravest difficulties. Mr. Waldheim has made a positive contribution to the United Nations. Soon after taking office he proposed that the question of international terrorism in its broadest context should be considered. It is regrettable that this urgent item has not as yet been taken up.
5 I should also like to join in the welcome extended to the new States of Mozambique, Sao Tome and Principe and Cape Verde. The peaceful political transition of these three States is a clear example of the maturity of their peoples, as well as of the sincere decision of the administering Power to decolonize. 1 am certain that the presence of these newest States will strengthen our Organization and will provide a new and powerful impetus to the peoples of Africa.
6.	I should like to welcome Papua New Guinea, whose independence has already been achieved. 1 should also like to greet in advance Suriname, soon to be independent, a Caribbean territory which is therefore an integral part of Latin America.
7.	One of the crucial subjects of our time is peace among men. Without international peace and security, it is an illusion to dream of the total development of mankind, of the full satisfaction of its material and spiritual needs, of mankind meeting its common destiny in a more just economic order.
8.	It is ever more essential to stop the arms race, to reduce arms traffic and sales abroad, to channel nuclear energy for the benefit of the peace and well- being of men rather than to use them for their total destruction. No international co-operation can attain positive results if we do not ensure an era of permanent and constructive peace.
9.	In this context, the Bolivian position is clear. We do not believe in the absolute victory of weapons. We are aware of the power that some nations wield in that area. We know that the nuclear bombs that are being manufactured would alone be enough in the 1980s to destroy life on our planet. Despite this paradoxical advance, we are certain that mankind will stand to gain little or nothing if it is not capable of avoiding the dangers that threaten it now. As developing countries see it, the essential question is how to avoid self-destruction, how to prevent the supreme holocaust, how to protect the service of collective well-being, the marvelous creations of man's genius.
10.	To forestall those risks, firearms are not enough, A new spirit is required taking account of man in relation to his eternal destiny and his selfless nature.
11.	Every year more than $3,000 million is being squandered on military expenditure. It would be wonderful if mankind used those resources to combat ignorance, disease and hunger!
12.	The food and energy crisis, world inflation, social conflicts, terrorism, pollution, ecological imbalance, the manufacture, traffic and use of drugs, the gap that separates poor peoples from wealthy nations, are, among other things, the most pressing problems faced by contemporary society.
13.	It is incumbent upon the United Nations to ensure world coexistence, to find practical ways and means to harmonize relations between exporters of industrialized goods and producers of raw materials.
that is, of historically specific entities, and consequently of its obligation to urge the wealthy countries to accord just treatment to the less advanced ones.
15.	During the colonial period Bolivia, which was then called Alto Peru, produced so much gold and silver, according to the chroniclers of the time, that a bridge could be built from the fabulous Potosi to the Iberian Peninsula.
16.	Leaving fantasy aside, it is true that for a long time Alto Peru maintained the splendor of the old world.
17.	Despite sacrifices of many centuries and the enormous drain on natural resources, the compensation to which it was legitimately entitled was never forthcoming.
18.	Since 1825, the date when we began our independent life, Bolivia has generated, on an annual average at present prices, -wealth amounting to $300 million; it created wealth of more than $40,000 million. However, its total investments hardly reached $1,000 million. We are therefore far from having the resources that the country requires to tackle the first stages of its development.
19.	Therefore, with respect to this revealing picture, we may well ask: Where is this wealth and to whom did it go? Which foreign economies did it benefit? Why did it have to impoverish some and enrich others?
20.	We legitimately believe that we must be compensated for the injustices and exorbitant demands of which we were the victims in the past.
21.	It is time to imbue international relations with a new character, to replace dependence by interdependence, paternalism by solidarity, assistance by mutual co-operation.
22.	In the area of co-operation for development, cause and effect require careful study. So far, despite the fact that we are at an advanced stage of the Second United Nations Development Decade, we are still involved in uncertainty and skepticism, All this is generated by an acute crisis of confidence in the machinery underlying the system of international economic relations.
23.	Bolivia would like to place on record its support for the efforts of the United Nations to solve the painful problems that limit the development of the economically less advanced countries.
24.	We support unreservedly the principles, purposes and resolutions that were adopted at the sixth special session of the General Assembly held in April 1974 as well as at the seventh special session, whose deliberations were concluded recently.
25.	The Government and people of Bolivia are identified with the purpose of establishing a new international economic order. In this context, they hope that the Declaration and the program of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order [resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VJ)] which enshrine this important goal will be implemented, together with the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States [resolution 3281 (XXIX)].
26.	In celebrating the J50th anniversary of the founding of Bolivia, from the House of Freedom in Sucre, the city which transmitted the ideas of emancipation to America, I addressed a message in which 1 expressed the position of my country concerning many of the problems that are of interest today to the international community.
27.	It must be noted that this is not the time for regrets, but the time for action. It is no longer the time for rhetoric. We must create, construct and organize a new and more just world, as everybody demands.
28.	Mankind has a common destiny. It cannot be conceived as fragmented, divided by differences, hatred or the irritating inequalities that separate peoples. We are duty-bound to work in unity, in cooperation, in solidarity and to establish a dialog among ourselves. Otherwise our civilization may plunge into the holocaust of war or jeopardize indefinitely the benefits of peace, freedom, progress and justice.
29.	We cannot allow, without concern, wealth to be increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few. Neither nations nor men have the right to accumulate a disproportionate amount of wealth. A situation in which some flaunt offensive opulence while others suffer painful poverty is not acceptable.
30.	In order to eliminate this international economic and social anachronism we must find a solution to the problem. We must pass from words to deeds. The equality of the peoples must be attained, in global terms, in the social, economic, cultural and political fields.
31.	It is difficult to destroy the barriers of underdevelopment and dependence without using the resources of science and technology. 1 repeat my proposal that we must take action to convert these resources into a common heritage of mankind. The idea has been launched; it is no longer a Bolivian idea. The important thing is to begin, and to create the instruments to implement, sooner or later, this transcendental objective.
32.	There is another burning problem which mankind faces today, namely, the presence in many countries of a few transnational enterprises whose methods are neither scrupulous nor honest. They interfere in internal affairs. They make a mockery of sovereignty. They use bribes and slander, they promote corruption and they exploit to the utmost our non-renewable natural resources, In their search for profits they act against the interests of the people and contribute irresponsibly to the deterioration of international relations.
33.	It is imperative to fix standards to regulate the activities of transnational enterprises and monopolies, and to establish the sanctions befitting their deceitful practices.
34.	States which engage in economic aggression deserve similar condemnation. Bolivia, as a producer country of tin, is a periodic victim of that treacherous activity.
35.	It is difficult in this forum to pass over the question of raw materials. The countries which are producers of raw materials will have to act in their own defence by forming an unshakable common front. It is only in this way that we shall be able to form a common front against the manipulation of prices: unstable and low for raw materials and excessively high for manufactured products.
36.	We recognize that the United Nations, through the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development [IJNCTAD], attempts to enact a policy of the stabilization of equitable and just prices. Regrettably, resolutions take too much time and the developing countries are tired of waiting. If efforts are not co-ordinated and if definite progress is not made among the producer and consumer countries there will be no other course for the former than to organize, without delay, prompted by the absolute necessity of attaining positive results.
37.	A general policy for raw materials could take specific form in the following way: first, an association of producer countries; secondly, stepped-up industrialization; and thirdly, creation of funds to regulate reserves.
38.	1 should now like to speak about my country, which has been described as varied, wonderful and fertile. On its land everything can be produced, so fertile is the soil, so diverse the climate throughout this very large country. With regard to the wealth in its subsoil, nature has been very generous to my country. Although we have been given much, we hope for much more as a result of capital and work, in order to channel this abundance into the well-being and progress of our people.
39.	Bolivia has enacted modern legislation providing for guarantees and incentives, legislation which in a rational way reconciles the interests of foreign investors with the objectives and priorities of our nation.
40.	My country is a land of links and contacts. It is at the crossroads of two great oceans; the Atlantic and the Pacific. It is a part of two river basins: the Amazon and the Plate. It has adhered to all the regional mechanisms for integration. It is a member of the sub-regional Andean Pact, the Latin American Free Trade Association, URUPABOL, and the Treaty concerning the Plate River basin.
41.	This firm and unconditional attitude taken by Bolivia is an embodiment of the purest ideals of the liberators. For the Government and people of Bolivia the concept of integration does not mean merely establishing a policy of no tariff barriers, of economic co-operation and increase of trade. The enterprise should be more ambitious: seek to establish the political, economic and cultural machinery that will create the great American homeland of which Bolivar dreamed.
42.	Until recently my country lived under the unjust system of a dual society: on the one hand, the exploited and illiterate majority, totally alienated from civilization and the most elementary benefits of progress; on the other, a feudal oligarchy, which had all the privileges, wielded political and economic power and was insensitive to the suffering and poverty of the people.
43.	The Bolivian revolution was directed against that system of oppression and injustice. We have instituted agrarian reform, the tin mines have been nationalized, we have decreed that we shall have sovereignty over our natural strategic resources, and the rural worker has been enabled to participate in the political life of the country.
44.	However, some of these achievements for example, agrarian reform were for a long time stratified in the mere distribution of titles to land. Now the Government of the Armed Forces is establishing, within the process of the continuity of the Bolivian revolution, the modern bases for farming and animal husbandry and the agricultural industry.
45.	To that must be added our policy of establishing agricultural co-operatives and engaging in rural education, an endeavor without precedent in the life of the Republic.
46.	Thus, structural changes of major importance are taking place in Bolivia. The Bolivian revolution continues as a vanguard in Latin America of the processes of liberation.
47.	I represent a Government whose legitimacy is demonstrated through the militant support of the majority of the national community. That support, which is reflected in political stability, in social peace, in internal order, in constructive work, makes it possible for the people freely to express themselves and to demonstrate their best talents and aptitudes.
48.	Bolivia, as we have already said on various occasions, guarantees that everyone can express himself fully and in any way he desires. With the strength it has gathered from the past and the energy it has at present, its desire is to ensure that every Bolivian can work, produce, study and fulfill his material and spiritual aspirations.
49.	The Government of Bolivia is the political expression of broad national agreement. It enjoys the active participation of all elements of society, and mainly of the professionals and the rural and other workers. The armed forces of our nation are the pivot of the system, of the new model, through its historical training in uniting and mobilizing the entire population for the good of the country and for the benefit of development.
50.	In various countries of America and the rest of the world where the expression of national sentiment is a slow, laborious process, it seems that the optimum conditions for the practice of an ideal democracy have not been achieved. My country too has been suffering from this institutional crisis, largely because of the eruption of new factors such as our burning need for housing, education, good health conditions and work.
51.	In Bolivia the armed forces, representing the most faithful expression of our nationhood, have assumed political responsibility, aware that their function cannot be limited to military activity and faced ■with the lack of structures capable of overcoming the deep crisis of transition in the world and especially on the American continent.
52.	In view of the burning need to reassess our social objectives, we are revamping our constitutional life. This is, as it were, a parenthesis, in the course of which we intend to strengthen our institutions and make them more rational. Our position exceeds the bounds of the traditional framework. It is a question of doing away with anachronisms and adapting the new system of national aspiration to the real fulfillment of the expectations of the majority. The development of this process will lead us on the path of pluralistic and effective democracy, the path we have chosen.
53.	We have acted in full awareness of the difficulties and dangers that the armed forces must face in undertaking these great social changes. The task of giving the dispossessed their rights again, without falling into demagogy, abuse or despotism, is an open challenge to powerful interests. It arouses the impatience of certain elements with those who want to overcome chronic poverty,
54.	In a country like Bolivia, with deep structural imbalances and insufficient institutional cohesion  a situation similar in many ways to that existing in the newly established States it is not easy to channel in a rational and peaceful way all the forces of compulsion that are typical of peoples acutely desiring liberation. To correct these imbalances and direct the peoples towards these pre-established objectives of effective democracy, we must inevitably adopt new standards of conduct and there must be a firm political will.
55.	Any step towards change and accelerated development almost always has its price. The important thing is to be aware of its real value and to make the means to attain those changes as perfect as possible so that the benefits do not represent too onerous a burden on the weakest layers of the population, precisely those whom we are trying to help.
56.	The burning problem of our time is the deep imbalances dividing contemporary society, a problem that is affecting an ever greater number of people in the world. The universalism that we seek is designed precisely to find a solution to that situation.
57.	In the face of the set and inevitable attitudes of the great centers of economic power, developing countries are in duty bound to establish their own action fronts to interact jointly, as far as possible in a spirit of conciliation and co-operation, with those centers of power. What we must do is achieve that new order in which the situations created in a divided and stratified world whose consequences we still feel will not be repeated.
58.	Ideologically, our nationalism is revolutionary, humanistic and Christian. We have established a pluralistic democracy which allows free expression of ideas, initiatives and attitudes, within the framework of the general debates of the nation. Until very recently, democracy in its accepted sense was a myth which perpetuated the power of the dominating minorities.
59.	This is no longer the case in the Bolivian revolution. In order that the people may become an active factor in development, history requires the broadest popular participation and a rapid increase in and a better distribution of wealth. Only thus can not only well-being and equality of opportunity but also the means to develop fully be ensured.
60.	Internationally, my Government is in favor of maintaining diplomatic relations with all countries in the world subject to one condition only, namely, that these countries respect our sovereignty and our culture.
61.	The Bolivian revolution is defined as an authentically nationalistic movement against imperialism, racial discrimination, colonialism and neo-colonialism in all their forms and manifestations.
62.	With the support of all Bolivians, the armed forces of my country have assumed a heavy responsibility before history. This has doubtless been their most important decision but one worthy of their sacrifice, their ability, their abnegation and patriotism. In view of the civic maturity and the social awareness of their members, they are competent to be the protagonists in the present stage of structural transformations.
63.	There is unity and identification around my Government, especially with regard to the great national objectives which are, among others, security, development and renewed access to the sea.
64.	The unity which tacitly has been consolidated around the armed forces increases, as never before, the capacity of my people to carry out its fundamental tasks. In the recent past, because of the limited political sphere or due to the confusion created by past conditions, such tasks were not carried out in good time.
65.	Convinced of the magnitude of the challenge, our revolution has taken the most direct and expeditious way to narrow the gap between the Bolivian reality and the highest levels attained by the most developed societies.
66.	In the five-year plan that we have drawn up, it is contemplated that Bolivia will double its wealth. Concurrently with the economic growth that broadens social well-being and the cultural level of the people, we are processing raw materials; we are speeding up literacy programs; we are integrating the population in conditions of respect and conciliation among the various traditional cultures.
67.	Our goal is to integrate the nation spiritually, physically and demographically. By encouraging the traditional communities of a secular organization, we want the peasant to develop his initiative within his own sphere. By his support, channeled through the civic action programs of the armed forces, we shall urbanize the rural areas. We are implementing a vast plan of road communication. Our extensive water resources will provide a source of energy for a vast rural electrification plan which will transform agriculture and raise the standard of living of the peasants.
68.	I believe that the best resource of a people is its human capital; therefore, we have begun a difficult and long campaign to eradicate the manufacture, traffic and use of drugs. In this task, we require the co-operation of all nations and institutions to combat the traffic of drugs because the criminal extension of this traffic affects all countries in the world.
69.	Bolivia will spare no effort to attain this goal. From this high rostrum, as the President of my country, I fervently appeal for international co-operation to protect the moral and physical health of youth all over the world.
70.	On this occasion I should like to refer to Bolivia's support of the solution of international disputes by peaceful means.
71.	Consistent with this principle, the Inter-American Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Rio de Janeiro in 1965, sponsored a resolution which applauded the decision of the United States of America to review 
the treaty which Panama signed with regard to the Canal Zone.
72.	Faithful to this principle, we consider it a duty of American solidarity to declare that we fervently hope that, in keeping with the mutual interests of both countries the Canal Zone problem will soon be settled satisfactorily in favor of the rights and sovereignty of the brother Panamanian people.
73.	I have ventured to outline some of the broad policies of the nationalist Government which I represent.
74.	On the basis of these objectives and the realization of these great ideals, I have entered into an irrevocable commitment with my people: to return to Bolivia its sea, the sea it had when it started life as an independent, free and sovereign State.
75.	Powerful reasons prompt us to seek this goal. The integration advocated today, an integration without access to the sea, is for Bolivia a process of dependency which hampers, delays and stifles its full development.
76.	This very situation is recognized as a phenomenon affecting all nations and, in our case, landlocked as we are by force of circumstance, is one of exploitation and subjection.
77.	Our sovereignty, as indeed the sovereignty of all land-locked countries, is hampered in its free exercise by having to pay levies for conditional transit which is tantamount to subjection, however free that subjection may seem.
78.	It is well known that my country suspended its diplomatic relations with Chile for over 12 years. This was due to the fact that Chile made unilateral use of the international waters of the Lauca River. Both countries reached an impasse, a vicious circle which prevented them from coming to a healthy understanding which would have served the higher interests of both countries.
79.	Bolivia maintained that it would not resume its relations with the Government of Santiago if it did not obtain, together with compensation for the diversion of the Lauca river, a means of access to the Pacific coast. Chile, in turn, stated that it would resume its relations with Bolivia only without preconditions, the sole basis which would permit the opening of a dialog for discussion of the Bolivian proposals.
80.	I understood that such a state of affairs could not continue and that the time had come for Bolivia once more to prove its readiness for a dialog to reach a common understanding. Thus after my talks at Charana with the President of Chile, on my initiative, we decided to resume our relations with the express purpose of studying at government level the need for us to have our maritime legacy restored to us. I must definitely state that I found brotherly understanding on the part of Mr. Augusto Pinochet, and a firm determination to deal resolutely with this great and historic question.
81.	Thanks to the exchange of ambassadors, which has enabled us to open an active fruitful dialog, it has been possible for my Government to make a formal proposal to the Government of Chile, in which the Bolivian people places its dearest hopes.
82.	It could not be otherwise. I am certain that the Chilean President will respond positively to my sincere and constructive concern as my country's President.
83.	This world assembly has heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Chile state:
"The exchange of ambassadors has made possible the establishment of a direct and active dialog for the purpose of analyzing the wishes of each country, including Bolivia's wish to obtain a sovereign outlet to the sea supplementing the free transit facilities it currently enjoys." [2376th meeting, para. 263.]
84.	While quoting the views in echoing the ideas voiced by the Government of Chile through its Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Patricio Carvajal, 1 must also recall the resolution adopted by the Organization of American States at its fourth regular session, held in April 1975 at Atlanta, Georgia, assuring my country of the desire to amend the situation.
85.	The peoples of Latin America subsequently endorsed this desire in the historic Declaration of Ayacucho, signed at Lima on 9 December 1974 [see Al10044, annex], in which it was openly and objectively recognized that one of the problems affecting America, Bolivia's lack of access to the sea, deserved the closest general consideration.
86.	I should like to state, in the spirit of the Americas that governs the fair play of our negotiation with Chile, that I fully share Foreign Minister Carvajal's confidence that "... the good will prevailing within the Governments of Chile and Bolivia will enable us to achieve realistic and final agreements" [2376th meeting, para. 264],
87.	Those agreements, anxiously awaited by the Bolivian people and, I venture to hope, by all the peoples of our wonderful Latin American world  will have to be crystallized very soon, however lengthy the investigations needed, and however many meetings are required.
88.	The solution of great problems which affect the harmony and the peace of America cannot be postponed indefinitely. We must state frankly that there can be no playing with human hopes, with the hopes of an entire people.
89.	From this rostrum, in this universal forum, I want to state before the world that Bolivia is awaiting Chile's response to its proposals. Let us repeat emphatically: that those proposals have nothing to do with the right of transit deriving from our land-locked position, but are directed to a basic solution, final and comprehensive, that will give us our own free and sovereign access to the sea, naturally and geographically contiguous with our territory.
90.	Moreover, statesmen and other distinguished Latin Americans, and inter-American legal and cultural organizations have, in a praiseworthy manner, fully agreed with Bolivia's right to access to the sea. For all those manifestations of support essentially spontaneous, since my Government has not attempted to convert others to its convictions I must express deep gratitude on behalf of my people, since it is rare in our world to find such outstanding champions of justice.
91.	Only thus will permanent justice and peace in America be attained; only thus shall we be able to dispel the concerns of all those sister countries, which, as I said earlier, have assumed the cause of restoring Bolivia's access to the sea as though it were one of their own fundamental problems.
92.	From this high rostrum of human solidarity, in this hour of great change when justice must prevail, I bear witness before the world of the noble, democratic and peaceful efforts Bolivia is making to regain, after almost a century, the access to the sea which is rightfully ours, and that we so sorely need to communicate and trade with the rest of mankind.



===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
It is a true honor for me to speak on behalf of Bolivia from this, the most lofty platform of the international community. The United Nations General Assembly is the universal parliament par excellence and in accordance with the principle of universality, there coexist in this Assembly nations which, like mine, advocate peace, proclaim brotherly cooperation, support integral and shared development and favor equality and solidarity in international relations. In this context, we must assume fully the inescapable commitment to work resolutely for a future of security and hope for all peoples.
103.	Many are the items to which we must devote our attention at the current session. Their number and importance is obviously in keeping with the most disquieting problems of contemporary life.
104.	Before giving the views of Bolivia on a number of these items, which concern not only my country but the international community as a whole, I should like, on behalf of the Government and people of Bolivia, to convey the most cordial greetings to the delegations present here and, in particular, to the President of this Assembly, the distinguished statesman from Sri Lanka, Mr. Hamilton Amerasinghe.
105.	Similarly, I should like to convey our appreciation to the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, Mr. Gaston Thorn, for his able conduct of our deliberations during the last General Assembly.	
106.	May I also, at the same time, pay a tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, for his unswerving dedication to peace and understanding throughout the world.
107.	Bolivia is likewise happy to extend a warm welcome to the State of Seychelles, which has joined our Organization as a Member, thus strengthening the faith of all peoples in the United Nations.
108.	It is clear that since the adoption of the San Francisco Charter new realities have emerged. The principles it incorporated 31 years ago, however, still retain their full validity. For this reason, the Government of Bolivia wishes to reiterate its respect for the norms of civilized coexistence, which must be decisively strengthened as a foundation for the great edifice of peace, security and development.
109.	We wish to maintain our support of the postulate of universality in international relations. In rejecting foreign interference and intervention in all its forms, we recognize the legitimate right of peoples to choose their own means for the achievement of their national destiny.
110.	We belong to a society characterized by diversity; our desire for solidarity with all States is bounded only by respect for our sovereignty and for the loyal interdependence that characterizes our times.
111.	Plurality mast undoubtedly be interpreted as the result of the observance of the principles of non-intervention, self-determination and juridical equality among nations. Otherwise, we would fall into the historic error of seeking to achieve unity by following the course of divergency.
112.	It is my Government's view that, for the full exercise of these lofty principles, there must be absolute respect for human dignity and condemnation of any discriminatory practices. We therefore reaffirm our support of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination.
113.	The classical tension produced by the desire for predominance of the great Powers has relaxed as a result of the constant action of this august body, since such attitudes do not represent the constructive contribution that mankind expects for development untrammeled by the fear and uncertainty.
114.	World tension, however, still exists and today assumes different features that are equally dangerous for the maintenance of peace and that stem from the imbalances to be covered in the general picture of international economic relations.
115.	I firmly repeat that we shall not achieve the society of well-being to which we aspire if conditions prevail that allow the prosperity of the wealthier nations to become a threat of greater poverty and dependency to the developing countries. This is one of the major concerns I feel should be sincerely expressed at this time.
116.	Hie task of consolidating a democratic international order entails the need to effect the historic task of eliminating injustices from economic relations, a matter of paramount importance alluded to by His Excellency, the President of Bolivia, General Hugo Banzer Suarez, last year in this same Assembly. 
117.	The developing countries advocate the establishment in this era of interdependence of political and juridical instruments enabling them to participate effectively in economic decision-making.
118.	Any refusal or attempt to limit the right and the responsibility of our countries to participate in the establishment of a new international economic order could give rise to new and prolonged tension which might endanger peace and security.
119.	The concept of that new order should unquestionably be based on the resolute political will of all countries-large and small, rich and poor- to achieve the goals set in the different spheres of co-operation, because nothing will have been gained if, despite the commitments assumed in different international forums, some industrialized nations continue to give piecemeal and reluctant co-operation to the detriment of the economy of the less favored nations where poverty is rampant.
120.	In the field of trade we are, it is true, endeavoring to remove a series of obstacles preventing access of products from the developing countries to the markets of the economically powerful nations on satisfactory conditions. Regrettably, it is equally true that, while we use our imagination and our acts to endeavor to overcome these difficulties, new restrictions are being created at the same time.
121.	In practice, this simply transmutes in different ways the negative effects that it was intended to eliminate. Thus equitable participation by the developing countries in the expansion of world trade is prevented.
122.	Such policies cause damage of unforeseeable con-sequences to those nations that are desperately trying to obtain the well-being to which their peoples are legitimately entitled.
123.	I must point out that such difficulties greatly weaken the will for world co-operation and destroy faith in the establishment of a future forged in solidarity and justice.
124.	One of the questions that has caused the greatest concern is that relating to the prices of raw materials and stability in the supply of such products.
125.	It is desirable, in respect of this very pertinent matter, to adopt equitable criteria in order to determine truly fair and just levels for the prices of primary commodities. A strongly subjective factor comes into play here. For the highly developed countries, just and fair prices tend to be those which improve their already abundant economies. For the developing countries, remunerative prices can be none other than those which guarantee effective margins of earnings from their exports. Only thus can they give the necessary impulse to their industrialization process.
126.	We mention these facts because they are the premise of the ideal goal of raw material producers' associations. We believe that these associations pursue the objectives I have mentioned and not that of confrontation, as some would have us believe-an attitude not shared by my country, since we know that thus we would only increase tension and imbalances.
127.	Quite to the contrary, we hope that through frank, direct and equable dialog between producers and consumers it will be possible for large and small countries to reconcile their mutual interests.
128.	For Bolivia this question is of paramount importance because our export earnings depend on the stability of the prices of commodities and internationally guaranteed levels of remuneration. Consequently, we believe that the disruption produced in world trade by the dumping of strategic reserves practiced periodically by some States constitutes a policy alien to the spirit of co-operation underlying the objectives implicit in the achievement of collective eco¬nomic security.
129.	In this context Bolivia propounds the effective adoption of a bilateral or multilateral consultative system capable of preventing adverse and disrupting effects for the developing countries, whose economies depend on their exports of primary commodities and raw materials.
130.	In keeping with the statement made by the delegation of Bolivia from this same rostrum during the twenty-ninth General Assembly,  I wish to reiterate that my country is still convinced of the need to establish within the appropriate organs of the United Nations automatic mechanisms for linking and adjusting the prices of the commodities exported by the developing countries with the manufactures produced by the industrialized countries. Thus we would prevent the continued erosion of the true value of exports from the developing countries and would lay the bases for the replacement of confrontation between producers and consumers by dialog.
131.	While it is true that the fourth session of UNCTAD did not yield the expected positive results, partly because of the reticent attitude of some of the developed countries, it is desirable to recognize the significance of the resolution relating to an integrated program for primary commodities which was adopted by the Conference  and which has led to the establishment of a primary commodity stabilization fund of great interest to the economically disadvantaged countries. The implementation of the program will make it possible to introduce rational elements in this very sensitive aspect of international economic relations, such as the aforesaid primary commodity trade.
132.	It is also desirable to point out the adoption within the framework of the United Nations of a normative system for the establishment of appropriate bodies to ensure access by our countries to technology, which is a basic requirement if we are to overcome the obstacles of underdevelopment.
133.	May we also say that we adhere to the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States [resolution 3281 (XXIX)], which was strengthened by the adoption of the Program of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order [resolution 3202 (S-VI)].
134.	We also hope that the set of principles and measures set forth in those instruments will make possible in a period of time meeting the expectations of the developing countries the reversal of the existing imbalances as a result of which the indebtedness in the balance of payments of the peripheral countries has grown enormously in the last biennium.
135.	We would have nothing to add to the statements already made in favor of the harmonious and integral development of peoples.
136.	The principles have been laid down; we have the appropriate mechanisms. All we need is resolute political decision to implement them, and this is the fundamental question on which we should focus all our attention.
137.	However not all the disruptive factors are to be found in the area of economic requirements. There are other situations to which we must also devote our special attention.
138.	We cannot remain impassive observers of the conflicts that are localized in different regions of the world and in respect of which there appears to be no solution in the offing.
139.	At a time in which awe-inspiring advances are made in the conquest of outer space, the formidable creative potential of human intelligence cannot resign itself to accept the idea that armed and fratricidal confrontation is the only alternative to the situations that divide us.
140.	There is an imperative need to strengthen the will for conciliation of conflicting interests. I therefore believe that it is our inescapable duty to address an appeal to those parties that have assumed attitudes of confrontation so that they may exercise tolerance and bend every effort to find rapid solutions through peaceful means.
141.	We also appeal to the spirit of co-operation of those States which, by reason of their size, bear the greatest responsibility in this area, so that they may try to prevent, by every possible means, the search for independence or political controversies becoming the arena of the most acute ideological antagonisms. Mankind would highly appreciate those noble demonstrations of concession for the sake of peace.
142.	Consistent with these views we honor those who, imbued with a spirit of understanding, have decided to tackle their problems jointly while sharing responsibilities. 
143.	That is the clear-cut and categorical response that mankind needs if it is to go forward along the path of constant improvement.
144.	We sincerely hope that this attitude will prevail in contemporary international relations, and in particular in the inter-American community, thus strengthening the bonds of lasting friendship in the regional area to which Bolivia belongs.
145.	Consequently we view with pleasure the pursuance of negotiations in this direction under such enlightened leadership between the Republic of Panama and the United States of America on the Canal question and express our wishes for their happy conclusion.
146.	Bolivia wishes to reiterate its repudiation of violence whether it assumes the form of armed or covert aggression.
147.	Terrorism has caused many victims and its dark threat which knows no boundaries hangs over us all in an increasingly alarming manner.
148.	This escalation of irrational, systematized violence cannot be a valid means on which to base the legitimacy of any claim, be it political, economic or social.
149.	It is the pressing duty of the international com¬munity to agree on the most effective means of eradicating the proliferation of these practices, which offend the conscience of civilized man, which ought to be the guide of our times.
150.	In this connexion we give our firm support to the initiative on this question taken by the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany [AI31I242J.
151.	I cannot but mention the serious concern of my country at the staggering upward trend of the arms race. We see with profound discouragement that, compared with the very modest progress of negotiations on the limitation of strategic weapons, we are now astounded by the announcement that military and' weaponry expenditures have exceeded in 1975 the figure of $300 billion.
152.	It is difficult to understand that while gigantic resources are earmarked for the manufacture of some weapons and the development of others which are capable of changing our earth's environment and even of exterminating our species, the execution of work which would lead to progress is stopped or limited because of insufficient financing.
153.	What is more, the arms escalation has extended.to developing countries, a fact which exposes certain areas, including the American continent, to the possibility of becoming hotbeds of tension, as a result of which the aspirations of their inhabitants, who seek to achieve minimum levels of well-being consonant with the dignity and worth of the human person, will be postponed.
154.	At the beginning of my statement, I said that it was the inalienable right of peoples to choose the means most in keeping with their historic traditions to achieve their aspirations.
155.	For this reason, the Nationalist Government of Bolivia, presided over by General Hugo Banzer Suarez, as the authentic interpreter of the feelings and desires of our people, proposed to Bolivia in 1971 an all-important historical option.
156.	Five years of fruitful government in my country have shown that only through order, unity, social peace, political stability and institutional continuity is it possible to lay the foundations for speedy and comprehensive national development.
157.	The President of Bolivia, at the thirtieth session of the General Assembly, elaborated on the results and prospects of the work of his Government, which has the backing of a broad national consensus of all Bolivia's nationals.
158.	This great Assembly, which is concerned with all matters relating to the consolidation of peace and security and the removal of obstacles, to growing co-operation among peoples, is well aware of heritage need of my country to be once again linked to the sea by means of free and sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean.
159.	In order to attain the most fundamental objective of the Bolivian nation and in conformity with our conviction that major solutions can only be achieved through frank and constructive dialog, last year we opened diplomatic negotiations with the Republic of Chile-negotiations which have now assumed the greatest historical significance.
160.	The President of Bolivia, General Hugo Banzer Suarez, as a statesman who wishes to make a personal and direct contribution to the establishment of harmonious international coexistence based on real justice and solidarity and bearing in mind that Bolivia's maritime cause is closely connected with the prevalence of those ideals, informed the last session of the General Assembly of the scope of the present negotiations, based on the Bolivian proposal for peace, development and integration.
161.	We wish to go on record as stating that the raison d'etre of that formula is based on Bolivia's decision to regain access to the sea in full sovereignty, contributing to the harmonious coexistence of neighboring nations, and to this end it had chosen the instrument of dialog and the search for a shared development in order to achieve its aim of achieving access to the southern Pacific.
162.	Bolivia's land-locked position has detracted from the effectiveness of internal efforts to promote its economic, social and cultural development and limited its participation in Latin American integration processes.
163.	The negotiations designed to resolve the problem of my country's geographical encirclement are going forward under the auspices of America, as was decided at Atlanta and Ayacucho. They are at the same time supported by the conviction of world public opinion that the building of a sound future must be based on a common determination to achieve equanimity and justice.
164.	The perpetuation of situations that are not in keeping with these principles would mean abandoning the constant moral values of the international community.
165.	For all these reasons, and because the legitimacy of Bolivia's maritime cause is clear and a spirit of broad understanding must prevail among the parties involved, we shall continue steadfastly along the path that will lead to the total solution which we are advocating. In this way, the sovereign return of Bolivia to the Pacific Ocean will, through the completion of the dialog currently in progress, become a tangible reality.
166.	Bolivia is participating with great determination in making its utmost contribution to the efforts to achieve this goal, which will be an enduring example of what can be done in the Americas through a firm and brotherly will to reach understanding. It is also doing so because this undertaking is of such importance that it requires full support and because it will arouse the confidence of all Latin Americans in their common destiny.
167.	My country and my people have high hopes of the negotiations under way, which have aroused the expectations of the whole continent and the whole world.
168.	Our action is inspired by the ideals proclaimed by the world Organization and it is on this account that my Government has entrusted me with the pleasant task, which I now perform, of conveying a message of friendship and support to all the peoples represented in this forum of nations which aspire to live in a climate of peace, stability, international justice and close human solidarity.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿233.	 To bring Bolivia's voice once again to the
General Assembly of the United Nations, this universal parliament of historic dimensions where the problems and concerns of the world are discussed, is a great honour and an opportunity to reaffirm my country's support for the basic tenets of our Organization. Solidarity, equality, fraternal collaboration, justice and the defence of peace are basic rules which guide our country in its conduct in international relations.
234.	We would also like to emphasize our country's spirit of hope. We wish to make a definite contribution towards realizing the aims of the international community in bringing about a better future for mankind. Our contribution in this world forum will bear the stamp of co-operation and solidarity. Our work is aimed towards ensuring that justice and peace prevail in an increasingly interdependent world.
235.	In my statement in this general debate, I wish to express the thanks and congratulations of the Government of Bolivia to Mr. Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe, who, at an important stage of our work, chaired the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and the thirty-first session of the General Assembly.
236.	Also on behalf of my country I wish to welcome the President of the thirty-second session of the General Assembly, Mr. Lazar Mojsov, whose election fully guarantees that our deliberations will lead to a constructive dialogue.
237.	My Government once again wishes to compliment the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, on his work in support of peace and understanding in the world. His devotion has earned the appreciation of the international community.
238.	On behalf of the Republic of Bolivia, I wish to welcome the countries that have recently become Members of the United Nations. We know that they will join with us in our efforts to achieve the objectives of our Organization. The admission to membership of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam and Djibouti means that we are continuing towards the goal of the universality of our Organization, which Bolivia fervently supports.
239.	We are convinced that one of the great achievements of the international community is the dialogue that the General Assembly has made possible. Here we have discussed the most critical problems of the world, we have considered the aspirations of the peoples of the world and we have tried to bring about a world in which we can live together in security, peace and co-operation. On this occasion we are faced with problems of differing magnitude and urgency, and our will for an understanding must be unflagging and in keeping with the principles which for the past 32 years have remained unchanged. Those principles are our chosen weapons in trying to bring about a less tormented future.
240.	We are particularly concerned over one problem that troubles the entire world. The policy of racial discrimination and apartheid is an offence against our sense of justice. Its continuation makes it difficult for us to consider that the international community has brought about human solidarity and a high level of civilization. Hence we believe that the struggle for liberation which various peoples have been waging in an attempt to bring about genuine independence and nationhood is closely related to the universal struggle here to set aside practices of intolerance. Bolivia has traditionally supported these efforts.
241.	The problems which arise from those policies take many forms. For that reason we should like to make special mention of resolution 1514 (XV), which stresses the principle of the self-determination of peoples. In a vast area of the world, efforts to bring about self-determination also mean the fight against racial discrimination.
242.	We also wish to express our concern over the conflict in the Middle East. The lack of a settlement there endangers peace not only in that area but in the entire world. For that reason Bolivia wishes to reiterate its support for Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), which laid down the basic and adequate guidelines for a permanent peace, taking into account the interests of all those involved in the conflict. The return of occupied territory, the acceptance of the rights of the peoples of that area and recognition of the existence of all the States involved in the conflict are fundamental factors for a just and final settlement.
243.	In keeping with our peace-loving traditions and our inclination to support dialogue, we believe that a delegation of Palestinian people must also participate in the Geneva Conference seeking a realistic solution of the problem of the Middle East. Only thus will all voices be heard, all rights accepted and all aspirations taken into account, so that there can be brought in the region an atmosphere of peace and civilized understanding.
244.	Once again, with great regret, we must draw attention to the turn that the arms race has taken. Weapons of mass destruction have gone beyond what we can conceive, and, what is also very serious, their proliferation has consumed resources to the detriment of the expectations of developing peoples for progress and higher standards of living. This is a concern of long standing, but it remains crucial.
245.	I should like to reiterate our alarm at the fact that the arms race has extended to some less developed countries and thus has converted certain areas, including the American continent, into hotbeds of tension. The arms race must be replaced by a world-wide commitment not to use force in international relations. At this stage of civilization, it is incomprehensible that mankind can reject dialogue and understanding in favour of regressive positions based on destruction and death. A commitment to reject force, which could take the form of a historic treaty for mankind, would gain our full support. For that reason we support the proposal that a world disarmament conference should ban the use of environmental modification techniques for military or other hostile purposes, such as already agreed at the thirty-first session of the General Assembly.
246.	My country's love of peace and humanitarian feelings prompts us to reiterate our concern over the problem of terrorism, which we regard as one form of violation of human rights. Indeed I wish to say that this escalation of irrational and systematized violence cannot be considered a valid means of making legitimate any political, economic or social claims. The anguish of world public opinion over innocent victims of terrorist practices should move the international community to seek machinery not only to punish those who use those ignoble weapons but also to prevent acts which offend mankind's deepest feelings in this second half of the twentieth century.
247.	We are concerned not only over the fact that human rights are brutally violated by terrorist actions; we are also concerned over any other use of force, practice or method which hinders the full self-realization of man, limits his freedom or prevents his access to well-being, security or the fruits of progress. This conviction and Bolivia's active participation in efforts to protect human dignity have prompted us to become a sponsor of the proposal for the establishment of one of the most important posts the United Nations -could offer the world in this area: that of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
248.	In Latin America, we are convinced that there is now a growing awareness of the need for our part of the world to participate in the settlement of conflicts and world-wide problems. Latin America has begun recently to project a more unified image, one which arises from similar origins, hopes and historical experiences.
249.	The gradual integration of Latin America not only has been aimed at broadening markets and economic understanding but also, little by little, it has been creating a genuine political solidarity, which will make possible consistent unified action in international affairs. It is true that the final goal has not yet been achieved. But it is also true that there is the conviction that the role which Latin American countries must play in the solution of problems affecting mankind must be a very important one.
250.	Latin American efforts to unify the action of the countries of our group, have been traditional efforts. We have tried to perfect a world system that would ensure peace, understanding and co-operation. Thus, in the Security Council, we have always tried, through a concerted policy, to achieve higher levels of progress and eliminate any situation which might undermine the just aspirations of the peoples of the world.
251.	In the interests of that form of co-ordination in particular, Bolivia, two years ago, withdrew its candidacy in the Security Council for the present two-year period, in favour of another Latin American country. We were convinced that by contributing in this way to inter- American unity we were thus winning full support for our claim at the thirty-second session of the General Assembly from our group and from all countries in this Organization. The election of Bolivia to the Security Council would be further proof of Latin American unity, since there can be no rift in a homogeneous region without the risk of a loss of cohesiveness.
252.	On- another subject, Latin America, together with the other countries of the third world, wishes to see industrialization gradually eliminating the causes of dependence. We are aware that if that is to take place, we must agree to eliminate the most important factors in economic dependence. In this area, I should like to state that among the matters that have caused the greatest concern are the prices of raw materials and stability in the supply of raw materials.
253.	For those reasons, we attribute special importance to the Conference on International Economic Co-operation. We see it as a real attempt to establish a new order in this field. Although the North-South dialogue did not achieve certain fundamental goals, it did have certain positive aspects: to wit, the reaffirmation of the integrated programme for commodities and the agreement to create a common financing fund, in addition to other measures which will become increasingly important in the future as we try to satisfy the interests of all nations.
254.	Furthermore, the very fact that the North-South dialogue was transferred to the United Nations framework is a significant step because it brings into the world Organization one of the dramatic problems of relations between the developed world and less favoured nations. This forum had always been intended as the place where conflicting positions could be resolved and an understanding reached.
255.	As I already stated, Latin America shares its concerns with other countries belonging to the third world. Bolivia in particular agrees with the important conclusions which have been reached by various countries in the non-aligned movement and, in particular, we concur in the discontent with the present situation in international economic affairs and with the decision to develop financial and monetary co-operation among all countries which have been adversely affected by that international economic order which we consider unjust and which we want replaced by a more equitable system.
256.	In the political arena, Latin America has to its credit one of the most important achievements in the solution of one of the more important problems affecting our continent. Thus it has been that the formulation of new treaties relating to the Panama Canal, based on sovereignty, mutual respect and international justice, is undeniable proof that there are no problems which cannot be settled provided the parties involved in any difference of opinion or unjust situation show a sincere and clear political will.
257.	The spirit which has prevailed between Panama and the United States is a triumph of understanding and a reaffirmation of the fact that there is no hurdle which cannot be cleared, that there is no difficulty which cannot be removed.
258.	Our natural satisfaction at the settlement of this problem, which closely affects countries that are dear to us, makes it even clearer to us that other problems of equal importance deserve a similar treatment. We must approach them with a sense of justice, with a desire to bring about an understanding. When a genuine problem is satisfactorily settled, it benefits not only those who are directly affected but also the entire international community.
259.	Such matters must be settled taking into account historical and ethical factors which must be continuously borne in mind. Bolivia has had to deal with a problem which has of late become particularly dramatic, for it pertains to our relations with the rest of the countries of the world, which are now limited and have been for nearly a hundred years by the fact that we are hemmed in as a geographical enclave.
260.	We are convinced that dialogue is the supreme instrument for settling international disputes. My country has always shown a desire to reach understandings and to work for settlements that take its vital interests into account as we deal with the problem of our geographical confinement.
261.	The lapse of time has, of course, aroused a certain impatience but at the same time it has been a severe test of good faith in negotiations and in this task of bringing about a historical solution which will be an honour to all of America. We are convinced that our continent believes that the restoration to the Bolivian nation of an outlet to the sea is a matter which can no longer be postponed without jeopardizing our oft-proclaimed solidarity.
262.	If the unity of our continent means anything at all, it means that Bolivia's isolation limits the effectiveness of its internal efforts to promote economic and social development and limits its participation in the process of integration of Latin America.
263.	However, we shall take advantage of every means which may present itself. Furthermore, we are prepared to search for any way of facilitating a solution, but not one which would undermine that solution. The moral authority of the continent must not be adversely affected by lack of understanding. Bolivia's need for an outlet to the sea is a reality recognized by all America. And those who wish to satisfy that need must act soon so that the decisions of our countries will become a historical fact leading to the strengthening of justice, peace and co-operation in Latin America.
264.	We believe that any attitudes which disrupt the dialogue will not contribute effectively to the fair and dispassionate settlement of Bolivia's vital problem that its undeniable importance merits. likewise, matters must be clarified as much as possible in order to facilitate a viable settlement. Hence my Government is still waiting for Chile to obtain Peru's consent in order to open the way to a settlement that will meet the expectations of the Bolivian people and the requirements of justice in today's world.
265.	The United Nations cannot, in its universality, confine itself to problems which are considered acute crises of global dimensions. Nor can certain situations be dealt with superficially or indifferently, since, although they may seemingly be limited to only one region, they can have an effect on peace and the ideal of harmonious coexistence.
266.	The goal of solving Bolivia's problem of geographical isolation also warrants effective action by our world Organization. This would be in keeping with its duty to fulfil, without reservations, one of its primary responsibilities: that of improving relations among neighbouring countries.
267.	Bolivia's thinking, its efforts and its international position, in keeping with our desire for peace and co-operation, are being expressed at this time, when our country is engaged in the task of economic and social development. The Government of our country, presided over by H.E. General Don Hugo Banzer Suarez, faithfully reflects the accomplishments and just aspirations of the Bolivian people. The firm support of the main segments of our population, especially the support of the farmers and workers, attests to the popular and nationalist basis of the Bolivian Government.
268.	Development in my country is viewed as an instrument in the service of society. Our actions derive from a humanitarian, revolutionary and authentically Bolivian nationalism.
269.	For the past six years, the Government of Bolivia, thanks to political stability, social justice and collective effort, has made surprising progress in all spheres of national activity. This allows us to envisage a process of institutionalization of the country that will promote a national reorganization in keeping with the needs of the people and create an appropriate basis for progress towards the constitutionalization stage. This, in turn, will permit the Bolivian nation to consolidate its development in accordance with its new situation.
270.	May I conclude by expressing to those countries assembled here Bolivia's hope that we will realize our common aspiration to shape for mankind a destiny free of violence, based on understanding and exalted by justice.


===== Session 33 - 1978 =====
﻿






















335.	As a founding Member of the United Nations, Bolivia has from the beginning been identified with the ideals and purposes of this world Organization. Bolivia, a country that has experienced the vicissitudes which characterize the history of the countries of the third world, has maintained and continues to maintain effective solidarity with all peoples that struggle against colonialism, covert foreign exploitation, neo-colonialism, racial discrimination and its
most repulsive manifestation, the inhuman system of apartheid.
336.	Bolivia is, in fact, a non-aligned country. This is shown by its behaviour in defending the principles recognized by the international community and enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
337.	On behalf of my Government and of the delegation which I lead, I wish to extend my congratulations to that illustrious humanist, Indalecio Lievano, on his election to guide the work of this Assembly and to express my thanks to Mr. Lazar Mojsov for the tact with which he conducted the deliberations at the previous sessions. Similarly, I wish to convey the gratitude which we all owe to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, for the devotion with which he puts his exceptional intellectual gifts at the service of the United Nations.
338.	A new Member has joined this Assembly and I welcome Solomon Islands, freed from the darkness of colonial domination, to work with us for a better world.
339.	Bolivia, until now regarded rather negatively as a country with many contacts because of its situation in the centre of South America, is now something more since it emerges as a country of many attractions, such as catchments areas, communications systems and a system of economic integration which, if they are to gain strength and dynamism cannot, and must not, function without Bolivia which, despite its relative limitations, has great importance for the unity, peace and progress of the continent.
340.	Even countries outside the continent should consider these characteristics of Bolivia. In a world which is moving towards crisis because of the imbalance between population growth and the diminished production of food-stuffs and raw materials, Bolivia, if given the proper infrastructure, could be an exceptional provider and a centre of communications between north, south, east and west.
341.	The continental importance of Bolivia is also reflected in its problems. Among them is its geographical position as a land-locked country, which is the result of a war of conquest which led to an ominous period of 100 years of limited sovereignty and development and material and psychological harm.
342.	It would seem that, as if seeking to dispel that American nightmare and in order to awaken to a new century shining with honour and equity, the countries of Latin America, the United States and other countries throughout the world have given us support and a word of encouragement in our determination to recover the sea. I wish to take this opportunity at this rostrum to thank them on behalf of Bolivia and on behalf of America, because the Pacific conflict, which directly involves three countries, also affects the peace, integration and development of the entire continent.
343.	The ideal of understanding among countries must be accompanied by minimum conditions agreed to" by the parties in order to guarantee that it will not be left to the will of my one of them to make the decision with respect to fee goals and timing of the negotiating process.
344.	The Government of Bolivia began its dialogue with Chile prompted by goodwill and the desire for co-operation. Contrary to the historical imperative which demands reparations equivalent to the damage done, Bolivia agreed to negotiate on the problem and strive to find a solution to it by a new approach that would be free from the resentment and the offence that divide peoples; to search in a pragmatic manner free of any mental reservation for a kind of intellectual and emotional understanding which would not mean further sacrifice of the territorial heritage of Bolivia.
345.	Unfortunately, we did not meet with the same spirit on the part of Chile, and the Government of my country was forced to end the negotiations in the face of a rigid, arrogant and dilatory attitude.
346.	Bolivia has just emerged from a critical period in its hazardous democratic development. Dependency and under-development do not only affect the economy but also the political, cultural and social superstructure of the country.
347.	We have a legal electoral system under which everyone is entitled to vote, but we do not have that degree of culture which would mean that everyone is capable of voting with due independence and awareness. Every era has had its contradictions, and the present is no exception.
348.	The present Bolivian Government is unable-as indeed would be any other Government—to force the pace of cultural development and maturity. What it can do is eliminate the legal defects and the corrupt practices which sully elections. It will do so, and has invited all political forces to take part in drafting the new legal texts. It is our wish and our hope that this determination will be received with equal sincerity by all sectors taking part in the next elections. We want world public opinion here represented to be assured that in Bolivia there will be an electoral process which will not only be clean but will be independent of foreign pressure and outside funding, without observers who, because of their commitments, add partiality to the elections. .We want Bolivian elections for the Bolivians.
349.	President Juan Pereda Asbun is the standard-bearer of national unity and democracy. That is what he has said, and that is what he does. He wishes to infuse an element of justice into national unity, and to give democracy an objectivity which will make it possible to eradicate sectarianism and demagogy. His Government has abrogated all oppressive decrees concerning the state of siege, compulsory civil service and the law of state security. He has restored to regular justice it usual independence. He has re-established the effectiveness of the political Constitution, and consequently the right of trade union organization and assembly.
350.	The universities have been reopened and in complete sovereignty and independence, are electing their own authorities.
351.	Social security has just been set up for rural and farm workers in order to help the most populous sector. There will be real rural and farm workers on the Administrative
Council, thus carrying out the official promise to give the working classes participation in the steering and leadership bodies at the level of decision-making in State enterprises.
352.	The armed forces of Bolivia are drawn from the people and share their ideals of unity and support the patriotic intention to build a real democracy.
353.	The Council of Ministers is made up almost entirely of civilian representatives of major political forces.
354.	Bolivia observes the most strict respect for human rights. It has supported and will support any measures necessary to preserve those rights. Human rights are enshrined in the very heart of the community: rights to food, housing, clothing, health, education, security, trade union organization and political organization are inseparable. If the nation as a whole does not enjoy independence or prosperity, it will be difficult for it to guarantee a balance between sovereignty and freedom, between public order and discontent.
355.	While contempt for human rights is unpardonable in poor countries, it is even more so in the rich countries which do not respect those rights on their own soil and do not offer the conditions for them to flourish elsewhere. Hence the distant origin of contempt for human rights should be sought in the rich countries. A just and sincere respect for human rights cannot but be accompanied by an attitude on the part of the most powerful countries in the world that indicates their renunciation of relationships which consolidate the dependence of the periphery on the centre, in other words, an attitude that must yield to a new world economic order.
356.	The Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States Resolution 3281 (XXIX), together with the Declaration and Programme of Action designed to promote the establishment of an effective new international economic order (resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI)], must be translated into effective measures to reduce as soon as possible the tremendous economic differences existing between the various countries and that furthermore contribute to the accentuation of the inequalities within any given country.
357.	We have to create factors for development which make it possible for the low-income and medium-income countries to themselves meet the basic needs of their population without having recourse to paternalism, and therefore without being subjected to even greater dependence.
358.	Can the over-developed countries understand that their own stability is jeopardized if they do not help to create a new world economic order? There are indications of such an understanding, without doubt, but are they sufficiently encouraging?
359.	Bolivia is taking part in many programmes of action for economic co-operation among countries. It understands the special importance of co-operation among countries with the same level of under-development and little technology, which is linked to a greater need to use manpower and the meagre capacity for accumulating capital which characterizes such countries.
360.	Like other rather backward nations, Bolivia is experiencing anxiety and dissatisfaction and is expressing this in forums, conferences, congresses and assemblies. It spends considerable sums of money and creates a lot of documentation—as many other countries present here must also do—, but the benefits which it obtains from this are not commensurate with the efforts made. There is still a great gap between theory and practice.
361.	We cannot, nor do we wish to deny that we receive co-operation from American, Asian and European countries, which we really appreciate. Some programmes are programmes of support, but there are other very important programmes designed to change our economic structure and increase productivity, to find import substitutes and, what causes us the greatest concern, to increase exports, but to increase exports in terms of gainful trade free from distortions imposed by the central countries—sometimes those already mentioned-which in the trading process easily retain the majority of the profits generated with great difficulty and at great cost by the raw-material-producing countries.
362.	This happens in Bolivia, with an economy which is principally based on the export of minerals, the price of which is under pressure, both materially and psychologically, as a result of the presence of stocks built up during the Second World War to bolster a democracy which today is threatening to strangle us.
363.	Owing to the simple announcement in the House of Representatives of the United States of America of an authorization for the General Services Administration to put on the market part of 35,000 tons of tin from its strategic reserves, the price of tin has been radically affected because of the fear of a drop in the price such that Bolivia's economy will be adversely affected and its income reduced by something in the order of $20 million a year. How else can we describe that unilateral action of such a highly industrialized State towards a developing country except as economic aggression?
364.	A drop in income such as that diminishes the capability of the State to meet the needs of its people and, consequently, to provide for human rights. That is confirmed by the fact that the rich countries, which are always recommending respect for human rights, are those which cause the conditions that vitiate such rights.
365.	Because of Bolivia's experience in this matter, we maintain constant solidarity with the third-world countries that are defending their natural resources in order to benefit from them, to exploit them for their own peoples and to obtain from them remunerative prices that will enable them, using their own efforts, heritage and patrimony, to meet the development challenges.
366.	Generally speaking, the industrialized and financially powerful countries are not contributing, as it was hoped they would, to the over-all solution of serious economic problems that affect 80 percent of mankind. To try simply to amortize the effects of the present system they paralyse the process of negotiations, as happens in the case of the North-South dialogue.
367.	The rather discouraging results of such negotiations are showing that there is still a lack of political will on the part of the great Powers significantly to increase the net transfer of real resources to the developing countries; in other words, to give back to them the contribution that they made to the progress of the great Powers. Furthermore, at a time when countries' economies are being weakened by lack of such contributions, they need that help and assistance to progress and survive; otherwise the world situation will become more dangerous, and even explosive, resulting in internal crises that can make for a serious threat to peace throughout the world,
368.	We are sure of the importance of investments for countries with little internal savings. But we wish to reiterate that we categorically reject those practices of transnational corporations that have been described as corrupt in General Assembly resolution 3514 (XXX).
369.	Bolivia gives priority to studies being carried out within the Economic and Social Council for the elaboration of a code of conduct for such companies. Among the standards and regulations we attach greatest importance to those conditions which are of a binding nature and must be established for the transfer of technology.
370., Matters such as the breaking up of the technological package for the transfer of technology on advantageous terms for the developing countries, efficient international co-operation in adapting technology to the conditions peculiar to each country, and the development of intermediate technology must be regarded as of the highest priority - unless we want the gap between rich and poor countries to widen.
371.	The benefits that could be derived from efficient official co-operation disappear because they go back to the countries of origin, favouring transnational companies. Monetary devaluation, escalation in prices and, in general, the effects of the crises fell on the poor economies. Because of the rising cost of financing particularly that of financing technology, very often excessive external indebtedness overwhelms us. None the less, we are deliberately paying a high price for the need to give impetus to our development.
372.	Technology is a cultural asset accumulated throughout history. It is the outcome of the effort of mankind as a whole and, therefore, belongs to world patrimony. As such it should not be a subject of buying and selling. The United Nations should open a bank for the deposit of technology, available to as many countries as wish to use it for progress and peace.
373. In this same conviction, we are aware that the sea offers wealth that can be the common heritage of mankind. Therefore, Bolivia has taken part with special interest in various meetings of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. It is sure that the convention which is being drafted in that body will make it possible to have an equitable participation for land-locked and otherwise geographically disadvantaged States in the profits of the exclusive economic zone and the sea-bed, which has been described as the common heritage of mankind.
374.	Latin America viewed with satisfaction the ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) and it was my honour to sign it in Mexico on behalf of Bolivia. The denuclearisation of Latin America represents the first attempt at sanity and reasonableness in order to do away as soon as possible with a direct threat of nuclear war.
375.	Owing to the difficulty of creating useful instruments in favour of countries which do not have nuclear weapons, the international community has shown its fear for the power of potential destructiveness held by a few States and for the risk that faces all mankind because of those weapons.
376.	The recent special session devoted to disarmament did not help to resolve the problem. Meanwhile, local wars not only do not disappear but are multiplying. New areas of tension are emerging even in our America, so that stable, active and solid peace seems to be drifting away, causing even greater misfortune for mankind.
377.	There is also the persistently acute problem of the Middle East. We cannot but express our concern for the Arab territories which are still in Israel's possession as a result of armed conquest. We cannot but express also our concern for the just right of the Palestinian people to have a land in which to work for their own happiness; and we cannot but regret any difficulties and obstacles being placed in the way of Israel, as a member of the international community, being fully recognized as a State, something which should be achieved through co-operation in the praiseworthy attempt to give the Jewish people a sphere in which to have their own traditions, develop their own culture and forge their own progress. We express the wish that the Camp David agreements will finally result in a happy solution.
378.	We are also concerned at the liberation struggle of the African peoples. We have invariably expressed our support for the independence of Namibia and Zimbabwe. We want to see real self-determination for those peoples which are still struggling against racism and neo-colonialism, so that Africa can achieve full sovereignty and freedom.
379.	We are concerned also at the situation in Nicaragua. With the consensus of friendly countries we shall strive to re-establish peace, acting within the principles of the American regional system and the mandate of the United Nations Charter. But today our concern is even greater: the President of Costa Rica has denounced the violation of his country's territory. On behalf of Bolivia, I can do no less than strongly to condemn this fact.
380.	We, the underdeveloped peoples, view with anguish the fact that we do not always have the power to decide for ourselves between war and peace. But our fate is dependent on change—change which unfortunately cannot be discerned—of an industrial structure based on the manufacture of weapons and subject to unilateral decisions of the large countries.
381.	Whatever positive results may have been achieved by the special session devoted to disarmament have been eroded by the virtual veto of the major nuclear Powers,
since they arrogate to themselves the power to seek prior consensus on the five new members to be elected to make up the new Committee on Disarmament.
382.	We view with anguish and astonishment the increase in defence budgets year by year until they achieve fantastic proportions. Meanwhile, there are whole peoples in the world suffering from the scourge of famine and disease. Millions of children are condemned to death without having fully perceived the gift of life.
383.	Such a situation could be alleviated if the United Nations established machinery to prevent conflicts which threaten peace. Potential problems would be foreseen and controlled before crisis point was reached. The capacity of the Organization would be strengthened to examine cases which do not always come to the surface but which cause insecurity, that in turn inclines Governments to spend money, ill-advisedly, on the acquisition of weapons with resources that are indispensable for peaceful development.
384.	I should like to point out that, despite this armaments race and the extravagant sums spent on war materiel, Bolivia devotes 30 per cent of its budget to education at all levels.
385.	Unarmed and situated in the midst of mountains, barred from access to the Pacific as a result of usurpation imposed against every principle of civilized co-habitation, Bolivia feels all the more strongly the threat of an arms race which is ever increasing.
386.	The great Powers have the primary responsibility for creating the conditions necessary for the world to work in peace, without fear of total annihilation. At least part of the resources which are spent on the arms race—$400 billion every year-should be set aside for co-operation to overcome backwardness, poverty, misery, disease and ignorance.
387.	Those are our principles, which are reflected in our present international conduct. This year we have reaffirmed in the Security Council our faith in the human race and our conviction that all men have the right to well being and freedom.


===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿Mr. President, it is a unique privilege for me to be here at this rostrum from which outstanding personalities, Heads of Government and State from all parts of the world, have spoken.
81.	I am pleased to be the spokesman for the constitutional President of Bolivia, Mr. Walter Guevara Arze, one of the Bolivians most closely linked with the United Nations and therefore well aware of what this institution means for the maintenance of peace.
82.	The presence of Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim as President of the thirty-fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly has a dual and special meaning. First, as a worthy representative of Africa, he confirms the vigorous participation of that continent in the destiny of the United Nations. His country, the United Republic of Tanzania, has been acting with its own personality at the regional level. Secondly, Mr. Salim has been one of the outstanding factors in the struggle for decolonization as well as in the struggle to eliminate all forms of racial discrimination. As we welcome in your person the revitalizing action of the African continent, I should like to express to you, together with the full solidarity of the Government and people of Bolivia with the struggle being waged by the African countries, our satisfaction at seeing you occupy this high post. We must recognize, however, that in your case it is no more than an act of justice, the consequence of a long struggle lasting more than 10 years in favour of all the noble causes defended by our Organization.
83.	My delegation also wishes to pay a tribute of appreciation to the former President, Mr. Indalecio Lievano Aguirre, who guided the work of the General Assembly with the skill, sagacity and distinction typical of an outstanding politician and diplomat.
84.	The selfless work of the Secretary-General, Mr, Kurt Waldheim, in the delicate tasks entrusted to his responsibility, has won for him our most sincere gratitude.
85.	The delegation of Bolivia, on its own behalf and on behalf of the nations of Latin America, has already welcomed the most recent State Member of the United Nations. Now that Saint Lucia occupies its seat in the General Assembly, I should like to repeat my congratulations on its admission to membership. I am sure that Saint Lucia will finally be able to overcome the dead weight of its feudal past and join the efforts of the third world in trying to achieve a better destiny for its people.
86.	The year 1979 is a special year in the history of ray country. It is now 100 years that it has been geographically land-locked and the country has returned to constitutional rule after 10 years of de facto governments. On these matters there is a genuine national consensus which is expressed in the unswerving will to recover our sovereign access to the sea and to consolidate freedom and democracy in our country.
87.	One hundred years ago today, 8 October, on the bridge of the warship Huascar the Peruvian Admiral Miguel Grau made history in the battle waged in the Bolivian waters off Angamos during the Pacific war. In a respectful tribute to Eduardo Abaroa and the heroes who defended the countries victims of aggression, I should like to express a few thoughts on the consequences for the continent left by that unjust and unjustified conflict.
88.	Upon leaving Bolivia, Marshal Antonio Jose de Sucre, Bolivia's chief deputy, and one of the founding fathers of the American countries, left a written message which anticipated what would be the main task of the fledgling Republic. He said:
"I shall ask from the nation yet another recompense—to keep up the work I have started and maintain the integrity and independence of Bolivia against all dangers."
89.	The difficulties that were encountered in the implementation of that message and the consolidation of the national State of Bolivia will be better understood if we look at its geographical position at the centre of the continent, where the Amazon, Plata and Pacific basins join. It is a point of continental fulcrum, which accordingly takes up and absorbs the tensions resulting from the conjunction of those powerful forces. Its problems will be understood more clearly if we recall that the original territory of the Republic was twice its present size and that various military and diplomatic actions redrew the map of South America at my country's expense.
90.	All that is part of history, and I mention it here only to highlight Bolivia's difficult struggle and its role as a State of regional balance. All that is part of history, except one point: the geographical land-enclosed status of my country. And when in this lofty forum I raise this matter and present it seriously and forcefully, I am aware that it is a present reality, a permanent factor of concern.
91.	Indeed, the seizure of my country's extensive coastline was not only the result of an unjust war of conquest but also an immense and fatal historical mistake. It is true that it solved the economic problems of the aggressor country, which for a century exploited the nitrate and mining wealth of Bolivian soil, but it is also true that it destroyed the regional balance, which has still not been restored, giving rise to a state of tension demonstrated by the arms race taking place in the region. What is more, it limited the possibilities for co-operation and understanding among our nations by affecting the role of link and bridge which my country must play in the region.
92.	By nature and compulsion Bolivia gravitates towards the Pacific Ocean, and this found expression geographically and physically in its undisputed possession of an extensive coastline on that ocean. The act of aggression which destroyed that natural relationship must be corrected as soon as possible. This is not only a requirement of Bolivia; it is a genuine continental need. It is an act of international justice, but it is also a precautionary yardstick for measuring regional peace and security. In a word, it is an American cause.
93.	Furthermore, the complete solidarity of the countries of America and the world is being expressed in ever more categorical terms not only as to the justice of our claim but also as to the urgency of settling it. To mention the most recent demonstration of this, there is the declaration of two thirds of mankind. At the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non- Aligned Countries, held in Havana from 3 to 9 September 1979, the following text, whose clarity dispenses me from further comments, was adopted:
"The Heads of State or Government, meeting in Havana, gave their backing to the Republic of Bolivia's just and legitimate claim to recover its outlet to the Pacific Ocean with full sovereignty and invited the member States of the international community to declare their solidarity with this inalienable right of the Bolivian people. They also reaffirmed that constructive and fruitful security and peace in America demand a solution to the problem and accordingly supported all efforts to achieve that noble aim and the peaceful procedures set forth in the Charter of the United Nations." 
94.	Furthermore, the entry into force of the Torrijos- Carter Treaties on the Panama Canal,  which we had the honour and joy of witnessing a few days ago in Panama, proves that in the end justice does prevail over force, that victory does not confer right, that recourse to violence cannot consolidate territorial annexations, and that there is a way for the peaceful settlement of disputes when international public opinion supports and promotes just causes.
95.	Bolivia has recovered its status as a democratic country respectful of human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of political organization and freedom of trade-union movements. We have set up a Government reflecting the will of the people expressed in free elections. There are no political detainees, nor has any Bolivian been expelled from his country.
96.	What is said here in a few words is the result of a long and painful process. It is a national victory, to which civilians, the military, intellectuals and workers have contributed. It is, as I have said, the result of a national consensus, which, nevertheless, faces very difficult challenges before it can be finally consolidated.
97.	Foremost among these obstacles are economic problems, which are aggravated by external factors. Among these factors, I am bound to mention the bill now before the United States Congress authorizing the placing on the international market of 35,000 tons of tin from its non-commercial strategic reserves. If such a measure were to be adopted—a measure which would constitute an act of real economic aggression—Bolivia would suffer a most serious blow at a time when we are studying corrective measures to stimulate our economy, which is based essentially on the working of this mineral, representing more than 60 per cent of the total value of our exports.
98.	The background of this problem will help place it in its proper perspective. During the Second World War Bolivia contributed to the defence and consolidation of democracy by supplying tin at prices subsidized by its people. At the end of the war much of the tin ac-cumulated by the United States of America was designated as a “strategic reserve ", which by public law was intended to meet civilian and military needs in case of war. It is curious and paradoxical to note that the very tin which should be used in case of war is in time of peace being used to upset the conditions of the market for that scarce material and threaten the stability of the democratic process recently initiated in Bolivia.
99.	The effects of a drop in the price of tin in the economy and social structure of Bolivia would be profound and irreparable. I shall mention only a few. It is estimated that the per capita income would fall by $30 from a current figure of approximately $600 a year and that there would be a decrease in private and public investment in mining and a further decline in the productivity of that sector. It would be more difficult to develop and introduce more appropriate technologies for the operation of existing mines. Finally, production costs would continue to rise because of price inflation for imported goods and there would be more intensive exploitation of internal production factors, especially cheap labour.
100.	What would the United States stand to gain in exchange? Nothing. The economic and trade advantages of such a decision are imperceptible for a powerful country and bear no relation to what the political cost would be. It would only result in building up resentment and discredit for a political opening which in its time aroused hopes among the nations of the third world.
101.	Such practices, such manipulation of markets obviously do not contribute to the full enjoyment of human rights. They are not a forward step in the construction of a new international economic order. The countries members of the Latin American Economic System understand this. This was expressed by the tin- producing countries at their meeting at Djakarta in July of this year.  This is the conviction expressed by the Presidents of the Andean group of States, who have now in Panama approved a stance of active solidarity with the just claim of Bolivia.
102.	Because of such precedents, I should like to appeal for the understanding of all delegations here present in order that they may continue to give their firmest support to the position adopted by Bolivia and the tin-producing countries in the defence of their legitimate interests.
103.	I wish to confirm Bolivia's resolute participation in all actions designed to establish a new international economic order. This explains our recent adherence to the non-aligned movement as a full member. Bolivia's foreign policy is in accord with the purposes and objectives of the movement, and this has led us finally to join actively in the struggle to democratize international relations and to ensure the real participation of the developing countries in decisions that are vital to the destiny of mankind.
104.	We cannot sufficiently reiterate the need to consolidate co-operation among developing countries as a necessary requirement for the construction of a new international system. Agreements among the countries of the third world will always be ad hoc and transitory as long as no set of shared interests has been established. That is the transcendental meaning of integration and co-operation among developing countries. On the one hand, it is a matter of making use of the immense natural, technological, financial and human resources our nations possess for our own benefit, and, on the other, of laying the foundations for a joint external policy on ever firmer ground.
105.	As demonstrated by the frustrating negotiations that have taken place in various world forums, the existing order will not change merely because right is on our side. It will be changed when there is a change in effective power relationships between North and South. Indeed, the resolutions of international gatherings give formal recognition to changes that have already occurred in fact. The logical conclusion to be drawn from this is that we must not limit ourselves to calling for the establishment of a new international economic and political order; we must build it. The tool for accomplishing this task is co-operation among developing countries. Let us not ask others to do what we are able to do on our own.
106.	This is the experience the Andean Group can contribute to the cause of the third world. Ten years ago, the Cartagena Agreement was signed, initiating one of the most advanced processes of integration in the world. Once a solid structure of co-operative relations has been established, the Andean Presidents decided to promote that group's joint participation in continental political problems, beginning with a discussion of the case of Nicaragua within the framework of the Organization of American States [OAS]—with positive results that are a matter of public knowledge.
107.	On the occasion of the Sixth Conference of non- aligned countries in Havana, the countries members of the Andean group again stated their joint position on matters of world concern.
108.	On 2 October of this year, at Panama, the Andean Presidents signed a document recording further common action, including joint participation in the ninth regular session of the General Assembly of the OAS to be held at La Paz on 22 October of this year, a meeting intended to present a new image and set forth planning for the inter-American system in the forthcoming decade.
109.	The Andean group is confident that democratic systems of government will be established in Latin America in which the exercise of power will derive from the legitimate and free expression of the will of the people and a better situation will be created to promote measures for the political normalization of the continent and the enjoyment of human rights with the greatest respect for the principle of non-intervention. This does not mean, obviously, that the Andean Group is an association directed against anyone else. On the contrary, precisely because it is democratic, its international conduct is guided by ideological pluralism. It is a movement designed to unite, not to divide.
110.	We also wish to express our concern at the tensions existing in some areas of the continent and our confidence that the countries of those regions will be able freely to choose their own paths to well-being free from outside pressures or attempts designed to involve them in the play of alien economic, strategic or hegemonistic interests.
111.	For the second year, my country is serving as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. This is the second time we have occupied this lofty position in the most important United Nations organ for the maintenance of peace. Our presence in the Security Council has enabled us to practise genuine non- alignment, that is, to act from a position equally removed from the poles of world power and to serve the cause of detente and peace in a positive manner.
112.	Bolivia, as a country that practises ideological pluralism, has been able to act in complete independence and with no commitment other than to justice, with the intention of making a firm contribution to peaceful solutions. We have supported the actions of liberation movements and will continue to do so as long as the desire to perpetuate colonialist systems or to create new forms of exploitation under different names exits.
113.	If there are no further acts of violence against the front-line States and if there is compliance with the resolutions approved by the Security Council and the General Assembly with regard to the problem of Zimbabwe, we are prepared to co-operate in any peace negotiation that takes into account the legitimate interests of the peoples of Africa and their right to self- government free from any tutelage. The same applies to Namibia and the constant threats and attacks against Zambia, Angola and Mozambique.
114.	We are following with particular attention the complex problem of Cyprus. We are pained to see that heroic island divided and occupied militarily. We believe that negotiations between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots must be resumed as soon as possible. We sincerely hope that after five long years of waiting, reason and justice will prevail, and that both communities will return to peaceful coexistence under the government of their own authorities.
115.	Another of the major problems the Security Council has had to consider is the occupation of Lebanon by foreign forces. My delegation has supported all measures recommended by the Secretary-General to alleviate, at least in part, the suffering of that heroic and victimized people. Bolivia, together with the other members of the Security Council, has striven by its support to contribute to the Lebanese Government's recovery of authority over its territory. Bringing about the withdrawal of the forces that have made that country an arena for confrontation and achieving the recovery and consolidation of the national Government with full authority over the territory has been and will continue to be an arduous task. We fervently hope that it will be accomplished successfully.
116.	Bolivia has followed with particular attention the development of events in the Middle East. We have given our complete and unwavering support to Security Council resolution 242 (1967), whose balance we consider to be equitable and just. On the one hand, it consolidates the existence of the State of Israel and, on the other, it clearly condemns the occupation of Arab territories by force and demands their prompt return. We support the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to a homeland of their own where they can establish a sovereign State. Similarly, we support the State of Israel's right to exist within secure and recognized boundaries, and recommend to the parties that they approach this pressing and explosive situation realistically and comprehensively.
117.	The delegation of Bolivia was pleased to see the inclusion of the item proposed by Romania entitled "Settlement by peaceful means of disputes among States". We consider that such a bold initiative merits attentive and positive analysis by this Assembly, since it is a significant contribution to the applicability of the procedures established under Article 33 of the Charter.
118.	As a developing country beset by social and economic problems, Bolivia could hardly remain impassive at the arms race taking place throughout the world. The horrifying statistics on the arms race among the large and medium-sized Powers are all too well known for me to repeat them here, as are the astronomical amounts devoted to increasing their military arsenals but we can hardly be impassive observers. All countries that wish to live in peace must adopt a positive attitude towards general and complete disarmament. The arms race among the countries of the region and of the world blatantly flouts the majority will of the international community. The allocation of voluminous resources to so censurable an end when they could be used for the economic and social development of peoples is absolutely intolerable.
119.	As a country with a profound desire for peace, we add our voice to those of all the delegations in this Assembly that have advocated approval of the treaty resulting from the second round of SALT and the early convening of the World Disarmament Conference, whose very title is a warning in the face of the risk of a tragic nuclear holocaust.
120.	In conclusion, I wish to express the earnest intent of the delegation of Bolivia to continue to lend its firmest support to the solution of the grave problems afflicting mankind, by sharing responsibilities and efforts with all nations represented within this international conclave.

===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿Having the great honour of representing my country before this great Assembly, I wish to put before you the views of the Government of National Reconstruction of the Republic of Bolivia, under the leadership of General Luis Garcia Meza.
225.	However, before doing so, I wish to refer to the election of the Permanent Representative of the federal Republic of Germany, Mr. Rudiger von Wechmar, as President of the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly. The Bolivian delegation knows full well and fully appreciates the personality and the ability of Mr. von Wechmar. We know his dedication and his active and intelligent participation in the search for solutions to the problems affecting the peace' of the world.
226.	We also wish to express our appreciation to the President of the previous session, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim. His ability, his fine diplomatic skill, allowed him to carry out effective and fruitful work.
227.	We should also like to stress our acknowledgement of the work of the Secretary-General, who has continued his dynamic and efficient mediating efforts. It is undeniable that he has never failed in initiatives or negotiations where his ability and experience could open the road to positive contribution, to the achievement of peaceful solutions.
228.	Our Organization has given a warm welcome to Zimbabwe and to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, two new States which have joined the United Nations, thus stressing again its universality. My delegation is extremely pleased to tender its welcome to the new Members of our Organization.
229.	Now, may I pay a very warm tribute to the history of two brother peoples: Bolivia and Peru. This is the second time that Bolivia has been called upon to speak in the General Assembly at a memorable moment in the history of our two countries. Yesterday we commemorated the immolation of Admiral Miguel Grau on the bridge of the warship Huascar. The figure of Admiral Grau is loved and respected by the people of Bolivia. His glorious feats performed in an unequal battle on the coasts of Angamos, in defence of part of the Bolivian coastline, are a symbol and a mandate that the people of Bolivia will never forget.
230.	My country, land-locked in the centre of South America, with a diverse geography which is a challenge to the creative imagination of man, struggled with a history at once turbulent and heroic. It would appear that our mysterious and changing landscape has been reflected in the past of a small but proud nation, determined to overcome the vicissitudes that fate had in store for it.
231.	That turbulent history is not only due to the slow and painful apprenticeship of a young nation: foreign interference was also a fundamental factor in hindering the Bolivians' ability to win from fate a successful, just and free country.
232.	Now, quite recently, we have witnessed a profound change in the domestic order. The Government, under the leadership of General Luis Garcia Meza, was born of the resignation of the former President, Lydia Gueiler. An untenable situation, bearing the seeds of total destruction, led the head of the country at that time to hand over public office to the head of the armed forces of the nation. Consequently, it was not a coup d’état, it was rather a very difficult transition from the chaos in which the Republic found itself to the order and freedom required by all Bolivians.
233.	Events have been deliberately distorted. Discrimination in the treatment of our country has shown us how in the world today principles of justice and equality can be distorted in accordance with sectarian interests. But this does not frighten us. We are convinced of the justice of our cause. We have acted in accordance with the dictates of a profound and sincere nationalism.
234.	My people is a witness to the fact that we are acting with prudence and exceptional tolerance, that three abortive elections revealed in their outcome the characteristics of fraud and cheating, with the encouragement of outside influences that tried to prepare the way for adventurers and demagogues.
235.	That was why the people were happy to accept the established authority and voluntarily supported the crusade of national reconstruction. Thus the Government of National Reconstruction has achieved unchallengeable legitimacy.
236.	The people of Bolivia have deeply engrained principles of democracy. A state of life based on those ideals cannot be replaced by the mere holding of spurious elections. Democracy is far more than that. It is the mutual respect and converging interests of majorities and minorities. It is the rule of law. It is the people organized to undertake great common enterprises. It is the co-ordinated work of the entire social corpus of the country to achieve an atmosphere of peace, justice and freedom.
237.	This is our concept of democracy, with special characteristics that allow a country with different races, customs and languages, and with completely different outlooks to merge them. Bolivians have to make efforts, and they are doing so, to create that democratic model that is just in the political, economic and social spheres, with full solidarity and respecting the interests of all parts and of the whole. Together with that concept is one that is born of the unshake-able determination to dignify the human person, to ensure respect for his spirit and future, to assure to each individual his right to freedom, justice, education and the benefits deriving from culture, work and just payment for it—in sum, a task that will allow the individual to enhance himself and widen and improve the atmosphere in which he lives.
238.	To protect those fundamental freedoms of mankind, we must act within the confines of the law, so that a few will not overshadow and endanger the future of the others and assume an authoritarian attitude that is alien to the feelings of the nation.
239.	Bolivia has been a victim of flagrant interventions. It would appear that minorities are to be favoured, however small they are, when trying to achieve public power, with imperialist attitudes, receiving assistance from great and small, from nearby and distant interests, distorting and misinterpreting the events and thus trying to maintain them-selves- in power.
240.	The Government of Bolivia is firmly determined to practise tolerance and to live in peace with all nations of the world, as the Charter of the United Nations so wisely states in its notable Preamble; but there have been certain acts which turn back the hands of time in an attempt to revive colonialist intentions which seemed to have been left behind for ever.
241.	The tasks imposed upon themselves by the armed forces of Bolivia in filling the vacuum created by corruption, fraud, uncertainty and the divisive actions of extremism are obviously to meet the imperative needs of rebuilding the nation. We must set our country back on the road to progress, and this can be achieved only by the re-establishment of individual guarantees, social justice, the rule of fruitful and creative work and, over and above all, the formation of a new civic awareness which will return to the Bolivian his faith in his future.
242.	With efforts and sacrifices, we have arrived at the time of reconstruction, and therefore the Government of Bolivia is determined to change structures, and it has started transformations of an institutional nature to ensure to the citizens, to whatever level of society they belong, full participation in the management of public interests. We intend to guarantee a system of life that will safeguard the democratic values of my people. On this matter the President of Bolivia has stated:
"The strengthening of the cultural and historical traditions of the Bolivian people and its constant will to achieve social progress and transformation will be the basis on which we shall build a national democracy with popular participation.
"In the construction of this new institutional reality, the world must know that the armed forces of the nation, together with its people, will never again fall prey to fraudulent elections and the foreign involvement that paralysed our political and institutional life."
244.	The task is gigantic. The road to be followed leads to a certain goal: that of a free, just and sovereign nation with hopes for a better future. Furthermore, the temporary function assumed by the armed forces of Bolivia aims at a true restoration of democracy—not just a formal one—and thus at the participation of the people of Bolivia in an effective and efficient way in the construction of the country's future, with an electoral system and the establishment of parties which guarantee respect for the plurality of ideologies.
245.	The failure of the pseudo-democratic experiments has created only institutional instability, domestic frustration and a loss of credibility abroad with regard to our potential and our possibilities as a modern, free and sovereign State.
246.	Our resolve is to create a political model in keeping with the characteristics of the Bolivian nation. We also firmly intend to reject any interference, pressure or adventurism. It is a matter of pride for the Bolivians that they should manage their own affairs, and the Government of National Reconstruction is acting accordingly. Imperialist or neo- colonialist positions will not reflect this ardent determination. However small peoples may be, when they pursue vital and just causes they inexorably triumph.
247.	Thus, Bolivia is not going to interrupt its march towards a future of happiness. In these times through which the nation is living, despite the organized calumnious attacks on our Government, we are taking a positive forward step towards the reorganization of the nation. The concept of national reconstruction is not merely a promise or a circumstantial goal. It is an historical imperative to return to the country a collective awareness and pride of direct participation in the life of the nation.
248.	Fortunately, many important countries of the world have been able to comprehend the popular massive will of the Bolivian people, our sacrifices and our concern, and our decision in true autonomy to follow the road traced for us by destiny. We pay a tribute to those countries, because they are thus correctly interpreting the most noble principles of international coexistence.
249.	I should not have added anything to what I have just said, but the repeated accusations, all false and one-sided, concerning violations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which govern coexistence in civilized societies, force me to point to certain situations that have arisen in my country and on this matter to make public the view of my Government.
250.	However, before doing so, we must admit, if we do not wish to run the risk of becoming naive or of blindly and stubbornly believing misinformation, that there are moments of upheaval in the lives of peoples. Transition often makes it impossible to preserve order, and therefore to restore it is imperative to put an end to the violence that is unleashed and the anarchy that is rampant through the exercise of authority.
251.	Furthermore, we know that it is very easy, in matters of human rights, to criticize and to demand, even though the critics themselves are obviously guilty of having violated those very rights. But this distorted viewpoint, very often maliciously exploited, cannot provide a smokescreen to allow the shirking of responsibilities in matters of human rights. It is not going to be allowed to do so, for it is the will of the Government to live within the law, so that these actions will serve the purposes of the law, and, in the words of a great Bolivian, this is the only servitude that does not humiliate.
252.	We must not live under conditions of subterfuge and misinformation. The armed forces took the responsibility of leading the nation because they were forced to do so by the need to correct the existing pseudo-democracy and anarchy. We could hardly fall into the same pretence, since we know that it leads to nothing positive or substantially permanent in the country.
253.	Bolivia is determined to play the true role in international life, which it must by reason of its history and geo-graphical location. That exceptional location makes Bolivia a very important factor within the framework of Latin America, which is now seeking the development of a unified personality. The geo-political situation of Bolivia has given it a multiple interrelationship with five Latin American nations, and thus it has become a meeting ground of interests which move it nearer to all its neighbours and give meaning to the fact that, as was said many years ago, "Bolivia is the land of contacts".
254.	My country stands full square among those nations that wish to consolidate the national State through the creation of a political, economic and social model that will fulfil its own characteristics and peculiarities without foreign interference and without adopting ideologies that will distort the aspirations and the feelings of the Latin American people.
255.	The nationalism practiced by the Government of National Reconstruction in Bolivia is not exclusive to the nascent Latin American nationalism that is manifested in the region's many efforts at integration. The Government of National Reconstruction continues an integrationist policy that is well defined, since we consider that political differences must not hinder, because of current circumstances, any possibility of continental unity. We endeavour to follow an independent international line based solely on the permanent interests of the Republic itself.
256.	Furthermore, we reaffirm our absolute adherence to the purposes and principles of the United Nations, particularly those concerning the legal equality of States, respect for the self-determination of peoples, the obligation not to interfere in the domestic affairs of other States, international co-operation, and determined action to maintain international peace and security by encouraging relations of friendship that are indispensable among nations if we are to achieve civilized and peaceful coexistence.
257.	The position of my Government concerning international policies is defined in the recent statement made by the President of Bolivia, General Luis Garcia Meza. The Government of National Reconstruction reiterates its respect for international agreements and maintains relations with all countries of the world in conditions-of reciprocal respect for ideological pluralism, self-determination of peoples and the sovereignty of States.
258.	Ours is a position of anti-colonialism and non- alignment. It is a position of solidarity with the dependent countries of the world and a rejection of all forms of racial discrimination.
259.	The Government of National Reconstruction not only adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we intend to give real meaning in social terms to its principles which must not simply remain formulas of international pressure. As far as we are concerned, those principles must guarantee to men and peoples the right not to be exploited and the right to build up their capacity to overcome misery and backwardness.
260.	While enjoying the best relations with the Powers of the West, and more especially with the countries of our continent, the Government of National Reconstruction of the Armed Forces is extremely interested in strengthening our relations with the socialist countries, whose experience in moving ahead from levels of backwardness similar to ours can be very useful to countries like Bolivia, aside from any political and ideological considerations.
261.	The Government of National Reconstruction is deeply interested, too, in the achievement of a new international economic order, and we contend that continental integration is a means of freeing our people and not an instrument for a pseudo-democratic continuation of dependency.
262.	We wish to stress the geo-political role of our country in its multiple effects on all the regions, sub regions and basins within the political diversity that constitutes an accepted principle of international coexistence. In our attitude in favour of integration, we are interested, obviously, in the Andean region, whose human and natural centre lies in Bolivia and the basins of the Rio Plata and the Amazon, as well as the Pacific area, of which we are historically, naturally and undeniably sovereign participants.
263.	Thus we reaffirm an unshakable Bolivian policy, which sums up the fervour of a people and seeks to redress an injustice: the return of my country to the sea.
264.	The nations of America agreed with this when, at the ninth session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States, they adopted resolution 426, which offers Bolivia continental solidarity and urges negotiations on a sovereign access by my country to the Pacific Ocean. Thus, at this international meeting, I wish to express my gratitude and thanks to our brothers in the inter-American system and to express our hope that those efforts will be continued with greater vigour and thus meet the dictates of international justice.
265.	These days bring to our attention another zone that creates tension—the Middle East. The decisive influence of energy-producing resources on the world economy has led to confrontations that are designed to perpetuate dependency and flaunt peaceful coexistence and the combining of interests.
266.	Bolivia, whose own natural resources were the object of long exploitation for unilateral benefits, considers that we must guarantee respect for the interests of peoples that have, with their raw materials, created the wealth of the powerful. Thus we will avoid greater hatred and events that could well shake the very foundations of our society.
267.	The situation in the Middle East also touches on the need to achieve peaceful coexistence on the well-known basis, which Bolivia supports, of respecting the rights of the Palestinian people and the right of Israel to assure its lasting life as a sovereign nation.
268.	From that standpoint, we reiterate our belief that only civilized dialogue can be employed to overcome the difficulties that confront the Middle East.
269.	At a moment when the world is watching a most painful armed confrontation that is draining the blood of two peoples, Bolivia reaffirms its vocation as a peaceful nation and demands from the United Nations firm and prompt action to put an end to that ghastly and tragic conflict.
270. Bolivia shares the suffering of those countries which in their regional struggles, incited by hegemonic centres, are paying their painful tribute to universal peace.
271.	Famine, ignorance and, in brief, general poverty, cause greater tension than the nuclear threat, the arms race or racial intolerance. Inequality should be the concern of mankind, now disunited by the prosperity of the few, a mankind faced by the yearning of the majority for a better life. This is both a problem and a challenge that we must take up bravely and with determination, because justice demands that we do so.
272.	In our concept of development we give pride of place to the achievement of true economic independence so as to wipe out the relations of dependency that some countries would like to perpetuate.
273.	The crisis in which the international community finds itself today has shown incontrovertibly the flaws in the present international economic order. The consequences of such a crisis are particularly unfavourable for the countries of the third world, dangerously aggravating and multiplying the problems of their underdevelopment. In the light of that desperate situation, it is imperative that a series of steps be taken internationally within the framework of the United Nations in order to find a way of restructuring international economic relations.
274.	In the General Assembly in 1974 the international community, with historic perspective and vision, solemnly proclaimed its determination to work with the necessary urgency to establish a new international economic order. Today more than ever the peoples of the third world, the peoples which are suffering, are fully aware of their right to conditions of life in keeping with human dignity. The privileged nations under the present order can no longer deny them that right.
275.	Bolivia recognizes supports as instruments of that new order the International Development Strategy and the global negotiations on international economic cooperation and co-operation among the developing countries.
276.	Unfortunately, six years after the proclamation of that new order and despite arduous preparatory efforts, the international community has just seen another failure in international co-operation. The eleventh special session of the General Assembly did not have the desired results: it did not adopt the International Development Strategy, nor did it launch the global negotiations.
277.	However, my country still believes it to be the responsibility of this Assembly to overcome those obstacles and increase the possibility of taking a great step towards the establishment of a new concept of international cooperation.
278.	The developing countries have decided to make a joint effort to establish a system of co-operation among their peoples to give new content to the spirit of solidarity among the countries of the third world.
279.	In the more specific sphere of raw materials it must be noted that, despite the fact that the international community has approved principles of policy and the machinery of operation, some States have persisted in the unilateral practice of placing on the international market non-commercial reserves of minerals, as in the case of lead, which has adverse effects on the economies of the producer countries.
280.	Bolivia reaffirms its faith in the San Francisco Charter. The United Nations, overcoming tremendous obstacles, has persisted unceasingly and unswervingly in its efforts to preserve peace.
281.	Bolivia sees peace as the result of solidarity and co-operation, rather than as the mere absence of confrontation. We must not only avoid international conflicts but also guarantee the future of the inhabitants of each continent, each country and each region of the world. We cannot justify our continued effort to eliminate collective violence unless we try also to eradicate misunderstanding, violations of the human person and the denial of freedom. Without freedom there can be no guarantee of justice.
282.	I have expressed the views of a nation which is courageously facing its future. That courage can be seen in its decision to build a country enriched by work, respected for the practice of justice, adorned by culture and ennobled by its faith in the solidarity of mankind.



===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
134.	 The delegation of Bolivia congratulates Mr, Kittani on his election to the high post of the presidency of the thirty-sixth session. His personal qualities and his broad professional experience guarantee objective leadership and . success for our debates.
135.	We also wish to thank Mr. von Wechmar for his outstanding work and in particular for his contribution to the preparatory work for global negotiations, a central issue for the new expectations of the world.
136.	We wish to express particular gratitude and appreciation to the Secretary-General for his efforts to bring about international peace and security.
137.	Bolivia, a signatory of the. Charter at San Francisco, offers a fraternal welcome to the two youngest Member States of the Organization, Vanuatu and Belize.
138.	In the past year the world situation has visibly deteriorated. The number of victims of war, exodus, hunger, terrorism and fanatic violence is increasing day by day in the vast areas of the world in which there are conflicts. The tensions between the major blocs are becoming more acute and are making international security more precarious. Consequently in all its aspects the arms race is accelerating and is consuming resources that are needed for the economic, social and.cultural development of peoples.
139.	As is the case with endeavors to bring about peace, many efforts to bring about justice have been thwarted, and neither the will of the General Assembly nor the agreement of the Security Council, so often obstructed by vetoes, have managed to enforce the fundamental principles of the Charter. Contrary to the firm majority decision of the international community, there continue to exist certain unacceptable attitudes of racial discrimination, warlike aggression, domination and colonialist plunder, occupation of territories by force, and new and sinister forms of fanaticism.
140.	Throughout its history Bolivia has learned the painful lessons of aggression and injustice, and we would once again repeat our adherence to the inviolable principles of sovereignty, independence, self-determination, non-intervention and the territorial integrity of States.
141.	As part of this clear foreign policy of Bolivia we would express our support for the restoration of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, and in particular for the liberation of the occupied Arab territories. The inadmissibility of the acquisition of territories through force of arms is a substantive part of Bolivia's foreign policy.
142.	We accept that Israel has the unquestionable right to live within secure and recognized boundaries.
143.	We deplore the tragedy in Lebanon, and who feel that it is the duty of the States of the area to respect the neutrality and sovereignty of that nation.
144.	We condemn the occupation, of Afghanistan, ,the presence, of invading troops in Kampuchea and the illegal colonial domination in Namibia..
145.	We consider it indispensable for South Korea and North Korea to resolve their differences by means of direct dialog, with the cooperation of the Secretary-General
146.	Finally, we reiterate Bolivia's unswerving position of support for Argentina's just demand regarding the Malvinas Islands.
147.	In addition to these disruptions in the area of justice and peace, there exists a serious delay hi efforts to bring about a new international economic order and, in particular, in initiating the global negotiations which might make it possible for us to co-ordinate international efforts in the areas of the economy and development, introducing the criterion of change. For change is essential and cannot be postponed, since hunger, ignorance and the frustration of the people only encourage subversion and violence. There is no need to stress the moral legitimacy of these goals, because underlying all conflicts in our time there may be found a growing dislocation: the prosperity and power of, the wealthy communities and in contrast the stagnation, poverty, and impotence of the third word. 
148.	We believe that the global negotiations, which have been held up by procedural details, must begin as soon as - possible. South-South co-operation, which has been admirably planned and carried out by the Group of 77, must move towards the goal of self-sufficiency, which is complementary to North-South understanding. In this area we must also accept the need to conclude regional agreements to develop and market our natural resources in a just and rational manner, in order to bring us the legitimate profits that will make it possible for us to meet the needs of social development ourselves..	'
149.	Let us say this once again: the existing International economic order is based on colonial and neo-colonial exploitation which has been condemned by history. There are still those who wish to perpetuate this, but it is clear that if peace is to be achieved in the world there must first be justice, and we consider that a new international economic order must preside over the relations among all States of the world. In this context protectionism must be eliminated, as Well as the practices of "dumping", by which some developed countries use noncommercial reserves to bring about an artificial collapse in the prices of certain commodities. That happens periodically to Bolivia with regard to tin.
150.	In this year when we arc commemorating the twentieth anniversary of the founding of the non-aligned movement, Bolivia reaffirms its faith in the concept of non-alignment. We have a position of principle that requires independence of the great blocs of the world. We respect ideological pluralism and the requirements of economic interdependence. We stand with all developing countries and we find in non-alignment a powerful, valid resource to pursue the third world's struggle for world peace and improved living conditions.
151.	We regret that the long, prolific debates that were supposed to lead to an International agreement on the new law of the sea were paralyzed precisely when they were about to be concluded. We hope that those who justify this l>y referring to passing difficulties will see that it is in theft best interests to work in this direction, for this agreement Is of universal value. The sea, like the other great bounties of nature and like freedom and well-being, is the common heritage of all people, and of all mankind.
152.	The Government of Bolivia is profoundly concerned over and protests against all forms of terrorism. No goal, no matter how noble it may be, justifies this crime in which repressed sectarian passions find almost daily expression. The Holy Ruler in Rome, even the President of the United States in the capital of that great country, and many other distinguished or anonymous human beings have been victims of reprehensible attempts on their lives. And now we must lament the passing of the illustrious President of Egypt, Anwar El Sadat, a real man of peace in the Middle East, the distinguished leader of his people, who has fallen under murderous bullets.
153.	Bolivia feels that the struggle against terrorism must be confirmed and co-ordinated at a level as high as that for disarmament, for this is a kind of spiritual disarmament required by public order and by civilized society.
154.	"For us, America is the homeland", as Bolivar the Liberator said. This has always been in the minds of the people who bear his name and has determined our complete support for the process of Latin American integration. Considering the common nature of our problems and our hopes, the vastness of our territory, the broad range and abundance ,of natural resources, the rapid growth of the population, and our need to overcome cultural, economic and social deficiencies which still beset us, integration will indubitably be a difficult undertaking. None of our nations, not even any of the greater ones, can carry out its complete; development plan without inter-American co-operation.
155.	Bolivia is situated geographically in the heart of South America and at the crossroads of the history of the continent. It has an important role to play in Latin American integration, and we have been playing this role In good faith because it is our calling.
156.	Our country is in the watershed of the Amazon and the Plate and near to the South Pacific. Bolivia has therefore been a land of contacts and has bad a decisive influence on the geopolitical balance of our continent.
157.	In keeping with its integrationist tradition, Bolivia has actively participated in the Latin American Integration Association, the Andean Pact, the TVeaty for Amazonian Co-operation, the Heaty of the River Plate Basin, the Convention signed by Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia and other agreements of the same kind. Obviously, agreements governing regional and sub-regional integration, negotiated in the light of the development needs of our peoples, must not be subject to Ideological deviations which contradict the principles of pluralism and non-intervention in the internal affairs of States, so necessary to proper
International coexistence. Just as the conscience of the world Is concerned about the protection of human rights, so is it necessary for the international community to pay attention to the rights of nations which have been violated by historic Injustices,
158.	In this lofty forum we would once again refer to Bolivia's land-locked status which has existed for more than a century. We appeal for international solidarity to encourage the peaceful solution of our problems, in keeping with the inalienable and imprescriptible right of the Republic of Bolivia to regain its coastline. This unjust situation continues with all the grave spiritual and material consequences for our people; it has perpetuated a state of tension in the area which one day could undermine peace and security in America.
159.	Bolivia's demand to recover its outlet to the Pacific, with sovereignty and geographic continuity and without territorial compensation, has won considerable support, including the support of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States at its ninth regular session. I take this opportunity to express the appreciation of the Government and people of Bolivia of these permanent expressions of solidarity by Governments and international organizations with the maritime cause of our country.
160.'	We now wish to report to this Assembly on certain aspects of the problems which relate to Bolivia's internal situation. In the first place, Bolivians believe in the inherent values of freedom, dignity, solidarity and justice. We desire to organize a new society, with participation by all, a pluralist society where democracy is accepted not only In its formal political sense of elections, but also with its fundamental economic and social content and as a way of life.
161.	The land-locked status of our country has hampered its process of development. For this main reason, and for other more incidental reasons, we have economic and financial problems which have caused social discontent, and this in turn has led to political unrest. More recently, we have witnessed certain institutional problems which, thanks to the calmness and patriotism of the aimed forces and the proved maturity of our people, have been dealt with without bloodshed.
162.	A firm and respected Government rules national life. Public order reigns In Bolivia, and work is guaranteed as a right. Wc consider the people, the Bolivian citizen, as a protagonist of history and of our national life. We believe that nothing is more precious than the human capital of a nation. Therefore, all the business of the State and its growth policy for the economy is directed to promoting the well-being of its people and to the full development of the human personality.
163.	In the program for this great political plan with its predominantly social content the Bolivian workers in the fields, the mines and the cities occupy the preferred place. Both public freedom and fundamental human rights are respected in Bolivia, where there are now no political prisoners. Soon a special envoy from the United Nations will visit our country at the spontaneous request of our Government to confirm that we have a climate of freedom, peace and security in which Bolivians can carry out their activities. I wish to announce on behalf of my Government that within three years institutional democracy will be re-established in our country.
164.	In defense of the morality of our people and In support of the universal desire to eliminate illicit drug traffic, our Government is now undertaking the difficult. but Irrevocable task of combating and eliminating the clandestine production of narcotics and the illicit traffic, In addition to adopting strict police and customs controls, the Government of Bolivia has adopted a number of other important provisions, including the creation of the National Council to Combat the Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, the establishment of a government monopoly to control the legal trade in coca leaves, the carrying out of a census of coca-leaf production with a view to crop replacement and a study of new legislation to suppress the production of, traffic in and consumption of the drug.
165.	As we progress with this task the serious nature of the problem becomes clearer, and so does the impossibility of dealing with it without international co-operation. We have accordingly suggested to the United Nations the desirability of joint action and have succeeded in having an item included in the agenda of this session entitled "International campaign against traffic in drugs". We can give no clearer evidence of our intention to contribute to the elimination of this world problem and at the same time of the need to receive from the Organization and from Member States, through bilateral agreements, adequate and speedy financial and technical co-operation.
166.	The Bolivian proposal is in the hands of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. We pledge our constant efforts, and we also suggest to the industrialized countries, where the major cities provide the demand for drugs and where society is most seriously affects J by this vice, that there is an urgent need for a substantial contribution from them in support of the aims of this great effort of redemption.
167.	It is in a spirit of truthfulness that we have enumerated some of the frustrations of the Organization, but we wish to draw from these negative comments the affirmative conclusion that, however complex the problems may be, it is our duty to persist in our search for solutions within the United Nations in keeping with the norms of the Charter
168.	Bolivia, a land-locked nation, reiterates its confidence in justice, its faith in the world Organization and its certainty that the evils of war, poverty and discrimination will one day be eradicated through the spiritual force that aids us: universal solidarity, the foundation of our hopes for progress and peace.


===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
It is a great and significant honour for me to come to this rostrum 
representing my country before the world.

38.	My first words go to you, Mr. President, to congratulate you 
on your well-deserved election as President of this session of the 
Assembly. Your unmistakable gifts as an experienced diplomat 
guarantee the success of our work. It is a pleasure, and not merely a 
formality, for me to convey the thanks and congratulations of my 
Government to Mr. Kittani of Iraq for the wise and successful way in 
which he carried out his duties as President of the thirty-sixth 
session.

39.	Recently the United Nations has seen its mission even further 
enriched by the appointment as Secretary-General of one of its most 
distinguished officials, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, a most worthy 
representative of Peruvian diplomacy. Bolivia reiterates its pleasure 
at his appointment and its congratulations and best wishes to him, 
the first Secretary-General representing Latin America, and the 
brotherly and ancestral ties between Bolivia and Peru and the Andean 
countries are well known. His presence as Secretary-General is a 
sound guarantee for the fulfilment of the purposes of the 
Organization.

40.	For years we have been expressing our faith and reiterating 
our purposes. Every year we come here and repeat our intention to 
carry out the purposes and principles of the Charter. We announce 
optimistic outlines for the future and the definite achievement of 
our aims. However, realistically and objectively I think we must now 
pause on our way to see whether we have really moved beyond mere 
statements to concrete achievement.

41.	Peace is still an unachievable goal and perhaps, sad to say, 
a nostalgic dream of Utopia. Colonialism still seeks to broaden its 
areas of domination, with aggressive and even bloody usurpation; 
hegemony and the use of pressure by the powerful still persevere and 
indeed show a disturbing tendency to increase. Inequalities and 
injustices continue to show their ugly faces. Terrorism and new 
treacherous forms of aggression, under cover of the advocacy of 
change, disrupt every form of coexistence. Racial discrimination 
continues as a flaw of mankind in our time. Territories conquered by 
force of arms remain in foreign hands.
Arms manufacture and the development of new and powerful means of 
destruction cast gloom over the positive achievements of our 
civilization, and now there is a real danger that tomorrow, just as 
the twenty-first century is about to begin, we may find ourselves 
with a world in ruins unless common sense prevails.

42.	These are some glimpses of the realities of today's world, 
which persist despite the efforts of the Organization. My delegation 
would like to state certain views on these matters, as an expression 
of the unswerving Bolivian position on principles and international 
policies.

43.	Bolivia is one of the non-aligned countries, for compelling 
reasons of principle and also because we advocate the elimination of 
dogmatic compartmentalization and hegemonic bonds and because 
self-determination and the inviolability of sovereignty are the 
proper response to the efforts of the various forms of imperialism to 
absorb others. The non-aligned countries advocate a role of balance 
in defence of the rights of the weaker countries in the face of the 
cold struggle by the great Powers for supremacy.

44.	Those who supply raw materials and make great sacrifices in 
their struggle to achieve their development have their spokesmen in 
the non-aligned countries. The demands and claims made by many of our 
peoples have received a positive echo in the voice of the non-aligned 
countries. That is the case, forexample, with Bolivia's demand for 
the restoration of its sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. Only an 
equidistant position between the imperialist forces, avoiding 
subjugation and imposed conditions, can grant a country moral 
authority and consideration in international affairs, and that is 
precisely the position which the non-aligned countries seek.

45.	It is this unswerving support for the principles of self-determination 
and sovereignty which has led the Government of Bolivia, presided 
over by General Guido Vildoso Calderon, to apply a policy of a return 
to democratic institutional rights for our people.

46.	In Bolivia we have set in motion the pre-electoral process, 
with the scheduling of a general election for April 1983. The 
consensus achieved among the political parties on the basis of the 
invitation to participate made by the Government without any 
discrimination has led to the constitution of a National Electoral 
Court. We have also started on the study of a plan for economic 
recovery in order to apply emergency provisions to overcome the 
situation of deficit and the serious crisis inherited by the present 
Government. As a result of a study, the economic plan was, also on 
the basis of consultations, brought to the notice of the political 
forces and the trade unions; a political and economic dialogue thus 
took place.

47.	Giving effect to the general feelings expressed by the 
political parties and labour representatives, who requested an 
immediate transition to a democratic system, the Bolivian Government 
has decided to convene the representative Parliament elected in the 
1980 elections, which had been suspended by a military coup at the 
time, so that that Parliament will, in accordance with the norms of 
the political Constitution of the State, appoint the new office 
holders who will have charge of the nation from 10 October next. For 
them and their arduous task in government we request the solidarity 
of all nations, particularly on account of the grave economic crisis 
that my country is experiencing. The new constitutional authorities 
will have to overcome that crisis and will need all the co-operation 
that they can possibly obtain from friendly countries-combined, of 
course, with Bolivia's own efforts-in order that Bolivia may progress.

48.	All this process of transition to democracy has taken place 
within the framework of an unchanging respect for human rights and 
the prerogatives of the citizens and on the basis of the fulfilment 
of the treaties and international commitments entered into by Bolivia.

49.	On 10 October next the armed forces of Bolivia will restore 
the political control of the nation to a civilian Government. This 
voluntary gesture, in keeping with the wishes of the Bolivian people, 
is worth emphasizing in this international forum.

50.	Another subject which I cannot refrain from mentioning is 
that of the progress of integration. Happily, we are living in a time 
of integration and economic co-operation, of interdependence. All 
nations-literally all-need something from others. There is inevitably 
a need for raw materials, goods and services, technology, credits and 
assistance of all sorts. What is important is that the prices should 
be fair, exchanges just and that co-operation have but one aim-to 
secure the goal of shared development and common benefit. ..

51.	In the regional and sub-regional spheres Bolivia has been 
taking part in all the programmes of integration and co-operation. 
Its special geographical location in South America and the fact that 
it is a country with tributaries of three of the four major river 
basins of the continent has given it a unique status as a signatory 
country of all the sub-regional agreements as well as the regional 
treaties of the Latin American Integration Association and the Latin 
American Economic System. For example, we are a member of the 
Cartagena Agreement, binding on the Andean nations, and a signatory 
of the Treaty for Amazonian Co-operation and the Treaty of the River 
Plate Basin.

52.	The Bolivian position with regard to the process of 
integration is clear. We uphold the need to preserve, expand and 
improve the machinery of the integration process. Integration and the 
programmes and actions for co-operation are only a means towards the 
ends of development and the harmonious progress of our nations. We 
must also nurture, strengthen and improve those instruments of 
economic and social progress, whose sole beneficiaries must of course 
be our peoples and their future.

53.	We must also make the North-South dialogue a reality and seek 
ways to give viable form to the new international economic order. 
This scheme has so far not had the acceptance, the solidarity and 
particularly the political will of the industrialized nations, which 
it needs if its basic objectives are to be met.

54.	These problems, therefore, should be seen as part of the 
struggle for economic, political, social and cultural liberation of 
peoples who, like those of Bolivia, are currently engaged in their 
own development. If manifest unwillingness and delaying tactics 
continue to be shown, it will be impossible to intensify the 
co-operation which at the international level should promote the 
development of nations in a setting of justice and equity. We 
therefore look forward very much to the prompt initiation of the 
global negotiations.

55.	Understanding, co-operation and the processes of integration 
have another requirement in order to be perfect-the redressing of 
injustices and inequalities, I must refer once again, before the 
world community assembled here, to our geographical condition-the 
fact that we are landlocked, a fact that has been forced upon us for 
the past 103 years. This reference also derives from the imperative 
mandate given by my people, who for more than a century have pressed 
for their rights to return, with sovereignty, to the shores of the 
Pacific.

56.	We all know that when they have the stamp of legitimacy the 
rights of nations are never exhausted. Therefore, the return of 
territories which have been usurped in so many latitudes of the world 
is essential.

57.	With regard to the maritime problem of Bolivia, the time of 
our return to the Pacific Ocean is bound to come. But good faith is 
necessary for this, together with a clear readiness by the other 
party to make reparations. We also need action and the encouragement 
and support of the international organizations, particularly if, as 
is fortunately the case, we have the firm support of the majority of 
the world community for our just cause.

58.	Humanity has virtually put an end to one of the most 
degrading and odious systems adopted by man in the past-slavery. But, 
late in the twentieth century, still other grievous vestiges of the 
past remain as an affront to mankind-colonialism and racial 
discrimination.

59 Twenty-two years have elapsed since the general  Assembly adopted 
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries 
and Peoples. Each year we revert to the terms of that declaration and 
the general  Assembly adopts new resolutions on specific cases. 
Nevertheless, new forms of colonialist aggression can be clearly 
seen, not simply disregarding the principles and purposes of the 
Charter but clearly violating them. A recent example was the case of 
the Malvinas Islands, with its bloody epilogue, leading to the 
restoration of colonialism, which should give us food for serious 
thought.

60.	Faithful to its position of principle on the rejection of any 
form of colonialism, Bolivia supported the Argentine cause and will 
continue to support the demands for repossession of its territory 
made by our brother nation of the River Plate, as we have done since 
1833, when the President of Bolivia at that time was the first to 
speak up against the British usurpation of that era.

61.	We can never try hard enough in the Organization to put an 
end to colonialism and all forms of seizure of territories and the 
imposition of tutelage and foreign rule on peoples. On the day we 
dispose of these last vestiges of colonialism mankind will be able to 
take pride in having taken an enormous step towards a world of truly 
free communities, such as those for which the Liberator Bolivar 
fought. His bicentenary is to be commemorated next year, and I am 
sure that the Organization will wish to participate in commemorating 
that anniversary, thereby confirming the universal nature of 
Bolivar's thinking and deeds.

62.	With regard to racial discrimination and apartheid my 
country's consistent attitude has been one of opposition and 
condemnation of thatsituation and system, which are a breach of the 
elementary principles of equality and human rights.

63.	Man holds certain rights even before his birth. if we commit 
a breach of those rights; we offend God, who modelled our spirit on 
His image and in His likeness.

64.	1 said at the beginning of this statement that peace was an 
objective that the wortd had not yet achieved. The recent distressing 
events in the Middle East, particularly those in Lebanon, give some 
idea of the deplorable situation.

65.	I must express here the deep concern of the Bolivian 
community and its Government over the now long-drawn-out crisis in 
the Middle East, which has so grievously affected various peoples in 
the region. We must strive to find there an understanding which, with 
recognition of the rights of the countries involved, will bring about 
a return to peaceful coexistence and mutual respect.

66.	Violence can only give rise to greater violence and peace is 
not a free gift; it must be built carefully, with sacrifice and 
magnanimity.

67.	The mission of the United Nations with regard to the problems 
of the Middle East and of the world in general  is still an arduous 
one requiring unswerving commitment. We must all be committed to this 
task if we want to show that man is capable of thinking of the 
future, using his intelligence to coexist and to build, to reconcile 
differing views and not to hate, thus overcoming a shameful recent 
past, which paradoxically encompassed the greatest examples of 
barbarity and tragedy as well as the greatest achievements of the 
technological era. The answer to the challenge of the years to come 
ties within us; it is the possibility of offering the coming 
generations a world of harmony, peace and justice.

68.	These difficult problems concerning peaceful coexistence lead 
to another major theme of our age. I am referring to the problem of 
disarmament. A Bolivian writer has said:

  Two of the greatest mistakes made by mankind were to condemn 
Socrates and to manufacture the atomic bomb. The first did violence 
to, the meaning of justice; the second showed man the road to his own 
destruction.

69.	Instruments have been adopted by the United Nations and at 
the multilateral and bilateral levels on the need for disarmament and 
the prohibition of nuclear weapons including resolutions banning test 
explosions in the atmosphere and under water. In open contradiction 
with these commitments, however, the arms build-up, the 
sophistication of weapons and the production of new and menacing 
means of destruction have continued. Unfortunately, each conflict 
gives rise to improvements in and new uses for the means of warfare, 
as was the case in the recent painful conflict over the Malvinas.

70.	Perhaps what is needed to stop the arms build-up is in the 
first place spiritual disarmament: the elimination of hatred and 
prejudice; the liquidation of barriers of ideological animosity; the 
promotion of fellowship, bearing in mind that mankind is after all a 
single entity and that fraternal understanding is possible.

71.	The period of multiple crises which mankind is once again 
experiencing is straining our capacity to face up to the challenge it 
presents and our courage. The Organization is again being put to the 
test and we the Members must not evade this tremendous challenge but 
meet it head on. The principles of the Charter and all the 
resolutions and declarations generated by the problems of the word 
form a basic body of norms accepted by all the word. We must now show 
that we can go beyond the spirit and the letter of those documents 
and are capable of establishing peaceful coexistence, with freedom, 
bread and love for all the people of our earth.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿148.	It is for me a privilege to come to this important podium as the spokesman for the constitutional Government presided over by Mr. Siles Zuazo, a figure of renown in the revolutionary and democratic struggle of Bolivia and Latin America.
149.	This year, when we celebrate the bicentenary of Simon Bolivar, it is cause for satisfaction for Bolivia, the favoured daughter of the Liberator, that the General Assembly has elected as its President for this session a worthy representative of Panama, Mr. Jorge Illueca. His election is a well-deserved tribute to him personally and to his experience in the Organization, and it guarantees the success of his important task.
150.	I wish to pay my respects and tribute to the outgoing President, Mr. Imre Hollai, who was so skilful in leading the proceedings of the previous session.
151.	I also wish to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts for peace and for the defence of the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
152.	It is a pleasure for me to welcome the new republic of Saint Christopher and Nevis on the occasion of its entry into the Organization.
153.	Bolivia reiterates that its foreign policy is based on observance of the permanent principles that constitute the bases of international law and those contained in the Charter of the United Nations. We confirm our adherence to the principles of the sovereign equality of States, non-interference in internal affairs of other States, the right of peoples to self-determination, respect for human rights, rejection of all forms of racial discrimination and apartheid and of all forms of colonialism, and the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force. Bolivia reaffirms its wish to continue seeking improvement in the machinery for the peaceful settlement of disputes among States. We support ideological pluralism, a principle which for us implies an independent non-aligned universalist foreign policy, one devoid of any rigid ideological dogma.
154.	Bolivia, because of its position as the central country in South America, has been called "a land of contacts" and "a country of many influences". Because of this character resulting from its geographic location, Bolivia plays a role of linkage and cohesion in the continent, which makes it important to the processes of regional and sub-regional integration, particularly since it belongs to three water systems: those of the Amazon, the Plata and the Pacific. We can state with conviction, and without fear of being presumptuous or in error, that without the economic development of Bolivia, it will be difficult to make any progress in effective integration between the countries of the Atlantic and those of the Andean group.
155.	Regional or bilateral agreements to establish physical links with Pacific ports, covering the aspects of energy, industrial and agricultural development and land transportation, represent for the medium term probably the most crucial set of projects for the whole process of Latin American regional integration. Those projects, especially those relating to the physical infrastructure, will considerably reduce the distances between the Atlantic and the Pacific, thus opening up a new era for Bolivia, since without internal integration the intercontinental links would be precarious.
156.	In carrying out those actions, we consider it necessary to restructure or change the scope of the various sub regional agreements and to activate relations with our neighbours in order to make up for lost time, after the extreme isolation into which we were forced by our authoritarian regimes and erratic economic models.
157.	We must refer to one of the basic objectives of our foreign policy, which is the return to the sea. Bolivia has not renounced, nor will it ever renounce, its right to have free and sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. With the same firmness with which we defend the principle that the conquest of territory by force grants no rights, we maintain the inalienable right of Bolivia to have a direct and useful outlet to the sea. That is a Bolivian cause, an American cause and a world cause recognized and consistently supported by the international community.
158.	On 10 October this year, we in Bolivia will celebrate the first anniversary of our return to a democratic constitutional system. To us that is a signal date because of the deep meaning it has in a world of constant struggle among internal interests and international conflicts. The peaceful transition from dictatorship to democracy united the political and social organizations and military sectors committed to the aspirations of the people. That fact is indeed a lesson in political maturity. It is the result of a lengthy and painful struggle and has come about after setbacks which ended with the recognition of the popular will, without turmoil or reprisals, without persecution or banishment. We must also mention the understanding and support that we received from the international community. The definitive consolidation of our democratic process largely depends on that continued support and understanding.
159.	The Government of Bolivia is aware of the fact that it cannot ask of its people any more courage or spirit of sacrifice, faced as they are with the most serious economic and social crisis of this century.
160.	When the democratic Government came to power a year ago, we found a country in ruins, a chaotic economic situation and a society that was morally undermined by traffic in drugs and corruption. It is enough to say that when the constitutional Government came to power, domestic production had fallen by 10 per cent, inflation amounted to 300 per cent annually, salaries had lost 50 per cent of their purchasing power and businesses were quickly going bankrupt.
161.	As far as its external position was concerned, the country was mortgaged and in default, unable to renegotiate its heavy external debt; three fourths of the value of its exports were committed to debt servicing, which drastically reduced its capacity to import even basic materials. That dramatic picture was worsened by the unfortunate fact that the country served as an active centre in the production and traffic of cocaine, activities which damaged the image of the country abroad.
162.	At the same time, the international recession hurt the weakened economy of Bolivia and further limited its possibilities for recovery.
163.	The most backward sectors, those which had suffered the most from the senseless and mistaken policies of the authoritarian governments, vehemently called for a solution of their pressing problems. Our emerging democracy was faced with a challenge that was almost impossible to meet: a disastrous internal economic situation, a severe international recession and understandable demands from huge social groups.
164.	The economic model of authoritarianism had come to an end. One of the basic requirements for its existence was missing—a continuous flow of external financing. The exclusive nature of that model benefited only a minority sector of the population.
165.	The economic structure had been distorted, with priority going to activities related to legal and illegal imports and those of commercial and financial intermediary services. The basic sectors, those which produce essential and exportable goods, had lost a significant share of the economy, thus further weakening it. With the abrupt reduction of external financing, the structure of the authoritarian political model came crashing down, thus bringing about the chaotic situation that I have just described.
166.	Given that serious situation, the democratic Government decided that drastic changes in our patterns of growth and style of development would have to be made. The economy would have to be directed towards more realism and austerity. A national revolutionary and liberating model of development was advocated not to create a populist system of distribution nor to unleash a vast statism that would sap economic energies to feed a gigantic bureaucracy. It is essentially a mixed economic system, the basic instrument of which is planning for the rigorous establishment of priorities and for the definition of functions to be fulfilled by the public, private and co-operative sectors, by ensuring compatibility of investments needed for development and income distribution.
167.	The first acts of the democratic Government reflect the intention of this development policy. Indeed, it prohibited all imports which were not strictly essential; it established a realistic exchange rate and set up exchange controls that allowed for foreign exchange to be made available only for essential purposes.
168.	The Government's annual programme began to bear fruit. There was a gradual resumption of economic activity, the rates of dismissal from government employment were stabilized, businesses ceased falling into bankruptcy and inflation decreased. The external debt was renegotiated with some brother countries in a satisfactory manner. Supplies became normalized and it was obvious that the real salaries of the majority of the population were rising.
169.	The indicators during the first semester of 1983 were encouraging: the rate of inflation had declined to less than half the level of 1982. Industrial production showed clear signs of expansion. The external sector was beginning to function smoothly to such an extent that we could see that by the end of the year there would be an increase in international reserves.
170.	That encouraging beginning of our recovery was cut off by major natural disasters which hit the country. Indeed, floods in the east and a terrible drought in the west ruined the plans and the programme of the Government. To illustrate the seriousness of the damage, I shall just mention that agricultural production will fall by 25 per cent in 1983. A decline of that magnitude means not only that there will be a serious disturbance in our socio-economic operations, but also that there will be widespread famine and great sacrifices for a people who have risked everything for its freedom.
171.	Natural disasters have affected more than 1.6 million people, that is, 25 per cent of our population. The losses we have suffered amount to approximately $900 million, an amount which equals our annual exports.
172.	In a dismal turn of fate, Bolivian democracy is undergoing a very difficult test. The assistance of the international community, together with the strength of a people that has long known how to overcome adversity, a people that well understands the meaning of determining its own future, will allow the democratic Government to face the crisis with solid backing.
173.	In this context, we wish to emphasize the initiatives of the Secretary-General to co-operate with us in overcoming those disasters, as well as the co-operation of several Members of the Organization which did not hesitate to lend us a hand in adversity. Our gratitude goes to all of them.
174.	Bolivia has always been generous and has not hesitated to co-operate in many causes when our cooperation has been sought. Suffice it to recall our contributions to the success of the cause of world democracy when we sold our tin and other strategic raw materials at low prices during the Second World War.
175.	For our State? the United Nations provides a valid forum in the continuous search for shared solutions. The developing countries firmly hope that the issues dealt with here will be given practical effect by the measures which are adopted.
176.	We hope that problems so vital for mankind as the arms race and world peace will be discussed with the responsibility they require, since the future of the planet is at stake.
177.	Our presence in this forum is a commitment to our peoples, a serious commitment to offer new hope to mankind, which is discouraged when it sees that peaceful understanding among nations is still far from being achieved and that the arms build-up process continues to be completely irrational, since existing arsenals have the military potential to ensure the destruction of mankind several times over, while in our streets the misery of outstretched hands and sick and ill-clad citizens increases.
178.	We come from peoples which urgently need to see honest concern for their destiny, apart from any collaboration by special interests in dealings which compromise our future. We believe that there is still time to achieve a dialogue that will show mature understanding of and respect for our national dignity, our national characteristics and our forms of government, arrived at with freedom and legitimacy. Anywhere in the world where there is the will on the part of the people, expressed through mechanisms of participation, citizen turn-out and the need to consolidate and strengthen political systems which respect the fundamental rights of man, there States must undertake joint efforts to support with respect the f*3ily struggle of our peoples to make our societies expressions of dignity, freedom and democracy.
179.	It is with deep concern that we see the world today facing an arms race which is alarming not only because of its destructive power but also because of the waste of resources it represents. These resources of approximately $800 billion could be used to alleviate the social and economic problems of mankind.
180.	The military expenditures of underdeveloped countries total 16 per cent of world military expenditures, while 5.9 per cent of the gross domestic product of the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America goes to military expenditures, whereas only 1 per cent is devoted to public health and 2.8 per cent to education. The fact that countries spend on their arms race the equivalent of the annual budget of UNICEF in a mere five hours is reason for deep concern and reflection.
181.	We therefore believe that the only way for mankind to ensure its survival is to abide by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and those supported by the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
182.	That is why we support all United Nations activities to curb the arms race, thus freeing resources for effective international financial co-operation leading to a substantial transfer of funds to the peoples of the third world.
183.	Bolivia follows with deep concern the crisis in Central America. The escalation of violence and its devastating effects on the population are a serious problem for the entire region. We maintain that the countries of the area, like all States of the world, have the right to act with sovereignty, without interference from other States, within the framework of non-interference in internal affairs and the principles of self-determination of peoples.
184.	Bolivia expresses its solidarity with the people and Government of Nicaragua. It calls for the cessation of all foreign acts of harassment and hopes that its national liberating and non-aligned revolution will be consolidated and strengthened in a democracy reflecting the legitimate aspirations of the Nicaraguan people—in other words, with ideological and political pluralism.
185.	We support the actions of the Contadora Group, and we are certain that those efforts will open up prospects of a political solution through peaceful means acceptable to all the parties concerned.
186.	We reaffirm our support for the process of decolonization, which must continue until the final elimination of this practice. In this context, Bolivia has repeatedly expressed its support for the Argentine Republic's demand that the Malvinas Islands be returned to its sovereignty. We call on the countries concerned to abide by the resolutions of the United Nations and resume negotiations on a settlement of the dispute. We also express our concern over the growing militarization of that area.
187.	We categorically reject apartheid and all forms of racial discrimination, which offend human dignity. Bolivia reaffirms its support for the various resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and the Security Council on this subject.
188.	Bolivia defends the sovereignty of States and the right of peoples to self-determination. Consequently, we support the Secretary-General's efforts to bring about a just and permanent settlement of the crises in Kampuchea, Cyprus and Afghanistan.
189.	With reference to the problem of Palestine, we support all actions by the United Nations to achieve a lasting peace in the Middle East. We reaffirm that territorial conquest is inadmissible from any standpoint, and therefore we appeal to Israel to withdraw from the occupied Arab territories.
190.	In the certainty that peace is possible only through observance of the principles embodied in the Charter, Bolivia urges the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon, as a way of guaranteeing the independence and sovereignty of that country.
191.	We wish to emphasize our concern over the war between Iran and Iraq and join in the requests to both parties to put an end to the conflict.
192.	Bolivia supports the process leading to the independence of Namibia within the framework of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and considers that Walvis Bay is an integral part of that territory.
193.	With regard to the serious problem of drug trafficking, we must honestly state that bilateral efforts are very limited in scope. The levels of production, the distribution networks and the economic power this traffic entails demand agreements of greater scope and effectiveness. Thus, we advocate multilateral agreements among countries which produce coca and/or cocaine and countries affected by the consumption of their products. Only by a joint effort based on true political will shall we be able to attack a problem which could become uncontrollable even for the most powerful countries.
194.	The people of Bolivia, which has lived through the tragedy of dictatorship, repression and the trampling of the most basic human rights, has in this last year experienced a total change in this area, a change which reflects full respect for human dignity and absolute freedom for the Bolivian citizen today, who is protected not only by an internal legal structure, but also by international legal instruments.
195.	Since 10 October 1982, Bolivia has acceded to all human rights instruments deposited at the United Nations.
196.	We support all actions of the Organization and all efforts of the Governments represented here aimed at alleviating grievous situations such as violations of human rights which unfortunately still exist in many places in the world.
197.	The crisis in Latin America is of such dramatic proportions that the President of the World Bank himself has just said that the debt of the third world is a time bomb.
198.	This situation implies serious risks to the stability and social peace of our nations. We have not made sufficient progress to change the causes of this imbalance threatening to destroy the productive sector of Latin America.
199.	Actually, one might even say that in some circles the Latin American crisis is not perceived as a risk in relations between industrialized countries and poor nations, but rather as an opportunity to assert the dependent and marginal nature of its inclusion in the international economy.
200.	In fact the scope of the economic problems in Latin America has severely weakened its international presence, a situation which is taken undue advantage of by transnational banks and corporations, whose motives are in no way guided by a long-term view of the situation required in North-South relations at this crucial juncture.
201.	Some time ago, economists coined a new word to describe a phenomenon which escaped traditional definition, and that was the beginning of the term "stagnation", which brought together the elements of stagnation and inflation which were, up to then, considered opposed to each other. Today, to describe the Latin American reality, one would have to coin a new term, "reflections", to define economic recession which together with inflation undermines the economic and social structure of Latin America.
202.	What is more, the actors and the parameters in international economic relations have changed. The transnational private banks are now at the centre of everything and have become the protagonists, following the curious process which came after the oil crisis and the recycling of the financial resources which became known as petrodollars.
203.	This change has brought about such a gap that transnational banking has become a "bankocracy" which views the world only through impersonal numbers and devalued the very presence of the nation State in countries of the North and even more so in countries of the South.
204.	In order to resolve this problem, Governments and international agencies must reassess the role which this "bankocracy" tries to monopolize.
205.	A political dialogue is necessary at government level between industrialized nations and developing countries, in order to examine and resolve with an eye to the future and with authority, the problems of commercial treatment, protectionism and the renegotiation of the external debt of the third world. We cannot continue on this unbalanced, if not erratic, course of recent times. The struggle between Governments and transnational banking should not only be limited to analysis of amounts, terms and rates; there must be political agreement among nation-States of the North and South to fix parameters for specific negotiations.
206.	Bolivia attaches priority to the North-South global negotiations and considers that the United Nations is the most appropriate forum for that dialogue.
207.	The constitutional President of my country, Mr. Sites Zuazo, when he was Vice-President of the Republic, came to the General Assembly in 1952 as head of the Bolivian delegation at the seventh session, and he stated in this same Hall:
"it is disquieting to consider the tremendous power and correspondingly great responsibility of the great Powers which, constrained as they are to proceed in accordance with a rigid pattern in keeping with their domestic policies, have been unable to lay the foundation for a stable peace which would enable their peoples and the peoples everywhere to live in the hope of a better world." 
He continued:
"Our emotion becomes anxiety when, as the representatives of small nations, we realize that we can contribute very little, indeed almost nothing, to the elimination of the conflicts among the great Powers. Yet, at the same time, we understand that it is our duty to co-operate constructively in the work of the United Nations, which seeks to build good-neighbourly relations". Despite the 31 years that have elapsed, that message is still valid, and today our peoples feel the same anxiety and the same hope of achieving a more just world. Today as then, Bolivia reiterates its trust that the efforts of the United Nations will secure peaceful co-existence for the human race.
 



===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿Mr. President, it is an honour to come to this important rostrum to represent a Government born of the people's will. Your personal qualities and experience ensure the success of this Assembly's deliberations and the continuance of outstanding leadership such as was given by the previous President, a Head of State and friend of Bolivia, Mr. Jorge Illueca.
2.	My delegation is happy to welcome Brunei Darussalam to the United Nations.
3.	I wish also to express the special fraternal gratitude of the Bolivian people to the Secretary- General for the interest which the United Nations system has shown in my country and for its cooperation.
4.	The people and Government of Bolivia once again reiterate their support for the principles laid down in the Charter of the United Nations, particularly those concerning the peaceful solution of disputes and the non-use of force in international relations, respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all States, non-intervention in internal affairs, and the self-determination of peoples. In the same way, we reject territorial conquest and all forms of military occupation.
5.	Bolivia emphatically stresses its attachment to the principles of non-alignment; it rejects the occupation of Lebanon and Cyprus by foreign forces; it deplores the fact that the Secretary-General's efforts concerning the crises in Kampuchea and Afghanistan have not achieved the progress hoped for by the international community; it regrets the continuance of the Iran-Iraq conflict and reiterates the need to make more intensive efforts to resolve it; it supports all actions designed to bring about the reunification of Korea; it deeply regrets the absence of peace in the Middle East and supports the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination.
6.	Bolivia, for reasons of principle and historical experience, supports the universal doctrine that conquest by the use of force is inadmissible.
7.	My country stresses its solidarity with the peoples struggling to throw off the colonial yoke and reaffirms Namibia's right to independence within the framework of Security Council resolution 435 (1978).
8.	Of course, we must emphatically repudiate the doctrine of apartheid and would point out that no constitutional change in the Republic of South Africa can be legitimate if it does not include the direct participation of the majority of its population.
9.	The distressing conflict in Central America not only affects sister countries but also threatens to have negative consequences for the whole continent. Bolivia has always expressed its solidarity with the people and Government of Nicaragua in their struggle to move ahead with the country's liberating national transformation, designed to bring about the institutionalization of a pluralist democratic system.
10.	The work of the countries of the Contadora Group, which enjoys the support of the international community, demonstrates the capacity, imagination and will of the Latin American countries to find their own solutions to their problems without the intervention of outside interests. The advances recorded on 7 September 1984 at the seventh meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Contadora Group and the Central American countries, held at Panama City, demonstrate that by means of dialogue and negotiation it has been possible to identify the principal problems and find formulas of conciliation for their solution. My Government reaffirms its support for the work of the Contadora Group and its hope that a final solution to the conflicts in the region may be found.
11.	Since the last century, Bolivia has recognized the legitimate rights of the people and Government of Argentina over the Malvinas. We express the hope that the Governments of Argentina and the United Kingdom will resume negotiations and work to find a just and honourable solution, I should like to mention once again our concern at the deployment of nuclear weapons in the islands.
12.	My country views with satisfaction the beginnings of the application of the Torrijos-Carter treaties which have restored to Panama its sovereignty over the Canal Zone. We hope that the provisions of the treaties will be complied with faithfully within the scheduled timetable.
13.	Bolivia is the epicentre of political and social movements that are sweeping the continent. The rugged terrain of its mountains is swept by the winds of geopolitical storms, the drug traffic and the economic crisis. Against this background, the dramatic epic of the building of democracy among the Latin American peoples is being played out.
14.	In October 1979, the General Assembly of the Organization of American States [OAS\ stated that "it is in the permanent interest of the hemisphere to find an equitable solution whereby Bolivia would acquire sovereign and useful access to the Pacific Ocean". This categorical assertion can be explained only by recognition of the fact that the war of 1879 brought about an artificial breach in Bolivia's sovereign rights on the Pacific Ocean, altered the continental equilibrium and introduced elements of tension and mistrust which threaten peace in the hemisphere.
15.	In another statement in the same Assembly, on the occasion of the centenary of the Pacific war, I pointed out that not only was that war unjust but also that it was an historical error, because it severely limited the continental role which properly belongs to my country as a crossroads between the Pacific and the basins of the Amazon and the Plata. The land-locked status forced on Bolivia created an atmosphere of tension which was most dangerously manifested in the arms race unleashed in the zone, which has just in the last decade swallowed up a sum amounting to almost $25 billion and at the same time placed barriers on the path to harmonious and fruitful economic co-operation between countries which were born to be complementary but which have ended up artificially separated by an historical error which must be corrected.
16.	The consequences for the economic and political development of Bolivia have been still more serious. It has drained the natural resources of a territory five times as large as that of Belgium and deprived it of access to the riches of the sea along a coastline of 450 kilometres. It has limited sovereign access by my country to the Pacific ports and its traditional routes for foreign trade and placed it in an unacceptable situation of dependency vis-a-vis other Powers. It has increased the cost of Bolivia's external trade with an invisible customs toll which is estimated at approximately 35 per cent of the total of its imports and exports, because of the amount of losses, the delays and the mishandling of goods. In truth, the lack of a coastline is in itself a genuine cause of economic lag, as is shown by the circumstance that countries without their own access to the sea occupy the lowest places on the scale of development in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
17.	In the case of Bolivia, this geographical seclusion involves an additional psychological factor, since to this temporary land-locked status must be added the feeling of isolation and mistrust resulting from an unjust war. This circumstance makes a clear difference between the situation of my country and those which for other reasons of international justice are seeking free transit and access to the sea. It is for this reason that the non-aligned countries stress the "inalienable right" of Bolivia to recover sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean, since there is a universal doctrine to the effect that conquests brought about by force are not legitimate.
18.	It is my hope that this description will help members of the Assembly to have a better under-standing of the unswerving determination of my country to return to the sea with the same rights of sovereignty as those which it possessed at the time it gained its independence. There has never been any doubt as to what Bolivia seeks in its demand for access to the sea, although the dynamism of international relations has several times modified the context in which its demand has been made, almost always to the detriment of its national interest.
19.	Recently, the constitutional Government of President Hernan Siles Zuazo, based on the popular will, brought forward a process of internal consultation from which emerged a national consensus to put an end to the enclosed position of my country between the Andes Mountains, the high plains and the Amazon jungle.
20.	These objectives can be summed up in the statement that Bolivia must recover its own useful and sovereign coasts and ports on the Pacific, linked to the country by a sovereign and useful land route which would guarantee the effective continuation of the territorial status and make it possible to bring together all the geographical attributes which would finally make Bolivia a country linking the great South American basins and not merely the scene of confrontation of conflicting interests.
21.	Before thinking of the concept of territorial compensation, which cannot be sustained in the light of juridical precedent and the universal principles of equity, we venture to remind the Assembly that the solution to this problem would liberate resources designed for unproductive and senseless purposes of war and open the door to broad and beneficial integration and economic complementarity between countries which are rightly known as sisters, something that has been lost on a far-distant battlefield.
22.	There can be no substitute for the restoration of the sovereign status of a coastal state. All transit facilities and other advantages which depend on the will of outside entities will not be sufficient, because they would be nothing more than palliatives which would obscure the real and fundamental solution of the problem inherent in the fact that Bolivia is a land-locked country.
23.	Within the framework of these premises, my country is ready to continue its appeals to the American countries in the OAS to embark upon direct negotiations with the parties concerned within the inter-American system and under the auspices of the President of Colombia, Mr. Belisario Betancur, whose Pan-American and noble-minded initiative deserves the sincere gratitude of the Bolivian people.
24.	My country believes that, following the long experience of frustration and disappointment, it would be possible in this way to create appropriate conditions to bring about serious and practical negotiations in keeping with the rights, interests and expectations of the countries concerned. It is along that path that we shall find the hoped-for solution for a "stable peace," as called for in the 1979 OAS resolution. It is along that path that we shall find a lasting settlement to the age-old Pacific conflict.
25.	As this war and its distressing consequences involve Bolivia, Chile and Peru, it is logical that its solution should include and benefit those nations, within the framework of legal treaties and precedents on the subject, so that we can achieve an agreement that "will take into account the rights and interests of the parties involved", according to a paragraph in the resolution the OAS unanimously adopted in November 1983.
26.	There can be no doubt that the road to peace is understanding, based on good faith a *d the clear political willingness to resolve the difficulties separating our peoples. Bolivia is once again ready to engage in dialogue with a view to having its rights respected, because it has always relied on peaceful methods to solve international disputes.
27.	For a long time now, the domino theory in conflicts has been accepted. Perhaps the time has come to restore the domino of peace hypothesis, according to which the solution to one conflict is likely to facilitate ending others. This is the hope of my country during these crucial years. This may be the contribution that the indomitable will of my people will make to the international community, following up on Panama's earlier admirable example. The control of drug trafficking and the consumption of drugs is today another challenge which jeopardizes the life and health of our peoples and the stability of democratic institutions.
29.	Traditionally, the fight against this form of crime has focused on the producing countries. Following that logic, the cheapest and most effective method is to eliminate illegal cultivation and to prevent the processing of drugs by using control programmes and punitive measures in producing countries. Nevertheless, since production in fact responds to demand, the heart of the problem is in the purchasing countries. At least in so far as concerns Bolivia, this conclusion is supported by indisputable cultural and historical evidence. It must be recalled that in the Andean countries the innocent use of the coca leaf is as old as their civilizations themselves, without drugs being a factor of social degradation.
30.	Furthermore, it is also clear that most of the earnings generated by this illegal activity remain in the consuming countries and, to a less degree, with the intermediaries, increasing the wealth and scope for action of organized crime. The producers receive a very tiny fraction of those earnings, as is the case with most exports from the developing world.
31.	Consequently, the elimination of the real roots of this problem requires some rethinking with regard to concepts and operating methods. It should be said that a genuine solution is the responsibility of the international community, but that the principal contribution must come from the consumer countries, which possess the necessary financial and technical resources to fight this scourge with any hope of success.
32.	As is well known, drug trafficking operates through a complex international structure. Production, processing, transport, financing, adulteration, marketing and consumption are all phases of an illegal activity vertically and horizontally integrated. The developing countries that produce drugs and allow them to pass through their territories are once again dependent links in this chain. Other countries determine how they are produced and for what reason.
33.	It is clear that isolated national action will not be successful given this intricate network criss-crossing economic regions, various kinds of activity and political and social strata, if there is no co-ordinated, centralized and concerted effort internationally.
34.	Another aspect of this matter is that we must take into account that any action against drug trafficking should not be restricted to purely punitive measures. Although that is an indispensable element of any overall strategy, it r of fundamental importance to offer development alternatives to the peasants and sectors of the population subsisting on the production and processing of drugs; their backs are against the wall owing to poverty and marginality. We must also replace sub rosa and illegal economies being developed within this international drug trafficking network and resulting in grave and profound distortions in the development of producer countries.
35.	It will not be in punitive measures but in economic and social development that we shall find the social and politically valid answer to deal with this problem radically.
36.	My country has suffered tragically from the presence of this criminal activity and its social, economic and political consequences. The constitutional Government of President Siles Zuazo has confronted this challenge within the context of a profound economic crisis and the tremendous difficulties caused by the transition from dictatorship to democracy.
37.	Indeed, the Bolivian people first overthrew an illegitimate Government born in the very bowels of drug trafficking. A few weeks later, in the exercise of its legitimate attributes, it ordered the armed forces and police to occupy extensive zones of the tropical areas and to destroy the drug-producing centres. Plans for integrated rural development in these areas have been drawn up which will make it possible for the peasants there to rely on an adequate social infrastructure and to consolidate profitable, legitimate and stable economic activities.
38.	For Bolivia, the fight against drug trafficking is a moral obligation and a practical imperative. The constitutional Government will be unswerving in its efforts to punish all those involved in those illicit activities. Nevertheless, the Bolivian effort will remain inadequate if the need for concerted international action is not followed up—an appeal which President Siles Zuazo made in November 1982, at the Assembly's thirty-seventh session.
39.	In this spirit and on the initiative of my country, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela, on 1 October this year, approved the New York Declaration against Drug Trafficking and the Illicit Use of Drugs, in which it is resolved to request the United Nations to convene a specialized conference—which we hope will be held in Bolivia—to examine and find a solution for the various aspects of this criminal activity from a global standpoint, which in the Latin American view is an essential pre-condition for success in the task being undertaken today.
40.	The concatenation of various factors has caused two, almost continuous, world recessions: the first in the middle of the 1970s and the second at the beginning of the 1980s. For Latin America, this phenomenon was manifested in a gradual reduction in its gross national product, the acceleration of the inflationary process and the loss of its purchasing power on external markets owing to the constant decline in the terms of trade.
41.	Latin America today has a per capita gross national product similar to what existed seven years ago, with an increase in consumer prices that in 1983 reached 130 per cent and with a decrease in the terms of trade of 38 per cent from 1977. Consequently, the region has found itself obliged to reduce its imports to a dangerous level, a fact which is even more serious when we consider that since 1983 Latin America has become a net exporter of capital. In fact, whereas in 1981 it had received a net transfer of real resources from abroad, this process was reversed in 1983, when an amount of $30 billion was transferred abroad.
42.	If we add to this the burden of its foreign debt, the servicing of which requires resources that are more limited today than ever, we may conclude that the economic crisis in Latin America needs priority treatment, calling not only for the solutions required by the existing situation, but also for medium- and long-term measures.
43.	The case of Bolivia is characteristic of the crisis affecting the region. Its economy is suffering from an unprecedented contraction, which is seen in a drop in per capita national income of 30 per cent over the past biennium; runaway inflation, which in 1983 rose to an annual figure of about 300 per cent, and a doubling of the level of unemployment over the past few years.
44.	The efforts of the Government of Bolivia to cope with this grave situation have met with obstacles caused by the high level of the foreign debt, unfavourable terms of trade, reduction in the volume of exports, and a sharp decline in essential imports needed for the normal functioning of the country's economic system. For example, the terms of trade worsened by 10 per cent in the last quarter, imports fell by 45 per cent in 1983, and the decline in exports, in the period between 1976 and 1983, reached 35 per cent.
45.	As regards the social situation, the picture is tragic, showing a drastic deterioration in the living conditions of broad sectors of the population, large elements of which are underfed, while others are virtually starving. Social indicators of malnutrition, infant mortality and life expectancy, among others, are some of the most critical on the continent.
46.	In these circumstances, social and political conflicts are becoming ever more acute, and the demands of the population in this regard are becoming intransigent. Consequently, we are witnessing increasing difficulty in carrying out the programme of economic recovery, and the stability of the democratic process itself is at risk.
47.	President Siles Zuazo, at the beginning of his term of office, said in his statement to the General Assembly, in November 1982, that the constitutional Government had inherited a country mortgaged to the hilt and suffering from an acute economic crisis, factors that would require tremendous sacrifices from the Bolivian people in order gradually to restructure and improve the country's economy.
48.	Through daily sacrifices, the people of Bolivia are contributing to the restructuring of the national economy. Nevertheless, the international community must also contribute its understanding so that together we can overcome this overwhelming crisis. The sacrifices required of most of the population are of such a nature that they cannot go on much longer unless at the same time we witness signs of hope and real economic recovery.
49.	Adjustment programmes established by the Government have revealed its sense of responsibility. Nevertheless, the fact that they have not been developed in a consistent way shows that there are disturbing factors of a social and political nature, and indicates also the need for accelerated and prompt support on the part of the international community in order to neutralize these negative factors which make it impossible to carry out the programme without recourse to force or political repression, which would be contrary to the democratic spirit of President Siles Zuazo.
50.	We have a long way to go in order to restructure the economy and place it on a sound, dynamic footing in both the public and the private sector. For this we need new resources, appropriate technology and administration.
51.	In this context, the problem of servicing the external debt has assumed particular political and social relevance, since it has only given rise to the need for further sacrifices and placed heavier demands on the weak economies of the region.
52.	It would appear that it is still not understood that the burden of all this economic adjustment on the Latin American peoples can only lead to a worsening of the crisis, the impoverishment of regional societies, the paralysis of its productivity, and social violence. Nor would this be likely to improve its capacity to repay the external debt.
53.	For this reason, President Siles Zuazo has always pointed out the need for Latin America to combine forces to enter into a political dialogue with the creditor countries, since the consequences of the external indebtedness clearly transcend purely financial and technical aspects and call for global definitions with regard to financing and international trade. In this way, the creditor countries and the international banks would assume part of the costs of adjustment proportionate to their share of the responsibility for the creation of the problem of the indebtedness of Latin America and its consequences. Without doubt, this is the true spirit of the Cartagena Consensus and the Mar del Plata Communique.
54.	The extraordinarily difficult circumstances of its present economy led to the Government of Bolivia's decision to postpone temporarily servicing part of its external debt. Although this decision seems isolated within the present international context, it will be quite common in the near future to see other countries at a level of development similar to our own also finding it impossible to comply with their obligations. The solution, however, is not to be found in sanctions, which would be counter-productive, as well as unjust, but in helping them to restore their production, which would also have a favourable effect on creditor countries. Such reactivation requires fresh input in order to promote exports of both traditional and new products. Bolivia has the necessary resources to cover its present obligations and to improve the standard of living of its people, but in the absence of domestic savings it urgently requires external financing in order to transform its goods into exportable resources.
55.	These are the facts on which we should focus the co-operation of the international community, including, of course, private banks and multilateral financing organizations. On the basis of this philosophy, it will be possible to find a constructive solution to a problem which, approached in the traditional way, could generate only adverse consequences for the development of the Latin American countries and the stability of the international economic order.
56.	The wave of democracy passing over the continent from the Rio Grande to Tierra del Fuego is more vigorous than ever. One by one, the American peoples have reaffirmed their right to live in freedom. One by one, authoritarian regimes have given way to representative governments born of the will of the people. This process is so widespread and strong that one may fail to recognize its depths and tend to overlook its consequences and risks. Of course, this is not a neatly simultaneous change from military to civilian Governments, as has so often occurred in the past. What we are witnessing is a profound historical change which has its roots in alterations of the economic and social structure of South America in the last 50 years.
57.	In the 1930s, the great depression overthrew the old oligarchic, feudal and backward republic, opening the way to a civilian and military populism which, although there were differences of nuance, modernized Latin American societies through agrarian reform, industrialization, substitution of imports, direct participation of the State in economic activity, and the mobilization of the broad masses of the people in the towns and countryside.
58.	In this way, a new productive and social structure was established in Latin America, both urban and sophisticated, but at the same time with tremendous differences in standards of living and wealth: a throbbing and vital society, but a profoundly unjust one; nations with vast internal imbalances, subject to an oppressive international system; countries with significant human, natural and technological resources which, nevertheless, remained isolated, cut off from one another but dependent on others.
59.	Throughout much of that period, we were able to perceive the contradiction that arose between an open and participative social and economic structure and an increasingly authoritarian and paternalist political system. Democracy ceased to be just a word and became a banner. In fact, it fully reflected the real needs of society and thus mobilized millions of people, filling the streets and prisons of America with heroes and martyrs.
60.	Finally, as occurred half a century ago, a vast international recession exhausted the possibilities of the neo-liberal economic model and caused the collapse of authoritarian regimes, leaving the way open to the fuller, though still disorderly, democratic process which Latin America is now experiencing. It is a process which clearly is substantially different from the formal and oligarchical democracy of old. It poses new and complicated challenges to the thinking and political organization of the continent. In fact, within the framework of classic democratic values, of respect for human rights, individual freedom and subjection to the law, we must integrate within the machinery of participation and political decision-making new, emerging social strata born of the process of modernization, urbanization and agrarian reform.
61.	In the case of Bolivia, this is undoubtedly a difficult task, fraught with tension because of the upsurge of new protagonists that have won their right to participate at the price of their blood, and because of unprecedented forms of regional presence that are contrary to the classic modes of social, economic and political organization.
62.	It is therefore indispensable to renovate political doctrine and practice in order to include, in the appropriate institutional forms, new social protagonists and structural levels of active representation of the mass of the peoples in the economic, social and political decisions affecting the life of the community and the State.
63.	From those considerations stem certain aspects of the concept of democracy: economic democracy, through the strengthening of the system of a mixed economy resting on the relative balance of power between the public and private sectors and the explicit recognition of the guiding role of the State in the planning of the national economy; regional democracy, in the sense that it is absolutely indispensable to open up imaginative and valid forms of administrative decentralization and local government that will reflect the new realities and make it possible to take full advantage of the potential human and natural resources, now wasted within our countries; social and cultural democracy, through the rooting out of all forms of racial and economic discrimination and the establishment of methods that will ensure health, education, housing and equal opportunities for all the people; and political democracy, based on respect for the opinions of others and rejection of the old practice of clients and patrons, opening up, finally, a real opportunity for the vast majority of the peoples in the field of political decision-making.
64.	These are the challenges that history has placed before the peoples of Latin America, including those of my own country. President Siles Zuazo's Government and the People's Democratic Unity must build a democratic, pluralistic system that respects individual freedom and human rights, in the midst of profound social upheavals and the gravest economic crisis of the century, of the distorting and perverse effects of the drug traffic, and of the apparent indifference of the great Powers to the plight of the peoples of the third world. When one observes this struggle in all its magnitude, it is difficult to resist a deep, ambivalent feeling of fear and hope; for we see between the shade and the light of the struggle the vague, still imprecise, outlines of the new society that this generation is building at a heroic stage of Latin American history.


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
First of all I should like to express to you, Sir, the satisfaction of the Bolivian Government at your election as President of the General Assembly. It is a tribute to you and to Spain, which is so close to the heart of Latin America.
I should also like to express the profound feeling of national gratitude Bolivia feels with regard to the vigorous activities undertaken by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Javier Perez de Cuellar, to bring about international understanding of our problems. That attitude is coupled with the outstanding qualities he has demonstrated in the exercise of his office and in the fulfillment of his great responsibilities.
My country earlier expressed its great grief at the catastrophe Mexico has suffered, and I should like to reiterate our sympathy, solidarity and fraternal support to that great brother nation.
I have come to this rostrum to pay a tribute to the United Nations on its fortieth anniversary. Bolivia was present at its inception and helped to bring it into being as an expression of the deep desire for peace felt by a world that had just emerged from the agonies and destruction of war. Now we are here to join our voice, however modest it may be, in support of the spirit that prevailed at San Francisco and that, to the small nations of the world, represents the concrete embodiment of the principle of the legal equality of all States, with respect to which we associated ourselves yesterday, not to be the instrument of the strong but rather the voice of the weak and defenseless of the earth.
Here I should like for a moment to touch upon the work and contribution made by a group of enlightened young Bolivian diplomats who in 1945 were committed to the ideals of the Bolivian national revolution and who signed the United Nations Charter. We pay tribute to them and we should like to do so in the person of Ambassador Carlos Salamanca, who is present at this fortieth session of the General Assembly once again as a member of the Bolivian delegation. He has grown older in his outstanding services to the Organization and to Bolivia during 15 of the Assembly's 40 sessions.
American law contributed decisively to the inclusion in the Charter of new concepts of collective security and self-defense in Chapter VIII, which deals with the regional settlement of disputes. Bolivian law also had an influence on the drafting of the Charter by expanding the bases of international relations, contributing to bringing about the inclusion in the rather cold reference to treaties the concept of international justice that appears in paragraph 3 of the preamble and in Article 14, thus rooting in the foundations of the Organizations the principle that underlies Bolivia's maritime concerns.
Bolivia for the first time supported recognition of the right of peoples freely to control their natural resources, and I can say with pride that my country also sponsored the first resolution adopted by the United Nations dealing with the rejection of racial discrimination, a principle that we reiterate today as we renew our total condemnation of apartheid and our unswerving support for the emancipation of Namibia under the auspices of the United Nations.
Bolivia, as a founding Member of the United Nations, wishes at this anniversary session to reaffirm the obligations it has contracted under the Charter and to reiterate its total commitment to the purposes and principles contained therein.
The defense of national sovereignty, the right of peoples to self-determination and the principle of non-intervention are a guarantee of our national dignity, the sole reliable guarantee upon which our independence rests and to which we can have recourse in order not to be in thrall to the great Powers.
We Bolivians will not allow any foreign interest to dictate the conduct of our country. Only Bolivians, and they alone, are entitled to correct our errors, change our course or determine our future.
Bolivia was the first Latin American country invited to participate in the Non-Aligned Movement-. In our view non-alignment is not some negative neutrality; instead, it is the most rigorous and consistent adherence to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and a militant conviction that impels to adopt an uncompromising position vis-a-vis the great world Powers.
My Government's international policy is based on those postulates. We share the concern for rigorous respect for our political independence, our territorial integrity, our right to live free from coercion. We cannot agree with the proposition that there exists a hierarchy of sovereignty, and we are actively opposed to the arms race, which must be eliminated in order to avoid a world confrontation that could reduce the planet to dust and rubble.
The Non-Aligned Movement is vigilant with regard to justice and equity in international relations. It has spoken out with a frequency appropriate to each case, calling for the righting of historic wrongs, and with particular emphasis on matters affecting the vital functioning of States. It is in that framework that the countries members of the Non-Aligned Movement have expressed constant solidarity with Bolivia's cause in its efforts to recover a sovereign and useful outlet to the Pacific Ocean.
Bolivia, because of its geographical situation in the center of South America, is affected by three of the continent's hydro-graphic basins. It is the contact country for the five republics that border it. This geographical position thus makes it essential for Bolivia to have an outlet to the Pacific. Bolivia became an independent republic in 1825, and at that time my country had a coast over which it exercised full sovereignty for more than half a century. It was subsequently deprived of that outlet by a war of conquest. Never has it waived, nor will it renounce, its right to an outlet to the sea and to a full return to the community of nations.
It relies on the solidarity of the international community. The countries members of the Organization of American States (OAS) have over the last six years reiterated that
"it is a matter of standing hemispheric interest to find an equitable solution
whereby Bolivia may obtain a sovereign and useful access to the Pacific Ocean."
I wish to take this opportunity to thank from this rostrum the 130 countries throughout the world that have given Bolivia their support, solidarity and fraternal understanding in its maritime quest.
However, Bolivia now wishes to look to the future and to leave behind an unfortunate period, opening instead a new page of peace and understanding. Guided by this intention, it reiterates it traditional openness to dialog with Chile within the context of the exhortations and resolutions of the Organization of American States (OAS) and with a minimum of preconditions being set by the parties as a guarantee of a bona fide willingness to reaching a practical settlement which, while having due regard for the reciprocal interests of the countries concerned, will not put Bolivia's territorial heritage at stake.
Bolivia proclaims its support for all multilateral means of solving disputes, faithful as it is to the principles of the Charter, without prejudice to the usefulness of bilateral solutions. We feel that the bilateral and multilateral options are not mutually exclusive but can be used in conjunction.
During a period that was not as marked as today is by a balance of terror and a threat of nuclear destruction, President Victor Paz Estenssoro stated when addressing the General Assembly in 1963:
"We must advance towards the total prohibition of nuclear weapons and general and complete disarmament until finally we get to the point of outlawing war." (A/PV.1252, p. 11) He also stated on that occasion that the great Powers appeared to rely on force rather than on the law.
In taking stock of the 40 years of the work of the United Nations, we observe that that warning is still valid. It is necessary for all Member States to make a decisive contribution to a campaign of disarmament to bring about peace and ensure the survival of mankind. The resources now devoted to the arms race should be freed in order to raise the standards of living of the great majority of peoples still struggling with backwardness, ignorance and hunger.
Every twenty-four hours the world squanders approximately $2,140 million on the arms race. It is impossible to calculate the amount of suffering, insecurity and poverty that any of the poor countries in the world could be spared by the use of such a sum of money. It is even harder to imagine the amount', of pain, destruction and death that such a sum of money could unleash upon the earth. When one thinks of this terrible and horrifying reality, the most frightful thing of all is the lack of moral awareness on the part of those who gamble with the hunger of peoples and the survival of mankind.
A feeling of insecurity has been created by the instability resulting from the foreign interference in Central America. My Government considers that the causes of this lengthy crisis are to be found in unjust economic and social structures, and that the increasing militarization of the area has further aggravated the crisis. Bolivia commends the work carried out by the countries of the Contadora Group in seeking to reach peacefully negotiated solutions through the Act on Peace and Co-operation in Central America. Bolivia undertakes to help in ensuring that this instrument will guarantee the security of the region within a framework of self-determination and the application of the principle of non-interference in internal affairs.
My Government reiterates its support for the cause of the Republic of Argentina with regard to the recovery of its sovereignty over the Malvinas islands, and it expresses its concern over the deployment of nuclear weapons on those islands in violation of existing treaties. As has been stated at various times, Bolivia is in favor of a peacefully negotiated solution of the dispute between Argentina and the United Kingdom through the good offices of the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
My country has noted with interest the proposals presented by the Soviet Union
to curb the arms race and bring about collective efforts for the elimination of wars and local conflicts. Similarly, it believes that the wide-ranging proposals presented by the United States help to improve the climate of the negotiations to be held between the major Powers so as to reach an agreement that will strengthen strategic stability and ensure deterrence through the achievement of an equitable and lasting agreement.
My Government rejects any intervention or military occupation by foreign forces whenever it may occur. Accordingly it condemns the military occupation of the territories of Afghanistan, Kampuchea, Cyprus and Lebanon and it reiterates its support for the actions of the Secretary-General in that regard.
Similarly, my country is concerned over the persistence of tensions and confrontations in areas of conflict in the Middle East. My Government supports the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination; likewise, it recognizes Israel's right to have secure and recognized boundaries. It also urges Iran and Iraq to cease hostilities and to begin a process of pacification under the auspices of the united Nations.
Recalling that one of the fundamental concepts of the United Nations is universality, my country supports the view that it is advisable that both Koreas become Members of the United Nations and expresses its gratification at the resumption of talks between them.
The Government of Bolivia fully shares the concern of the international community concerning the pressing need to prevent and punish the illegal production, trade and use of illicit drugs, which represent a threat to public health and particularly to the health of the young, with the same determination, sense of responsibility and courage as my Government demonstrated as soon as it came to office in dealing with the economic and political realities in my country, it has now begun to use all the resources within its scope to wage a frontal war on the drug trade, with all the moral strength of its conviction that we must prevent the degradation of the dignity and worth of the human person, while at the same time preventing the institutional corruption which could jeopardize the very security of the State.
By its very nature the drug trade has become an international criminal activity which accordingly urgently requires effective international measures accompanied by all the resources necessary to fight this crime against mankind. It is not reasonable to place the primary responsibility for the fight against this criminal activity on the producer countries, when it is known that production is in fact a function of the demand of the countries where the narcotic drugs are consumed. Bolivia, in its own interests, is prepared to strike at the root of the problems through a new conceptual and practical approach which would make it quite clear that the responsibility for the fight against the drug trade lies with the international community and that the major contribution must be made by the consumer countries.
It is irrational to ask a country, embroiled in trying to find a solution to its economic problems at enormous economic sacrifices, at the same time to devote its meager resources to an isolated struggle against the drug trade. It must be acknowledged that economic and technical limitations may indeed affect the effectiveness of the fight against drugs. Notwithstanding its difficulties, though Bolivia is proceeding vigorously to eradicate non-traditional and surplus production of coca leaves as part of a comprehensive program set up as part of its international commitments.
Bolivia, which is a nation severely hurt by this scourge, argues that the internationalization of the fight against the drug trade within the framework of the United Nations - and this was a proposal vigorously supported by the President of Venezuela, Mr. Jaime Lusinchi - can be one of the major achievements of the United Nations over the next decade, and would be one in keeping with the purposes and principles of the Charter. After all, the Charter is directed at promoting international co-operation in the solution of social and humanitarian problems as serious as the drug trade.
In this context Bolivia firmly supports the convening by the United Nations of a ministerial conference in 1987 to consider the legal, institutional and educational ramifications of the illicit international drug traffic.
In this connection, it is necessary to find new, imaginative and practical means for the international campaign against drugs. While on the subject, it would be useful to consider the setting up of an international economic fund, principally supported by the so-called consumer countries, and aimed at the purchase of coca leaves from their countries of origin in order to prevent the output of these coca leaves from falling into the hands of organized crime. At the same time, a world system to monitor production could be set up without damaging the economies of rural areas.
This would be the most direct and immediate way of attacking the root of this evil in producer countries and could be combined with an active policy directed at finding substitutes for the production of the coca leaf.
The international community is on notice that the maintenance of peace and the continuation of democracy depend on the development and well-being of the backward regions of our planet. When considering the world economic situation, however, we note that the 1980s may end as a lost decade for development, unless major economic measures are taken to relieve the crushing burden of external debt on the economic and social structure of many developing nations.
The serious situation facing the majority of third-world countries, tied down by their debt-servicing obligations, has been emphasized. Statistics published by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), show that the external debt of those countries has risen, from $20,800 million to $310,000 million.
As a graphic illustration of this, a recent report of the Inter-American Development Bank revealed that debt-servicing in Latin American countries represents twice the war reparations payments imposed by the Allies on Germany in 1919, which that country was compelled to repudiate in the 1920s. Recently, the Secretary- General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) reminded us that the foreign debt-servicing of Latin America totals more than 5 per cent of its gross domestic product. It is known that mere interest payments total more than $100,000 million a year.
In the face of such a situation, Latin America notes with dismay the insensitivity of some developed countries and international lending agencies, which display unawareness of the social dimensions of the problem or whose actions are guided by purely mercantile criteria and are uninterested in seeking any other kind of solution.
The various dimensions of the situation, taken together, make clear the urgent need for a reappraisal of policies which must be adopted forthwith if these problems are to be dealt with.
Longer repayment time limits for developing countries are inoperative, as are lower or preferential rates of interest. This would involve a financial cost which would have to be met by the international financial community on the basis of criteria to be agreed upon. The re-staggering of debts over a period of years, the creation of international facilities to subsidize interest charges, and directly relating debt-servicing to the performance of international prices, without in certain cases ruling out a simple writing off of certain debts, are some of the direct measures which seem to be necessary factors in any lasting solution to the debt problem.
However, whatever measures are taken to resolve the debt crisis, they will be insufficient to reactivate the development process if at the same time consideration is not given to joint action directed at stimulating development through an increased flow of funds to debtor countries. In this connection the change in emphasis announced by the United States with respect to Latin America's external debt could represent a turning point in the financial crisis besetting the region. It seems to indicate acceptance of the argument that policies directed at development will make it possible for the region to find more effective ways of meeting its enormous obligations deriving from Latin America's external debt, compared to the austerity policies required up to now by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The United States initiative would imply a less stringent regulatory policy followed by the IMF and use of the World Bank and commercial banks as suppliers of fresh funds making it possible for Latin American debtor nations to embark again on their economic development. Nevertheless, we are concerned that over the months to come a slowing down of the United States economy could have grave consequences for developing countries, which are still subject to the North's protectionist tendencies. These throttle their economies by limiting their export prospects and, consequently, their capacity to pay.
The time has come, therefore, to take stock and to look at this matter in a serious and comprehensive way. Latin America is the only under-developed part of the Western world. Encouragement and assistance to its development is the only way to prevent the region from slipping into economic and social disarray. Anarchy in Latin America has always been the antechamber to dictatorship, and we have no alternative but to demonstrate, with concrete and swift examples, that democracy is able to liberate peoples from poverty and ignorance. The greatest and most decisive event in our century was the grandiose awakening of the new nations of Africa, Asia and America. The success of decolonization was, however, the result of a common international determination which emerged in the post-war period in the midst of the realities of colonial power. Cannot a similar international consensus bring about a far-reaching reform of world economic structures? Can the creditor nations not realize that, with each passing day, external debt becomes the most dynamic factor working for change in the world economic order, making peoples aware of the international injustice that prevails within the system? More than dogmas, myths and paradises, external debt is acting as the great catalyst of the will for change among peoples.
This will is expressed here from this tribune of the nations,, and is rising like an uncontainable tide. The dilemma at this difficult and dangerous time in international relations is clear: either the machinery of world power changes the rules of the economic game through a joint international exercise of will, such as prevailed after the Second world war to liquidate colonialism, or the world will be dragged into a financial holocaust which will not be without political implications.
This holocaust is already under way. I am speaking now on behalf of a nation that lies right in the eye of this international crisis.
Bolivia is the country that has the highest rate of inflation in the world. Had the Government headed by President Victor Paz Estenssoro not introduced a new economic policy, hyperinflation, according to estimates, could have amounted to more than 44,000 per cent this year. This single example in itself is indicative of the abyss into which my country could have fallen.
For Bolivia the fall in the prices of basic export products due to the world recession meant a decline of approximately 20 per cent in its gross domestic product. If population growth and the negative impact of of inflation are taken into account, it can be stated that per capita national income fell by more than 30 per cent between 1983 and 1985.
This economic contraction affected the most important social and economic sectors. Exports from the mining sector, which was in a steep decline, dropped by over 25 per cent as compared with 1977. The agricultural sector, which accounts for two-thirds of the population, experienced a similar drop over the same period. Urban unemployment and underemployment are at present the lot of approximately 40 per cent of the active urban population. Between 1982 and 1984 exports as a whole fell by 50 per cent, which was reflected in a sharp decline in the rate of domestic development.
It was estimated that, at the end of 1984, Bolivia's public and private external debt amounted to $4,693 billion. Exports that year totaled approximately $780 million, whereas imports amounted to some $520 million. In the meantime, external debt servicing in 1984 had risen to a total of $804 million, a figure that the Bolivian State was materially unable to pay.
What country could overcome so many calamities without political repercussions? However, Bolivia has preserved democracy, and once again the soul and spirit of the Bolivian people have withstood the test of adversity.
"To dispel any false hopes, although not hope itself, which must be maintained to the full in order to meet the challenge posed by misfortune, we can state", said President Paz Estenssoro, "that there would be no point in living in a democracy if the people die of hunger". In view of the fact that the country had been destroyed by poverty caused by the world recession which brought about a drop in the prices of the minerals it exports, it was incumbent upon the Government and people of Bolivia to reverse this economic trend. The inevitable alternative would have been a calamity of unimaginable proportions. Aware of thAs responsibility, my Government has implemented a new economic policy which implies austerity measures and adjustments, but which also presupposes the modernization and improvement of the production systems and resources available.
President Paz Estenssoro put into words the determination of Bolivia, a country that does not give in and will not retreat one step in the face of forces that yesterday did not hesitate to destroy the country in order to destroy the system. In his view:
"there is no formula for resolving the terrible crisis convulsing Bolivia other than the collective sum of moral values and constant labor which can increase exportable wealth. We must manage the scarce economic and financial resources properly, agree to a pause in the social struggle and convince ourselves that there can be no renaissance for the Republic unless we understand the scale of the catastrophe and the few effective remedies available to us to reverse this overwhelming situation." It would be a sad irony if, at a time when Bolivia is making increasing sacrifices to help itself, the international community were to refuse to support my country in its efforts. My people are at present making tremendous sacrifices to overcome the crisis and to consolidate a democratic political community, we know that we are not alone, and that representatives gathered here and their respective Governments will transform this Assembly into the most active instrument for international co-operation and solidarity.
On behalf of my country I express ray deep faith that the world will set aside its disputes and finally understand that peace is inseparable from the well-being of peoples, that poverty represents the denial of life and that there can be no worse dependency than poverty. Let us have the courage to proclaim that, as has been said here, we have not lost our faith in the ability to transform life and to transform the world, and that here in the United Nations after 40 years we have not lost the spirit of San Francisco, which in 1945 represented hope when the glow of victory seemed to light the way to a new dawn for mankind.


===== Session 41 - 1986 =====
 I wish to congratulate you. Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-first session. This was a wise choice and represents a tribute by the international community to you. and to the noble people of Bangladesh.
At the same time I wish to express the deep gratitude of my country to the Secretary-General, Mr. Perez de Cuellar, for the sincere and effective way in which he has shown his concern about and understanding of the difficult situation in Bolivia. This is evidence of the outstanding human qualities and high degree of responsiveness of the holder of the highest executive position in the world Organization.
I also wish to point out the fruitful work done by Ambassador Jaime de Pinies as President of the General Assembly at its fortieth session.
In celebrating the International Year of Peace my Government joins all the other nations of the world in striving to promote and consolidate international peace and security.
The expansion of nuclear and conventional arsenals and the improvement of the technologies of death presents a monstrous and terrible threat, that is becoming increasingly dangerous to world peace, and inimical to the urgent development needs of the countries located in the hemisphere of backwardness.
The waste of the resources that we need for the economic and social development of most of mankind is constantly growing. Aware of that, Bolivia firmly supports all disarmament initiatives aimed at preserving international peace
and security, and it urges the world Powers to do everything they can to maintain dialog and creative thinking that could lead to general and complete disarmament under effective international control.
We also support the strengthening and consolidation of a new international global order of peace and well being for all the peoples of the world, an order in which the goal of international social justice is an attainable goal and not merely a Utopian dream.
The world economic situation has resulted in the loss of substantial resources that could have been used in the development of third-world countries, which are sinking to the ground under the heavy burden of foreign debt, which has reached insupportable levels. The economic recession that has resulted from the extreme austerity measures many of our Governments have had to adopt has widened the enormous gap that separates us from the industrial countries in world economic relations. Furthermore, external debt is more than a financial matter; it is above all an ethical and political question.
It has been recognized that there is an imperative need to adopt urgent measures to bring about new forms of coexistence and world economic relationships. We must demand that responsibility be shared by debtors and creditors, and that there be fairness and symmetry in bearing the cost of economic adjustments within a global framework in order to bring about the revitalization of the process of effective and continuous development in our countries. However, ironic as it may seem, despite all our hopes we see economic chauvinism and protectionism in world trade taking a stronger hold.
The Republic of Bolivia wishes to take this opportunity to reaffirm its commitment to the principles of the Charter, which are fundamental to the defense of national sovereignty and the right of self-determination in the context of a world of peace and security. Unfortunately those principles are constantly being violated as international laws are flouted.
The predominance of power for power's sake is reckless and yet prevails, and the ethical principles which make peace the very essence of civilized life become ever more distant.
In Central America we must put an end to courteous rhetoric on the part of leaders who talk while people are dying and while the economic future of Salvadorians and Nicaraguans is being dealt a crushing blow. He are treading a dangerous path where lack of feeling and callousness put the whole human race to shame.
My Government considers that peace alternatives must be strengthened. It supports the action of the Contadora Group and the Support Group since this is what Latin America wants in order to find a peaceful and lasting solution in the region. But this solution must come here and now. The main characters in this tragedy must sit together and unilaterally negotiate without entering into ideological confrontation and motivated solely by a love of peace.
Developments in the Middle East are another intolerable disgrace. Bolivia, while maintaining its principled position in favor of the full exercise of sovereignty and self-determination of peoples, reiterates its support for resolutions adopted by the Security Council and the General Assembly on the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and independence. Nevertheless, this does not imply disregard for the State of Israel, which must have secure and recognized boundaries in the international context.
He wish to highlight the intensive work done by united Nations bodies in seeking peaceful and definitive solutions, which must be coraplied with by the opposing States.
Bolivia also wishes to urge Iran and Iraq to end the military conflagration which has been dragging on since 1980 and which has only brought about serious economic losses and unspeakable human tragedy in both countries.
Another problem which is cause for concern at the international level is the tense situation in the Mediterranean. Despite the Secretary-General's efforts to find a solution through dialog between the parties to the conflict, he has so far not succeeded. On this question the Government of Bolivia recognizes only the legally established Government in Cyprus and reaffirms its respect for that country's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity.
The tragic situations in Kampuchea and Afghanistan offer sorry proof of irrationality and insensibility on an international scale, with serious implications for peace and stability on the Asian continent. The United Nations must therefore further endeavor to bring about a permanent settlement of disputes and a zone of security in these regions.
My Government is opposed to foreign interference in the internal affairs of States and, accordingly, urges the countries concerned to engage in effective negotiations aimed at finding a permanent political solution based on the immediate withdrawal of foreign troops and full respect for independence and territorial integrity.
What it is a matter of defending the freedom of peoples subjected to a system which is an affront to human dignity, such as a par theid, my country once again wishes to express its strong condemnation of all forms of discrimination among human beings. Th is has been proved in our support for united Nations resolutions on this subject.
I wish further to reiterate Bolivia's categorical support for the struggle waged by the people of Namibia for its freedom aid independence. My country recognizes the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) as the only present legitimate representative of the Namibian people and respects the heroic struggle it wages in defense of its natural resources and all the rights inherent in a sovereign, free and independent State.
Our Organization has played a major role against colonialism .in Africa, Asia and Latin America. The harsh and exhausting road to liberation and the independence of peoples still under colonial regimes must be a constant objective of the international community if it is to be more just.
In this context we must also include the question of Gibraltar, the last colonial enclave in Europe. My country welcomes sincerely the announcement of negotiations between the Kingdoms of Spain and Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Likewise, Bolivia has always recognized the sovereignty of the Republic of Argentina over the Malvinas islands. Firm in its commitment to peace, we support all negotiations between the Republic of Argentina and the United Kingdom aimed at reaching a just and peaceful settlement of the dispute. On the other hand, we oppose the militarization and nuclearization of that area of the South Atlantic.
Bolivia, my country, has fallen victim to the greatest economic catastrophe of its life as a republic. In recent years it has suffered, for the seventh time, the highest rate of inflation ever known in the history of man, the most devastating in this century. Its effects are similar to the damage caused by international war or a terrible internal civil war.
Upon taking over the reins of our constitutional Government in August 1985, President Victor Paz Estenssoro had to face a 25,000 per cent annual rate of inflation, a shattered industrial economy and a constantly and recklessly growing informal economy tainted by criminal links, such as drug trafficking.
Bolivia thus became a country in ruins, without monetary reserves and with growing unemployment. It seemed that it had been placed in a state of siege by dual Powers sponsored by a dogmatic, extremist, maximalist and aggressive left.
The reconstruction of the country was begun without any international assistance. Through our own efforts and through severe austerity measures, the national Government carried out a new economic policy of which the first, and surprising, results - unprecedented in Latin America - were to curb hyperinflation, bringing it down from an incredible 25,000 per cent to practically zero at present.
However, that political action of true national salvation fell victim once again to international aggression. First, this was due to the fall in the price of tin as a result of the collapse of the International Tin Council in October 1985. Secondly, our foreign trade and international payments, because of this crisis and that affecting other minerals, suffered damage amounting to more than 60 per cent, which meant a real reduction in the over-all economy of the country. Thirdly, to all this must be added the crisis in oil prices which, while favoring the rich, deals mortal blows to producing countries, which are generally among the poorest countries of the world.
The case of Bolivia is a cruel and clear example of international injustice, of the awesome power of the market-place and of the lack of responsiveness on the part of powerful plutocratic centers. These are not rhetorical assertions. They are born of the experiences of a country that has been wounded both physically and biologically by the actions of a self-satisfied and hegemonistic world system.
Beginning with the difficult and aggressive therapy that my people and their economic policy have applied to the cancer of hyperinflation, we have managed in some degree to sensitize world public opinion. In that regard, I should like to stress the generous and courageous personal actions of our Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar.
That very dramatic proof has led in concrete terms to bilateral co-operation with friendly countries which, in fraternal solidarity, are supporting Bolivia. We wish to thank them and to express our deep satisfaction.
Furthermore, our Program has been well received and taken seriously by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). We trust that, with its co-operation and any other co-operation we may receive, we shall be able to initiate a process of economic recovery while maintaining the democratic system currently prevailing in Bolivia, in the midst of this Dantesque picture of suffering and destruction.
It is precisely in the context of this hyper inflationary chaos that Bolivia has had to bear the additional malignancy of drug trafficking which, as an important element of the informal economy, had been growing and spreading its tentacles of vice into the economic, social and moral institutions of the Bolivian people. As a result, President Paz Estenssoro took the historic decision to fight ruthlessly against this form of organized crime.
At this time, the Republic of Bolivia, with technical and logistical support from the Department of Justice of the United States of America, is waging a real war against that outrage - against that new form of slavery, as drug crime was wisely defined by His Holiness John Paul II. This effort is also an inescapable duty for countries in which the consumption of narcotic drugs is considerable. Otherwise, countries like Bolivia would be powerless in the face of the domestic expansion of this reprehensible product.
For these essentially ethical reasons, Bolivia most strongly encourages the success of the international conference that has been convened by the Secretary-General for next year in Vienna. We are certain that this world gathering will mark a starting-point for the elimination of this terrible scourge from the face of the earth.
On behalf of my country I urge the entire international community to take an active part in this crusade. In particular, I urge the industrialized countries, whose young people have to a greater or lesser degree been suffering from this terrible vice and organized crime, to take an active part in this struggle. If the community of nations does not become aware of this global curse, we will be jeopardizing the ethical bases of contemporary civilization and allowing the financial strength of the mafias to enslave our institutions, our way of life, our families and our very human ethic, which is deeply rooted in our souls and which we wish to recover, above all other considerations of the moment.
We also wish to warn of the need for joint action to curb terrorism regardless of its ideological motivation.
Furthermore, the global crisis of our universal organization - the United Nations - requires the most careful attention of all Member States, if we wish to ensure its survival, which we consider essential to the maintenance of peace and coexistence among all the countries of the earth, we cannot allow a manifest and unworthy conspiracy to try to damage by various means the validity and force of this beacon of world peace and security, our Organization.
Bolivia confidently supports the arduous efforts of the Secretary-General to overcome the serious obstacles we have cited and calls upon all States, particularly the large industrial countries, to lend active understanding and backing to the structural consolidation of the United Nations and its permanent institutional values.
The law of nations, the very essence of civilized life, based on dialog and understanding between States, is based, in doctrine and in historical practice, on the maintenance of a moral order embodied in the principle of peace and plenty.
This aspect of respect for international instruments also finds affirmation in the principle that the review of treaties, their updating and modernization and consideration of future implications must be the subject of negotiation. These treaties must also be enriched, improved and perfected so that there may be more harmony and understanding in inter-State relations.
This consideration of principle is of special application in Latin America, which is undergoing an intensive process of renewal with regard to inter-State relations. Proof of this is the recent conclusion of treaties between industrialized Powers and developing countries, which supersede old, anachronistic statutes born of colonialism and neo-colonialism.
In this context, Latin America is keeping a watchful eye on the faithful and timely implementation of one of those treaties - that which returns full sovereignty over the Panama Canal Zone to its legitimate owner.
The international community, and basically the United Nations, the Organization of American States (OAS) aid the Non-Aligned Movement, has in recent years faced a problem of dramatic significance for the very essence of Bolivia's history and life. I am referring to the maritime problem of our situation of inferiority because of our having become a land-locked country, and to the significance of this situation in hampering and impeding our possibilities of development.
We will not reiterate once again the origins of this unfair situation; nor will we bring up background details or precedents from a past of more than 100 years, which since the Pacific war of 1879 have not contributed to a solution of the natter. But I wish to take this opportunity to say that Bolivia and its people express their gratitude to all the nations of the world which have became aware of this matter, expressed interest and, in various forums and debates,
advocated efforts to find a satisfactory solution through peaceful negotiations carried out sincerely and responsibly.
It was precisely in response to those brotherly exhortations that President Paz Estenssoro, in a historic act of openhandedness, expressed his desire that this important problem be the subject of negotiations and be dealt with in valid and clear political terms.
At the intellectual level, based on precept of the Liberator, Simon Bolivar, the founder of Bolivia, regarding understanding and complementarity among Latin Americans, we have initiated with the Government of the Republic of Chile the first contacts aimed at finding a negotiated solution to a problem that must be resolved, a question the handling of which requires the greatest measure of political will and oecumenical spirit on the part of peoples committed to justice and world peace.
It is our hope that this beginning between Chile and Bolivia will lead to sure progress, because we think we have found in the present circumstances the right moment to achieve objectives of mutual benefit to our countries, based on the philosophy of the unity and integration of Latin America.
The dialog that we advocate is based on understanding and brotherhood, without rancor, without vengeance, without yearning for a past which is history, albeit true and relevant history. That history teaches us not to repeat mistakes, not to fall into the trap of irrational prejudice, but, rather, with vigour and imagination, to open up and pursue new possibilities of finding a peaceful solution to this important problem. This is what we are undertaking and announcing with satisfaction to the world community.








===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿I should like to begin my statement at this world meeting by extending my congratulations to you. Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the forty-second session of the General Assembly. The delegation of Bolivia respects your great personal qualities and experience and your worthy representation of a friendly country. I wish also to commend your predecessor Ambassador Choudhury of Bangladesh, for the distinction with which he presided over the last session.
On behalf of the Government of Bolivia, I express gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, for his selfless and tireless efforts. His skill and perseverance in the search for solutions to the various problems facing the world are recognized by all. He is the champion of peace, understanding and brotherhood among peoples. For all these reasons, his re-election to his important post is a clear acknowledgement of the personal qualities of an illustrious Latin American.
In this Assembly the people and the democratic Government of Bolivia reaffirm their faith in and unqualified commitment to the principles of the Charter and their conviction that it is only through dialogue and decisive political will and understanding among all the peoples of the world that we shall succeed in solving the problems that beset mankind, that our generation will be able to build peace and brotherhood and that the interdependence of all nations will be placed above hegemonism and sterile ideological disputes.
We have noted with concern since the last session of the General Assembly that in many areas democratic dialogue among States has been replaced by violence/ and that force and the abuse of power have prevailed over reason, tolerance and the rule of law, with attempts to substitute themselves for negotiations in the solution of international conflicts. However, as we are all aware, force and aggression, apart from their illegality, have clearly demonstrated their inability to bring about or preserve peace.
The United Nations has promoted the self-determination of peoples and the peaceful settlement of disputes, which are the very pillars of peaceful coexistence and principles that Bolivia has always respected and furthered.
Peace is the very essence of the code of civilized norms of coexistence that must guide mankind on its historic journey within the framework of the profound sense of ethics that permeates the spirit of all human beings. One enormous obstacle to peace and the attainment of international security is the arms race, which is growing apace and has reached unimaginable levels. The arms race not only jeopardizes the precarious peace that we enjoy at present but is a key factor in the stagnation of the social and economic development of both the nations involved in that mindless race and the countries of the third world, since their efforts and resources would be better spent on raising the living standards of their peoples.
Bolivia, as always, resolutely supports all disarmament initiatives designed to bring about peace and strengthen international security. I hereby declare Bolivia's readiness to seek the establishment of a zone of peace and security in the South Pacific. In keeping with those principles, my Government welcomed the announcement by the Governments of the Soviet Union and the United States of their agreement in principle to dismantle the weapons covered by the zero and double-zero options. This marks the beginning of a gradual process of nuclear disarmament, which must be maintained.
In spite of the selfless peace efforts made by the United Nations, we continue to be alarmed by the conflicts in various parts of the world, which thwart the commendable humanitarian work of the Organization.
In the context of eliminating one source of social conflict that is a blight on and a disgrace to mankind, Bolivia reiterates its utter repudiation of apartheid and all forms of discrimination, whether racial, religious, cultural, political, social or economic. Bolivia calls insistently for the self-determination of Namibia and the cessation of military aggression by South Africa against neighbouring sovereign States. Ideological pluralism, along with the self-determination of peoples, is the foundation of the coexistence of States. In this spirit, just as Bolivia recognizes the juridical and political existence of Israel/ so does it recognize the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to form a sovereign State in a free and clearly defined territory. We are certain that a solution to this problem will benefit the peace and security of the countries of the Middle East, and we therefore enthusiastically support the idea of an immediate multilateral conference, with the participation of the permanent members of the Security Council and the States involved, to reach a consensus on peaceful coexistence in a region so sorely tried by all the horrors of violence and blind hatred.
Similarly, the search for an appropriate solution to the problem of the two Koreas can only benefit that part of the world. We appeal most fervently to the parties concerned to engage in negotiations inspired by a spirit of reconciliation and brotherhood. Tragic and fierce conflicts in Asia and Africa, particularly the Iran-Iraq war, the constant deterioration of the situation in Lebanon, the military occupation of Cyprus - all persist in spite of the pleas of the international community. Bolivia, in its traditional spirit of peace, appeals earnestly to the Governments and the leaders of the parties concerned to take constructive decisions and make meaningful efforts to reach solutions to these conflicts. We emphatically urge implementation of Security Council resolution 598 (1987), which was adopted unanimously.
The persistence of those inhuman situations distresses the Bolivian people, because we see with heavy hearts that similar tensions are now arising in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Happily, the prolonged Central American crisis is entering upon a process of change, thanks to the commendable initiative of the Heads of State of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua, who, with the firm support of their peoples, held a meeting of Heads of State of Central America last August under the auspices of the Government of Guatemala. This meeting contributed in raising our hopes for the achievement of diplomatic solutions, hopes which we had voiced even before the efforts of the Contadora and Support Groups began.
Accordingly, we are exceedingly gratified to learn that the five Heads of State decided to unite their efforts and strive as one to bring about an early understanding in favour of peace in Central America. This endeavour must be complemented by the international community, which should make an exceptionally generous contribution to the economic reconstruction of these sister countries.
In spite of this commendable progress, there is a conflict which endures and is a source of concern to Latin America: the vestige of an outdated colonialism that affects the legitimate sovereignty of a sister nation, the Argentine Republic, in respect of its territorial rights over the Malvinas Islands. It is imperative, that the parties concerned re-open negotiations with a view to bringing about a just and peaceful solution to the problem; thus Bolivia supports General Assembly resolution 41/11, which declares the South Atlantic to be a zone of peace and co-operation.
Bolivia's support for the rights of the sister Republic of Panama over the Canal is unwavering, and proceeds from our spirit of pan-American ism. The Torrijos-Carter Treaty is an example of this spirit, and its unqualified implementation is an imperative for the Latin American and Caribbean community.
The world economic situation is of grave concern to my country. There is the threat of a major recession whose repercussions would be felt mainly in the developing countries. It would have disastrous consequences for primary-commodity producers and exporters like Bolivia. We view with amazement the unfair granting of subsidies, intolerable trade discrimination and reactionary protectionism. Those regressive factors impede economic exchanges between nations and cause irreparable harm, in particular to the developing countries which have imposed on them economic restrictions that strangle free international trade. Such a chain of reactionary nationalism leads to the existence of an unjust international economic order.
We now have a global economic system which, even in times of apparent peace, bears the signs of controversy. In this sense, there is a radical lack of symmetry, owing to the fact that some alliances within the system do not answer to any control or regulation machinery and because of their scope, strength and power exert a de facto influence over the entire system. Nevertheless my Government hopes that the decisions adopted by the seventh session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) will be carried out. We should like to take this opportunity to extend sincere congratulations to the Secretary-General of UNCTAD, Mr. Kenneth Dadzie, who has worked so hard and effectively to promote international trade.
Bolivia wholeheartedly supports the Caracas and Buenos Aires Programmes of Action, which establish economic and technical co-operation among developing countries, in this context I should like to mention the recent agreements of fraternal co-operation between Paraguay and Bolivia, and between Peru and Bolivia, respectively, which we trust will in the very near future greatly benefit our nations.
The Uruguayan Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) has given new hope to the developing countries. We believe that the item on natural resources deserves special consideration within that framework.
My country, in keeping with its new economic policy and its plan for reinvigorating domestic production, and having followed with interest the latest actions of GATT, has applied for membership in that body.
External debt, to which we have referred so frequently both here and elsewhere, because of its ill-effects on the economies and the growth of debtor countries, is fraught with political and social dangers from which there is no escape. We view with profound concern that the so-called periodic adjustments do not contribute to finding a solution to this structural problem. They lead to a drain of financial resources from the debtor countries to those States having predominant financial centres that has reached the astronomical figure of some $200 billion annually. This amounts to a plundering of the poor peoples of the world. 
The United Nations could become the appropriate forum for dealing with this complex problem, given the co-operation of all the countries concerned, both debtors and creditors, in a multilateral effort with positive effects for all States and public and private financial systems that have already tried various alternatives without achieving an adequate definitive solution. This is a concrete issue that requires the immediate consideration of the Organization.
Permit me now briefly to speak on some particularly important aspects of the situation in my country. About two years ago Bolivia embarked on a new economic policy and a new style of development. At the same time, we began to put into practice the principles of authority, responsibility and morality within the democratic framework of the life of my country, so as to make of economic democracy a factor for social justice. In August 1985 the Government of President Victor Paz Estenssoro took over a country in the grip of runaway inflation at an estimated cumulative rate, for December of that year, of 40,000 per cent, accompanied by a 20 per cent drop in its gross national product - all that against the backdrop of a grave political and social disarray. It needed great political courage by the President and his Government to apply the necessary "shock" treatment in order to halt the runaway inflation by establishing control over finances, instituting tax reform and introducing a single, flexible and realistic exchange rate, as well as uniform tariffs. 
These efforts were positive but short-lived. The attempt was frustrated in October 1985 by a blow to our foreign trade caused by a fall in the prices of primary commodities, minerals, particularly tin, and fuels.
Bolivia is facing a historic challenge. In order to preserve its democratic system we are pursuing a drastic anti-inflationary policy and there have been positive results. With financial stability, both internal and external, the annual rate of inflation has been kept below 10 per cent and the exchange rate reflects supply and demand. The amount of tax collected has risen from 1 per cent to 9 per cent of the gross national product and the budgetary deficit has been eliminated. Reserves have risen by over 100 per cent and we have established social discipline and full legal and constitutional order.
It should be recognized that an adverse effect of the success of our policy of stabilization has been a drop in real incomes and employment, problems which we are trying to remedy by re-stimulating production in the short term and by economic and social development over the medium and long terms.
Moreover, our Government, in spite of serious economic and financial restraints, has not neglected the social area. In the belief that democracy can flourish only in conditions of social well-being, it has established an emergency social fund designed to provide temporary work projects for the unemployed. Similarly, we have established an emergency economic recovery fund and a national social policy council, as well as a national council for co-operatives and a public housing institute. We fully support the consolidation of social property and integral and participative co-operativism.
Pursuant to its effective stabilization programme, Bolivia has signed with the International Monetary Fund a stand-by agreement and a structural adjustment agreement, with expanded facilities over three years, thus becoming the second country to secure such an agreement, which enables it to obtain compensatory financing.
With regard to its external debt Bolivia has arranged with the "Paris Club" to reschedule its bilateral public debt and is now enjoying the co-operation of the members. Preparations are now under way for a new round of negotiations.
In brief, Bolivia is now economically and financially ripe for investment and international co-operation and that, together with its natural resources, justifies expectations of healthy political and social development. We would like to pay a tribute to the work of the United Nations Development Programme as a source of multilateral technical co-operation and pre-investment. Its activities help to expand economic co-operation among developing countries.
On this occasion I should like to say on behalf of our Government that we are emerging from the most serious hyperinflation in Latin American history and the seventh most acute hyperinflation to have struck any country anywhere. The people of Bolivia wish to resolve these problems within the framework of democracy and freedom and that calls for a great spirit of sacrifice and solidarity in order to avoid falling into the trap of totalitarianism which, unfortunately, in similar situations has been the corollary of transition in such fragile circumstances.
My Government, conscious of the magnitude of the problem of drug trafficking, has recently, in this very forum, condemned that criminal activity and taken the initiative, along with other Governments of the region, of calling on the United Nations to proclaim drug trafficking a crime against humanity and to convene a world conference to examine the problem, a conference which would recommend concerted action to combat it at the international level. In pursuit of the same policy, Bolivia took an active part in the preparations for and work of the Conference held last June in Vienna on drug abuse and illicit trafficking. That Conference was a landmark and a testimony to the unanimity of purpose of our peoples and Governments. Its results will benefit future generations. The documents unanimously adopted there constitute a valuable basis for harmonizing the legislation of the different countries, and that will make more effective humanity's fight against this criminal and perverse activity.
Bolivia has also concluded an agreement with the United States of America for the eradication and replacement of the coca plant, with a precise timetable for both the voluntary and the forcible elimination of the crop as well as punitive action against the crime and rehabilitation of the offenders. This step taken by the Government of Bolivia is a clear expression of its determination to fight this scourge of universal dimensions, in spite of the political, social and economic problems involved in carrying out these plans for countries which bear the misnomer of producers.
However, it is an inconceivable paradox that action such as that just mentioned, which has been launched from the highest political level in Bolivia, should not be fully understood by certain agencies of the United States Government, which still show biased and short-sighted understanding of so vast a problem. Bolivian democracy, which is slowly emerging, has just had imposed on it, by the unilateral action of the Government of the United States of America, a "sanction", which only encourages drug trafficking, since the budget cuts recently decided upon seriously weaken the national will to banish from out territory this terrible transnational of organized crime. Whether with or without the economic co-operation of the United States of America, Bolivia will not cease its efforts to eradicate the trafficking in drugs. 
Once again we must emphasize the solid emergence of multilateralism in the fight against drugs. The spirit of the Conference in Vienna and the dynamic action of courage and efficiency of the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control are the only firm hope that States have of restoring the honour of their peoples, the health of their youth and the efficient co-operation to build a common united front to put an end to this nefarious crime without political manoeuvring.
These steps have been accompanied by the implementation of domestic policies designed to combat drug trafficking. On 25 July last we created the National Council against the Abuse of and Illicit Traffic in Drugs, charged with the task of formulating and establishing the policies of development/ crime prevention and rehabilitation within our overall plan for crop substitution and for development. My Government wishes to reiterate before this Assembly its determination to continue its unrelenting fight against drug trafficking, in compliance with the Declaration and the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Plan of Future Activities adopted in Vienna.
On numerous occasions the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and worship of Bolivia have made reference to the maritime problem facing my country, a problem which for over a century has seriously affected its economic and social growth. I feel I should now briefly refer to that matter, which is one of the issues of conflict which afflict Latin America. Since the Ninth General Assembly of the Organization of American States (OAS), in 1979, the hemisphere's regional organ has insistently recommended and exhorted Bolivia and Chile to find a peaceful, just solution to Bolivia's landlocked situation. This has been embodied in a variety of resolutions adopted by the organization's General Assembly in Washington in 1980, Saint Lucia in 1981, Washington in 1982 and 1983, Brasilia in 1984, Cartagena de Indias in 1985 and Guatemala in 1986. 
The substantive part of that OAS resolution states·. 
"The General Assembly,
"In a spirit of fraternity and with a view to the integration of the Americas,
"Declares that it is of continuing hemispheric interest that an equitable solution be found whereby Bolivia will obtain appropriate sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean, and "Considering that it is necessary to achieve the foregoing objective and to consolidate a stable peace that will promote the economic and social progress of the area of the Americas directly affected by the consequences of the landlocked status of Bolivia, and Resolvesi
"1. To recommend to the States most directly concerned with this problem that they open negotiations for the purpose of providing Bolivia with a free and sovereign territorial connection with the Pacific Ocean. These negotiations shall take into account the rights and interests of the parties involved, and might consider, among other things, the inclusion of a port area for integrated multinational development, as well as the Bolivian proposal that no territorial compensation be included." 
As a consequence of this continental concern and Bolivia's unbending determination to recover its access to the Pacific Ocean, in 1986 Bolivia took the initiative of arranging a new process of negotiations with the Government of Chile with the sole objective of achieving its access to the Pacific and proposing adequate compensation, to our mutual benefit. After a series of informal consultations between the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Bolivia and Chile, there was an official meeting between the Ministers representing their respective states on 21-23 April 1987 in Montevideo, thanks to the generous hospitality of the Government of Uruguay. There and then the Bolivian Minister gave his Chilean counterpart a proposal, on the basis of which the negotiations began. At that meeting the Bolivian delegation replied to various questions posed by the Chilean delegation, confident that a formal round of diplomatic negotiations had been initiated and that it was obviously being carried out seriously and in good faith by the two countries.
A few days later the atmosphere of favourable expectancy created by a policy of mutual friendliness and accommodation was disrupted by an abrupt and rude declaration by a member of the Chilean naval forces, whose statements certainly did no credit to his uniform. Those comments were both incoherent and aggressive, thus bringing to a halt the course of negotiations aimed at finding a solution to the strained relations between the two brother countries.
On 9 June 1987 the Bolivian representative in Santiago was abruptly summoned to the Chilean Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where he was handed an official communiqué containing a rude rejection of the Bolivian proposal, thus unilaterally breaking off the negotiating process.
At the same time the Government of Chile launched a well-planned publicity campaign aimed at convincing the Chilean people and the international public that
Bolivia had never had access to the Pacific Ocean. A flood of fallacious and erroneous historical "facts" were thus used in an attempt to distort and invalidate Bolivia's historical, moral and political right to its own coast and a port area on the Pacific.
Bolivia has repeatedly submitted the irrefutable documented proof on which it bases its historical right to its own outlet to the Pacific Ocean, which was impetuously seized by Chile in a war of aggression in 1879 - an attack brutally and unexpectedly unleashed not only against my country but also against Peru. I do not wish to burden representatives with the details of that documentation. I shall refer only to the most categorical admission by Chile to the effect that the Bolivian littoral was taken by force during the 1879 war. That admission is contained in an official dispatch sent by the Chilean representative Mr. Abraham König to the Bolivian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 13 August 1900. The relevant parts read;
"... Chile has occupied the littoral and has taken possession of it in the same way as Germany annexed Alsace and Lorraine to its empire ... Our title is born of victory, the supreme law of nations ... that the littoral is rich and worth millions, we knew. We keep it because we value it if we did not value it, we would not be interested in keeping it."
That official declaration has never been disavowed by Chile, nor has it been argued that Mr. König, the author, was not authorized to make it. The terms of Konig's note were the basis of the Treaty imposed by Chile in 1904.
From the memorandum presented by Bolivia during the Ninth General Assembly of the Organization of American States I shall extract only a few brief points pertaining to the economic impediments from which Bolivia has been suffering as a consequence of the Chilean occupation so brilliantly described by the Chilean diplomat König. The territory in question has an area of 158,000 square kilometres, an area larger than the state of Pennsylvania, with a coastline of more than 400 kilometres·, it includes four ports and seven coves. The copper exported by Chile since 1979, amounting to more than 20 million tons, came from this region. That is the equivalent of the reserves of the entire Asian continent plus the reserves of the Soviet Union. Chile has thus become the world's primary exporter and the second-ranking producer of copper, after the United States- In addition, other natural resources, such as guano, saltpetre, sulphur and so on, are still being extracted from that area.
The basic acknowledgement of the serious juridical, moral and material damage inflicted on Bolivia and the concept that this problem is both detrimental and dangerous to the harmony and social development of the region have prompted the repeated appeals of the OAS for a peaceful, negotiated settlement of this situation. That is why Chile's infamous, inexplicable refusal is so offensive not only to Bolivia but also to the Organization of American States, which seeks to foster Bolivian-Chilean understanding.
We are only too familiar with Chile's arguments: "Chile owes nothing to Bolivia", "There is a Treaty in force between the two States", and so on. These are all feeble arguments designed to paper over a reality which is charged with conflict. We do not seek to denounce or ignore existing treaties, even if they did arise out of military defeat. We are asking the international community to help us to find, through negotiations in good faith, an agreement that will be a contribution to the peace, integration and development of the area, which requires realistic, imaginative and long-lasting solutions that will promote the common well-being of both our nations.
To conclude what I have to say on this matter, I reaffirm the determination of the Government and people of Bolivia to press their claim in the Organization of American States, to which we owe our gratitude for the sense of justice and equity it has shown in supporting Bolivia's search, through serious bilateral diplomatic negotiations conducted in good faith, for a peaceful solution to its maritime Problem. At the same time the Government and people of Bolivia wish here in the General Assembly, the supreme forum of world opinion, to voice their protest over an unjust situation.
The international community has reiterated here its support for efforts made in the context of multilateralism, an instrument of modern international law and practice, which seeks to build and guarantee a civilized way of life of benefit to all the peoples on earth.
However, some Member States appear to be vacillating over honouring their commitments. Delay in the payment of contributions, as a means of exerting pressure and not because of economic difficulties, represents a serious threat to the United Nations. I therefore reiterate the Bolivian Government's full support for the United Nations system, including all its agencies and bodies. On this basis, Bolivia will continue to co-operate in the further democratisation of the United Nations bodies and will insist on just and equitable geographic representation, free from any vestiges of feudalism.
Another threat to the normal functioning of the United Nations system is the disregard for commitments made with regard to it.
The public conduct of Governments comes under the spotlight when it harms or violates positive multilateral laws of which States are the substantive beneficiaries, as in the recent case of an unspeakable incident provoked by the Government of Chile, when it gave offence to a high official of the Bolivian State. In a politically and ideologically motivated repressive action, the Government of Chile in whose territory the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) has its seat, denied the Bolivian Vice-Minister of Social Defence and head of the Bolivian delegation an entry visa he required to participate in the first Latin American meeting of heads of national drug law enforcement agencies, which is being held this week at the ECLAC headquarters,
That reactionary police action, which fully reveals the morality of that Government, characterized by ostentatious display of power, was an attempt to prevent the participation of a Bolivian representative in a multilateral meeting - a representative who has always been involved in the struggle for democracy and social justice. I thank the office of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Executive Secretary of ECLAC for successfully demanding that the Government of Chile meet its international obligations by granting the visa.
Because of that incident, together with many other acts that, have interfered with ECLAC's work since September 1973, Bolivia will take steps within the competent United Nations bodies to have the Commission's headquarters moved. The issues on the agenda of this memorable session deal with problems of concern to all mankind. We should try not to discuss modalities, points of view or interpretations of crises and their diverse forms but to concentrate on real substance; the question of freedom or irrational force. We must be prepared to identify the opponents of freedom, with the aim of uniting the majority of nations to preserve and strengthen it- For that, it is essential to give priority to spiritual values, which in some tragic circumstances ate ignored or treated as being of secondary importance.
Perfecting the social order consists in combining force and the law. However,
it is essential that force be directed by the law otherwise, at dramatic moments in the life of States unilateral arguments are advanced, authoritarian power is exercised and fratricidal violence occurs, reducing to mere chimeras the universal laws and morals of peace and interdependence.
This year's session of the General Assembly coincides with the anniversaries of two events which, both instructively and controversially, have contributed to the development of human society. I refer to the 200th anniversary of the legal adoption of the Constitution of the United States, a document whose ideas have borne much fruit elsewhere in the political development of the world, particularly among those of us whose public institutions are rooted in democracy/ freedom of the individual and the independence of States. This year also marks the 70th anniversary of the Russian revolution, a historic milestone indispensable to an understanding of the social changes of the 20th century which have led to the overcoming of those excessive individualistic injustices that obstructed the integral development of the economic expectations of our societies.
The lessons of both those events/ and both approaches to supporting the development of the human being, together with other products of the human spirit aimed at reconciliation, must converge towards a synthesis of peace, freedom and economic justice and love and understanding between individuals and nations. In that way the 21st century will combine the light of individual freedom with social security and international justice, to turn the planet into one world/ where the State and the free marketplace of ideas, services and goods will once and for all put an end to violence, tyranny and the dogmatism of the ideologies of hatred/ and where love and peace will prevail among all God's creatures, including all humanity.


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿
I wish first of all to congratulate Mr. Dante Caputo, Minister for External Relations of the Argentine Republic, an illustrious exponent of Latin American diplomacy and intellectual traditions, on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the Assembly.
I take pleasure in expressing here my affection and respect for Ambassador Nita Barrow, whose attributes and diplomatic experience are a credit to our region.
I wish also to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, for his tireless and effective quest for peace and harmony among nations, and to assure him of my admiration and support. The Government and the people of Bolivia wish to express, through me, their solidarity and sympathy with the Governments and peoples of Bangladesh, Jamaica and Mexico in connection with the natural disasters of recent weeks, which caused such serious loss of life and material damage.
The forty-third session of the General Assembly is beginning its deliberations within an auspicious framework of profound changes in world politics. The East-West agreement on disarmament and understanding has opened up the prospect of lasting and beneficial peace by initiating a broad process of dialogue and negotiation which we hope will help put an end to the insanity of the nuclear arms race. Dialogue has begun to eliminate, we hope for ever, polarization based on the fragile theory of peaceful coexistence - polarization that has put at risk the system of international security. We are living in a new era of reason, of faithful and sincere relations among States, which give a fresh impetus to dialogue and strengthen the political will of States to consolidate peace and effective co-operation to overcome hegemony and irrational pressure and thus create a world order based on the dignity of the individual.
The changes that have taken place will be to the common benefit in the context of the objective of beginning a new era in North-South relations on the basis of symmetrical interdependence, so that well-being will no longer be an exotic flower that blooms only in industrialized countries, which are wealthy because they are industrialized, and which monopolize the magic of technology.
The understanding between the super-Powers on the establishment of this historic foundation of peace will test our will to co-operate in the service of those on the neglected fringes of the world who are tackling the obstacle course of development in the face of brutal frustration and at the cost of enormous social sacrifices. 
In recognizing the blessings of nuclear disarmament we must acknowledge the peace efforts of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. These reflect the humanistic idealism of the San Francisco Charter, which advocates a just and harmonious international society, and are based on the philosophical foundations laid at Bandung and Belgrade.
The solidarity of the weak countries of the third world has undoubtedly helped to promote the cause of mankind, which has been strengthened by East-West co-operation, thanks to the theory and practice of active neutrality in a world which until recently lived in fear induced by nuclear terror and which still suffers from the devastating scourge of the absolute poverty affecting two thirds of the world's population. This last challenges the very survival of mankind.
The future of the developing countries will be at serious risk until stable conditions are established to foster their development and provide a political solution to the problem of external debt- Early in this century force was used to make a Latin American State discharge its public obligations, and it was then that the Drago doctrine emerged, which made recovery of such debts by coercion illegal. Today there are more subtle ways of putting pressure on States, particularly those of Latin America, the Caribbean and Africa. These create intolerable financial strangulation, cause developmental regression and impoverish the peoples concerned. In these times, it is quite incongruous to accept the principles of protectionism in the face of this heavy burden borne by the third world. And, of course, the threat or use of force in any form is unacceptable. This matter is in essence political, and involves the responsibility of both creditors and debtors. Despite its struggle to free itself from the worst hyper inflationary crisis that any country of Latin America and the Caribbean has ever suffered, Bolivia recognizes the existence of this financial obligation.
We have been negotiating the buying-back of our commercial debt on terms acceptable both to us and to the creditor banks. We have met our payments to multilateral official financing agencies, and on the bilateral level we have been flexible in our approach to negotiations with the Paris Club. However, these efforts and this true demonstration of our good faith and of our recognition of what we owe should not lead anyone to take unilateral decisions of non-payment. But the sacrifice borne by our people is overwhelming because the servicing of this debt involves more than 25 per cent of the value of our exports, which imposes a stranglehold on my people's right to strive to achieve disarmament and to combat poverty. This situation is repeated mutatis mutandis in almost all the debtor countries. As a result, the entire world community - and particularly the creditor countries - must become aware of this grave matter, and undertake the realistic and practical measures needed to prevent this question of debt from becoming a political and financial disaster of unforeseeable consequences for the whole world. The negative burden of debt on the economy of my country is revealed in tragic terms in a document which I have annexed to my statement and which will be distributed with the official version of my address. 
I have referred in some detail to the problem of external debt because this is the roost obvious link in the chain which binds the Third World to a cruel and unjust destiny that must be overcome. But, unfortunately for us, it is not the only link. We suffer from acute problems and shortages with respect to external financing for development, and in terms of trade, to mention only two aspects of a very gloomy and multi faceted picture.
It is not possible for the flow of capital to run from an impoverished South to a prosperous North. Latin America and the Caribbean alone contribute, through interest payments and other obligations, close to 32 billion per year more to the creditor countries than they receive. We must ask ourselves: Who is contributing to the greater development of whom?
Although Bolivia appreciates and is grateful for the technical and financial co-operation which it receives from bilateral and multilateral sources, and which goes towards its development, this is patently insufficient and not consonant with our determined resolve to escape from our current stage of underdevelopment. And in this forum it is appropriate to mention the co-operation of agencies of the United Nations system, such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control (UNFDAC) and others. But it is also necessary to state our hope that they will participate at a higher level of resources in my country's development endeavours.
There can be no doubt that the heterogeneous and pluralistic make-up of international society does not make it possible for there to be absolute agreement on assessments of world and regional problems. But we must recognize that in many cases this play of interests has a disruptive and decisive effect on the internal policies of States. However, we are borne up by the conviction that it is not on the basis of prejudiced attitudes and preconceptions that we shall be able to improve international relations. For we believe that if we come together each year in this forum, we do so in order to find appropriate solutions to the problems and conflicts facing it, and not to deepen our differences further. There are universal ethical values which are in keeping with the very essence of the dignity of a human being, whatever his or her culture, education, or national identity. These values encompass the will and resolve of all peoples of the planet to achieve peace, individual and social freedom, the right to development, and the full validity of international law.
The peace solution in Central America can no longer be deferred. This abode of humanity, this Continent of Hope, with which we have the warmest solidarity, has been suffering the consequences of fratricidal struggle for so many years, and to date it has not been possible to eliminate the violence.
Perhaps it might be appropriate for new diplomatic initiatives to be taken, designed to put into effect the very fruitful work carried out by the Contadora and the Support Group to ensure that the negotiating framework among the Central American Governments my really come into proper effect immediately. This is a matter of urgency, and there is a valid solution to a worthy and fair political formula which will bring about a cessation of hostilities and promote understanding on the basis of practical implementation of the principles underlying the thinking of this world Organization and its regional branch, the Organization of American States (OAS). It is not inappropriate to mention, in connection with this matter, the analogy which may be traced to the results achieved in promoting peace in other regions of the world, which are very fresh in our memories. 
One of the principles of international law - perhaps the most important and fully valid one - rejected at a very early stage the colonialist policy which prevailed at that time, regarding as an execrable practice the extension of sovereignty over Territories and populations that were beginning to form their own socio-historical identity. For this reason, we reject any formula that springs from the colonialist mentality, which still persists and continues to trample underfoot the dignity of certain nations.
The General Assembly of the United Nations has on many occasions condemned the continuing imposition of the colonial power of the United Kingdom on the Malvinas Islands, and on this occasion my country renews its support of the historical rights of the Argentine Republic over this southern island Territory occupied by Great Britain, and our support for the resumption of negotiations designed to find a peaceful solution to this conflict.
With the same pan-American awareness, Bolivia's support of the Panamanian Republic over the canal continues to be constant, and it is imperative for the international community to guarantee the fulfilment of the 'Ttorrijos-Carter Treaty.
There are discrepancies in other latitudes that have been the subject of General Assembly resolutions, and we should be resolved to safeguarding the principle of independence which cannot be trampled underfoot by foreign interference. We are referring to the conflicts in Kampuchea, Cyprus, Lebanon, Namibia said the Western Sahara.
In the same spirit, we appeal to the parties concerned to achieve unification in Korea on the basis of dialogue.
Fortunately, and thanks to the endeavours of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the war in the Persian Gulf, which so greatly disturbed world peace, is approaching its end. This is a historic achievement by the United Nations, which has solidly established itself as the highest and most trustworthy world-wide machinery for managing, negotiating, and bringing about the achievement of peace wherever it may be interrupted or disrupted.
We should also welcome the beginning of the process of withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan, and the respect shown for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country. That, too, is an achievement of this world Organization.
The policy of apartheid of the South African Government is an abominable scar on the face of human society. It is repugnant to the legal and ethical conscience of the world that this racial segregation should continue to be practised with impunity by the Government of this country. And that Government should be the subject of the strongest possible sanctions for its conduct, which runs totally counter to all the codification of international law in the area of the validity and respect for human rights.
Recent months have been fruitful, in the sense that the conflicts have been controlled and fresh conflicts prevented. The United Nations' activities have shown it to be a great neutral and trustworthy participant, helping to create conditions that should lead to dialogue and the resolution of conflicts. There is a promising atmosphere for the "creation of peace", with love, reconciliation and good faith. A new spirit has emerged, a spirit that will lead to the creation of peace through the broad avenues of negotiation, which will, in turn, provide incentives to the economic and social, political and moral sectors of our society, doing away with the need for and the possibility of violence. These are mechanisms which are based on the principle of the maintenance of peace, and States have begun once again to believe in and trust the bodies of the United Nations system, whose impartiality and neutrality can be relied upon.
The item on development and strengthening of good-neighbourliness between States undoubtedly is the one that most strikingly demonstrates the need to foster and further friendly relations between States bound by geography and common borders. This period in man's history is a time of physical and economic integration. A happy example of reconciliation and the establishment of lasting peace for mutual benefit is that of Europe and the Economic Community. In Latin America and the Caribbean we are striving eagerly to achieve that goal of political reintegration and economic integration. That is the path of unity and the quest for a common destiny.
This item should be tackled with total intellectual honesty, defining the causes which at times make it impracticable to maintain friendly relations between neighbouring States when unnecessary conflicts await solution - conflicts which need to be overcome precisely because of the people's new objectives of peace and development, within the framework of imaginative diplomatic activities and with the creativity consonant with the changes now taking place in all parts of the world.
We must increase the ability of the United Nations to achieve its purposes. All initiatives designed to strengthen the system of international peace and security deserve our warmest support, because we are convinced that we have not yet succeeded in adopting an efficient system that will avert conflicts and provide for the solution of disputes. Solutions can be found if we continue to work faithfully within the framework of the competence of United Nations bodies and the principle that an appropriate solution should be found for any conflict within a reasonable period. It is in the interest of the international community to find machinery and procedures that facilitate the implementation of General Assembly resolutions on the peaceful settlement of disputes.
To this end, the intervention of the Secretary-General can be decisive, as has been demonstrated in practice, in promoting dialogue between the parties or in proposing alternative formulas, so that all conflicts are solved satisfactorily.
The item relating to the peaceful settlement of disputes among States Members is of particular interest to Bolivia and we have therefore sponsored draft resolutions urging all states to fulfil and comply in good faith with the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes.
Once again we reaffirm this juridical position, which is of enormous moral significance in terms of the prestige of the world Organization since the United Nations and the regional organizations  ere established precisely to maintain international peace and security. That objective is being achieved through good faith and frankness, in keeping with honest statesmanlike conduct, by means of General Assembly and Security Council resolutions on the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Within the framework of these universal principles and in the light of American regional policy, Bolivia has proposed, since 1979, a solution to the problem of the landlocked status imposed on it as the result of armed aggression in 1879. The world public knows that my country achieved independence in 1825 with a Pacific Ocean coast, the coastal province covering an area of approximately 160,000 square kilometres. The coastal mutilation was never accepted by my country and for more than a century we have been snaking persistent efforts to find a solution to this problem through direct negotiation and, from 1979 onwards, with the participation and diplomatic and political support of the Organization of American States (OAS). 
Bolivia needs sovereign control over access to the Pacific Ocean that will restore its original status as a coastal country. To this end, we have carried on intense diplomatic activity, which has created a genuine awareness of this problem among the world public. During these multilateral diplomatic activities, and particularly in the regional framework of the OAS, a number of resolutions have been adopted in which the parties involved in the dispute have repeatedly been urged to begin negotiations designed to find a just solution to this problem. It will be understood how much political, economic and moral damage my country has suffered as a result of this despoiling of its marine patrimony at a time, fortunately long past, when might was the supreme law of nations.
This outstanding issue has a political and diplomatic basis on which we seek to redress a historic injustice. We are not seeking to deny the legal validity of longstanding bilateral agreements, but today they need to be supplemented and brought up to date in the light of the present realities of international life. It is no answer to offer mere free transit as a substitute for the return of usurped territory. That is why successive Bolivian Governments have sought a just solution based on Latin American brotherhood. This is not an issue that can be clouded by casuistic speechifying and claims based on historical situations that are fossilized and out of date.
In keeping with the resolutions of the Organization of American States, in 1987 Bolivia put a proposal for the solution of the conflict to the Government of Chile as the basis for negotiations, which took place in Montevideo in April of that year. Unfortunately, that basis for an understanding to our mutual benefit, which would have opened up the prospect and great possibilities of integration, peace and development, was arrogantly rejected, to the surprise even of the people of that country.
Despite the continuing aggressive and arrogant policy of the present Government of Chile, my country will continue its efforts until it exhausts the regional resources available to it in the OAS before transferring the problem to the United Nations.
Bolivia cherishes the hope that international solidarity and the practical viability of calm and up-to-date bilateral diplomatic negotiations will make it possible for our country to regain access to the Pacific Ocean by means of this policy of peace, integration and development.
We are certain that all Member States are carrying on a whole-hearted struggle against drug trafficking, which in the last two decades has assumed unprecedented proportions owing to the stubborn attitude of the criminals engaging in this very lucrative business, who challenge the capacity of State institutions, for action and control because they are able to draw on considerable economic power. This is a crime against mankind which we must eliminate. Its perverse and insensate nature goes beyond any reasonable considerations and our purpose must be to eliminate all aspects of this inhuman activity. The international community simply cannot live with drug trafficking and its consequences.
In the face of this inescapable fact, Latin America and the Caribbean, the Movement of Non-Aligned States and the international community have been the first - and this has been accepted by all States - to put forward the principle of collective, shared responsibility in the struggle to eradicate this scourge once and for all. The new definition of the crime does not separate the developing countries, which have been capriciously called producer or transit countries for narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, from the developed countries, which, in similes fashion, have been characterized as consuming countries. The problem of the criminal activity of drug trafficking affects everyone equally, with its attendant negative impact on economies and the scourge of drug addiction.
We should note the steps taken as a result of genuine international solidarity in the struggle to combat this evil through the activities of the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control and the United Nations Development Programme, as well as the United States of America and the countries of Europe, which have announced, and in many cases put into effect, programmes of economic assistance for those countries that are affected by production, so as to enable them to attack this problem effectively.
Despite good intentions, the degree of co-operation is still quite low and does not encompass the minimum needs of existing plans to deal with this problem.
Bolivia has just promulgated a strong law which it is applying in this unequal struggle against the power of drug traffickers: "Law governing coca and controlled substances". It is one of the most modern laws ever adopted in recent years in the area of positive anti-drug law. Its special characteristics combine harsh penalties with the replacement of coca crops by means of planned alternative development aimed at agricultural substitution and providing the necessary economic incentives to those farmers affected by the elimination of the traditional crops.
The positive aspects of that law have clearly achieved encouraging results: while the confiscation of cocaine paste has increased substantially, many of the most powerful drug traffickers have been arrested and hundreds of cocaine factories have been destroyed. In addition, thousands o£ hectares of coca cultivation have been eradicated in compliance with our international commitments But it is clear that these efforts could be undermined if the industrial countries, such as the United States of America,   not effectively contribute in a timely manner the financial resources they have pledged. In this connection, my country calls on the international community to make a decisive contribution to the eradication of improper use and illegal trafficking of drugs and to double its efforts, without applying pressure or setting conditions, because our decision to continue the fight to final victory is being demonstrated daily.
In conclusion, I wish once again to reaffirm our unswerving commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and our conviction that mankind must, with the support of all, pursue the course that has been so auspiciously begun in recent times towards its glorious destiny of peace and justice.
May God bless world peace.


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿I should like first to extend my congratulations to you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly. I wish you every success in your endeavours. I also wish to thank the United Nations, through the Secretary-General, for the extraordinary role which it is playing in the international system and for the extraordinary role that the Secretary-General is playing personally.
I have given a great deal of thought to the way in which I might begin this dialogue with the international community and to the concerns that I should communicate to the representatives present here. I have decided that the most appropriate course would be to share with you a profound concern which I, as a political leader and as a citizen, have felt. It is a concern which I believe is not mine alone, rather one which is universal and of interest to the world as a whole, I am referring to that complex problem of alienation between society and the State, which is producing among the people almost everywhere in the world, a constant feeling of mistrust and lack of belief which, in my opinion, is eroding the very bases of any proper political system, in particular a democratic one.
In the few days that I have been in New York, when I have been travelling around in the official car of the Bolivian Mission, I have noticed that few people on the streets seem to be paying any attention to the cars. Most people seem to see them as an expression of some kind of power. The United Nations itself may be seen to be expressing a power that is concentrated every year during the General Assembly. But after all it is a power which, in one way or another, is suffering from this problem of the distancing of the people and this generates a feeling of despair or mistrust or disbelief. There seems to be a world citizenry who do not feel that the authorities are part of their daily lives.
That is my first concern, but there is another thought, which 1 consider necessary. I believe that the citizens of our world want to be able to believe in something important transcending boundaries. For this reason they are asking us to be truthful - truthful at all times with respect to any problem. That truth may be the antidote to distrust. It may give our citizens faith and hope in their own societies, Governments and States. That is why I believe, today, that the words of the Gospel are of greater importance than ever before - the words that tell us that the truth - and only the truth - will make us free. There can be no freedom without truth. It is impossible to imagine truth that does not express itself within a free system. That is why I should like, openly and frankly, to tell you our truth - the truth of the President of the Republic of Bolivia, the truth of all Bolivians. But first of all, a profound truth that involves the very roots of our nationality.
I come from a country which is embedded in the heart of the South American continent, where all the geographical features of South America converge. It is difficult for us as Bolivians to know whether South America begins in Bolivia or whether South America ends in that geographical knot which is called Bolivia, whether our country marks the starting-point or the limit of the continent. I wonder how many people died in that act of violence. I wonder whether in the civil war which is afflicting a number of Latin American countries more children are dying than died in the violence entailed in the process of economic and financial stabilization, such as the one in my country.
There is another problem facing contemporary democracy, especially in the poorest countries: is economic and financial stability compatible with democracy? That is a challenge to the entire United Nations, because our democracies, given hyper-inflation, the economic crisis and instability, are becoming defenceless - economically and financially defenceless. This is another issue in which the international community must shoulder responsibility.
But, in addition to engaging in the process of bringing about economic and financial stability, our country - in that Latin America which is in such a state of upheaval and which is attempting to work towards democracy through transition - has strengthened its democracy. I can say with pride before all the peoples of the world: Bolivia today has a strong democracy. We have carried out this process in our own way, with our own laws. We have succeeded because of a meeting of minds of Bolivians, the patriotic agreement of the overwhelming majority of Bolivians, which led to a Government of national unity in which political organizations and individuals that had fought each other for almost 20 years managed to come together.
That can be understood only in light of the fact that one stage of Bolivian national political life was superseded - that is, the situation following the 1930s, the world crisis the Chaco war. And today there has been a change in Bolivian national policy: a new cycle, an attempt to make consensus, agreement and harmony, rather than conflict and confrontation, the foundations of Bolivia's democratic policy. That is what we are starting to call the revolution of democracy - a revolution occurring all over the world, now that it is no longer possible to have single parties or hegemonic parties or elements in national political life, and everyone is obliged to share and work together.
While we arrived at this solution in Bolivia, our Polish brothers and sisters were finding a different solution. And earlier we had had the French model of ideologically and historically opposing forces managing to share power within a democratic system.
But, together with this economic and financial stabilization, achieved with so many sacrifices, in a continent - and I emphasize this - where in recent decades democracy has been an exception, today in Bolivia political stability has been strengthened. I must recognize that this has been the result of the efforts of the entire national community and its institutions? and that the Bolivian armed forces - which the international community had regarded as a source of constant instability in our country - have today, like all other elements in Bolivia, become an institution which is a real, solid basis for contemporary Bolivian democracy. In addition, our humble country has succeeded, with a special effort, in solving a problem that has been discussed here on many occasions and is being discussed at this very session - the problem of foreign debt. In the past two years our country, in the midst of an economic crisis and the process of democratic transition, has managed to honour and pay almost 30 per cent of its foreign debt - money owed to the international banking system - $300 million - and bilateral indebtedness. That was possible because of the will of Bolivians and their Government, but also because of international co-operation, which enabled us to renegotiate with the international banks on terms advantageous to the country. It was also possible because of the coincidence that in recent weeks there came to power two Governments, in Bolivia and in Argentina, with faith in Latin America, Governments that believe in Latin Americanism and that with respect to their bilateral debts apply the principle whose application they had been demanding for many years of the rich industrialized countries - the basic principle that there are certain debts that it is technically impossible to pay, and that to find a solution what is needed is the political will and political decisions.
President Menem of Argentina and the President of Bolivia took the decision mutually to write off the debts that had accumulated over past years between the two countries. I believe that that precedent set by contemporary Bolivia and contemporary Argentina can be linked positively with other efforts being made in the same direction to resolve the problem, which is of such magnitude.
That is why I stand before the Assembly, proud of my people and of my country, Whose age-old culture and contemporary achievements from an unbroken line guaranteed by the people themselves, who are determined to realize their own destiny in their own sovereign way. Therefore, I should like to paraphrase, humbly, but also proudly, words 1 used in my election campaign, saying to the international community: "Here we are before you with what we have done". What more can you ask of us? What more can you say? We also stand here with our will to work with the international community to resolve the basic problems of our world of today.
At the same time I want to tell the Assembly that we represent the voice of a whole new generation that has emerged in our country. This is not only a Bolivian phenomenon; it is a Latin American, continental phenomenon. In the past two decades of Latin American life a new political generation has been formed, a generation trained in the school of the struggle for democracy. We are the generation that brought about the clash against the dictatorships to create the democracies on our continent. Although it may seem a young generation, it is an experienced generation, bearing the scars of the struggle against the dictatorships. It remembers the lives of the martyrs who paid the price to bring democracy to Latin America. It is a generation that knows that the struggle was for the Latin American people, the Bolivian people, and that therefore understands that we cannot accept any democracy that is not at the unconditional service of all the inhabitants of Latin America, including the neediest.
None the less, I want to tell representatives that this Bolivia, which has made those achievements in recent years, is a country which, like all other third world countries, like all the other developing countries, has not resolved basic structural problems. My country continues to have a problem of chronic unemployment, even more chronic because of the financial and economic adjustments we have had to make. My country still has a small market and a small productive sector, and it remains a country on the sidelines of the global economy. Indeed, I would say that it is at the margin of the sidelines. It remains a country of critical poverty, perhaps among the most acute on our continent.
Together with those continuing structural problems, which are challenges to be met by Bolivians, with international co-operation, we still have, in spite of our current achievements, the grave structural problem of lack o£ access to the sea. We continue to be a mountainous enclave in the heart of South America. I do not want to dwell on a problem that has existed for more than a hundred years, but I do want to point out here, to the international community, that our demand for a sovereign outlet to the sea is a Bolivian demand that cannot be renounced.
Over Bolivia's long history we have lost territory in the Amazon region, but that does not mean that we ceased to be a country of the Amazon. We have lost territory in the Rio de la Plata area, but that does not mean that we ceased to be a Rio de la Plata country. But in losing territory giving access to the Pacific we ceased to be a maritime country. In other words, we lost not only territory, but the benefit of being a country with access to the sea, which we had when we began our independent existence. That is the basis in justice of our claim for access to the sea.
While members of a past generation led us into an unjust war that resulted in the problem, we of the new generation stress that at the end of the twentieth century we cannot continue to deal with Bolivia's maritime problem and Bolivia's claim with the tired and limited mentality of the nineteenth century. We must begin to approach it with the new outlook that must be adopted as we enter the twenty-first century. In that context, we must find a solution in the new spirit, full of hope, of the coming century.
1 make this claim here at the United Nations because it is precisely in this international forum that it has been recognized that for the underdeveloped countries lade of access to the sea is one of the causes of underdevelopment and poverty. That has been recognized in the world Organization.
But above and beyond all of this, I wish to turn to my compatriots from Bolivia, my Latin American compatriots from Chile and from Peru, and tell them that we should take up this challenge on behalf of our peoples and our Governments and find a solution which will open new prospects for all of us, new possibilities and a new prosperity to construct together.
I wish to speak about some other problems facing my country - and not just my country, for we share them with the entire international community. These are problems such as illicit drug trafficking, the systematic erosion and impoverishment of the global environment, and acute poverty.
Concerning the drug traffic, we are all aware that this is an old problem, but we should welcome the fact that recently the international community has gained a new awareness of the importance of the problem, and that as a fundamental part of that new awareness it has been fully understood that this not a problem of one country alone or of a handful of countries but, rather, an international problem, a problem for the international community as a whole. We should also welcome the fact that, having understood this, the international community has now incorporated the concept of co-responsibility in its approach to the drug traffic. This in itself is a great achievement: it is a great achievement that the average American citizen, who may indeed be suffering the consequences of drug addiction in his own family, understands that somewhere else in the world, in Bolivia, there are peasants facing an equally acute problem from a humanitarian aid moral standpoint, from the standpoint of their lives and the quality of their lives. It is important also that that Bolivian citizen in the countryside should understand that, just as he has existential problems in connection with the drug traffic, in the United States and in other parts of the world there are people for whom it is also a problem, a problem of life and death. I believe that this is an international achievement we should all welcome. The Vienna Convention is a reflection of this' progress, and recently in the United States, through President Bush's plan, we have seen another reflection of concern over this problem and a new approach commensurate with the international community's rising awareness of the problem. Of course, we welcome this plan, although we share the view here that the resources allocated to implementing the plan ace perhaps not commensurate with the new awareness the plan reflects.
But I know that the international community wants to know Bolivia's opinion on this - and I said at the beginning of my statement that Bolivians would tell the truth, would tell our truth in this forum. So it is important to state that, so far as this problem is concerned, we are convinced that we must tell each other the truth, frankly and once and for all. It would be very bad for us to deal in empty phrases. But it would be still worse if each of our countries were tempted to handle the problem on the basis of politics, of domestic political needs or other types of interests.
We must be sincere, we must tell each other the truth - and the first truth I wish to tell the international community is this; I wonder whether we are really waging a head-on war against drug trafficking. I wonder whether we are actually in a state of war, because sometimes that does not seem to be the case. The worst thing I could do would be to involve my country in a war that is not the war we should be waging, or that we are waging as a formality or because of some other need. So let us be honest with each other in the international community about this problem; let us try to tackle the problem properly, for if we really are waging a war it is because we want to win that war - indeed, that is the objective of going to war. 
Having examined President Bush's plan, I think we must base our analysis on differences between, on the one hand, consumer countries, areas and sectors and, on the other, countries, areas or sectors which sell their services or act as intermediaries or channels for drugs, and we have to draw a distinction between both of these and the countries that produce the raw materials: if we do not draw that clear distinction, we shall not be seeing the war in its true and proper dimensions and will run the risk of making things even more complicated than they are today.
The thinking of the Bolivian people is that the problem of drug trafficking is similar to the foreign-debt problem in many aspects. It is a scourge, just as the foreign debt is a scourge. However, in drug trafficking, as in the matter of the foreign debt, there are common issues which are of interest to the whole international community and are part of a common strategy that we need to carry out together. But to use the analogy of the foreign debt again, each country has its own specific problems and drug trafficking takes specific forms in different countries. That is why we say that we need to consider the general case, but at the same time we need to look at particular cases, at what is specific about the way the problem presents itself in each country. Hence we must say that for the consumer countries the basic requirement is a policy of prevention. It is not the only step that needs to be taken, but prevention is fundamental. However, for the countries that act as middlemen and as marketing countries, and countries through which drugs are channelled, then the basic requirement is prohibition and suppression. But in the poor, underdeveloped countries, where the raw material is produced - such as the coca leaf in Bolivia - the basic requirement has to be development alternatives to the coca crop.
Consequently, with respect to consumer countries, it is preventions for intermediary countries, it is prohibition* and in underdeveloped countries the production of the raw material needs to be eradicated through development alternatives, such as other products. But markets for such products must be found. What kind of President would I be if I were to tell Bolivian farmers that they needed to change their crops, which provide them with specific benefits, for other crops that would provide them fewer benefits and leave them uncertain of finding new international markets, for there would be unwillingness to open up international markets to those alternative products?
I believe that we must be perfectly clear on this point if we are seriously to tackle the problem - and that is what I would call a real war, one which we must all fight together.
I have spoken with a number of Heads of State and other leaders here - including President Bush, with whom I had a very pleasant talk which generated a great deal of mutual esteem. In those talks I indicated that, in so far as my country is concerned, the best way to fight against drug trafficking was to invest in Bolivia, because drug trafficking cannot be separated from unemployment and from the economic crisis. Drug trafficking is also linked to the critical moment in my country. Therefore, we would be mistaken to believe that all we needed to do in Bolivia was to curtail production, just as we would be mistaken to believe that the drug problem in the United States could be solved through the substitution of crops or the starting of alternative development. We need to place things in the right context. In my talks with the President of the United States and others in this country, as well as representatives of other countries, I was fortunate to encounter a clear understanding that we must tackle the problem together and in this context.
I also wish to state here before the international community that Bolivia is ready to mobilize all its national will and commit itself to a frontal attack against drug trafficking. We are prepared to do so on the basis of our own national reality; we are prepared to do so together with the entire international community. We ask that, based on our own concept, every people take its own initiative within its own country, because this is an endeavour that cannot be accomplished on one's own. Every people needs to tackle the problem directly.
Bolivia pledges to do its part on its own territory, to take the lead in the struggle on its own territory. We ask co-operation from the international community so as to press forward with the struggle, and we hope that the international community will assess the endeavours of the Bolivians in the light of the results of our struggle in our own land.
Bolivians are ready to shoulder their own responsibility in the struggle on their own national territory. We seek international co-operation because our country is poor in resources, poor in logistics, poor in infrastructure - co-operation in the struggle against drugs and for development. We accept to be judged by the international community on the results that we shall achieve as a people in this struggle. We also intend to enhance national awareness in respect of this struggle and, as a country, we pledge to work together with the international community to fight against another scourge - the deterioration of the environment.
Fortunately, Bolivia remains one of the few ecological preserves of the planet. When President Menem flew over Bolivia three days ago at one o'clock in the morning and as a Latin American sent me a fraternal message, I answered him by saying that I welcomed him in my country's airspace and that I was very pleased that he was flying through one of America's purest skies. My words were not meant as a metaphor? they reflected an ecological reality, for his plane was flying through one of the least polluted skies of the continent.
We are prepared to enter this struggle as well and to do so as a country of the Amazon region. A great deal is being said these days about the Amazon. There is something that members perhaps do not know - in proportion to its territory, Bolivia is the most Amazon country of South America. Over 70 per cent of Bolivian territory is in the Amazon basin. We have spoken with President Sarney to promote an ecologically sound production policy in the Amazon territory that we share. We would like to work together with the other countries concerned. We should not be prevented from opening up new productive economic frontiers for the peoples of these territories in the name of a false ecological concept. We need to seek balance between the need of our people for development and the need of our people, and of all mankind, not to harm nature. In this regard, we are prepared in our development process not to repeat the actions taken by the developed countries that have harmed the environment in their development process. That is also a challenge for mankind. The problems of drug trafficking and the environment are related to another problem, namely, that of extreme poverty. I call these the three scourges: drug trafficking, extreme poverty, and the economic, financial and external debt crisis - the latter being the overriding scourge of the poor countries, like my own. These are the scourges facing poor countries such as ours.
For our people, they are the three horsemen of the Apocalypse, so in our struggle we cannot separate them. If we are to combat drug trafficking we must combat poverty as well, and we must preserve the environment. The production of cocaine is related to the systematic destruction of the environment in countries where it is produced. In order to combat damage to the environment we need to combat both drug trafficking and extreme poverty. And to fight against extreme poverty we need to fight against drug trafficking and damage to the environment. This is, as I said before, an inseparable trilogy, and anyone who does not understand this is not fighting the right war, and as I am sure the international community will understand, we should not be fighting the wrong war.
We are prepared to run our own risks-, we are prepared to shoulder our responsibilities-, and we are prepared to share all of this with the international community. But, above and beyond everything that I have said, I want to tell this Assembly that Bolivia, with its Government of national unity, with its process of national harmony, has definite goals in mind. We want to maintain the economic and financial stability that we have won at such great cost. By the end of the year Bolivia will have a maximum rate of inflation of 12 per cent. Truly this is a record in Latin America. This economic and financial stability is an achievement for our people, and we certainly cannot throw it out of the window. We want to use it as the basis for development because stability without growth is fragile: it has feet of clay. Stability without movement is the stability of the cemetery. There is stability in cemeteries, but it is the stability of death, what we want is the stability of life, which is the stability of growth. We want stability with a profound policy of social development. 
I would like to refer very briefly to certain international problems in respect of which Bolivia's voice must be heard. As Latin Americans, we believe that a Latin American solution must be found to the problems of Central America, and we believe that that solution must be based on a resolution of the problem of democracy. In the last analysis, what is at stake in Central America is the question of democracy. Let us allow each country to be the protagonist of its own democracy, so long as it is a clear democracy that can coexist with others. I believe that the countries of Central America have a special responsibility because they are most familiar with the problems of the sub-region.
As Latin Americans, we Bolivians must reaffirm that the Malvinas Islands are Latin American, that they belong to Argentina, but that Argentina and the United Kingdom should find a solution in the form of an international agreement. He fervently hope that there will be fruitful dialogue between those two countries, both of which have age-old fraternal links with Bolivia.
In the international sphere, there is something else that is very important to Bolivia. We want an appropriate solution to be found to the problem of the Middle East. We want a just solution that respects the rights of all the peoples of the Middle East. There can be no solution that works to the detriment of any party, because such a solution would not respect tine rights of all those who coexist in the region.
That is why I welcome the efforts made by the United Nations in that area. I hope an international conference under United Nations auspices will take place and that none of the parties or their authentic representatives will be excluded from it, lest we approach the problem without any real determination to solve it.
Much has changed in today's world; those changes are but the forerunners of future changes. Our world is moving closer to detente, understanding and co-operation. We hope the next century, which will be upon us in a few years, will find us all sharing a single ideology: the ideology of global civilization, of a universal culture in which we are all linked to one another. It is up to us.
We are already seeing some signs of that world of the future, a future from which we may look back at the twentieth century and its problems in the same way we look today, in history books, at the problems of the eighteenth century, in the same way we look at tine problems discussed by the encyclopaedists of that age.
Technology is becoming the ideology of the modern world, for technology is drawing us all together. It operates above and beyond the ideologies we inherited from past centuries. Technology and culture will be the ideology of the twenty-first century. What is the ideological difference between an American astronaut and a Soviet cosmonaut? They share the same ideology, technology. They are scientists and have few differences between them. That may be a model of the world to come, a model to be shared by all mankind.
I wish in conclusion to reiterate my faith in the United Nations system and in the purposes of the Organization: to combat poverty and backwardness now and in the future. I believe the United Nations can no longer tolerate the violence of oppression, extreme poverty or the presence of violence and death in many parts of tine world. Deep in our hearts, we all feel that those problems must be resolved.
Since 1945 leaders of the entire world have come here to tell the truth: their truth. Some have come with the arrogance of strength) some have come with the anger of powerlessness. But we have all come here to tell our truth.
As the President of a poor and humble country, I would recall the wise message of Ecclesiastes where it is written that
"wisdom is better than strength; nevertheless the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard". (The Holy Bible, Ecclesiastes 9-.16) The United Nations and the international community must hear the words of the poor, because, as the Holy Father has said, the new name of development is peace.


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿On behalf of my Government and on my own behalf, allow me to express warmest congratulations to Mr. Guido de Marco upon his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this forty-fifth session. Given his personal qualities, his presence here is a guarantee of even-handedness and fairness.
Allow me also to pay a tribute of admiration and support to Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar and, through him, to the United Nations and its specialized agencies.
We wish on this occasion to welcome to our Organization the Principality of Liechtenstein, confident that it will make a valuable contribution to the continuing efforts of the United Nations and its Members for a better world.
We likewise hail the presence in our midst of a free and independent Namibia, which throughout its struggle enjoyed the support of my country. 
We are living in amassing times, when unusual, sometimes unforeseeable, changes have occurred and continue to occur - changes that are of the greatest import to the history of mankind. We have seen the collapse of anachronistic political confrontation, a vigorous resurgence of democracy, broader respect for human rights, and other positive developments that allow us a glimpse of better times for future generations. But, unfortunately, we are far from living in an ideal world. There persist enormous inequalities between the developed and the developing countries, and, despite the new climate of detente and dialogue, we can still see conflicts bringing destruction and suffering to some regions. Moreover, political liberty still requires the firm underpinning of economic liberty.
Just when we thought that the new mood of dialogue and detente would finally hold sway in international relations we were taken unawares by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Bolivia - a country long dedicated to peace, supported the resolutions of the Security Council.
Consistent with its tradition of pacifism and strict compliance with the principles of the Charter, Bolivia believes that the time has come to address regional problems in a climate marked by rational and constructive dialogue. In this regard, we call upon the parties to the Cambodian problem to spare no effort to arrive at a peaceful and negotiated solution under the auspices of the Organization.
With regard to the situation in the Middle East, Bolivia, as it has done in the past, will support every effort aimed at a negotiated solution - in particular, the proposal to hold an international peace conference, under United Nations auspices, in which all parties concerned would participate. 
The fall of the Berlin Hall and the ensuing German unity are bound to give us great satisfaction. We believe these events to be indicative of the new course in relations between East and West, for this is the peaceful destruction, by the will of a people, of one of the last of the stigmas that are a legacy of the Second World War. 
My country is observing with high hopes the process being pursued by the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Democratic Republic of Korea in this new climate of detente and dialogue. We fraternally urge both parties to assert every effort towards reunification  for the benefit ultimately of the noble Korean people.
We the States Members of the Organisation, have other urgent problems to face on the heavy-laden agenda of the Assembly.
The scourge of drug trafficking and drug addiction continues to afflict all people. Its frightful prevalence  matched only by the arms race  has already spread all over the world. It is safe to say that no society is free from this evil.
The illicit profits from drug trafficking have found their way into the formal economic channels and are a source of corruption  violence and destabilisation of the democratic processes attained by our peoples at so great a cost.
Much remains to be done in our joint endeavour to eradicate drug trafficking and to save its victims. We should however, recognise that important  meaningful steps have been taken to that end. We hail the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on Illicit Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of which my country is already a signatory.
Bolivia has offered ample evidence of its political determination to eradicate this evil. Just a year ago  in this same forum  the President of Bolivia Jaime Pas Zamora presented to the international community the broad outlines of the thesis of "Alternative Development"  the key elements of which are the creation of new sources of employment  growth and diversification of exports, the attraction of increased capital flows  and the opening of new markets.
Bolivia approaches the resolution of the problems linked to coca and its derivatives through a national development strategy that seeks not just crop Bolivia substitution, but substitution of the coca economy, a task which requires the involvement of the producer countries and the rest of the world community.	
We can afford no delay in introducing new patterns of production that will provide farmers employed in planting coca leaves with an alternative livelihood, and this implies a change in the structural process of socio-economic development.
Bolivia has put forward the thesis of alternative development on various occasions and in different forums. That thesis has been recognized and incorporated in various international documents, but we are still awaiting fruitful and realistic international joint action. Its full acceptance allows us to believe that its implementation will lead us to the resolution of this problem. We reiterate today that the success of alternative development will be the result not only of the efforts of the Bolivian people and Government, but also of the positive economic and trade response of the international community.
Another item that deserves priority attention at this session of the Assembly is the environment. Dire poverty brings environmental deterioration in its wake, and this in turn leads to a vicious cycle of ecological blight and human misery.
In Bolivia, environmental protection and conservation have taken on new dimensions and concrete measures have been adopted. We have declared an "ecological moratorium" throughout Bolivian territory for five years, beginning with the present administration, which will mark a milestone in the dynamic relationship between development processes and the protection of nature. Protection of the environment is the expression of the political will of the people and Government of Bolivia to break with the irrational past in the management of our natural resources. It also reflects Bolivia's response to the international community's concern with this issue. 
As regards the environment and development, Bolivia holds that protection of the environment must be harmonized with the processes of development and economic growth so urgently needed by poor countries. Conservation of nature cannot imply condemning our peoples to backwardness, poverty and underdevelopment. On the contrary, the mechanisms that link the environment and development will have to be based on strategies for rational economic growth, always linked with respect for the interests of the international community and the region in question Bolivia views President Bush's Americas Initiative as an innovative alternative designed to mitigate the onerous burden of external debt while simultaneously bringing sufficient resources to bear on an active programme to preserve the environment.
We are confident that the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, to be held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, in which Bolivia will take an active part, will give rise to practical, effective decisions with regard to the solution of this problem in conformity with the principles laid down by the General Assembly in resolution 44,228 and the preparatory process for the world Conference so auspiciously begun in Nairobi last August.
I must also mention a problem which weighs heavily upon my country and which has been the subject of numerous debates in this Organization as well as in regional organizations for many years. I refer to Bolivia's land-locked status.
In this same forum last year Bolivia's President recalled that when it lost its Pacific Ocean territory Bolivia also ceased to be a maritime nation, as it had been upon attaining independence. The President addressed an appeal to the countries involved to face this problem is the new integration-minded spirit that befits the twenty-first century. 
It is in that spirit of fellow-feeling and integration that we turn to the Assembly. Bolivia once again calls upon the international community to grasp the importance of this problem, which the Organisation of America States (OAS) has repeatedly declared to be one with hemispheric implications.
In this period of major changes, when old differences are being overcome by political will and constructive imagination, it is incomprehensible to the Bolivian people that the problem of its land-locked status, rooted in the past century, should not be resolved on the basis of fraternal dialogue and commonality of interests. 
Bolivia is convinced that the solution of many of the problems besetting Latin America can be found only through integration. It is in that spirit, and by virtue of our geographical position, which makes Bolivia a crossroads, that we are taking part resolutely and optimistically in processes of integration and co-operation such as the Latin American Integration Association, the Latin American Economic System, the Andean Group and the Plata Basin and the Amazon Pact, initiatives which are intended to focus efforts and harmonize action in pursuit of their respective objectives.
With respect to co-operation and development for the elimination of poverty, permit me to speak briefly about my country's economic and political situation and about the Bolivian people's efforts to achieve a better life within a democratic, pluralistic system with full respect for human rights.
The economic process in Bolivia has been examined in various forums and by various world leaders. The success o£ an economic and financial stabilisation policy has checked galloping inflation and instability has been acknowledged. This was no easy matter for the Bolivian people. Each citizen was required to make a great measure of sacrifice and to postpone the attainment of their most legitimate rights and aspirations for a better life. We have not yet resolved structural problems that are basic to socio-economic development. We have been unable to improve the level of employment, which has been further constrained by economic and financial adjustments. We have not alleviated the health problems affecting the inhabitants of my country, and the benefits of education are not reaching vast sectors of the population.
The necessary economic revitalization that was to follow the stabilization process is proving slow and difficult. Our development continues to be hampered by the adverse effects of the 1988, such as unequal trade relations and international finance, the collapse of commodity prices and, principally, the crushing burden of external debt.
I saw have the honour to address the Assembly on behalf of the Group of 77, since my country, Bolivia, is the current Chairman of that important group of 127 developing States Members of the United Nations.
The Group of 77 has on many occasions expressed its concern at the economic stagnation of our countries throughout the past decade. But it should be stressed that a new political turning-point has been reached by the members of the United Nations with the adoption by consensus of the historic Declaration of the eighteenth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to international economic co-operation, in particular to the revitalisation of economic growth and development of the developing countries. That gave rise to new hopes.
I urge the international community to take the steps needed to put into practice without delay the commitments and policies set out in that Declaration. Likewise we appeal to the international community to adopt and implement the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade, which is now in the final phase of negotiation. The Group of 77 views the Strategy as eminently suitable for finally overcoming the economic lag with which the majority of our countries are grappling today.
I wish also to express our concern over the possible impact on the economies of developing countries of the series of structural changes taking place in the world economy.
We are witnessing important political and economic changes which, together with the international community's growing awareness of the common problems we face, are bringing about a new pattern of international relations.
Those changes and transformations are leading to an increasing globalisation of the economy and to greater interdependence among countries. While each State, Bolivia and each nation is responsible for adopting its own policy for economic development, such policies depend also on the existence of a favourable international economic environment. Because interdependence has different effects on different countries depending on their capacities and their impact on the world economy, it can advance the development policies of developing countries, or it can hamper them and cause them to fail. Accordingly, that process must be handled with greater equity and justice in order to avoid the increasing marginalisation of developing countries, especially in the financial, trade and technological spheres. Such marginalisation could have grave consequences with respect to improving the possibilities and standard of living of more than three quarters of the world's population.
My country, Bolivia, wants fervently to ensure that all these statements may help strengthen the universal task of ensuring peace, development and integration in the democratic world, which made this a historic century through the establishment of the United Nations.


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿The events that have just occurred in the sister republic of Haiti fill us with a sense of anguish. Democracy in that noble country - a cradle of the ideals of freedom - has been brutally interrupted, just when it was beginning to fulfil its splendid promise after having emerged from the long night of dictatorship and illegality that so long afflicted it. I wish, from this rostrum, to associate my country with the words of condemnation at the overthrow of the democratic Government of President Aristide - an act all the more condemnable in view of the fact that that Government emerged just a few months ago as a result of free, democratic elections supervised by the United Nations. We express our complete solidarity with the democratic and progressive people of Haiti and their freely elected political authorities.Allow me, Mr. President, to convey to you, on behalf of the Government and people of Bolivia and on my own behalf, heartfelt congratulations on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session.The people and Government of Bolivia also wish, through me, to express their most sincere appreciation of the noble and tireless work of the Secretary-General, Javier Perez de Cuellar. His historic record will remain indelibly inscribed in the annals of the Organization.We take pleasure in welcoming the Republic of Korea and the People's Democratic Republic of Korea into the United Nations. My delegation, likewise, extends a welcome to the Federated States of Micronesia and to the Republic of the Marshall Islands, whose membership enhances the universal character of the United Nations. Further, we wish to place on record our satisfaction at the admission of the Republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.The principles of peace, freedom, democracy, justice, solidarity, respect for human rights, and economic and social well-being clearly set the stage on which mankind's future must unfold. Nor must we forget that to achieve real and permanent peace we must resolve all conflicts and possible causes of conflict, thus fostering the trust between States that allows a climate of understanding to prevail. This was proclaimed by the Heads of State and Government at the recent Ibero-American summit in Guadalajara, where it was observed that, owing to recent trends in the peaceful settlement of disputes, we could envisage important progress towards resolution of the various regional conflicts that persist on our continent.Intimately related to peace, we believe, is the imperative need to solve increasingly urgent economic and social problems that beset the majority of nations represented here, We cannot demand that the principles and tenets of the Charter prevail if the poorest, who constitute the majority of mankind, are not afforded better opportunities, and if their right to a dignified and stable existence is not respected.In that spirit, at the recent Ibero-American summit in Guadalajara, President Paz Zamora of Bolivia proposed that the technology required to satisfy basic needs should become the universal heritage of mankind, within the reach of all. Allow me now, very briefly, to refer to the process of economic adjustment in my country, which has had international repercussions.These years have been a severe trial - years in which the Bolivian people have demonstrated discipline and abnegation in order to fulfil rigorous plans of austerity and collective effort. This process has consolidated the stability of our currency. It has permitted a reduction of the budget deficit by 25 per cent to 3.5 per cent, the amortisation of public debt, the maintenance of confidence by the people, and the growth of the gross domestic product by an estimated 3.5 per cent. Inflation was brought down from 25,000 per cent in 1985 to 17 per cent last year, and it is estimated that the figure will be 15 per cent this year.At the same time, a series of measures adopted as part of the policy of free trade and the encouragement of foreign investment and, above all, the climate of public confidence shown by the return of national capital for new investments or in the form of bank deposits allow us to glimpse a future of brighter hopes and full recovery. It is in that spirit, and with the moral encouragement of a job well begun, that we have achieved a substantial reduction in bilateral debt in the case of several countries, including the United States within the framework of President Bush's Americas initiative.While introducing a strict programme of macroeconomic adjustment, which made these results possible, my country, consistent with its sense of public duty, has not neglected the social sector. It has introduced, among other measures, the fund for social investment - a novel approach, which has elicited the interest of other countries, and with respect to which we reiterate our willingness to share.We also have the fullest confidence that, as part of this new international current of encouragement for each country's efforts, and with the old patterns of pseudo-paternalism that marred the ideal of cooperation on an equal footing now behind us, we shall see the elimination of the protectionist Measures that industrialised countries tend to apply to free trade, hampering efforts and disappointing the expectations placed In the principles of free trade and their more correct application.The Government of Bolivia wishes on this occasion most especially to underscore the relevant role played by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Latin America and the Caribbean. With regard to my country, UNDP activities take on special importance as they constitute a cornerstone for development plans in various fields.A matter of vital importance to my country is the reintegration of Bolivia to the coast of the Pacific Ocean, a permanent and indispensable feature of its foreign policy responding to a deeply rooted national conviction. Its unresolved status is a serious obstacle to the development and integration of this part of the world and runs counter to understanding among democratic regimes. This position of Bolivia has been repeatedly explained in international forums, particularly in the Organization of American States and the United Nations, and has received support and solidarity from numerous peoples and nations.We are by vocation and conviction a peace-loving country. It could not be further from our thoughts even to imagine solutions which are not those of constructive dialogue in order to seek avenues of compromise and mutual interest, in keeping with the peaceful solution which, in conformity with the mandate of the United Nations Charter, is binding upon all of us. Moreover, affirming the need for preventive diplomacy, as has been pointed out by several speakers at this rostrum, would be the very means to identify and diagnose this type of problem.The Government of Bolivia has made known its decision to seek a solution to this problem by means of negotiation and for that purpose has consistently proposed to the Government of Chile that an open and constructive dialogue be established. How could it be otherwise? We are joyfully witnessing the victory of negotiation, which, with each passing day, is bringing us closer to solving problems which only yesterday appeared insoluble- Consequently, we will continue to insist on the need for dialogue and on the faith that inspires us in the search for a just solution in keeping with American brotherhood.The climate of detente allows us to harbour the hope that dialogue and negotiation will prevail and peace and democracy will be definitively consolidated in the sister Republic of El Salvador. We welcome with satisfaction the result of the process of peacemaking in which we acknowledge the invaluable role played by the Organization and in particular by the Secretary-General.I wish to refer to other topics of great importance. The international community is aware that much remains to be done in order to defeat the scourge of drug trafficking. My country has contributed substantially to this struggle. The concept of alternative development, which means replacing the coca economy by a diversified, internationally accepted alternative economy, was presented for the first time in this forum by President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia.Despite the efforts of Bolivians and help from various countries it is clear that programmes and mandates cannot be fulfilled without greater resources. The principle of collective or shared responsibility between producer and consumer States must be emphasized in this respect. Therefore, we have the obligation to add our voice to the continuing appeal for a prompt and effective increase of financial and technical resources, in order adequately to carry out existing programmes nationally, regionally and worldwide.The question of the environment is receiving particular attention from my Government. This position has been expressed in all international forums and concrete initiatives have been put forward which favour appropriate use of our natural resources and guarantee our peoples' right to development.The continuing search for solutions to the problems of development, together with continuous innovation in increasingly sophisticated technology, have often caused us to lose sight of the need to set in motion mechanisms of interrelationship between the environment and development based essentially on strategies that consolidate sustained economic growth.With the same ecumenical vision that the international community wishes to take in looking to the future and ridding the Earth's inhabitable space of the blight of environmental neglect with which we have lived until now, the President of Bolivia has declared an environmental moratorium of five years beginning in 1990 throughout the country's territory.We are therefore looking forward with great expectations to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development to be held in 1992 in Rio de Janeiro, where important and far-reaching agreements on this question will no doubt be arrived at.This is also a good time to recall that, at the Guadalajara summit meeting. President Paz Zamora proposed the creation of an Ibero-American fund for the development of indigenous peoples, with a view to resolving the pressing problems of those original peoples without resort to "Indian reservations", or paternalistic compensation.With the easing of international tensions which, among other harmful effects, led us to a runaway arms race, we should harbour the hope that this Assembly will initiate a genuine process of disarmament in order to benefit the real development priorities of our countries, Bolivia lends its most resolute support to that effort.Several initiatives have taken shape with a view to revitalizing our Organization. Some have been comprehensive in scope. Others have been more moderate, seeking to give it an orientation which, without affecting the principles or functioning of the Charter, would make its procedures more functional.Bolivia, as a member of the Rio Group of Consultation, took an active part in the Group's deliberations on the revitalization of the organs of the United Nations system and joined the consensus on the document which was submitted to the Secretary-General. We wish to reiterate our support for the conclusions set out in that document, most especially as regards strengthening the authority of the Secretary-General under the Charter, and as regards the need for appointments of senior officials in the Secretariat to be made so as to reflect the qualities of ability and efficiency of those who apply for them, rather than being the exclusive preserve of particular Members.Political and economic events that have occurred over a short span of time continue to astonish us and call for serious thought. He are facing a new world in which the old, rigid parameters no longer apply and in which sufficient space must be provided for new realities. The peoples of our countries are telling us, in different ways, what kind of world they hope to live in, and what kind of a future they wish to bequeath to future generations.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
I first had the honour of addressing the 
General Assembly in September 1989, shortly after assuming the presidency of 
Bolivia. I anticipated then that the vertiginous changes taking place in and 
around us would bear the hallmark of what I termed the revolution of 
democracy. 
Today, after all we have experienced in this brief but intense period, we 
can see more clearly that the growth of universal awareness among men and 
women has not only given democracy, as a system, a global dimension for the 
first time in the history of mankind, but has also meant that its power for 
change and its potential for transformation are clearly challenging old ideas, 
old structures and old habits. 
I will say without fear of contradiction if I may be permitted to 
paraphrase what someone has said that democracy is racing round the globe, 
no longer a phantasmal newcomer but rather a wind of renewal and hope. 
Accordingly, what we must now surely call global democracy is shedding 
new light on old truths, leading us to understand better, for example, that 
power is, by definition, something to be shared; that we need a new and better 
understanding of the dynamics of consensus and dissent; and that the various 
forms of intermediation necessary for social life are now in crisis. 
Indeed, the more complex the organizational processes of a particular 
government, as is the case in democracy, the greater the need for that power 
to be shared if we wish to see it adequately maintained and developed. By the 
same token, the more rudimentary and simple power is, as is the case in 
authoritarianism and dictatorship, the less evident is the necessity of 
sharing power. 
Similarly, we can now see that the useful consensus on the basis of which 
the old democracies of the industrialized countries were built, with 
government and opposition thinking and acting virtually in the same way, seems 
to citizens a worn-out mechanism that hampers change. Paradoxically, at the 
opposite pole, in the young democracies of developing countries, the citizenry 
zealously calls for consensus as an essential means of uniting the nation's 
forces in pursuit of indispensable changes. 
It would seem, then, that where the art of consensus was perfected, the 
need is arising to learn how to manage dissent in an appropriate way; and 
where dissent had become a way of life and a cause of stagnation, there is a 
need in turn to learn how to build consensus. This could well be described as 
the dynamics of consensus and dissent under democracy. 
As to the forms of intermediation to be found in social life, we also see 
that the citizens of universal democracy are striving to reduce intermediacy, 
striving to take the initiative in everyday life in a more direct way. It is 
then that the citizen comes to regard intermediation as something of his own 
that is inescapable, genuine, close, efficient, transparent and 
representative. Therefore, we should not be surprised today to find a state 
of crisis in the political, religious, trade-union and cultural forms of 
intermediation, and even in that great intermediator, the State itself. 
This last point is especially useful and relevant as we turn to an 
examination of the present state of our Organization, for, in our view, what 
has come to be called the crisis of the United Nations seems to be in essence 
nothing other than a crisis of intermediation. I say this because in fact we 
have always thought that the United Nations represents the most advanced 
mechanism of intermediation on Earth but that, in order to continue to be 
such, it must adapt itself to the newly emerging global scenarios of the 
revolution of democracy. 
For nearly half a century after its inception, the United Nations played 
the privileged role of intermediary during the era of hegemonic blocs and the 
cold war. That indicated the quantity and quality of intermediation possible 
within that context, at the same time creating a way of sharing international 
power and a method of managing the dynamics of consensus and dissent, within 
the prevailing balance, managing in that context to determine even its own 
structure, organization and functioning. Under that old order, the United 
Nations achieved great credibility. And although in many places peace was not 
always preserved, the Organization achieved something that appeared 
impossible: prevention of a nuclear conflagration between opposing and 
seemingly irreconcilable blocs. 
But things have changed dramatically and, with them, so must our 
Organization. In saying this I believe I am voicing what all of us in the 
Assembly are thinking. It is clear that the new world order needs new 
credibility, which the United Nations must earn. The citizens and nations of 
global democracy are placing unavoidable challenges before our Organization, 
challenges that require us to adapt its structures, modernize its machinery 
and identify new priorities and thus the new intermediation that is possible 
in terms of quantity and quality. And, with no other aim in mind than that of 
seeking answers, allow me to illustrate these ideas by describing a few 
selected developments which, in addition to being new, have the common feature 
of having gained global proportions, which makes them particularly deserving 
of the Organization's keenest attention. 
The first of these is what I would describe as the dialectic of the 
universal and the particular, or, alternatively, the dialectic of 
universalisms and particularisms. I am referring to the obvious fact that 
peoples today are expressing two attitudes that are seemingly contradictory 
but are none the less part of the same dynamic. 
On the one hand they are striving for complementarity through processes 
of integration that are laying out ever broader geographical, political, 
economic and commercial areas that already constitute a new world geography. 
On the other hand, simultaneously and paradoxically, those same peoples and 
citizens are reaffirming their identity and their essence, sometimes 
intransigently demanding their own cultural, historic, religious, and 
immediate political frameworks. In an apparent contradiction, they seem to be 
trying to experience, simultaneously and complementarily, the great and the 
small, the longer-term and the immediate, the universal and the particular. 
The second of these developments arises from the fact that the market 
economy has gained ascendancy in the same manner as democracy and, together 
with them, the awareness of a better life and the need for well-being and 
human and social development have also become global. Consequently, we face 
as never before the urgent need for a form of solidarity that will enable us 
to hit upon an appropriate relationship between the market economy, democracy, 
and human development. That solidarity, by emphasizing social development 
and, for many of our countries, in a frontal assault upon poverty, will enable 
us also to redefine the foundations of new social legitimacy for States, 
internally and internationally. 
The third development has to do with something that we agreed upon at the 
recent Conference in Rio de Janeiro. We live in a single global ecosystem and 
we are all jointly responsible for its conservation and clean-up. We also 
agreed that little purpose would be served by preserving a world to be 
inhabited by an impoverished human race, which clearly implies that the 
ecological stewardship of the planet does not run counter to our peoples' 
needs for development. Consequently, it remains for us promptly to endow the 
Commission on Sustainable Development with the resources, powers and machinery 
it will need to fulfil the objectives we have set for ourselves. That means 
implementing Agenda 21, a true plan of action for the next century, as a point 
of departure for offsetting the historical environmental debt we have spoken 
of in other forums. 
The fourth development pertains to technology. In the joint 
deliberations the Presidents of the Ibero-American countries engaged in to 
mark the Quincentennial of 1492, we concluded that the final explanation for 
all colonial processes is to be found in a confrontation in which the winner 
achieves ascendancy by virtue of his technological superiority, and that this 
first technological defeat lies at the root of dependency and 
marginalization. We then agreed that in order to redress that situation it 
was necessary to share technological power more democratically, and that one 
appropriate way to do so might well be to declare as the common heritage of 
mankind those basic technologies that are indispensable to satisfy adequately 
the equally basic rights of mankind: health, nutrition, education and 
housing. I venture to reiterate that initiative before the Assembly with an 
explicit proposal by Bolivia to the international community that we should 
seek participatory, creative and markedly personal machinery that would become 
the main thrust of the work of the social summit we should now convene. 
The fifth, and last, development I wish to bring to the attention of the 
Assembly relates to a right which is already recognized under Article 19 of 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of our Organization, which states 
that everyone has the right to 
"seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and 
regardless of frontiers." (resolution 217 (III). Article 19) 
Representatives will surely agree that in recent decades technology has 
turned information, too, into a phenomenon of equally global proportions. At 
the same time, the universal revolution of democracy has instilled an 
unprecedented awareness among citizens of their right to inform and be 
informed. That growing awareness is in turn linked to the observable fact 
that the gap now separating the well-informed citizen from the poorly informed 
citizen seems quantitatively and qualitatively greater, or at least equal to, 
that other gap separating extremes of wealth and poverty. 
All of this leads us, in modern terms, to the perception that information 
has become the Gordian knot or, if you wish, the crossroads of human rights. 
Indeed, although it may appear an arbitrary simplification, the 
better-informed citizen eats more and better than the citizen who is not 
well-informed and has greater opportunities, among other things, to obtain 
access to better health and education. The problem becomes all the more acute 
when, as mentioned earlier, information today has become a phenomenon that is 
increasingly dependent on advanced technology and, consequently, the exercise 
of the right conferred by the aforementioned Article 19 of the Declaration 
really depends on each citizen's greater or lesser opportunity to have access 
to technology on an equal footing. 
I believe that a matter of such great importance requires special 
treatment and attention on the part of our Organization. With that in mind, 
it seems most appropriate to suggest that serious and urgent consideration be 
given to the inclusion as a central focus of the World Conference on Human 
Rights in 1993 the topic of citizens' information. I say "citizens'" 
information because I am not referring to that other matter, relating more to 
information among nations, which came to be known as the "new international 
information order". Rather, I am referring to the citizens' right to 
information and to the urgent need to guarantee, in principle and in reality, 
equality for mankind with regard to information. 
I wish to share with the Assembly my impression that, if we keep up with 
history in moving along this road, we will be arming mankind against what 
might be the most serious threat to democracy: the new authoritarianism, or, 
if you prefer, the great dictatorship of the twenty-first century - the 
perverse, systematic, sophisticated, invisible and elusive subjugation of the 
citizens to the distorted and monopolistic control of information technology. 
Allow me now to devote a few moments of my statement to recent 
developments in my country. The curtain has just fallen on a period which is 
now gone, perhaps never to return. In my country, the signs of new times are 
much more visible than in other regions. Members here have themselves often 
expressed that judgment and often urged and encouraged the efforts of my 
people, who may now take pride in achievements that have impressed sceptics 
and enlightened those whose minds were weighed down by the weary logic of the 
past. 
Bolivia is a nation at peace, and, collectively and individually, it is 
perhaps one of the safest on the continent. It has consolidated its 
democratic system and is making concordance the basic instrument of its 
political endeavours. 
On 9 July, all my country's political parties Government and 
opposition, right and left made a solemn commitment to carry forward in the 
coming months the basic tasks of modernizing the State and society through 
judicial, electoral and educational reforms, reforms in the administrative and 
political machinery and, finally, reforms in the Constitution itself. 
How encouraging it is to have left behind the Bolivia of factionalism, 
one of the nightmares of the twentieth century, and to be entering the 
twenty-first century free of those shackles. 
We have built, first, financial stability and, then, growth. To do this, 
it was necessary to face squarely the need to carry out the in-depth reform 
and modernization of the economic system. That reform stands on four 
foundations: stimulating competitiveness in the economy and freeing it from 
tariff barriers, subsidies and State protection; expanding the scope for 
private initiative in order to achieve the broadest citizen participation in 
economic growth; stimulating investment, generating employment and extending 
the benefits of development to the majority of Bolivians; and transforming the 
State into an efficient manager respectful of solidarity, and into the main 
party responsible for infrastructure and human development. 
In this way, and based on the wisdom and capabilities of its people, 
Bolivia has achieved the lowest rates of inflation in South America in the 
last three years. At the same time, its growth rate was one of the highest in 
the region, and per capita income has grown systematically during my 
Administration. 
All of this has brought us to a time of happiness and harmony. For the 
first time in my country's contemporary history, there are more Bolivians 
coming back than leaving, and more money flowing in than flowing out of 
Bolivia. Never before has so much been invested in health, education and 
basic sanitation, simply because we have never had as much access as we have 
today to concessional resources, which are coming to Bolivia thanks to the 
international community's confidence in the responsible way in which my 
country is being governed. We are building an optimistic Bolivia, a Bolivia 
with a future and with international stature. 
While Bolivia is a country which reaches the Atlantic through the major 
watercourses of the Amazon and the Rio de la Plata, it is by history, 
geography and culture a country of the Pacific Ocean. There is no better 
place than this forum of peace for me to reiterate that an unjust war deprived 
us of the status of a maritime nation, in which our life as a republic began, 
and thereby turned Bolivia into a country without a seacoast. The Bolivian 
people will never give up its aspiration to the sea and to a sovereign and 
useful presence on the Pacific coast. It matters not how much effort and 
sacrifice may be required in pursuit of that objective. 
To this end, we have laid out a strategy of peace and integration, a 
gradual and pragmatic strategy by which an appropriate solution to Bolivia's 
landlocked situation can be found that could be generally and mutually 
beneficial to the countries of the region. Proof of the soundness and impact 
of that strategy is the outcome of the Mariscal de Santa Cruz agreements 
signed with Peru on 24 January in the southern city of Ilo. Although not 
encompassing the sovereignty to which we aspired, and although not in the 
location which historically is rightfully ours, agreement has been reached on 
a commercial and industrial duty-free zone and on administration of the port 
by Bolivian and Peruvian entrepreneurs. Moreover, a tourism area of 
5 kilometres of beach has been granted, and it has already been named 
"Boliviamar". 
Three years ago I described to the Assembly Bolivia's national strategy 
to fight the production of, trafficking in and illicit consumption of 
narcotics, a strategy which my Government was then beginning to implement, 
asking the international community for its understanding and support. In 1989 
there were reasons to fear that drug trafficking might irremediably corrode 
the political and institutional system of Bolivia, that it might come to 
dominate the economy as a whole and might lead, sooner or later, to escalating 
violence. Although at that time there were doubts as to Bolivia's ability to 
carry out the plan, today I can say categorically that cocaine traffic has 
ceased to be a strategic risk for Bolivia. 
Bolivia is proof that the struggle against drug trafficking not only is 
possible but can also be successful. Against the temptation to yield to 
discouragement and pessimism, Bolivia stands out as a symbol, as a banner of 
hope and optimism. We have systematically reduced the areas devoted to coca 
growing; we have reduced the production of paste and cocaine hydrochloride; we 
have taken firm action in the selection of specialized personnel, following 
criteria of efficiency and honesty; and we have broken up the main networks of 
drug trafficking in Bolivia by means of a decree-law known as the "Repentance 
Decree", as a result of which the leaders of these organizations are now in my 
country's jails. 
All this was possible because we managed to avoid the imposition from 
outside of concepts and plans ill-suited to our national reality. On the 
contrary, we forged ahead with a peaceful struggle, ruling out the 
militarization of the struggle and spared the country from the confrontation 
and violence which had occurred elsewhere. In the light of this unquestionably 
positive picture, Bolivia asks the international community to redouble its 
efforts to reduce consumption, to control chemical precursors and to increase 
quantitatively and qualitatively the resources allocated to improved 
functioning of alternative development mechanisms, Bolivia's substantive 
contribution to the body of knowledge on this topic. 
Above all, we ask most earnestly that the coca leaf not be confused with 
cocaine: the coca leaf is a good thing and is an expression of an age-old 
cultural tradition originating in the Andes; cocaine, by contrast, is foreign, 
alien, and came from outside. 
From this rostrum, I pay a tribute to all the Bolivians who made possible 
the enormous advances we have achieved in this fight against one of the 
cruelest and most pernicious forms of corruption in contemporary society. I 
wish to express my special thanks to the self-sacrificing workers and farmers 
of my country. 
Tomorrow, at the offices of the Interamerican Development Bank in 
Washington, intergovernmental meetings will begin with a view to defining the 
composition of the governing board of the Development Fund for Indigenous 
Peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean, created on the initiative of the 
Ibero-American countries meeting at the Guadalajara and Madrid summits. 
Bolivia, a country of original indigenous stock, like so many others of 
our continent, asks the international community to support this programme, 
which is vital for the lives of many men and women, especially as we prepare 
to celebrate 1993 as the International Year for the World's Indigenous People 
with the theme of "Indigenous people a new partnership". 
This is the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. But for the 
peoples of the Americas, and in particular the Ibero-American peoples, this 
session marks the quincentennial of 1492. It is therefore a psychological 
reality for us that one chapter of history is drawing to a close and another 
is opening, one in which mankind will continue its tireless search, 
discovering and building new worlds. 
That is why Bolivia, a peaceful country of the South, which is 
experiencing the profound challenges of development, is also concerned about 
the fate of the industrialized North, where, following the natural euphoria 
after the end of the cold war and the victory of democracy, there have been 
worrying signs of uncertainty, lack of confidence and pessimism. I say I am 
concerned about the North because, in contrast with the past, we are now all 
living in one global political ecosystem, where threats, risks, victories and 
failures have repercussions for us all. 
For its part, Bolivia is prepared, together with other countries, to run 
the shared risk of building a new and better world. In that endeavour, there 
is only one requirement: that no one ignore anyone else. 

===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
I should like to extend greetings to the President
of the General Assembly, Ambassador Samuel Insanely of
Guyana, to the former President, Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria,
and to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. I
congratulate them on their active commitment to the
principles of peace, justice, human development and
international law.
I should also like to greet the Heads of State and
representatives of Member States who are gathered here in
this historic Hall.
Despite having the seventh highest rate of
hyperinflation in the history of mankind, Bolivia has been a
pioneer in the structural reforms that began in 1985 with the
advent of democracy and freedom - reforms that were
carried out without limiting human rights but by making
major sacrifices. I should like to take this opportunity to
pay a tribute to the President of our country during that
period, Dr. Victor Paz Estenssoro and, on behalf of all
Bolivians, to pay a special tribute to his statesmanlike
leadership.
In retrospect, this may not seem so great a task:
Reining in the economic crisis and bringing about peaceful

change in conditions of freedom and liberty are activities
that are being accomplished in many countries in Latin
America and elsewhere in the world. The situation in
Russia, for example, reminds us of the difficulty of
achieving consensus and legitimacy in governing a society
in crisis, a society in which change is necessary.
Bolivia’s course has required daring and imagination.
We have not shrunk from calling upon our people to make
sacrifices and shoulder additional burdens. But we are
profoundly alarmed, however, when we see so many
countries embarking on the road to democracy and change
and attempting to achieve stable growth and development
with social justice and when we then note that no
corresponding efforts are being made in the developed
world.
The end of the cold war lit a beacon of hope, but we
are surprised that it has not engendered an increase in
international cooperation and solidarity. There was greater
cooperation during the era of confrontation because of the
desire to defend third-world countries against the communist
threat and to replace the cold war with relations built on
solidarity and development. Today, on the contrary, poor
countries are faced with cuts in assistance, the prices of our
raw materials continue to plummet, and protectionism is on
the rise. Indeed, in real terms the current prices of tin,
tungsten, antimony, coffee, rubber and petroleum are even
lower than they were in 1930, during the great depression.
It is difficult to see on this bleak horizon how we are
going to solve our problems: the migration from rural to
urban areas, and from cities to the developed world; the
increase in drug trafficking and the phenomenon of poor
people being virtually forced to destroy nature in order to
survive. That creates a vicious circle, with ever-deepening
poverty.
The paradox of our times is that, in a world that is
growing ever richer in overall terms, poverty is on the
increase. There is a wider disparity between the "haves" and
the "have nots". The precarious stability born of internal
social and economic deficiencies must be tackled by all of
us. There is also an urgent need for basic changes in how
we face the problem of solidarity and the development of the
community of nations and human societies.
Developed countries must realize that sooner or later
the present situation rewards no one and injures everyone.
I truly believe that we must have a clear awareness of the
fact that population growth, the doubling of the population,
the destruction of the environment, the production of illegal
drugs and the trafficking in them, the migration from poor
countries to rich countries are problems that will affect not
only those countries but the world at large.
The solution is greater development. We know that
when people’s incomes rise, when women are educated and
when there is social justice, population growth rates also
change.
We know that in order to restore balance between the
environment and society we need educated people who can
put to use their special heritage and knowledge of living in
harmony with nature - as is the case in our country.
Just as we had to learn that nature can punish us when
we harm it, the time has come for all of us, developed and
undeveloped, to become aware that it is unacceptable that
the rich of the world should become ever more wealthy
while the poor are becoming poorer.
As we know, the solution is not just to hand out money
or aid. But there is no other way to achieve our goal if we
do not change old ideas. The motto should be "Trade, not
aid". Yet it would seem that the fate of the underdeveloped
world is "no trade and no aid", which is absolutely
unacceptable to us all if we wish to create a new, more just
and peaceful society.
With the passing of time solutions will be even more
costly and more difficult in human terms and in social and
economic terms. What we need, I believe, is greater
foresight on the part of those who are guiding the world’s
destiny. They must find solutions that are truly effective.
I am not saying that we should repeat the past. But in
the past there were plans such as the Marshall Plan that
helped donors and recipients alike. We need similar
approaches. We look forward with great expectation to the
free trade agreement among Canada, the United States and
Mexico. We congratulate President Clinton on his
commitment to struggling against the forces of protectionism
in his country and elsewhere in North America to trying to
forge ahead.
As a small developing country, Bolivia views all this
with hope, and as a commitment that we will be able to sell
our products to the developing countries rather than only
sending them people.
We look forward to a speedy and successful conclusion
of the Uruguay Round, as we believe that the freedom of
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 3
opportunity to produce is the only hope for our societies.
The children of the world ask only that their parents be able
to work and bring home their daily bread. But that happens
only when a country - a society, a world - stands together
and gives everyone equal access and opportunity.
We are not asking for special treatment; we are not
asking just for help. We are asking to be allowed to work
and to export, and not to be obliged just to export the most
talented and vigorous people of our societies to the
developed world.
In Bolivia we are trying to forge ahead with projects
using foreign capital and the participation of our people. We
are a very poor people. Our country knows that it needs
technology and capital, and during the coming years we
hope to embark on an ambitious but feasible plan.
This plan has three pillars: capitalization,
democratization and popular participation.
First, we wish to invite foreign capital to come to
develop technology and use fresh resources in order to
enrich the heritage of our State enterprises. We do not want
to sell our heritage, and we do not want only the
participation of States.
Secondly, 50 per cent of those enterprises and
50 per cent of the stock must be owned by all Bolivians so
that these Bolivians can participate in the enterprises and
feel included in the process of economic development.
Thirdly, many people ask "How can we give free goods
to uneducated people who do not know how to read or write,
who have different ethnic and cultural backgrounds?" The
truth is that in Bolivia many people do not know how to
read but do know how to count. They know what it means
to participate. They know what it means to feel they are
taking part in the fortunes of the country. With their
participation we wish to bring to poor neighbourhoods and
communities the health and education the people there need
so that they can share in management.
The coming millennium will no longer find that
representative democracy is enough. It must be participatory
democracy. People want to participate and they will do so
very well when it comes to matters that directly affect their
lives and futures.
We believe that with participation of this kind our
societies’ meagre resources will yield greater productivity.
Demand will grow, which will make it possible for our
societies to forge ahead.
But in Bolivia participation is not a mere word. For the
first time in 500 years, a man has emerged from an
indigenous ethnic group to become Acting President of our
country. To the Bolivian people Victor Hugo Cárdenas is
not only an Aimara Indian, a person from the countryside,
but a great professional and outstanding intellectual. He
typifies our desire that all of our citizens take part in our
society. We want to do away with age-old injustices. We
want to bring about change - to bring people in, not keep
them out. We want to create unity while respecting the
diversity of opinion not only on ecology and the
environment but also on cultural, geographical and racial
problems.
We believe that this determination to include - not
exclude -people is helping build a society in which there is
change with order, and order with change. And although we
are among the poorest countries in Latin America - indeed,
in the world - we believe that we stand as an example of the
fact that it is possible to live with social peace and to regain
stability, growth and social justice within the general
framework of a democratic society. In Bolivia, democracy
works because people seek consensus; they seek respect;
and they are accepting of diversity.
This process should allow us to arrive at a situation
conducive to dealing with employment, education and health
care, and, most importantly, the rural sector, where the
greatest degree of poverty prevails and where the people are
among the poorest in the world.
Dynamic growth would, of course, reduce the need to
cultivate coca leaves. We in Bolivia have succeeded in
reducing by 50 percent the amount of land used for the
cultivation of these leaves. We accomplished this without
the guerrilla violence that accompanies narcotrafficking, and
without the cartels that are in place in the country. While
we are undoubtedly making progress in this area, we are
well aware of the fact that the only alternative development
activity to this is light industry for export purposes. There
is no use telling the Bolivian peasant, as I said earlier, to
stop producing drugs and instead plant coffee when the price
of coffee has dropped to half its former price, or to produce
cacao when no one wants cacao - or rubber. Experience of
alternative crops emphasizes the vital importance of enabling
countries such as Bolivia - especially Bolivia - to export
their products to the developed countries in the form of
manufactured goods, rather than having them export the
scourge of harmful drugs to the rest of humankind. We will
4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
continue, nevertheless, to fight against drug trafficking
because we have made a commitment not only to our people
but also to humankind. Though we are poor, we are very
happy to see that new efforts are being made to reduce
demand. What we want to do is reduce supply. We wish
to eliminate this business, with all its attendant dangers -
social, moral, legal and institutional. Indeed, we have
chosen the zero-option. We expect to be successful, with or
without help. But we are more likely to be successful if we
enjoy the support, cooperation and understanding of the rest
of the world, which is, after all, affected by this terrible
scourge.
Ours is an ambitious project, to be sure, but it is
feasible. We recognize that the principal responsibility for
this plan rests with Bolivians. We are not just waiting for
someone to help us. No, we know what all the peoples of
the world know, that hunger cannot wait, that solutions have
to be found by oneself. But, in all sincerity, I think it will
be very difficult to overcome these problems without
international cooperation. There must be some signal from
the outside that assistance will not come to an end as
barriers to trade mount.
Bolivia has made a great commitment to the
environment. We have done so because our poverty stems
partly from our neglect of this problem. We have allowed
poverty increasingly to justify destruction of our natural
resources in our daily activities. We do have a great plan -
a plan of international significance, not just to resolve our
balance-of-payments problems, not just to create an
industrial centre that could be the basis of the energy that we
need, but to see to it that environmental pollution is reduced.
That plan calls for construction, with Brazil, of a pipeline
that would bring Bolivian gas to the San Pablo market.
With cheap, non-polluting energy, used in industry and in
cars, we can contribute to fundamentally reducing pollution
in Latin America at its source, for the benefit and
development of Bolivia, Brazil and the entire world.
Human rights must be the emblem of the new world
community, and we must see to it that the right to
development within social justice is achievable. It is not just
a gift that we are asking for. We are asking for an
opportunity. The United Nations is changing. It has to
change; the world has changed. After the great
confrontation of the cold-war period, we must deal with all
the harm this war caused, especially in the Third World.
We have to reorient global solidarity, not just in terms of
assistance, but we must accept a concept that is truly very
simple and logical. Some countries become rich when they
do business, when they engage in trade with other rich
countries. To believe that a man is rich because everybody
else is poor is a holdover from the past. The great lesson of
our time is that the only way to generate wealth is to help
people break the shackles of poverty.
We welcome the agreement between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization. It marks the beginning of
a new era of peace and of a new spirit of global justice and
dialogue between nations facing historic circumstances. The
mutual recognition of the inadmissibility of acquiring
territory through war is a great stride forward, as is the great
and historic lesson that, even in regions where territorial
disputes so stubbornly persist, civilized dialogue, common
sense and humanity can yield results and can bring people
together rather than keeping them apart.
Recently, in the heart of Latin America, we reunited
two countries - Paraguay and Bolivia - that 61 years ago
were split apart by war and have now decided to forge a
common destiny. This has had a great impact on us,
because, since the handshake - since the agreement between
the two countries - in our country the veterans of the Chaco
war have marched carrying the flag of Paraguay. If those
who fought, whose comrades died, are prepared to forget,
how could we not do likewise?
These enlightening examples of how the most bitter
conflicts can be resolved evoke in us a sincere desire that
the same spirit should guide the search for a final solution
to Bolivia’s land-locked status, which has lasted 114 long
years. Many people say: "How can you be claiming
something that you lost 114 years ago?" I reply that we
have a great deal of patience; our people waited 500 years
for their lands to be given back to them, for them to win
back their country and their right to participate in society.
I believe that injustice is not prescribed for us; we shall
continue to make our claim, through the use of reason and
never by force. We shall continue to claim our right of
access to the sea until it is granted, until the sea runs dry.
When it does, there will be no further problem and we
shall make no further claims, but I believe that it really
would be an affront to go on blocking this historic coming
together - which two fraternal peoples are demanding - if at
the Government level, at the level of leadership, we continue
to discuss something to which both countries already want
to find a solution. Solutions are possible; miracles do
happen, but we have seen that miracles are the result of
work and imagination, and in this we are committed, without
aggressiveness, coolly and calmly, to doing whatever we
can, as creatively as we can manage, to find solutions that
will meet the challenge and the expectations of this new
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 5
world in which we are living, and to bring about the change
that we require.
In these times of change, we must rely on our own
creativity. We know the importance of one’s own efforts.
But at the same time we want others in this world to stand
by us in solidarity, and at least give us the opportunity to
show what we can do.
And we must move ahead in security along the new
paths required by history, and we ask, and shall try to
ensure, always and with renewed vigour, that the path
chosen is the path of solidarity, well-being, and fraternal
relations between peoples and countries.


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====
I am honoured to convey the greetings of
President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada and of the people of
Bolivia to the Heads of State and Government in attendance
at this the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly; to
the Foreign Ministers; to the President of the General
Assembly, Mr. Amara Essy, and to his predecessor,
Ambassador Samuel Insanally, as well as to our dear friend
Vice-President Sergio Abreu; to Secretary-General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali; and to the whole of the international
community, so worthily represented here.
As the highest forum of the peoples of the Earth, this
noble Assembly constitutes the ideal setting to reflect on
and debate the issues of our day.
Bolivia is striving to enter the twenty-first century
while bringing about substantial changes based on the
principles of the United Nations Charter.
During its first year in office, the Government of
President Sánchez de Lozada devoted its efforts to
carrying through the reforms needed to make the State an
effective instrument for our society’s democratic
development, centred on the well-being of our people.
Thus, our reforms have been based on the concept of
comprehensive development, combining human and
economic development, social equity, and sustainable
development.
Now that Bolivia has thus completed the reform of
its political constitution, it is putting into effect changes
that will enable it to consolidate democracy and economic
development, in conditions of fairness and social justice.
My country has embarked on a dynamic policy of
participation by the people, a process of educational
reform, and a recasting of the shareholding and
productive structures of public enterprises through an
innovative concept of capitalization.
During the second phase of its programme, the
Bolivian Government is planning to implement new legal
provisions to increase investment and production in order
to provide more and better job opportunities, and to find
concrete solutions to the problems of poverty and the
marginalization of broad sectors of society. It is in this
connection, in the context of our Government’s policy,
that the participation of the people is of particular
significance.
On the subject of sustainable development, my
country has proposed the holding of a meeting of
Presidents of the hemisphere; that meeting is now
scheduled for 1996 in Bolivia.
The future of our peoples and their material and
spiritual well-being can only be the work of their own
hands, as they are both the subjects and the objects of
development. It is therefore most encouraging that - not
only within our country but within the United Nations
system as well - there is a conviction that a central role
falls to organized participation, both individual and
collective, as an essential factor for change in a creative
and positive direction.
Mechanisms for popular participation will make it
possible to imbue the liberty, independence, sovereignty
26


and progress of nations with vitality and social content. It
is a matter of appraising the role of all social sectors:
workers and entrepreneurs, women, indigenous and rural
communities, the marginalized, the young, the elderly, the
disabled and all those who have the right and duty to
contribute to building a better future.
It is with that conviction that the Bolivian Government
has contributed actively to the preparatory work for the
forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, to be
held in Copenhagen in 1995, and the Fourth World
Conference on Women, in Beijing the same year.
In that same spirit, the International Decade of the
World’s Indigenous People will be inaugurated at this
session of the General Assembly. My country is confident
that the observance of this Decade will be not merely
symbolic, but essentially a practical and concrete endeavour
in its objectives and its scope. To that end, the meeting of
representatives of Latin American and Caribbean
Governments, grass-roots peasant organizations and
international agencies, held in the Bolivian city of
Cochabamba last June, framed a series of recommendations
to be included in the strategy of the Decade. Those
recommendations have also been brought to the attention of
Governments and the United Nations system. We hope to
receive a prompt and positive response so that the
legitimate claims of indigenous peoples will not be lost in
the labyrinths of international bureaucracy or the oblivion
of another 500 years of solitude.
Resolving age-old problems surely calls for a great
capacity to understand the values, customs and ways of life
of other cultures. Bolivia hopes that the International
Decade of the World’s Indigenous People will provide an
opportunity for the international community to fully
understand the topic of the coca leaf, a form of vegetation
traditionally grown in Andean regions. The cultural and
medicinal uses of the coca leaf need to be re-evaluated in
order to distinguish it clearly from the social problems
brought about by the abuse of one of its derivatives in the
developed countries, which creates a growing demand
associated with an international cycle of crime.
Let me take this opportunity to declare formally, once
again, that the Government and the people of Bolivia are
earnestly and firmly committed to international efforts to
find the best-suited mechanisms to guarantee the success of
the policies delineated within the framework of the changes
recommended in General Assembly resolution 48/12,
adopted at the last session.
Less than two weeks ago, on an initiative of
President Sánchez de Lozada, the most representative
organizations of Bolivian society, together with the armed
forces and the police, took a historic step when they
debated the problems of the coca leaf in a framework of
pluralistic participation and cooperation. The main
conclusions of that meeting, which I take the liberty of
summarizing to this great forum of nations, stressed the
urgency of combating drug trafficking through a world-
wide strategy of shared responsibility; the need to adopt
as a primary goal the fight against the dire poverty
affecting over two-thirds of Bolivia’s population; and
support for initiatives aimed at the comprehensive
development of coca-producing areas.
Bolivia is grateful for the international community’s
willingness to draw a perfectly clear distinction between
the positive aspects of the native coca leaf and the grave
harm done by dint of the external demand for cocaine.
We trust that this positive attitude will make it possible in
the near future to address this problem without prejudice.
But the international agenda at the end of the
century encompasses other equally complex issues that
have recently been brought to light by the end of the cold
war, although their roots can be traced back to centuries
of accumulated injustice.
The Republic of South Africa has given the world
invaluable lessons in its struggle against apartheid and for
democracy. My country is joyful at the outcome of that
process and, on behalf of Bolivia, I welcome President
Nelson Mandela to the General Assembly.
Deeply moved as well by news of the tragedies in
Rwanda and in other regions of the world, Bolivia
expresses its solidarity with peoples which, through
violence and catastrophe, are showing us what we sow
when problems are not resolved in timely fashion,
problems such as hunger, poverty, mass migration, the
various forms of injustice inherited from colonial times
and the plundering and lawless acts carried out even
today by Powers large and small against other States.
Bolivia welcomes the advances achieved through
dialogue in the Middle East, and we trust that in the
future dialogue will become the principal instrument in
dealing successfully with international disputes and
conflicts. The Bolivian people hopes for a just and
lasting peace between Israel, Palestine and the Arab
peoples. May the deliberations of the General Assembly
contribute to consolidating that process.
27


The situations in the former Yugoslavia and in other
areas are a direct consequence of actions in the service of
misguided geopolitical interests aimed at social and political
destabilization of foreign territories, We hope that the
senseless repetition of such practices, which have had such
woeful effects in Central Europe, Asia and Africa, will not
lead to similar disasters in other regions. Furthermore, the
Government and the people of Bolivia condemn policies of
"ethnic cleansing" in the strongest terms and call upon the
international community to take resolute and clear measures
to put an end to those actions and to punish those
responsible for them.
Latin America stands unconditionally in support of
democracy and against the illegal use of military means and
force, in accordance with the recent declaration of the
presidential summit of the Rio Group, the resolutions of the
Organization of American States and of the United Nations
and the numerous proclamations of Parliaments and popular
organizations from all over the continent.
Democracy, of course, cannot be left undefended.
Bolivia has had the bitter experience of long dictatorial
interruptions in its institutional life. Consequently, Bolivia
stands today with the people of Haiti and its legitimate
Government, and it supports the immediate return of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and the restoration of the
democratic regime.
History has shown that peace, justice and respect for
the principle of self-determination can be guaranteed only
when there are consolidated democratic institutions capable
of defending and promoting human rights. Solidarity
cannot be left at the rostrum. My country reiterates its
willingness to help, within its available means, in the
process of restoring Haitian democracy to the extent the
legitimate Government of that country deems our help
useful.
The ending of the cold war must apply also to Latin
America and make it possible, through dialogue and
understanding among the parties concerned, for Cuba to be
reintegrated into the inter-American community.
All States of the world must contribute to ensuring
peace, brotherhood and the timely solution of problems that
are as yet unresolved. To that end, action must be taken to
enable peoples to develop, since economic backwardness
and its social effects are at the root of the crises and
conflicts we face.
We therefore attach high priority to the themes of
the "Agenda for Development". Economic
complementarity, the transfer of technology, trade, the
opening up of economies, foreign investment and co-
operation should be our instruments for strengthening
solidarity and friendship among peoples and
Governments.
In this spirit, Bolivia strongly supports Latin
American unity and subregional integration, hemispheric
agreements, and any opportunity that may present itself
for exchanges between nations.
These aims - cooperation and complementarity,
friendship and solidarity - must serve as the basis of the
new international order. For that reason, the observance
of the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Charter in
San Francisco should provide an opportunity to make
substantive progress in adapting the United Nations to the
new realities and demands of the world community.
Governments on all continents must demonstrate the
ability to save future generations from the scourge of war.
We must make human rights, individual and collective,
fully effective. International justice must become possible
and be assured, and social progress within the broadest
concept of freedom must be promoted.
In international relations in the third millennium, law
must cease to be the instrument of the stronger, serving
to entrench injustices, and must become the sole and
effective means of resolving disputes, rectifying the errors
and excesses of past generations as often as may be
necessary.
On the subject of respect for the rules of inter-State
relations, Bolivia welcomes the entry into force of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and
welcomes the fact that 1998 is to be the International
Year of the Oceans. Convinced that recovering our
country’s access to the sea is an inalienable right of
Bolivia, the Government of President Sánchez de Lozada
is working to secure for the Bolivian people, during the
current decade, a real solution to the unjust land-locked
situation with which it has had to contend for over
100 years. My country believes in the force of
convictions, in the force of international solidarity, in the
force and the evolution of law, and in the possibilities of
friendly negotiation with a view to overcoming disputes.
Democracy must find clear expression in inter-State
relations. Participation by countries large and small in
28


the resolution of issues that affect all of them must be
equitable and not, as is sometimes the case, mere words.
This presupposes, among other things, a change in the
organization and composition of the Security Council so
that with its permanent and non-permanent members, it will
be representative of the realities and requirements of
appropriate participation, reflecting the obvious emergence
of new centres of power in different parts of the world. It
will also be necessary to strengthen the role of the General
Assembly and to restore the United Nations its central role
in the resolution of the major economic problems of the
planet, a task which, for the present, remains the exclusive
preserve of the super-Powers.
The right to development is an objective necessity,
although exercise of the right still seems remote for the vast
majority of the world’s population. We must assume an
effective commitment to give that right the same priority
treatment as is given to the human rights of individuals.
If the present generation is unable to defeat growing
poverty and secure employment opportunities for the
already vast global army of the indigent, it will be
impossible to ensure the peace and well-being in the
developed regions of the world. Population growth, mass
migrations and globalization will take their toll, with a
negative effect on the dignity, the peaceful co-existence,
and the hopes of all mankind for a better life.
Over the centuries, the Andean peoples of Bolivia
have wisely been guided by three fundamental rules which,
in the Quechua language, are: "AMA SUA, AMA
LLULLA, AMA KHELLA", meaning "Do not steal, do not
be idle, do not lie".
If those three rules were also applied in relations
between States and nations today, they would have to be:
"Do not unjustly exploit the fruits of your neighbours’
work. Do not complacently enjoy your splendid life-style
amid universal poverty. Do not make promises of
solidarity and understanding that you are not prepared to
keep."
I feel sure that the ability of all of us to live together
would be infinitely enhanced were we to be guided by such
rules.


===== Session 50 - 1995 =====
Allow me to convey to the President of the
General Assembly the congratulations of the Government
and people of Bolivia upon his election to the presidency of
the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. He can be
assured that my delegation will cooperate with him to
ensure the full success of this important session.
The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the
entry into force of the United Nations Charter affords a
fresh opportunity for critical and renewed reflection on the
scope, difficulties and role of the multilateral system.
During the year 1995 important meetings of universal
scope have taken place, such as the World Summit on
Social Development, the Fourth World Conference on
Women, and the Review and Extension Conference on the
Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Those
meetings, together with others of a bilateral, subregional or
regional character — notably the Hemispheric Summit in
Miami — show that the principles which presided over the
creation of the United Nations are still very much alive, and
demonstrate the need to make significant further headway
in promoting peace, human rights, democracy, and
economic and social development.

Meetings at the highest level of the world’s political
leaders and their representatives, ready to assume
undertakings on issues of such significance, are indicative
of a strong political will and reveal an interest in finding
concrete collective responses to the problems of our time.
As a result of those Conferences, the world
community has at hand new approaches that enrich and
strengthen prior agreements as it seeks to cope successfully
with contemporary challenges. For example, social
development and recognition of the due role of women in
society have ceased to be mere promises; they are
becoming definite realities before the end of this century.
The International Decade of the World’s Indigenous
People will make it possible for priority attention to be
given to that important sector of the community.
The end of the cold war has not released the material
and human resources that were committed to that contest.
Nor has it freed our minds of concern over war and
destruction. There persist negative situations and
prejudices, which were born during that period when the
world was divided into antagonistic blocs, and which no
longer have any justification.
The long-awaited peace dividend has not been
forthcoming; on the contrary, we see a proliferation of
conflicts in many parts of the world. Many of these
situations are due to still unresolved social and national
problems, to a backlog of injustices and long-standing
resentments, to geopolitical and economic interests which,
from within and from outside, have exacerbated
confrontation for decades, and, above all, to
Governments’ difficulties in defining an effective form of
cooperation for the peaceful solution of problems.
In this context, we reiterate our support for the
principles and the renewed objectives of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries, whose chairmanship is shortly to
be assumed by the sister republic of Colombia.
We feel a sense of solidarity with the peoples of the
former Yugoslavia, who are enduring the torment of an
unjustifiable war. We also express our solidarity with the
millions of human beings affected by military conflict,
unilateral blockades, hindrances to free contact with the
outside world, and by having been uprooted from their
lands.
We reiterate what the Heads of State or Government
of the Rio Group stated at their recent summit meeting in
Quito:
“We express our concern over attempts to
enforce domestic laws beyond territorial boundaries
in violation of international law and the fundamental
principles governing coexistence in the region. Such
actions violate the sovereignty of other States and
are contrary to unanimously adopted transparent
trade practices”. (A/50/425, annex, para. 13)
Bolivia expresses its condemnation of grave
violations of international law, war crimes, violations of
the fundamental rules of coexistence, manifestations of
racism, and other offenses against humanity, all of which
should be vigorously condemned. The work of the United
Nations in this field has been important, but it needs to be
further refined. In that work, the role of regional and
subregional organizations for cooperation and
coordination is essential and should gain greater
importance in years to come. These organizations include
26


the Organization of American States, the Rio Group and the
various regional and subregional instruments of economic
integration, to which my Government lends its full support.
We rejoice that Haiti and other countries have made
firm strides towards peace and democratic governance.
Likewise, Bolivia notes with particular interest, and
commends, the peace process in the Middle East, whose
advances in the face of difficulties give us cause to be
optimistic and to hope for reconciliation through the
fashioning of innovative solutions with a distinctive explicit
political content. The agreement signed yesterday between
Israel and Palestine is an example of determination and
vision of historic proportions.
Bolivia has expressed its rejection of the resumption
of nuclear tests, which jeopardize negotiations towards the
speedy adoption of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty.
We condemn terrorism and organized crime, whose
scope and reach cut across national boundaries and which
thus threatens security and constitutional stability
everywhere. Bolivia has signed several bilateral treaties
intended to advance international cooperation on legal
matters within a framework of strict respect for sovereignty,
but at the same time closing off avenues to impunity for
international crime.
As our awareness of the rights and duties of
multilateral interdependence grows, cooperation in
achieving the inherent right to development of all the
world’s peoples should come to the fore.
In the new international situation, Bolivia supports
initiatives aimed at strengthening the United Nations and
shares the conviction that it is necessary to carry out major
reforms in its structure and functioning. Bolivia believes it
essential as a first step in that direction to strengthen the
General Assembly as the principal organ providing for
effective participation by all countries.
My Government supports initiatives aimed at
expanding the Security Council, in both its permanent and
its non-permanent membership. Such an expansion should
reflect the diversity of the world’s regions and enable all
States to participate effectively and responsibly in the
commitment to guarantee peace, security and the timely
settlement of conflicts, in a transparent manner and in
keeping with the interests of the international community,
not only in the narrow framework of the individual interests
of States.
I also highlight the importance we attach to the
United Nations in the area of international cooperation,
especially in the economic sphere and on matters of social
and technological development, and the urgency of
restoring to the Economic and Social Council the high
stature it originally possessed.
The principles of justice and international law must
be our main guiding light in seeking solutions to the
problems we face.
With regard to Bolivia’s maritime question, which
we have brought before international forums, I wish to
declare to this Assembly the political will of my
Government to embark upon negotiations that are
consonant with our historic responsibility, that serve the
rights and interests of all parties involved, and that ensure
a sovereign Bolivian presence on the Pacific Ocean.
Bolivia has to contend with the consequences of the land-
locked position imposed upon it, the economic, political
and moral effects of which demand a solution in the
framework of international solidarity, justice, equity and
law.
Just as countries call for international justice, we are
obliged also to apply that principle within our own
societies. That is the golden rule of the Administration of
President Gonzalo Sánchez de Losada. Our message is
one of change. Never before in the history of our republic
have such profound and rapid structural changes been
democratically and peacefully carried out as those that
began in Bolivia in August 1993.
First, we are implementing the law on the people’s
participation, which is integrating civil society into the
political system. Traditionally disadvantaged populations
now have in their hands the ability to diagnose their
problems and to prescribe public policy, especially
regarding self-help to meet their own needs. This is
essentially a policy of redistribution, which enables a
large part of the nation fully to assume their status as
citizens.
Secondly, the foregoing requires training the people
so that they will be able to meet internal and external
challenges. To that end, another reform undertaken by
President Gonzálo Sánchez de Lozada’s administration is
educational reform, viewed specifically in the light of
Bolivia’s ethnic and cultural diversity and with the aim of
institutionalizing bilingual and multicultural education.
27


Thirdly, I am pleased to inform this Assembly that
capital investment in Bolivia’s main public enterprises is
moving forward successfully and strongly. We are
transforming the largest productive and service units of the
country to enable them to double their capital in the space
of a few months, modernize their management in
accordance with the requirements of international life, and
secure a series of real benefits for the Bolivian population,
making possible individual investment by citizens of 50 per
cent of the share capital.
Such initiatives represent an effort to make Bolivia
equal to contemporary demands, especially those resulting
from the international economy, which is characterized by
great dynamism, innovation and competitiveness.
International economic cooperation is indispensable
and should enjoy the firm political backing of developed
countries and international financial institutions. For that
reason my country expresses concern about the declining
and negative trends of some sources of cooperation and
financing. This situation is especially disturbing when seen
in the light of the fact that Bolivia has to contend in its
territory with a universal problem — namely, illicit drug
trafficking.
It is paradoxical — to say the least — to urge an
increase in Bolivia’s contribution and in Bolivia’s tasks in
that common struggle precisely at a time when cooperation
resources are decreasing. The task at hand is simultaneously
to fulfil the commitments in the struggle against drug
trafficking and to prepare to embark on genuine sustainable
development, especially in the rural sector, where the most
acute poverty exists.
Given the magnitude of the tasks falling to Bolivia in
this matter, strong backing from the international
community is needed for Bolivia’s national strategy in
regard to interdiction, prevention, the eradication of surplus
crops, and alternative development. That contribution is
essential to Bolivia’s effort to cease being a link in the
drug-trafficking chain and, at the same time, ensure
political and economic stability and promote development
of the country’s productive apparatus.
With a view to consolidating the vision of shared
responsibility with regard to the problem of drug-
trafficking, the nations of the Americas support the holding
of a world conference to take stock of the situation and the
state of international cooperation in the struggle against
demand for and production, sale, trafficking and illicit
distribution of narcotics. In that context, Bolivia actively
advocates the holding in 1977 of a second international
conference against drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking,
under the aegis of the United Nations.
Before concluding, I must refer to the topic of
sustainable development.
We must stimulate vigorous and sustained economic
growth, with social equity, in conditions that protect and
make efficient use of natural resources and ensure rational
distribution of the fruits of that growth. Henceforth, we
must adopt a mode of development that is nurtured by
technological advances designed to curb the waste and
pollution that have characterized industrialized societies.
Accordingly, it is with special satisfaction that I
announce to this Assembly that in the latter half of next
year Bolivia will have the privilege of hosting, in the city
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, the American Hemispheric
Summit on Sustainable Development. We hope that the
ideas and proposals that emerge from that important
meeting will contribute to the development of our
countries and to better preservation of the environment in
this part of the world.


===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
﻿Allow me to convey the congratulations of the
Government and the people of Bolivia, President Razali
Ismail, on your unanimous election, which is a token of the
admiration and esteem in which the peoples of the world
hold Malaysia and constitutes just recognition of your
merits.
My delegation is grateful to the President of the
Assembly at its previous session, Ambassador Diogo Freitas
do Amaral, for the remarkable job he did. For the
delegation of Bolivia, it was a distinct honour to serve as
Vice-President of the Assembly under his able guidance.
I wish also to congratulate Secretary-General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali and extend to him our most sincere
appreciation for his valuable contributions to international
peace and cooperation, as well as for his insightful and
untiring dedication to the cause of the United Nations.
Allow me first to refer to some aspects of the far-
reaching structural reform in my country.
Domestically, since 1993, the Administration of
President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada has been
simultaneously transforming the State and the system of
social participation, while also adapting the productive
base of society to enable Bolivia to dynamically meet the
demands inherent to the changes in contemporary
international life.
The Government of Bolivia’s current efforts are
essentially based on the consolidation of participatory
democratic institutions and on the conviction that
economic development must be compatible with care for
nature and the environment — in other words, that this
must take place within the framework of sustainable
development and of respect for ethnic and cultural
diversity, in order to make unity in diversity possible.
My Government’s national plan confers the highest
priority on the struggle against poverty. It strives
vigorously to increase work opportunities and seeks a
better quality of life for all Bolivians, aiming to enter the
twenty-first century with a modern, decentralized,
participatory State. This perspective guides our policies of
grass-roots participation, educational reform, and
capitalization of major public enterprises.
Part and parcel of this landscape of change are our
initiatives in support of children, women and the elderly.
We are working hard to reduce infant and maternal
mortality, to improve levels of nutrition and to provide
assistance to those who most urgently need it. These tasks
are an essential aspect of our effort to improve the lot of
poor families.


My country is proud of its pluri-cultural and
multi-ethnic character, and it is therefore taking important
initiatives for the advancement of indigenous peoples. The
Vice-President of the Republic, Victor Hugo Cárdenas, is
a distinguished representative of Bolivia’s Aymará people.
In the international arena, we are actively pursuing
peaceful coexistence among States and trying to make
international justice a reality.
Our position is based on the principles of equal rights
of States, non-intervention in internal affairs,
non-recognition of territorial acquisitions by force, respect
for human rights and the other fundamental principles of
international law.
The support we give to intergovernmental
organizations, particularly the United Nations and the
Organization of American States (OAS), reflects our
confidence in the potential of multilateral cooperation in a
world that is growing ever more complex and
interdependent.
At the regional level, we are seeking the economic
integration of Latin America and the Caribbean with the
aim of establishing optimal conditions for forging a
hemispheric community and establishing a united presence
as the world opens up and markets expand.
We are seeking the closest possible ties with countries
that share our subregional realities, and we are committed
to merging the various integration processes. That policy
has prompted Bolivia to sign an agreement forming a free-
trade area with the members of the Southern Cone
Common Market (MERCOSUR) — Argentina, Brazil,
Paraguay, and Uruguay — to sign agreements aimed at
updating and reinvigorating the Andean Common Market,
made up of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and
Venezuela, and to give effect to numerous bilateral treaties
to enhance mutual complementarity on the basis of our
experiences and the need to foster material and spiritual
exchanges between nations.
The physical integration of the countries of the region
constitutes another central issue deserving priority attention.
We are working actively on the definition of inter-oceanic
corridors, and we attach great importance to the future of
the Plata Basin and the Treaty for Amazonian Cooperation.
With regard to Bolivia’s maritime question, I must
inform the international community, as we have done every
year, that Bolivia has reiterated in various forums its
political willingness to begin negotiations that take proper
account of the interests of all the parties involved and
ensure Bolivia’s sovereign presence with regard to the
Pacific Ocean.
No clear willingness to engage in dialogue can yet
be seen. However, on the basis of contacts on this matter
we can say that, despite historical difficulties and
ultranationalist suspicions, minds are opening and
objective foundations are being laid with a view to
encouraging a timely solution to old problems through the
exchange of ideas, the nurturing of mutual trust, mutual
interest and hemispheric understanding, in the hope that,
before long, brotherhood, equality, justice and the
requirements of international peace and cooperation will
truly prevail.
This year Bolivia had the honour to act as pro
tempore secretariat of the Rio Group, a high-level forum
of consultation and political coordination for an important
group of Latin American and Caribbean States. In that
capacity, Bolivia was the venue of the sixth regular
meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Rio Group
and the European Union, held last April in the city of
Cochabamba. On that occasion we reaffirmed our
readiness for joint endeavours between Latin America, the
Caribbean and Western Europe. The meeting strengthened
ties between the two regions, based on respect for human
rights, the fundamental rights of citizens and the
principles of democracy and political pluralism.
The Ministers highlighted, inter alia, the danger of
drugs and related problems, recognizing the importance of
maintaining political dialogue on this issue at the highest
level and agreeing on the need to strengthen the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP).
The meeting called upon the international community to
deal with the phenomenon of drugs through joint action
based on the principle of global, shared responsibility. To
that end, consideration and support were given to the
proposal to hold a special session of the General
Assembly in 1998 to address this crucial issue.
Worldwide awareness of the need for joint action is
reaching its peak, and Bolivia hopes that the proposed
meeting will lay down positive guidelines to put an end
to the scourge of drugs.
I am also pleased to inform representatives that on
3 and 4 September 1996, again in the Bolivian city of
Cochabamba, the Meeting of Heads of State of the Rio
Group took place, on the occasion of the tenth
anniversary of the creation of that standing body. It was
2


a great honour for my country to welcome such illustrious
guests.
The Presidents and Prime Minister gathered there
noted with satisfaction that our region had made significant
headway in fighting international crime. As evidence of
this, they pointed to the signing in Caracas of the Inter-
American Convention against Corruption, the results of the
Specialized Inter-American Conference on Terrorism, held
in Lima, and advances in the development of a hemispheric
strategy against drugs and related crimes in the framework
of the Inter-American Commission against Drug Abuse.
The Heads of State and Government expressed their
satisfaction at the fact that our region had become the first
nuclear-weapon-free zone through the adoption of the
Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin
America and the Caribbean.
The Final Declaration of the tenth summit expressed
the joint position of the Governments of the region on the
issues of representative democracy and the eradication of
poverty. It placed on record their deep conviction with
regard to sustainable development; it set forth precise
guidelines on regional integration and trade; it expressed a
firm resolve to press ahead in the fight against drugs and
related crimes; it emphasized, in particular, the importance
of the Inter-American Convention against Corruption; and
it reiterated emphatically the crucial importance
Governments, from their position of lofty responsibility,
attached to cultural integration.
My delegation has requested that the Secretariat of the
United Nations circulate the final document of the
Cochabamba meeting to all delegations in the General
Assembly.
With regard to the matter of the extraterritoriality of
national laws, a most sensitive issue for peoples and
Governments the world over, the Rio Group summit
meeting expressed its rejection of any attempt to use a
country’s domestic legislation to impose unilateral sanctions
of an extraterritorial character, as this contravenes the
standards governing coexistence between States, disregards
the fundamental principle of respect for sovereignty and is
a clear violation of international law.
Bolivia is confident that intelligence and fairness will
prevail on this delicate matter and that a solution will soon
be found, in the interest of international coexistence and
economic and commercial freedom for all peoples of the
world.
One of the most outstanding international
developments of our time was undoubtedly the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development, in
Rio de Janeiro in 1992.
With the aim of laying the groundwork for a
hemispheric agenda for sustainable development, several
international meetings, starting with the Summit held in
Miami in 1994, have expressed support for the decision
to hold a hemispheric meeting at the level of Heads of
State and Government in the Bolivian city of Santa Cruz
de la Sierra, scheduled for 7 and 8 December of this year.
That meeting will be a new opportunity to set the course
of national and international endeavours for sustainable
development in the light of economic, social and
environmental goals and in reaffirmation of the
importance of obtaining new and additional resources to
finance the plan of action to be adopted.
Bolivia has offered to work its hardest alongside its
sister nations to ensure the success of this major
hemispheric event and is certain that inter-American
solidarity will lead to positive results.
The agenda of the fifty-first session of the General
Assembly contains more than 160 items of particular
interest to the international community. My Government
is prepared to participate constructively in the
consideration and resolution of each of them.
We are concerned with problems of international
peace and security and trust that the United Nations
system will contribute effectively to finding solutions for
the many parts of the world beset by conflicts and war.
As I stated on a previous occasion, Bolivia is of the
view that many conflict situations can be explained by the
persistence of unresolved social and national problems, as
well as by the accumulation of age-old injustices and
resentments; by geopolitical and economic interests that
for decades have been fuelling confrontation from without
and from within; and, above all, by Governments’
inability to cooperate effectively so as to provide timely
and peaceful solutions to the problems of greatest national
concern.
We have participated in the debates on reforms of
the United Nations Charter, and we believe that it is of
the utmost importance to reach consensus in order to
strengthen the multilateral system in the interests of the
world community. We support the positions set forth by
the Non-Aligned Movement in this regard.
3


Difficult international circumstances are making it
increasingly clear that the United Nations needs to be
strengthened, to adapt its structures and strengthen the
Organization as a legitimate forum for the study,
coordination, follow-up and implementation of universally
accepted policies. Accordingly, Bolivia considers it essential
to strengthen the General Assembly, the Security Council
and the role of the International Court of Justice. With
regard to the expansion of the Security Council, we
consider it necessary that Germany and Japan be present as
new permanent members and that three other permanent
members from Asia, Africa, and Latin America and the
Caribbean be selected. The expansion should be
complemented by an appropriate number of non-permanent
members from the developing world. Of course, if
consensus could be reached on other formulas, then other
proposals, such as the one presented by Italy, would need
to be considered.
With regard to the veto, Bolivia shares the view that,
ideally, the international community should move towards
eliminating this device — and, one would hope, in the not-
too-distant future. In the meantime, use of this device
should be strictly limited to actions relating to cases of
threats to the peace, breach of the peace or acts of
aggression referred to in Chapter VII of the United Nations
Charter.
Bolivia is greatly concerned about the political and
social situation in many African countries. We express our
solidarity with these countries, as we did to fraternal South
Africa during its times of trial, and we urge the
international community, especially the rich countries of the
world, to cooperate generously and resolutely in order to
cope with the grave economic problems of this continent.
We also express our solidarity with our brothers in the
Middle East. We believe that the time has come to heal old
wounds and frame the terms of a just and lasting peace,
taking into account the need for secure borders for all and
definitively resolving the situation through the creation of
a Palestinian state. A solution must also be found to the
questions of Jerusalem and the Golan Heights, and the
territorial integrity and full sovereignty of all States of the
region must be preserved.
We rejoice in the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina
has embarked upon a new road to understanding, unity and
construction of new democratic institutions.
The brotherly nations of Asia offer us remarkable
examples of the possibilities and opportunities for
accelerated economic development. Their successes fill us
with confidence, and we are certain that they will apply
the same wisdom to finding solutions to the social and
political problems that some of them still face.
We are convinced that the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty, adopted by the General Assembly on 10
September of this year, represents a landmark along the
road to the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Bolivia
has signed the papers of accession to the new Treaty and
hopes to complete the constitutional procedures for its
approval and ratification in a relatively short time.
We stress just as emphatically the need to ban the
use and production of anti-personnel mines, which have
been leaving a trail of blood among the peoples of the
world.
The economic and social items before the Assembly
also deserve our keenest interest, since they are among
the essential tasks of the United Nations and of
international cooperation. From our view of the
international scene, questions pertaining to respect for
human rights and democratic development in all countries
are also matters of very high priority.
As representatives are aware, Bolivia has put
forward its candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the
Security Council for the period 1997-1998, the elections
for which will be held during the present session of the
General Assembly.
As a founding member of the United Nations,
Bolivia carries the principles of the Charter deep within
its national spirit and has maintained a policy of
recognition of and support for this universal Organization.
In recent years my country has contributed to the forces
of United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ),
as well as to the election-monitoring processes in
El Salvador and Mozambique. We are also prepared to
participate in United Nations standby arrangements. With
regard to Haiti, Bolivia had the privilege of presiding over
the ad hoc group of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of
the Organization of American States and contributed
police personnel during the first stage of the democratic
normalization of that sister nation. Bolivia intends to
continue participating in United Nations activities to
foster international peace and cooperation.
In this regard, I am pleased to note that my country
enjoys excellent, long-standing diplomatic relations with
the five permanent members of the Security Council and
4


that it plays an active part in the Non-Aligned Movement,
whose thirty-fifth anniversary we have just celebrated in an
expression of steadfastness in our convictions and in
continued political cooperation.
We share common problems with developing
countries, land-locked States and small States the world
over. Our established friendship with all the countries of
America, Africa, Asia, Europe and Oceania has enabled us
to learn from their important experiences and better to
understand their many problems.If our brother nations
represented here see fit to honour us with their trust,
Bolivia undertakes to place its particular dedication at the
service of the international community in the Security
Council.
As we move towards the end of the twentieth century
and make preparations to welcome a new century and a
new millennium, peoples and nations cannot ignore deep-
rooted trends towards new and untrodden systems of human
coexistence.
In that connection, we must ensure that small States
participate actively in the international arena in promoting
mankind’s dream of making one out of many. That can
occur only if the rules of the game are clearly defined and
implemented and if effective worldwide instruments are
created. It is here, in the existence of and respect for
international law and justice and the institutions that
embody them, that peoples, nations and States can find the
only possible lodestar to guide them. Otherwise, they will
be condemned to new and ominous forms of modern
slavery. That is why Bolivia believes, today more than ever,
in the validity of the United Nations and will work to the
utmost to defending and strengthening it.










===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿Allow me to convey the congratulations of the
Government and the people of Bolivia to you,
Mr. President. Your well-deserved election is fitting
recognition of your work and prestige.
Allow me also to commend the work of Ambassador
Razali Ismail of Malaysia, who so ably conducted the
deliberations of the previous session of the General
Assembly.
Finally, my congratulations go as well to Secretary-
General Kofi Annan, whose contributions to the cause of
world peace and cooperation have earned him the
unanimous gratitude of the Member States of this
Organization.
All the countries of Latin America, in one way or
another and each at its own pace, have put long decades
of ideological confrontation and economic crisis behind
them. They have opened their markets, controlled
inflation, reduced the deficit and privatized public
enterprises. They have rebuilt their democratic
institutional structures on new foundations, with new
protagonists, and restarted the process of growth.
However, old structural adjustment problems,
aggravated by the period of crisis, have surfaced. Clearly
the most important of these is the inequitable distribution
of income and its results: exclusion, poverty, violence and
social fragmentation. Such inequities have created ever-
greater gaps between the immensely rich and those who
have barely enough to survive. There are no social
security systems to protect the dispossessed, to cushion
their fall and rehabilitate them so that they can live a
productive life. For this reason, the potential for violence
and discontent on our continent is growing larger and
more dangerous.
These factors aside, however, Latin America meets
all of the necessary conditions to forge ahead and grow in
that it has the capacity and courage to continue to
change — to increase society’s store of knowledge, create
new competitive advantages, eliminate internal
marginalization, reduce extreme poverty, rebuild the State,


and speak with its own voice in the world political
community.
Education stands out as a vital precondition for all of
these goals. Without a far-reaching revolution in the area of
education, we will not be able to achieve these goals or
meet the challenges of our time.
Today, Latin America is no longer asking others for
what it cannot do on its own. Proof of this is the significant
progress recently made in strengthening mechanisms for
economic integration, such as the Andean Group and the
Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). The
region is also taking a different approach in its relations
with the economically advanced countries. The old
defensive and mistrustful attitude has yielded to the
conviction that it is necessary to merge Latin America’s
economy into the contemporary current of productive and
technological development, attract investments and open its
markets to its products while preserving its identity,
upholding its values and attending to its interests, without
for an instant losing sight of the fact that the key to its
strength lies in its own markets and in its resources.
Let me reiterate Bolivia’s concern about landmines. It
is incomprehensible that those very same borders across
which we are seeking to promote trade and integration
should be sown with devices of war that endanger the
civilian population and threaten their fundamental rights.
We are convinced that the Governments of the region
directly affected by the problem will find a way to resolve
it.
This matter is of particular and direct relevance to
Bolivia, due to the well-known and acknowledged fact that
Chile has laid a significant number of mines along our
common border. Removal of those mines is of the utmost
urgency, in keeping with the commitments entered into in
Oslo, the dictates of morality and the imperative of the
spirit of integration that should prevail between
neighbouring nations. Avoidance of this topic is not the
attitude that the international community wishes to see.
What is needed is firm resolve and the sincere will to
contribute to peace between countries that must impart a
sense of solidarity to their borders.
Since the early days of its independence, Bolivia has
rejected the use of force and the arms race as an instrument
of its foreign policy. We have the moral authority,
therefore, to condemn those commercial interests that seek
to foster the procurement of war matériel, thereby
compromising what we have achieved so far in terms of
preserving peace on the continent.
I have sought to describe the process of change in
Latin America in order to show the extent to which
developments in each of our countries are part of a
broader and more comprehensive historical trend.
However, Bolivia’s transformation has its own particular
features. Following a lengthy process of social
confrontation, we have restored democracy and economic
freedoms in Bolivia. In a spirit of respect for human
rights and freedoms, we have given full support to the
political system and fuelled the economic growth and
development that prevail today in Bolivia. It should be
underscored that this was a peaceful reconstruction
process — the result of democratic dialogue.
My Government, the product of a mandate of the
people, represents more than 70 per cent of the Bolivian
electorate. Nonetheless, we must continue to move
forward and broaden the scope of dialogue and consensus,
involving social institutions and their leaders in the task
of identifying the main objectives of development in
Bolivia as well as the broad outlines of our strategy for
the twenty-first century. That is the purpose of the
national dialogue that I have recently called for, which
has the support of all the political parties — Government
and opposition; the church; private enterprise; and farmers
and workers.
Of course, this new country we are building is
looking to the future from a different perspective and with
a sense of renewed confidence. The time has come to
reaffirm Bolivia’s role on our continent — its role as a
crossroads and as a land of contacts, at the juncture of the
great basins and the great cultures of America. Bolivia’s
key geographical position may become one of its major
comparative advantages and an essential element in
enhancing the country’s international stature.
However, this is not yet a reality. It is a task that
remains to be accomplished, a promise that remains to be
fulfilled. To this end, Bolivia will need to rebuild its
maritime capacity; reduce the transportation cost of its
products; and create a modern export sector and connect
it with the Pacific and the Atlantic. We must see and
understand our country as a part of the continent.
Bolivia’s association with MERCOSUR is not only
the result of a desire to cultivate a historical friendship
but also a consequence of the concrete needs of Bolivian
development. The exceptional growth in the eastern areas
2


of Bolivia calls for a more intense and productive
relationship with our neighbours on the Atlantic.
That effort coincides with one of the most impressive
development ventures in the history of America, which is
taking place now on the territories of Brazil, Bolivia,
Paraguay, Argentina and Uruguay. Investments and
technology must be allowed to flow freely in that region.
We must set up a genuine common market, a multinational
development project, around this potential, which should
also promote the integration of our countries into the world
economy. It is well known that the Paraguay-Paraná
waterway is the natural route linking the area.
That major project, however, has already gone beyond
the imagination of the visionaries and the negotiating tables
of the diplomats. It is now in the hands of engineers and
workers. After more than 30 years of efforts, construction
has begun on the Santa Cruz-San Pablo-Curitiba gas
pipeline, the first segment of a network of energy
distribution for which Bolivia’s territory provides the
crossroads. This is one of the largest engineering projects
in the history of the region. It will stretch for more than
3,000 kilometres, will carry more than 7 billion cubic feet
of natural gas over 20 years and will require a total
investment of nearly $5 billion.
Bolivia’s very existence is directly tied to the Pacific.
Accordingly, we have been following with great interest the
process of consolidating the vast potential of the Andean
community. That potential is also found in our immediate
vicinity. The economies of Bolivia, Peru and Chile are
complementary.
Our territories are not only markets, but avenues for
integration. The territories of Peru and Chile hold Bolivia’s
gateway to the Pacific, while that of Bolivia opens up
communication between those nations and the vast interior
of the continent.
I must stress, however, that the reality still falls far
short of the potential. The reason for this is to be found in
a war that took place just over 100 years ago, and whose
adverse consequences continue to be felt in the relations
between our countries. Undoubtedly, the most unjust and
serious of those consequences is the geographical enclosure
imposed upon Bolivia.
Bolivia’s demand to return to the Pacific Ocean, with
sovereign rights and a coastline of its own cannot be
renounced. It is a vital condition for our national
development but, above all, a historical claim that cannot be
compromised. The recovery of our maritime access,
temporarily lost, is an essential condition for fulfilling our
continental role as a crossroads and a point of
convergence. My country will turn to the international
community as many times as necessary in order to call
attention to a problem that has already been deemed a
matter of permanent hemispheric interest in the light of its
many implications for continental security and harmony.
Despite everything, my Government, as always, remains
ready to explore avenues of constructive dialogue with an
open mind.
Illicit drug trafficking unjustly distorts the reality of
Bolivia and affects and interferes with the proper conduct
of external cooperation. Bolivia itself has done a great
deal to contain this problem. It has not permitted drug
trafficking to taint beyond repair its economic,
institutional and political structure. And it has done so
peacefully, without resorting to violence. Nevertheless, the
stigma of drug trafficking exists, and while we are
disturbed by the manner in which it is magnified, it would
be a mistake to ignore it.
Accordingly, my Government has taken the decision
to remove Bolivia from the drug-trafficking circuit within
the term of my administration. We shall use dialogue and
consultation with peasant producers of coca in order
definitively to eradicate illegal crops. We shall be ruthless
with the drug traffickers. We shall not give them a
moment’s rest until they have been for ever banned from
the history of Bolivia.
Naturally, this is not an exclusively Bolivian
problem, nor can our actions alone resolve the global and
hemispheric problem of illegal trafficking in narcotics. It
is a matter that concerns all and that requires everyone’s
commitment. Therefore, the time has come to reaffirm the
principles of shared responsibility. The characteristics and
scope of this problem mean that it cannot be faced
effectively through isolated efforts. It undeniably calls for
resolute action by all countries, especially those affected
by consumption and who have sufficient economic
resources to combat this terrible evil.
My country reaffirms its commitment to the peace
process in the Middle East in keeping with the principles
and values that guide harmonious coexistence between
peoples. However, given the resurgence of tensions and
new acts of confrontation, we call upon the parties not to
go back on the commitments already made. That is the
firm answer for maintaining peace in the region.
3


In another vein, Bolivia has received with satisfaction
the Secretary-General’s initiative proposing a broad
programme of reforms in the United Nations system. We
feel it is essential to strengthen the role of the Secretariat.
We reiterate the importance of the process of expansion and
reform of the Security Council with a view to correcting
present imbalances, guaranteeing equitable and non-
discriminatory geographical distribution, improving its
decision-making mechanisms and making it an organ that
can take action in a manner that is increasingly legitimate
and representative of the countries that make up the United
Nations. Bolivia shares the view that we should move
towards the elimination of the veto, limiting its use in the
interim to issues considered under Chapter VII of the
Charter.
Bolivia reiterates its commitment to the principles that
have guided global solidarity for more than 50 years. We
Bolivians believe that there can be no relinquishing of the
standards that establish mutual respect and the sovereign
equality of States, regardless of their size or level of
development. Nor can we surrender the principles of
peaceful settlement of disputes, the inviolability and
integrity of territories and respect for self-determination of
peoples that wish to preserve their own systems of life and
Government, free from threats.
If there is a lesson to be learned from the experience
of the century now drawing to a close, it is the versatility
of the human endeavour. Mankind has an incorrigible
tendency to make mistakes, but also a talent for correcting
them and for building from the rubble the new portals of
freedom and faith.
With the approach of the new millennium, at an hour
that is both dusk and dawn, we must look upon the events
of the world from the dual perspective of humility and
hope.







===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
The election of the Foreign Minister of
Uruguay as President of this session of the General
Assembly is a source of great pride to Latin America. It is
also a fitting tribute to Mr. Opertti, whose diplomatic
experience and skills augur well for the success of this
fifty-third session.
Just when it seemed that we had secured stability,
signs of a severe crisis reappeared in the horizon. Indeed,
commodity prices have declined on average by 30 per cent,
reaching their lowest levels in the last three decades in real
terms. Consequently, exports from Latin America to
developed countries, consisting primarily of raw materials,
have begun to shrink, and trade balance deficits in the
region have increased proportionately.
There has been a decline in growth of output in Latin
America. Businesses are reducing production volume,
paying less tax and going further into debt with the banks.
There is a proportionate decline in domestic savings and
investment in infrastructure, in the training of human
resources and in the production of goods and services.
Visible unemployment is on the rise, and shadow economic
activities are gaining ground.
This brief account — no less grim for its brevity —
of the current situation points to a dangerous recession in
Asia and Latin America.
Of course, the fact that this turbulence began about a
year ago in Asia, halfway round the world, before reaching
the Andes, reveals the extent to which the world economic
system has become interdependent. Both the scale and the
consequences of this interdependence would have been
inconceivable until recently. The planet has indeed become
the global village which was to be the sign of the future, as
we had all heard.
But there is an ugly and unfair side to globalization
that I wish to stress. Countries — and when I use the
word, I do not just mean abstract entities, but actual
people with spiritual and material needs — are not paying
only for their own mistakes but also for the economic
policy errors and negligence of others.
Let me take my own country as an example. A small
country, with enormous structural limitations, it made a
gigantic effort, at enormous cost and at the price of
enormous sacrifices, to put its accounts and institutional
structure in order. Bolivia overcame hyper-inflation,
restored its macroeconomic balance and made progress in
first- and second-generation structural reforms. We
established a democratic system which, while not perfect,
is being studied in our region as a model of political
cooperation and social dialogue. We are prepared to
commit all our energies to casting off the historic chains
of corruption and poverty.
This entire effort, just now beginning to be
productive, may be thwarted by causes that are beyond
our control and for which we bear no responsibility. It is
true that our progress may not have been sufficiently
rapid and that our economic and social structures are still
weak, but the crisis we face today does not stem from
these deficiencies.
Bolivia and other countries will have to foot the bill
for the mistakes of others, for far distant trivialities. We
are suffering, the analysts tell us, from the contagion of
the Asian crisis, and we would do well to pray harder to
prevent anything happening in our own country or
anywhere in the broad region surrounding us.
My country did what it had to do and did it well. No
one wants to go back to the past. No right-thinking
Bolivian wants for a moment to return to the days of
authoritarianism, hyper-inflation or the bureaucratic state.
No, this is not what it is all about. But nor is it about
acting as if nothing had happened — as if all that was
necessary to overcome this crisis was to take a stronger
dose of the same medicine. That would be an
unforgivable mistake.
The current situation has revealed such shortcomings
in the international system, particularly with regard to
international financial flows, that it would not make sense
to keep things as they are. Next month there will be a
meeting of the Ministers of Finance of the Group of
Seven — the nexus of world economic power — to
decide our fate. I do not know if our voice will be heard,
16


but I do believe that this Assembly of the peoples of the
world is itself a message that can at least remind them of
a few things.
There is a need for prompt and concerted action on
the part of the advanced and developing countries to
diminish the volatility of financial markets and to provide
some discipline and procedures for incentives and penalties
aimed at remedying the major shortcomings in these
markets. There must be an increase in the availability of
public financial resources in the International Monetary
Fund and other institutions to compensate promptly and
efficiently for damage caused by unduly heightened risk in
any given country or by the wanton recklessness of
speculators on the world’s stock markets.
There must be a discussion very soon about the nature
and the new role of the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank and of the necessary adjustments thereto,
because these bodies were created in a context quite
different from that of today and clearly have been
overwhelmed by the events of recent years, which could not
be prevented. Their structure, their resources, their
philosophy and their modus operandi were severely
criticized since the 1980s in Latin America and in the
Assembly, and today they have shown themselves to be
unable to contain the impact of the current crisis. We have
globalized the crises of poverty and unemployment. Let us
also globalize the commitment to solve them.
By virtue of the universal nature of this body, by
virtue of the terms of the Charter of San Francisco and
because it is here that the concerns and problems of the
States Members of this supreme world Organization should
be set forth, I must once again raise what is well known as
Bolivia’s maritime problem.
Almost 120 years ago, in a military confrontation not
of its own making, Bolivia lost a long strip of coastline on
the Pacific Ocean. Our country thus lost, temporarily, its
maritime status, its sovereign access to the sea — an
essential condition of its existence — as well as its
geopolitical role and status as a bridge between the great
basins of South America.
The economic damage wrought by this loss was
immense. I will not take time here today to mention the
value of the minerals and fishing resources of this territory,
as it is incalculable. Suffice it to recall that recent studies
have shown that the cost of the landlocked condition of my
country is estimated at $4 billion every 10 years, an amount
equal to that of our foreign debt.
However, perhaps the most serious consequence of
this ill-fated event was that my country was condemned
to be penned in behind the Andes, far removed from the
mainstream of the passage of goods, peoples and cultures,
which are the very lifelines of the development of
nations. Therefore, ever mindful of the magnitude of the
damage, my country never accepted this status of
isolation imposed upon us. We have unceasingly called
for this injustice to be redressed, but in doing so we have
abided by our tradition as peaceful people that rejects
conflicts. However, our voices never fell silent.
We sought bilateral negotiations with Chile and
brought our case to international forums.
On various occasions, the bilateral negotiations
concluded with agreements or concrete proposals for a
solution whose main objective was the return to Bolivia
of its sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean, with a
coastline, a port of its own and an overland link. For
reasons that I shall not go into now, these dealings were
never concluded and were added to the long list of lost
opportunities on the record of relations between our
countries.
Bolivia’s cause has always been met with the
sympathy and understanding of the international
community. There have been numerous expressions of
such solidarity. I would just like to refer to two, one in
the framework of the Non-Aligned Movement and the
other in that of the Organization of American States
(OAS). I will state only the relevant portion of the
resolution adopted by the ninth General Assembly of the
Organization of American States, which was held in La
Paz in 1979. That resolution states, in its operative part
that,
“it is in the inherent interest of our hemisphere to
find an equitable solution whereby Bolivia can
obtain sovereign and effective access to the Pacific
Ocean”
as part of a proposal aimed at,
“securing, in a spirit of fraternity and integration of
the Americas, the objective referred to in the
previous paragraph and to consolidate a stable peace
which would stimulate economic and social progress
in the region of the Americas directly affected by
the consequences of Bolivia’s landlocked condition.”
17


In spite of everything, the problem still awaits a
solution. It is a kind of throwback to another time, another
logic, another way of seeing relations between neighbouring
nations. This has left an indelible mark on the memory of
my country. I must therefore state emphatically before the
Assembly that Bolivia will never back down from its
demand and that it will not be discouraged by how long its
efforts may take. Bolivia has the staying power and
limitless patience of an ancient people and knows that the
time is sure to come when this long-standing issue will be
definitively resolved. Our hope becomes conviction when
we see how other nations find ways of unravelling the
Gordian knot of conflicts at least as complex as our own.
The case made by President Hugo Banzer last year in
the Assembly is still valid. He recently put it again to the
twelfth presidential summit of the Rio Group in the
following terms:
“There is no subject which cannot be discussed, if it
is approached in good faith, without preconceptions or
prejudices. The subjects of peace, security and
democracy are not items reserved for diplomats and
specialists. All the institutions of society have an
opinion to voice and ideas to contribute. These are
voices which must be heard and heeded. I would
therefore like to propose that wherever there is open
conflict between our nations or where the embers of
ancient conflicts still smoulder, let us call upon our
citizens to help us find the path to solutions. Let us
throw open the windows of Latin American diplomacy
and let in the fresh air of new opinions and the sound
of new voices. Only recently I made the same point
by suggesting that Bolivians and Chileans meet
together and talk about the vast potential of our
relationship and find a way of removing the obstacles
which block its path. I am repeating this here today,
because I am convinced that we must find a way of
breaking with the status quo. We cannot bind
ourselves to the inheritance of other times and other
problems.”
It could not be clearer that now is the time for
economic integration and a political solution for access to
the ocean, not for confrontations. The nature of the global
system requires the formation of large-scale spaces in
which ideas and goods can move freely, where common
institutions can be built and where new cultures can be
nurtured, the fruit of the mingling of diverse peoples. If this
is true anywhere, it is true in Latin America.
In order to clear the path along these major
highways, we must remove the obstacles that are blocking
or hindering the march towards integration. In the case of
relations between Bolivia and Chile, this means resolving
the age-old disputes which led to the breaking off of
diplomatic relations at the end of the 1970s. The
liberalization of trade, agreements on economic
complementarity and arrangements for free transit are all
essential parts of this picture, but not the whole picture.
For this to happen, what is needed is vision and
courage on both sides. If we want to find new, different
solutions in keeping with the times, we can no longer
remain mired in the juridical, diplomatic and military
logic of the past. If we want to find answers, we may
have to move outside those circles that have traditionally
handled these matters up to now. This is the sense of the
proposal of President Banzer: to bring businessmen,
workers, churches, professionals and the peoples of
Bolivia and Chile into the dialogue.
Of course, the international community has a crucial
role to play in the search for agreement. The counsel,
guidance and help of friendly countries within the
framework of the subregional integration processes in
which they are engaged may just be the missing factor
needed to get dialogue going, to bring diplomats to the
negotiating table, to make leaders shoulder their historical
responsibilities and to reach a solution bringing our
peoples together. My country is convinced that the
underlying problems must be dealt with because we know
that integration will be consolidated only when economic
agreements guarantee that it will be sustained by the
political will and confidence of our nations.
There are many initiatives that should not be left
only on paper. Last June, during the special session
devoted to the drug problem, important proposals were
made. Bolivia put forth the idea of creating a body,
similar to a consultative group, made up of countries that
would help finance the high cost of the fight against drug-
trafficking. We would like to know what steps have been
taken to implement this, as well as the other initiatives
that were proposed in that highly important specialized
forum.
The phenomenon of corruption, which is no stranger
to most countries represented here, is a disease that
spreads and damages our institutional structures, saps the
legitimacy of democracy, distorts the economy, creates
bad habits in public administration and erodes morality.
18


In compliance with a presidential order, last 21
September we had the honour of celebrating at a solemn
ceremony the signing of an accord among the principal
institutions of the State representing the three branches of
power, whereby the National Integrity Plan came into
effect. This Plan establishes a comprehensive strategy to
combat corruption. The judicial basis for the Plan is taken
from the Inter-American Convention against Corruption,
which was signed by the member States of the OAS in
1996 and which Bolivia was the first nation to ratify as the
law of the land.
After careful thought, we have made this policy one
of the highest priorities of the Government of Bolivia. We
have begun to put into effect the first concrete measures to
combat this evil and to make this proposal State policy. We
now invite the international community to follow our
endeavour closely and to support our initiative.
Bolivia vigorously adheres to all the statements that
have repudiated terrorism, a despicable practice that has no
justification whatsoever. It will support any initiative or
action that may be put forth to fight it.
In another area, we wish to underline the Secretary-
General’s task in the process of the reform of the United
Nations. We believe that there has been progress in the
efforts to reduce bureaucracy, rationalize expenses and
avoid duplication in the work of the United Nations. We
also believe that it would be healthy to enhance the
Economic and Social Council in order to turn it into an
economic, social, scientific and technological council. It
would also be worthwhile to create a council for
humanitarian affairs responsible for social problems of our
time, such as poverty, unemployment, discrimination and all
forms of exclusion.
We meet every year to express our concerns and
thoughts, to share experiences and reaffirm our faith in the
purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter. Each
year, we would like to see positive advances in the solution
of problems, in joint responses to crises, in the spread of
peace on the world map. Thus, the United Nations will
continue to grow even stronger. Bolivia wishes, as always,
to contribute to the achievement of those goals.






===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
The men of the Andes scrutinized the skies to
decipher and predict the future. If they were looking at
the skies today, they might not manage to understand the
message written there. On the one hand, there is the
promise of unlimited prosperity, with man in apparent
control of nature and his environment, thanks to the
outstanding strides made in knowledge, the tireless flow
of data and financial resources, the almost genetic
transformation of the means of transportation and
communication, the growing empire of freedom and the
reaffirmation of democratic values on a global scale.
On the other hand, however, the new millennium is
arriving with disquieting signs. Financial crises are
increasingly frequent and ever more acute. The gaps
between the haves and the have-nots are widening.
Confusions, fear and uncertainty prevail over a large part
of the planet. Thus must one see both sides of
globalization: one of promise, the other of threat.
The effects of the two aspects of the process are felt
in Latin America with singular intensity. The crisis of the
financial markets and the constant decline in commodity
prices have struck at the heart of the economies of our
societies and subjected them to pressure, in some cases
intolerable. Nothing seems to be in its place and few dare
to anticipate the future.
8


Nevertheless, the men and women of Latin America
have a right to keep hoping. My own country maintains a
very cautious optimism. Not many years ago, Bolivia felt
with particular intensity the tragedy that is affecting other
nations of Latin America. Drug trafficking, the external
debt, the collapse of mining and the crisis in the political
system all conspired to create a picture of confusion and
anguish that seemed to be insurmountable.
What we have done since then belongs to history. I
shall summarize it here for no other reason than to share
our experience, because our task, far from over, seems to
have only just begun.
Tired of sterile and debilitating political confrontation,
Bolivians decided to take the road of cooperation and
dialogue. The coalition Governments on which the political
system has been based and nurtured since the early 1980s
proved the intelligence of an old constitutional norm, but
they also showed that the letter of the law is worthless if it
is not steeped in the spirit in which it was written. It was
in the spirit of questing for consensus that the political
Constitution was reaffirmed, the true independence of the
National Electoral Tribunal was guaranteed and the
Constitutional Tribunal, the Judicial Council and the Office
of Ombudsman were established. Lastly, institutions and
social organizations were incorporated into the discussions
of the major problems affecting the nation in a dialogue
that President Hugo Banzer, at the start of his mandate,
called on to support the Government’s work with a broad
civic consensus.
The first conclusion that can be drawn from this rapid
summary is that the economy cannot be modernized without
a solid base of political reform. Indeed, it was on that
political foundation, on the basis of the will of the people
represented by the parties, that we were able to make
strides in modernizing and opening up the Bolivian
economy. We controlled inflation. We renegotiated and
reduced the external debt burden. We transferred control of
public companies to the private sector, and we created the
conditions for the sustained development of Bolivia.
However, when we seemed to be achieving the
impetus required to launch that development, the Asian
crisis and its effects on our region abruptly slowed down
the rate of our growth, after almost a decade of a modest
increase in per capita income. The storm will pass,
undoubtedly, but I cannot deny that the legitimate
expectations for development have been affected by this
sudden and unexpected return of old fears.
We know how Bolivia managed to control its
economy, and you have already heard the figures that
show how the reserves grew, the way the fiscal deficit
was reduced and the mechanism that enabled us to go
from an inflation rate of more than 20,000 per cent per
year in 1984 to 4 per cent in 1998, just to mention the
most significant data.
But there are other things that are sometimes
overlooked. One is that the process of structural
transformation requires perseverance and time. Bolivia
persevered, perhaps because it had had difficult
experiences. Nevertheless, more than a decade was
necessary to come out of that emergency situation. The
other element is that what was built in years of sacrifice
can be lost in a moment of inattention or rashness.
With all the limits and difficulties that were involved
in the transition process that began in the early 1980s, the
living conditions of Bolivians improved significantly, as
we see in the data that was published in the last United
Nations Human Development Report. Public spending on
education increased from 2.1 per cent of the gross
domestic product in 1985 to 5.6 per cent in 1997.
Illiteracy in young people under 15 years of age was
practically eradicated. Between 1976 and 1997 the
mortality rate of breast-fed infants dropped from 144 of
every 1,000 live births to 69, and life expectancy grew
from 45 to 61 years of age in the same period. However,
we have to say that the growth rate is still insufficient and
unfair.
As in other countries, development was focused on
a particular segment of Bolivian society. Therefore the
fight against poverty is the main task of the Government
of President Bánzer. Thus the cornerstone of that strategy
is the active participation of the very sectors that had
been ignored in choosing ways and means through an
intelligent and active decentralization mechanism. There
is full awareness that access to the means of production
should be added to the effort that has already been made
in allocating resources to social, educational and health
policies.
At the beginning of the 1980s, when we began the
democratic stage I have just described, illicit drug
trafficking cast a long shadow over development in
Bolivia. At the critical moment of the collapse of tin
mining, the cultivation of coca leaves employed thousands
9


of families of unemployed workers and became a major
source of income for the Bolivian economy. Even worse,
however, was that the risk that drug trafficking would
infiltrate the economic and political system became a real
possibility.
The situation today is radically different. Bolivia will
emerge from this coca-cocaine cycle in the next three years,
within the timetable President Bánzer set for himself when
his mandate began in the face of the scepticism of all,
friends and critics.
In August 1997, the land occupied by coca plantations
exceeded 40,000 hectares. In the 25 months of the
implementation of the Dignity Plan, 25,000 hectares have
been removed and the remaining 15,000 will be eliminated
in the time-frame planned, or earlier. The undeniable
success of that plan can be explained by the conviction of
the Bolivian people that the drug-trafficking cancer had to
be eradicated from the body of national society.
President Bánzer had the merit of interpreting that
decision and of making it concrete, making it an irrevocable
State policy. He applied it without altering even a
millimetre of the structure of democratic institutions and
without breaking the spirit of civil peace and security which
my country fortunately enjoys. The occasional moments of
friction that arose in the beginning were brought under
control, and the police forces were required to carry out
their tasks with the utmost respect for human rights.
The international community has pointed to the
Bolivian strategy as one of the most successful and
pragmatic ones of the continent. I must say, nevertheless,
that the task has not been completed, and its support is
essential to create sources of work and productive and legal
development opportunities for the farmers who are no
longer involved in the cultivation of coca leaves. Only in
that way can we claim victory.
The century ends in Latin America with the good
news of the peace agreement between Ecuador and Peru
and the announcement that very soon Chile and Peru will
end years of patient work in order to resolve the matters
pending from the 1929 treaty. These are very important
events, to which we must add the treaties through which
Argentina and Chile resolved their disputes along their
extensive border. In that way, the countries of this part of
South America altered the legacy of confrontation and
conflict that men of other times and circumstances left
behind.
However, there is still an open wound in the
conscience of America, the injustice of the landlocked
situation of Bolivia, which has existed for more than a
century. Members know very well how Bolivia lost the
extensive coastal strip that it enjoyed when it achieved
independence and the enormous cost that loss represents
for the development of my country. It is, undoubtedly,
one of the main reasons for Bolivia’s backwardness, as I
pointed out in my message last year with more detail and
precision.
I can affirm that my country has made all possible
efforts to find a friendly and peaceful solution to its
landlocked situation. We have left no stone unturned in
every forum in which Bolivia participates. We uphold our
request for sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean in
irrefutable legal, historical, political and economic
arguments.
With ever greater dedication and perseverance, my
country sought contact and direct negotiations with Chile
in order to find within dialogue a friendly solution that
would meet the needs of both countries. In the twentieth
century alone, we began at least five bilateral
negotiations. Unfortunately, none were successful, for
reasons which I do not have to point out now. I mention
them only to show that this path has been explored with
the support of countries friendly to Chile and Bolivia, and
that Chile formally agreed to grant Bolivia a sovereign
outlet to the Pacific Ocean and that route is known.
Now, at the threshold of a new century, Bolivia has
decided to insist on calling for direct dialogue, a dialogue
which would encompass all the themes in our relations
with Chile. I trust that very soon we will define, with
Chancellor Valdés, the terms of that dialogue, which, in
my opinion, should encompass the complete range of our
relations and identify ways for the economic, cultural and
political cooperation which will unite our nations when
Bolivia recovers its maritime attribute. The experience of
the past does not discourage us. New times, new men,
new realities must bring along with them new solutions.
That is our hope.
The United Nations system, one of the most
important creations of the century, is at the threshold of
a new millennium and is subjected to many tensions. Its
function as a channel for official development assistance
has remained constrained by the privatization of financing
and technology groups which go from advanced countries
to emerging markets.
10


Its role as a forum for negotiation and dialogue
between the North and the South and between developed
countries and developing countries is being disregarded for
a new and different structure which revolves around
essentially technical mechanisms, such as the International
Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade
Organization, in which negotiations are different from what
they were in the past. Its very role as a collective security
system sometimes seems at times eclipsed by the unilateral
action of countries or groups of countries intent on making
their agenda prevail over the world mechanism.
I mention these changes here simply as an argument
in support of the need to think about the reform of the
system, as a process of creating it anew, and not simply an
attempt to stop the clock because of a nostalgic vision. I am
convinced that this is the view of the statesmen who
represent the United Nations and whose patient yet
persevering work will bear fruit sooner rather than later.
Bolivia, of course, as always, is ready to make its firm
contribution.









===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
The Government of Bolivia has given me the task of
conveying its most sincere congratulations to you, Sir,
on your election as President of the General Assembly
at its fifty-fifth session, which is a recognition of your
personal merits and a tribute to your country. At the
same time, I thank Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab for his work
during the fifty-fourth session and for his dedication
during the preparations for the Millennium Summit and
the Millennium Assembly.
Special thanks must also go to Secretary-General
Kofi Annan for his report preparatory to the
Millennium Summit, the content of which has given us
an opportunity to reflect upon and address specific
issues with which the United Nations has been
concerned in its 55 years of existence.
We also welcome the recent admission of Tuvalu
as a new, fully fledged Member of our Organization.
10

The recent Millennium Summit reaffirmed the
recognition by the international community of the
importance and significance of, and the prospects for,
the United Nations Organization. It also highlighted the
urgency of adapting it to, and equipping it for, the new
realities in which we live, which are certainly quite
different from the situation and circumstances that
prevailed when our Organization came into being.
The concerns of peoples and Governments today
are also different. Poverty, underdevelopment and
exacerbated inequalities contribute to new divisions,
which threaten to lead to violence. These realities must
be corrected, because they have the potential of
spawning conflicts that, if allowed to persist, could
seriously jeopardize the world's economic and political
stability, and, it goes without saying, international
peace and security.
Our Organization needs to be strengthened if it is
successfully to channel the expectations and
opportunities of globalization while controlling, and
indeed preventing, the dangers implicit in it, especially
for the more vulnerable economies, which are now
threatened by new forms of exclusion.
The United Nations must be renewed so that it
can continue to be the effective instrument for dialogue
that is required to build a world in which greater
security and solidarity prevail.
We must consequently redefine the
Organization's priorities in such a way as to make it
conducive to clear-sighted and effective action. This
will require substantial reform of the system's
economic and financial bodies, modernization of the
General Assembly's methods of work, and the
adaptation of the Security Council to these new
realities. Other, equally important tasks include
ensuring that the necessary resources are available to
the Organization; obtaining financing for development
and peacekeeping operations; and adjusting the scale of
assessments in accordance with the basic principle of a
country's capacity to pay.
A few short days ago, at the Millennium Summit,
the President of Bolivia, Hugo Bánzer Suárez, referred
to the close relationship between freedom and poverty,
and between poverty and violence. He called for the
fight against poverty to be waged in accordance with
the principle of shared responsibility and with a
genuine commitment to democracy, in order to mitigate
present inequalities, which are threatening to intensify.
It is unfair, in an open economy, for markets to be
closed and for discriminatory measures to be applied
with protectionist intent. It is also vital to favour
countries with small-scale economies through greater
capital inflows and debt relief programmes.
Science and technology must become the heritage
of humankind. Scientific and technological knowledge
must not widen already existing gaps and divisions.
At the historic meeting of South American
Presidents, held recently in Brasilia, the heads of State
of the region stressed the importance of access to the
new information and knowledge age, which will open
the way for our countries to strengthen a system of
continuing education that ensures education at all
levels for the all sectors of society and permits
unrestricted access to knowledge and information.
Democracy, which essentially seeks to organize
life in society, is a vital concept that changes and is
updated in tune with the changing pace of societies
themselves, without in any way detracting from its
fundamental values. Convinced as we are that
democracy must go beyond electoral formalities and
that sovereignty is vested in the people and expressed
through its representatives, we in Bolivia have declared
the principle of political dialogue and consultation to
be the basis of a pluralistic and participatory
democratic system.
In that context, the practice of holding a national
dialogue was instituted during the administration of
President Bánzer. That mechanism is aimed at
establishing a new relationship of joint efforts and
shared responsibility between Government institutions,
the political system and organizations throughout
society. The creation of key State policies grew out of
the first such national dialogue, held in 1997.
This year, a national dialogue has been initiated
once again to lend fresh impetus to institutional
reforms and to put together a national anti-poverty
programme. A new plan, involving over 3,000
inhabitants in townships across Bolivia, is being
elaborated whose objective is to assign rights and
responsibilities that, within the framework of a market
economy, will make it possible for us to combat the
poverty that still afflicts vast sectors of our population,
despite nearly 20 years of life under democracy.
Shortly after taking office, in August 1997,
President Bánzer Suárez vowed that during his


mandate Bolivia would be removed from the drug-
trafficking loop once and for all, through the
implementation of an integrated policy that
encompasses alternative development, the eradication
of illegal coca crops, confiscation, prevention and
rehabilitation.
Despite doubts as to the feasibility of this plan,
we can now affirm that we will be fulfilling our
commitments ahead of time. In 1997, there were
approximately 38,000 hectares of illegal coca
cultivation in Bolivia. Today, more than 80 per cent of
such illegal crops have been eradicated.
Our concern now is essentially whether we can
sustain these achievements. Conditions must be created
which in future will obviate a return to coca-leaf
production as a result of the lack of jobs and income.
Our major efforts now are aimed at alternative
development, to see to it that illegal coca income is
replaced by legal earnings from other productive
activities. If we do not achieve concrete results, we run
the risk of seeing those persons who cannot hope to
find any other means of subsistence fall once again
prey to the temptation of cultivating coca. That would
constitute a surrender to the drug dealers and signify a
defeat not only for Bolivia but for the world
community.
What Bolivia needs, then, is support in two basic
areas: first, in the area of investment, to promote our
economic growth in the sectors that generate the most
job opportunities; and secondly, in the opening of
secure markets for our exports.
At previous sessions of the Assembly, Bolivia has
aired the historical, political and economic arguments
on which it bases its absolute need to regain the
maritime status that gave rise to its existence as an
independent country. To that end, Bolivia has been
encouraging direct dialogue with the Republic of Chile.
As a consequence of prior contacts, the Foreign
Ministers of Bolivia and Chile met in Portugal in
February this year, where an agreement was reached to
prepare a working programme, to be formalized in the
subsequent stages of dialogue, that will incorporate,
without exclusion of any kind, the essential points of a
bilateral relationship and seek to surmount the
differences that have impeded full integration between
Bolivia and Chile, the main obstacle to which has
certainly been Bolivia's unresolved maritime demand.
In a significant advance, on the occasion of the recent
meeting of Presidents of South America, the Presidents
of Bolivia and Chile, Hugo Bánzer and Ricardo Lagos,
reiterated the willingness of their Governments to enter
into dialogue on all topics relating to bilateral relations,
without exception, in order to create a climate of
mutual trust enabling the establishment of closer ties
based on the structure and positions maintained by the
two countries.
The world community, the Americas in particular,
is following with great expectation the course of this
diplomatic process and the progress achieved therein.
The proposal to hold a dialogue on all topics without
exception is a challenge to the creativity of those
involved and puts to the test our political will to correct
once and for all an unjust situation that has prevailed
since 1879. Furthermore, Latin America's capacity to
settle its own disputes in a fair, peaceful and negotiated
way will be strengthened and progress thus made on
the road to regional integration.
In that context, we propose the implementation of
a programme to promote the integrated development of
western Bolivia and northern Chile. We are also
confident that Peru will participate in this programme
in order to mobilize the resources and capabilities of
the three countries of the region. In this way, a
contribution will be made to linking the Atlantic and
Pacific basins. The persistence of Bolivia's landlocked
status at the heart of the continent is, without doubt, an
obstacle to the creation of a major opportunity for
thoroughgoing understanding and dialogue in the South
American region and minimizes the effectiveness of
work to promote integration being carried out in the
area.
This occasion provides a fitting opportunity for
us to thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his
interest in relations between Bolivia and Chile, which
has been brought to the attention of the authorities of
both countries. The Secretary-General has expressed
his satisfaction with respect to the conversations held,
according to the terms laid down by the parties, at the
levels of heads of State, Foreign Ministers and other
authorities of Bolivia and Chile.
My country pledges to make every effort to
translate the desire recently expressed by the Presidents
of Bolivia and Chile into action that will enable us,
Bolivians and Chileans alike, to advance towards the
resolution of our differences, with a view to the future
and in a spirit of brotherhood.
12



















===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿I
come from the city of La Paz to add Bolivia’s voice to
this universal support the United Nations has received
through the Nobel Peace Prize. This award expresses
better than all the speeches could possibly do the way
in which the world appreciates the Organization and its
Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan. The mediating role
performed by the Organization, its calls to nations to
agree among themselves, the courage it has in
assuming risks and the willingness it has shown to
offer lives for a cause go beyond the mere performance
of a duty; they are an example to all our Governments.
The active role played by the Organization is more
necessary now than ever before.
This is a time in which the evil, malignant
shadow of terror is rising on the horizon as the new
century dawns. The Berlin Wall was the symbol of
ideological divisions during the second half of the
twentieth century. We must now, after 11 September,
tear down the wall of terrorism and intolerance that a
few people wish to raise to divide the world.
On one side of this new wall are those of us who
have built up and believe in democracy with pluralism.
On the other side are those that wish despotically to
impose their beliefs, with no respect for the rule of law.
On one side of this new wall are those of us who
permit and encourage the freedom of worship and
expression. On the other side are those that do not
practice, permit or tolerate it. On one side of this wall
are those of us who every day try to create equality of
opportunities for all women. On the other side are
those that oppress and dominate them. On one side of
this wall are those of us who value freedom above all.
On the other side are the terrorists that wish to destroy
and restrict it.
Let there be no doubt that Bolivia will always be
on the side of democracy, freedom and tolerance. We
want a life in peace and harmony. This is why my
Government, without any hesitation, with total
conviction and in all forums, has expressed its full
support for the measures undertaken by the coalition
led by the United States Government after the attacks
that took the lives of thousands of innocent people, the
majority of whom were in this very city of New York.
Terrorism is to a large extent incubated in and fed
by the underground world of drug trafficking. We must
not accept that in attacking freedom, terrorism
disguises itself by putting forward political claims. We
cannot accept that drug traffickers, seeking to
undermine our democracies, drape themselves in the
mantle of legitimate social demands. It is clear that
terrorism and drug trafficking are Siamese twins and
enemies of the free democracies. This is why we must
combat each of them with the same vigour and
determination.
Bolivia, with all its limitations, is performing its
task in fighting drug trafficking. By the will of the
majority of the Bolivians, expressed through our own
national dialogue, guided by our own interests and
encouraged by our own public opinion, we are
irreversibly moving forward towards eradicating illegal
coca crops used to prepare cocaine and are entering
13

into the final stage of the Dignity Plan, whose purpose
is to remove Bolivia from the drug circuit.
But the work is not finished. International
solidarity and support are now more important than
ever before. To complete the task, Bolivia needs
support on two levels. First of all, the international
community must realize that sustained support for
alternative development programmes is more necessary
for the countries that have eliminated the bulk of illegal
coca crops and cocaine, and in which many people
have been displaced as a result.
Bolivia has reduced more than 90 percent of its
illegal coca leaf production. However obvious it may
seem, this percentage must be repeated over and over,
because many international bureaucracies allocate
resources according to the size of the problem, which is
mistakenly defined as the volume of production of coca
leaves and cocaine, when the real economic problem
arises from the size of the reduction that has been
achieved and the proportional reduction of the income
generated by this activity. Bolivia deserves and needs
more support than ever before, because it has made
more progress than ever before.
Secondly, and of more relevance now, it is
necessary to provide access to markets; the opportunity
to fight for a place under the sun; and the right to work,
produce and sell. And here, at this point, the decision
by the United States and the European Union to open
up their markets to the products of alternative
development takes on critical and definitive
significance.
Bolivia is the least developed nation of South
America, the economy that is most open the region and
the only country that has achieved such a dramatic
reduction in such a poisonous and harmful product as
cocaine, within so short a time. For these three reasons,
we feel that we have every right to call for access to
markets through free trade — triply free trade: free
from tariffs, free from subsidies and free from non-
tariff measures.
We need free trade, the triply free trade that
applies to sectors such as telecommunications,
banking, computers and turbines, must also apply to
agriculture, textiles and leather. Unfortunately, these
last three labour-intensive sectors are governed by
nineteenth-century rules in the midst of the third
millennium.
In Bolivia we are moving forward with
decentralized and participatory programmes on health
and education. An educated and vaccinated citizen who
does not have a market, however, is not a full-fledged
citizen of the present-day world of ours. In Bolivia we
have straightened out and opened up our economy, but
we have not seen full reciprocity in the developed
world or on the part of our neighbours.
In Bolivia we have almost entirely eliminated the
production of cocaine, which however harmful it might
be, was an export product that was not subject to
subsidies, barriers or tariffs. This is why we require
access to markets to guarantee the completion of the
Dignity Plan and avoid frustrating the will of our
citizens, who have assumed the challenge of moving
from illegal activities to legitimate work, without,
however, having achieved the same access to the
market.
On the threshold of the twenty-first century, in
the midst of a severe economic and political crisis that
affects all the countries of the region, Bolivia is facing
another challenge that can decisively change its future.
In the few years since the work on the most important
gas pipeline of South America was completed,
Bolivia’s natural gas reserves grew exponentially, and
have made my country a significant player in the
hemisphere-wide market. We are now serving a
growing part of the energy demands of Brazil, and we
firmly intend to go on from here to reach the markets
of the Pacific, Mexico and the United States.
The tragic events of 11 September saw to it that
energy and gas integration must be based on a long-
term vision that takes into account three elements:
extensive gas reserves, a reliable economy and a solid
democracy. Bolivia has these three elements. The
projects that are now being studied and negotiated will
transform the productive structure of my country,
propel the growth rates, reinforce our role as a hub and
the environmentally clean heart of the continent, while
expanding our role and presence on the Pacific.
Bolivia will thus take another step on the march
that it began more than 120 years ago to return to the
sea of our ancestors.
Bolivia thus will reassert its unflinching
determination to regain its status as a maritime nation,
something with which we were born into independent
life.
14

Bolivia supports the struggle against terrorism
and for freedom. My country, more than any other
country, is making a gigantic effort to fight the ally of
terrorism — that is, drug trafficking. Given this effort,
given our determination to be open, and given the need
to fight poverty, my country calls for access to markets.
Bolivia will play a central role in working
towards reliable gas and energy integration in the
twenty-first century.
Finally, we realize that the long struggle for
freedom and the fight against terrorism is just
beginning and will end only when all the citizens of the
world, men and women alike, will be entitled to vote,
to elect, to offer their opinions and to profess their
faith, to move about freely and, above all, to live free
from fear and terror. The United Nations must be the
place where the world comes together to walk down
this shared path. And together we will build this road
towards integration and peace, as these times demand.








===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
﻿I would
like to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his deserved
election as President of the General Assembly at this
session. We wish him every success. I would also like
to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, whose efforts to promote peace and
cooperation among nations are invaluable. Yesterday,
in this city, we remembered the victims of a horrendous
attack that was the very image of intolerance and
fanaticism and revealed the darkest drives of human
nature. I was deeply moved by this event and feel duty
bound on behalf of my compatriots to express our pain,
sorrow, and solidarity with those lost loved ones, and
to all the citizens of the United States at this time of
affliction.
This terrible episode in history ought, however, to
prompt us to rethink a number of dogmas concerning
the current world paradigm for development, dogmas
that prevent it from being sustainable over time, and
which, like a dangerous mirage, may lead the whole of
humankind into a collapse that could jeopardize our
common future.
I say this from the standpoint of a country, which,
in its small way, is joining the collective endeavour to
solve key problems that involve the fate of the whole
planet. I am also convinced that it is in the poor
countries of the world that the destiny of all is at stake.
What we do, but above all what is done by those who
possess more, and have put into effect a specific vision
of society and of the economy that prevails today, shall
determine whether our path will be one of hope or of
catastrophe for all.
On 9 April 1952  50 years ago  Bolivia took
the lead in a revolution that sought to democratize
politics and end economic, social and ethnic exclusion,
in order to attain a fairer national community. For the
past 20 years we have kept that democracy functioning
and we have been a pioneer nation in regulating our
economy. Today, this process based on stability and
dialogue is continuing.
However, all that has been done is still
insufficient. The road that lies ahead is very long, and
we must travel it amidst crises and turmoil from which
we have been unable to extricate ourselves. The social
and economic problems we face are serious. Much of
what we have achieved could be destroyed by pressure
exerted by those, who in spite of everything, have been
marginalized and excluded. This situation is rooted in
overwhelming poverty, the unfair distribution of
wealth, and the loss of faith in politicians, associated
with corruption and the lack of answers to pressing
daily problems.
Our team became the Government of Bolivia as a
result of a popular vote only thirty-six days ago, and
we are committed to tackling these risks and challenges
with resolution. We are doing this within the
framework of a new democratic landscape. The
election of 30 June 2002 established a new parliament
that is diverse; this took place without violence or
dramatic disruption and within a context of democratic
and political maturity. Its main effect has been to begin
to dismantle the walls of exclusion, on the basis of the
recognition of others and tolerance and respect for
different visions of the world.
For the first time in our history, an essential part
of Bolivia's population, the Quechuas, Aymaras and
Guaranis, are represented in fair proportion. A
pluralistic legislative branch in ethnic, economic,
political and social respects is a promising setting for
courageous dialogue about our ongoing problems. Our
unswerving resolve is that this dialogue should be real
and productive, because it will help us to find a way of
working together on the political and social levels,
while seeking to resolve these crises and working
sincerely to break the long-standing social exclusion of
indigenous people and discrimination against women,
children, and older persons.
I would like particularly to mention the resolve of
our Government to make combating corruption a state
policy. Only genuine and resolute efforts in this area
24

will make it possible for Bolivia to overcome one of
the greatest impediments to development, one that
threatens to destroy the essential foundation of our
society. This resolve is part of a historic course
followed, despite their different positions, by two
parties in Bolivia: the Nationalist Revolutionary
Movement and the Revolutionary Left Movement.
Their leaders, Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada and Jaime
Paz Zamora, have understood that, at such a time, it is
necessary to set aside legitimate party interests and
long-standing political differences in order to build a
project of responsibility vis-‡-vis Bolivia. This is the
only response possible for our nation at such a historic
moment. This decision led to an alliance that has given
rise to Plan Bolivia aimed at tackling the crisis by
means of an ambitious programme of public investment
that will stimulate the economy, encourage private
inputs, create jobs, and reduce social inequities by
favouring the most vulnerable sectors of our society.
Plan Bolivia also seeks to respond to the complex
challenges of globalization, redefine the role of the
State in promoting sustainable development, respond to
local and regional demands, and establish a full rule of
law with robust and credible institutions.
We know that we are not alone in this; we have
seen such ideas elsewhere in recent decades. In spite of
this, we urgently require our efforts to be backed by the
international community. Bolivia has undertaken with
determination the struggle to combat illicit drug
trafficking as a moral imperative, in which we truly
believe; but, in doing so, it has paid a high price in
terms of human lives, economic effects, and violent
social conflict. It is only right that those countries
where drug consumption has greatest impact 
demand as you know is the key factor in this cycle 
give us support in proportion. We continue to fulfil our
commitments. But we urgently call on the international
community to fully endorse the concept of shared
responsibility, which has been fostered and promoted
in this forum more than once.
A combination of internal efforts and
international support to attain reasonable levels of
sustainable social and economic development must be
reached through a new logic that reformulates all of
our earlier ideas of progress and development.
Our afflicted Latin America was yesterday the
hope of the planet and today is a continent caught in an
emergency situation, with widespread social pressure,
and economic collapse and facing a dangerous threat of
an international domino effect. From its modest
position, our country wishes to help halt these trends
by being an example of how creative and democratic
solutions can be used to address problems and
overcome differences. This prompts us to emphasize
that the most effective international aid is that which
respects the decisions and plans of the countries that
must use them. Imposing strict and unilateral recipes
usually generates more problems than it solves.
If equity is one of the first demands of
humankind today, there is no better system than that of
equitable international trade. Poor countries demand
access for their products to the markets of the rich
countries under adequate conditions. This is one of the
key points of nexus of poverty and social tensions in
the most disadvantaged countries and their population.
That is why the Andean Trade Preference Act
constitutes a step forward; although only conditional, it
shows the will of a friendly nation to modify a still
unfair relationship.
We must understand free trade from a new
standpoint, where the rules of the game are designed
rationally to bridge the gap between the rich and the
poor, a situation that has already reached scandalous
levels. It is unacceptable for prosperous nations to
impose limits on us, while they are not prepared to
apply them within their own territories.
I cannot conclude this intervention without
reaffirming that recovering our status as a country with
a coastline on the Pacific Ocean constitutes an
important factor of our foreign policy.
This claim, which we have made for the past 123
years, is not the product of stubbornness or whim; it is
related to our insufficient economic resources and to
the enormous geographical barriers that affect our
competitiveness. The lack of direct access to the sea
constitutes an obstacle to our growth and to the welfare
of our citizens. The recovery of sovereign access to the
sea is not only a matter of justice, but an ineluctable
need for which we shall continue to seek the solidarity
and support of the community of nations, and even
more so now that century-old conflicts of this nature
have been resolved in this new century.
Bolivia is part of the world and, through vigorous
participation within its region, will continue to
contribute to a profound process of reflection regarding
the type of global society that we must, wish to and can
25

build, based on its experiences and its own formulas
for integrating and for making its own society
participative.
We are probably experiencing one of the most
difficult moments since the end of the cold war and it
has become necessary for us to be able to imagine a
different and better world in which no idea is
untouchable and no hope for change is smothered.





===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
﻿Allow me to congratulate the President on his election
as President of this session of the General Assembly.
We wish him every success.
At the same time, it is a pleasure to greet the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose efforts for
peace and cooperation between nations we highly
value. For that reason, I take this opportunity to
express, on behalf of the people of Bolivia and my
Government, our sorrow and solidarity in the face of
the terrorist attacks against the United Nations
headquarters in Baghdad, which once again
demonstrates intolerance for and lack of understanding
of a peacekeeping mission, which is the only possible
path in our search to resolve conflicts.
This attempt strengthens our resolve to fight
without giving any quarter against terrorism in any of
its forms, but, at the same time, it shows us the need to
support the joint efforts of the nations of the world
with policies that are debated and adopted at the United
Nations. This Organization and its bodies are a
fundamental forum where our voice and that of all
countries of the world can be heard. For that reason, we
also believe that reforms are required to give the
Security Council more flexibility and balance in order
to guarantee greater participation in the decision-
making process.
The terrible episodes that we have recently
experienced have forced us once again to reconsider
the path that many nations have set for themselves in
their vision for development. It is a dangerous mistake
to believe that we can coexist in a world of isolated and
closed compartments. It is not possible to generate
growth and well-being for a privileged few and expect
that the excluded great majority will look on silently
from the fringes of that reality. In our opinion, the only
possible path to confront the future is the paradigm of
equity.
For over a half century, Bolivia has been opening
democratic and participative spaces for its people. A
nation such as ours, where 62 per cent of the citizens
identify themselves as indigenous, must do away with
the social, economic and ethnic exclusion that has been
a historic millstone that our elite refused to eliminate.
The process begun by us with the revolution of 1952
with its successes and set-backs of greater or lesser
magnitude is part of our challenge today. This vision is
also essential to defending the human rights of those
citizens who have been marginalized throughout the
course of our history.
For one year now, under the administration
headed by President Sanchez de Lozada, within the
framework of a pluralistic Congress with a very
significant percentage of indigenous representatives
and of very different ideological positions, we are
working to overcome levels of poverty that are
threatening to break down the buttresses of order and
the population’s faith in democracy, which has been
achieved with great sacrifice by the people of Bolivia.
Our Government has broadened its political base
by integrating another political party, Nueva Fuerza
26

Republicana, into the alliance between the Movimiento
Nacionalista Revolucionario and the Movimiento de la
Izquierda Revolucionaria in an effort to face an acute
economic crisis that has taken the form of a persistent
recession, which, fortunately, is beginning to reverse
itself.
We have implemented a programme that
combines efforts to increase State revenues through an
increase in public investment in order to stimulate the
economy and improve private contribution, create jobs
and decrease social inequality. We have given priority
to the most vulnerable sectors of our society with
measures such as an annual solidarity bonus for all
citizens over age 65 and the consolidation of free
medical insurance covering mothers and children under
the age of five. This task is linked to achieving the
Millennium Development Goals, to which we are
deeply committed.
In February of this year and a few days ago, my
country lived through serious episodes of violence,
which have forced us to reflect. We are aware of the
fact that the last 21 years of democracy — the longest
uninterrupted period in our history — are at stake as
we face the legitimate pressure exercised by the
marginalized sectors of our society, who deserve our
attention. Unfortunately, in spite of the new democratic
parliamentary participation, we have not yet been able
to sustain a real and enriching dialogue about our most
severe problems. I am convinced that one of our
principal tasks is to generate a fundamental change in
the behaviour of political parties and of every
politician, but a less radical and more rational attitude
of the social sectors in their relationship with the State
is also indispensable.
We are going through a very difficult time, when
compliance with the law and respect for the authority
of the State threaten to collapse. Loss of trust in these
essential elements of democracy is one of the greatest
dangers to the future of our society, which will only
achieve its goals if it has a credible and legitimate
administration that acts with authority. We are
assuming our responsibility in this area. It is the only
way we can be tolerant of the ideas of others. Our aim
is the urgent search for a true national encounter
through national dialogue, an issue that we are deeply
committed to, despite the difficulties that must be
overcome.
One year ago, in this very forum, I said that our
Government would make the fight against corruption a
State policy. Today I am proud to say that we are
fulfilling that commitment. We have established the
Secretariat to Combat Corruption, whose tasks are
carried out from within the very core of the State, with
broad participation from all levels of society, through
citizen networks and mobile brigades. In one year of
work, we have made public cases of corruption
involving State authorities. Corrupt civil servants have
been given prison sentences and others are currently on
trial for illicit acts. Furthermore, we have expanded the
programmes for better management of public entities.
We are launching a reform of the judiciary,
strengthening a culture in which the rule of law is
based on the concept of justice for all. We are also
promoting a strategy that will transform political and
productive institutions, especially those of the informal
sector, and promoting governance that is compatible
with fair human development opportunities.
Our commitment to fighting illicit drug
trafficking remains unchanged. For our country, this
task has meant high social, political and economic
costs, paid for with the blood of the Bolivian people.
The support of the international community in this
fight has been an incentive and a security factor.
However, our efforts require further support,
proportional to the scope of its effect, in Bolivia as
well as in those societies where drug consumption
remains a priority problem to be solved. We shall
continue to honour our commitments, but we shall also
continue to insist that the international community
fully assume the concept of shared responsibility.
For Bolivia, international assistance represents an
invaluable support. From this rostrum, I wish to thank
the nations and organizations that offer their
cooperation, but I emphasize the fact that the most
effective assistance is that which respects the decisions
and plans of those countries that receive it. Imposing
rigid and unilateral prescriptions often generates more
problems than it solves.
Our continent, Latin America, has seen its role in
the international concert diminished. The continent
faces several core problems, one of which is the siege
of its own democracy by poverty, corruption, inequality
and a globalization process of which it is part, but that
has not always generated positive results for the area.
Integration is the only possible solution if we wish to
face the future with optimism. Bolivia is working
27

diligently in this direction, not only because it is a part
of subregional blocs, such as the Andean Community
and the Common Market of the South — of which it is
an associate member — but also because it promotes
the integration of both regional groups into one South
American body that will provide greater benefits and
targeted influence in the region. As hosts for the
thirteenth Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State
and Government, Bolivia is working for the genuine
strengthening of that mechanism, which unites the
heads of State and Government of a group of countries
whose cultural, political and economic importance
throughout the world is continuously growing.
In this context, the decisions that will be made to
establish the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas
must seek a still uncertain balance for the group of
member countries, taking into account the enormous
gap between the first Power in the world and the
poorest nations of the continent, in a way that will truly
benefit everybody. This will be possible if and when,
beyond trade issues, we prioritize the transport and
communications infrastructures, science, the transfer of
technology and education.
The difficulties emerging from the worldwide
debate on international trade are proof once again of
the gap to be closed between rich and poor nations. If
equity is the foremost exigency of mankind, the only
true and effective response in order to achieve it is a
fair trade agreement. Poor countries demand access for
our products to wealthy countries under fair conditions.
This urgent claim is linked to a sustained policy of
subsidies and protectionism for key production sectors
on the part of the most developed nations. Herein lies
one of the basic causes of poverty and social tensions
in the least favoured societies.
The issue of anti-personnel mines is a very
sensitive one for Bolivia, not only as a matter of
principle — inasmuch as these lethal artefacts continue
to kill or permanently maim people throughout the
world — but also because many such mines have been
planted along our borders. We vehemently request the
Governments responsible for planting these mines to
continue their removal and destruction until the areas
involved are totally free of mines.
Today, more than ever, I wish to confirm before
this Assembly that Bolivia will never waive its just
claim of sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean,
inasmuch as we were established as an independent
republic with a sea coast. This claim, which we have
been making for over a century, is a product not of
stubbornness or caprice, but of the lack of economic
resources and huge geographic obstacles that
undermine our ability to compete. Our landlocked
condition is a deterrent to our growth and the well-
being of our citizens, as proven by the analysis of the
challenges faced by all landlocked countries.
Reintegration of our condition as a maritime nation is a
matter of justice and we cannot set it aside. We will
therefore continue to call for solidarity and support
from the community of nations. Our vocation and our
destiny to be integrated with and economically
complemented by our neighbours compels us to exhort
the Government and people of Chile to act with a view
to the future and to repair a historical wrong that has
anchored Bolivia to the past century.
We are living through difficult times, complex
and full of uncertainty. It is our obligation to stop and
question the validity of many of the premises in which
we believe. No question and no form of questioning is
superfluous at a time such as this, in which the search
for a clearer and fair horizon is a life or death necessity
for our planet.






===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
On
behalf of Bolivia, I wish to express a concern that is
global: the issue of terrorism. A world that is haunted
by terrorism is an insecure world, one whose prospects
are threatened. Bolivia believes that the fight against
terrorism is one of the most important tasks we need to
undertake together. The incident in Beslan in the
Russian Federation demonstrates how far it is possible
to go in brutal actions that are entirely divorced from
any sense of humanity.
The fight against terrorism must also be linked to
the struggle against other scourges of concern to us all.
In that context, Bolivia affirms its most resolute
commitment to the fight against drug trafficking, which
in our country is being waged through the eradication
of excess coca, undertaken with respect for the nation’s
tradition of consumption. That joint task could not be
fulfilled without the presence and support of the
international community and in the context of shared
responsibility. Shared responsibility requires clear
action to be taken on both sides of the chain of
production to eliminate the scourge of drug trafficking.
Shared responsibility requires the social and the
economic issues to be considered when addressing the
problem.
Bolivia has elaborated the idea of alternative
development, which we would wish to see converted
into comprehensive development. In other words, the
participation of the communities and villages where
coca is produced in Bolivia should be part of the
decision-making process and of the design of strategies
to modify current practices of cultivation and to
generate reasonable economic options, to open
markets, and to reduce the costs of intervention to the
international community in the eradication of coca, and
in particular in the process of seeking viable alternative
ways for the Bolivian economy.
We believe that the fight against the scourges that
are currently stalemating humankind could not be
waged without a multilateral response to the challenges
to modern society. We firmly believe in multilateralism
and strongly support the United Nations as the arena of
that multilateralism. We are convinced that the time
has come to produce a series of comprehensive reforms
in the Organization as a whole. That would require,
inter alia, an expansion of the Security Council at the
onset of a new historic era. As the challenges have
changed, so too must the responses.
In that context, we are convinced that another
aspect to be thoroughly reviewed is the paradigm of
global development, which is unsustainable over time
and will not allow for long-term responses, but which
will instead generate complex problems that cannot be
resolved. A change in the development paradigm
requires openness of mind and a heterodox capacity to
respond to the basic parameters in which the world
economy functions today, without demagogic
responses or utopian solutions. On the contrary, we
need to ponder such issues as hunger, poverty and
exclusion, which afflict millions of human beings on
our planet.
This is a good opportunity to recall that, over the
past year, Bolivia has experienced a particularly
difficult situation. In October 2003, a social, political
and economic crisis pushed our nation to the brink of
confrontation and violence, with unforeseeable
consequences. The crisis threatened all of our
institutions, and in particular our democratic system.
The Bolivian response to that crisis was issued
peacefully, in respect for democracy, through a
mechanism of constitutional succession that allowed
me, as Vice-President, to take office as President and to
assume the enormous challenges to the country in order
to restore order, peace and the prospects and hopes of
our society.
20

Why did this crisis occur in Bolivia? It happened
because of an accumulation of historic arrears that, at
some point, had to be paid for by our society. Those
arrears included exclusion, discrimination, a vision of
Bolivian society rife with racism, and truly dreadful
poverty. The efforts undertaken by the country on the
basis of a liberal economic model and of a structural
adjustment model had their highs and lows. Positive
results allowed for macroeconomic stability, but
genuinely inadequate results in the social sphere were
the outcome primarily of exhaustion and the need for
different responses. All of those historical arrears fell
due in October, leading to a popular upheaval that
ended in social turmoil, calling not only for a short-
term response — ours, I believe, was effective in that
democracy and peace were preserved — but also and
above all for a forward-looking solution.
What are the major challenges facing Bolivia
today in its geographical, historical and geopolitical
contexts? It must first resolve its own conflict between
society and State and the challenges of its own
economic growth. One of the country’s key issues was
the definition of an energy policy once we learned that
our nation has one of the largest reserves of natural gas
in South America.
We chose a path that was difficult, yet attractive,
and that marked our desire for democratic participation
and participative democracy — please forgive the
wordplay — within our society. We opted for a binding
referendum in which the people of Bolivia were able to
decide what they wished to do with their most
important energy resources. The referendum
highlighted our will to participate and to define our
own destiny. It was successfully held on 18 July. It
took place in a framework of peace, of democratic
participation and of clear and convincing responses
that allowed our Government to move forward with a
hydrocarbons and natural gas policy that regulates
export, industrialization and relations with investors
and investment companies that are appropriate and
useful to our nation.
In this forum, I wish to affirm our belief in a
constructive and mutually beneficial relationship
between private investors in Bolivia and the
representatives of the State. Perhaps one of the most
important lessons of recent years is that we must
neither revert to the old system of State capitalism of
the 1950s and 1960s, nor pursue the rigid orthodoxy of
the liberal vision.
The answer for today is a practical combination
within the false distinction between the market and the
State. That distinction must be abolished and the
combination made viable without exclusions and
without jeopardizing the fundamental concept, in
which we believe, that legal security is guaranteed by
the rule of law. That is the path on which we have
embarked as we work to adopt new hydrocarbons
legislation.
Perhaps the most important thing for Bolivia in
the coming months, however, is to reach a new social
covenant. While the relationship between society and
the State has been severely damaged and threatened by
collapse, it is clear that the concept of democratic
participation has to be reflected in that covenant
through a constituent assembly, freely elected to define
the outline of the country that we wish to build in the
immediate future.
Given that my Government has no political party
or organized presence in that context, we shall convene
a constituent assembly that is truly pluralistic and in
which the elements of our Magna Carta will be
provided by various social sectors yet respond to a
single basic concept: an end to exclusion and
discrimination; the option — in a country where the
majority is of indigenous Quechua, Aymara or Guaraní
origin — for the majority to express itself; and the
definition, in a democratic context and in the
framework of distinct regions and distinct visions, of
the profile of a viable nation.
I also wish to note that we achieved something
very important after the crisis: the restoration of peace
through transparent, honest and austere action that
Bolivia urgently needed. This does not mean that the
task is done. The struggle against corruption will
always be a challenge in our country, as it is elsewhere
in the world, but I believe that we have demonstrated a
clear commitment that has given us credibility and
legitimacy in our society.
Transparency, honesty and austerity are vital
elements in a poor nation that must administer
appropriately and efficiently the meagre resources at its
disposal. In that context, I wish here at the United
Nations to thank the international community, which
was consistent and unified in its support for Bolivia
during the crisis and in the following months, helping
us to implement a consistent macroeconomic policy to
resolve such serious issues as its heavy fiscal deficit.
21

Given its geographical location at the centre of
our continent, Bolivia should be a pivotal country in
the fast-paced process of integration. That process has
two major protagonists: the Andean Community, of
which we are a member, and the Southern Common
Market, of which we are an associate member. At first,
we were a “hinge” country, but we are now in the
process of integration that will gradually encompass a
large bloc of South American nations, which we
welcome and towards which we are striving.
In that context of coordination and integration,
Bolivia holds a key play in any process of
infrastructure development. In energy, Bolivia is a
country that can serve as South America’s energy
distribution hub. In telecommunications — fibre optics
in particular — and, of course, in highway
infrastructure, we are vital and must be an actor that
facilitates rather than obstructs.
I wish to share a thought here with such
multilateral entities as the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund and other organizations
that are cooperating with Bolivia and other developing
countries.
Because of its revenues and high level of debt,
Bolivia has been considered to be a heavily indebted
poor country. In theory, that has given it a series of
advantages in debt servicing and, above all, in the
channelling of that servicing not towards repayment,
but towards social services. Paradoxically, however,
this has limited the country’s capacity to obtain non-
concessional loans that would allow us to implement
infrastructure projects that are of interest not only to
Bolivia, but to all countries of the region.
We believe that we must begin to look differently
at the way international organizations interpret those
loans in order to make them more flexible and to avoid
the paradox whereby an advantage becomes a burden
that makes development impossible. We hope that this
new approach will be grasped by the international
community, and in particular by the multilateral
organizations.
Lastly, I wish to broach a subject that we will
always stress in our statements before the world
community. Bolivia’s landlocked status is a factor that
has curbed our development. Bolivia was born as an
independent country with a coastline on the Pacific
Ocean. Today, we demand free, useful and sovereign
access to that Ocean. Our demand has moral, historical
and legal bases and is linked to the high economic cost
that has made development difficult throughout our
history. We make this demand, and I want to emphasize
this, on the basis of a logic of construction — a logic
of integration.
Chile and Bolivia are countries that complement
each other. We are countries that have a destiny of
shared development and integration. To fail to find a
solution to the Bolivian issue is to negate the
possibility of development and integration and prevent
it from becoming a reality.
Bolivia is prepared to undertake an open dialogue
in order to find an appropriate and definitive solution
to the problem. That is all the more true today because
South American integration is so close at hand, and
because Bolivia’s maritime problem has become an
obstacle on the path to that integration.
We are expressing a rational, constructive
desire — a will for integration. Our demand is
unchanging and has profound relevance in the context
of everything I said earlier.
I should like to conclude by stating here, before
the nations of the world, that our country is one of
peace that believes in disarmament. It believes also
that we need to reflect on and change many of the
paradigms which in the course of time have
crystallized certain positions and have limited the
open-mindedness that we need today, more than ever,
in the twenty-first century, in order to face the
challenges of the future.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
Mr. President, I am pleased to greet and congratulate
you on your election, which will assure the success of
these debates. I am also pleased to greet Secretary-
General Kofi Annan, whose efforts to preserve peace
and promote solidarity among the world’s peoples are
recognized and appreciated.
My country, Bolivia, located at the heart of South
America, has just overcome, with sacrifice and
deprivation, a profound political crisis. The maturity
and the democratic spirit of my people led to a
transition period to ensure institutional continuity and
to initiate a process to legitimize, through a universal
vote, the election of the country’s authorities.
Furthermore, this process had as its goal to establish
governability and to reaffirm faith in the citizens’ right
to elect their Government and the parliamentary
representatives of their choice.
During the electoral process that Bolivia is
presently undergoing, a new design for a pioneer
nation in securing its liberty and independence will be
defined. The elections to take place at the end of this
year will bring about a new and unprecedented
political scenario, a process to carry out a constituent
assembly and the people’s decision to put into practice
regional autonomies that will lead to the establishment
of a new social contract oriented towards the
construction of a more organized country, forever
democratic, without exclusion, as required by the
Millennium Development Goals.
A well-known Colombian citizen advised us that
only with a new look to the past may we create the
possibility of another future; and only by looking
creatively at our world may we catch a glimpse of the
new type of order we ought to build. This vision is
5

shared by the peoples of Latin America and, of course,
by Bolivians. For some time, we have been united in
our effort to solve disputes by encouraging common
actions so that disputing countries may look for and
negotiate peaceful solutions to their differences.
It is also true that in this America with profound
democratic roots and ties of brotherhood and solidarity
among the peoples, there are still unresolved situations,
such as Bolivia’s landlocked status. At the beginning of
the twenty-first century, the people of Bolivia and
neighbouring countries should be capable of creating
spaces in which open dialogue can take place, without
prejudice, thereby allowing for solutions that look to
the future and are not based on positions anchored in
the past. We believe that it is essential to enter into
negotiations with a view to consulting, responding to
and serving mutual interests and reaching a definitive
solution that restores Bolivia’s sovereign access to the
Pacific coast. It is essential that we create an
environment of trust for negotiation and agreement for
that purpose.
Latin America is a region in which we dream
about freedom, hope for progress and the integration of
our peoples, although this requires constant renewal
and creativity on our part. I am convinced that we will
continue with the necessary task of attaining the
Millennium Development Goals set for 2015 and the
subsequent indicators for measuring social progress,
although in the case of Bolivia we may face difficulties
that will require us to focus on inequality and
exclusion, violent conflict, intolerance, unfair land
distribution, unemployment, extreme poverty and
malnutrition.
The Bolivian people fully agree that we need to
lay a foundation for ensuring progress with equity.
Thus, a global effort is required if we are to eradicate
poverty.
Although significant progress has been made with
regard to such indicators for sustainability, institutional
improvements and economic stability, the Government
of Bolivia is concerned about the deadlines that have
been set, and urges the international community to
consider putting in place better terms and conditions.
Harmony among peoples cannot be achieved fully
in a world in which security is put to the test every day
by terrorist threats against innocent people and against
the systems chosen by peoples who cherish the
conviction that the only way of safeguarding mutual
respect and harmony in society is through the exercise
of democracy. Bolivia condemns terrorism and is
actively combating that scourge afflicting humankind.
Our Organization, which is committed to
promoting the civilized coexistence of the peoples of
the world, is 60 years old. Founded by 45 States, it
now has 191 Members, which support and put into
practice the guiding principles of our global
community. A world without the United Nations is
unthinkable in either theory or practice, for it is
guiding us towards a common destiny and away from
such current tribulations as poverty, terrorism and
violence.
Bolivia recognizes that, throughout the 60 years
of this Organization’s life, it has benefited from
valuable cooperation efforts. Indeed, certain problems
are shared by many countries. Thus international
cooperation cannot be considered merely an act of
solidarity. Cooperation must be a pillar of peace, since
one of the threats that we are facing is increasing
inequality leading to the marginalization of vast sectors
of our societies. This brings dissatisfaction, which
frequently gives rise to dangerous social tensions.
It is not merely a question of achieving apparent
economic stability. Rather, we must significantly
improve quality of life indices, both out of basic
respect for human rights and because of the need for
equity and justice.
Bolivia reaffirms its commitment to the principles
of the United Nations, to peace and to democratic
institutions. We believe that the United Nations is the
highest forum for universal interaction among
countries and individuals, and we also believe that its
institutions and entities must be adapted and reformed
if it is to achieve its objectives.
The interrelationship between development,
security and human rights within a framework of
democratic values is an expression of today’s
interdependent world, and of multilateralism, which
reaffirms the leading role of the United Nations and
our ongoing determination to promote social progress
and to improve living standards within a broader
concept of freedom. In this context, Bolivia believes
that the recent commitment made at the world summit
to adopt, in the near future, a United Nations
declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples will
encourage social integration and peaceful national
coexistence.
6

Bolivia is sincere in its determination to achieve
peace, solidarity and the well-being of all, to protect
the rule of law and to secure justice and liberty.
Ultimately, we are guided by democracy — a system
that can be improved upon, and a way of life.

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
It 
is a source of great satisfaction to be here to represent 
my people, my homeland, Bolivia, and especially the 
indigenous movement. After more than 500 years of 
contempt and hatred for peoples once considered 
savages and animals — peoples who in some regions 
were condemned to extermination — we have come to 
right a historical wrong, to right the wrongs of 500 
years, thanks to today’s awareness and the uprising and 
struggle for the rights of peoples. 
 During the period of the Republic, when we were 
also discriminated against and marginalized, the 
struggle of peoples for life and humanity was never 
taken into account. Over the past 20 years, through the 
application of an economic model, neo-liberalism, the 
plundering of our natural resources and the 
privatization of basic services continued. We are 
convinced that privatizing basic services is the best 
way to violate human rights. 
 Those minor considerations require us — and 
require me personally — to speak the truth here about 
the lives of families. I come to express this feeling for 
the humanity of peoples, of my people; I come to 
express the suffering caused by marginalization and 
exclusion; and, above all, I come to express the anti-
colonial thoughts of peoples who are fighting for 
equality and justice. 
 In my country, we are beginning to seek profound 
democratic and peaceful change. We are in the process 
of identifying ways to recreate Bolivia in order to unite 
Bolivians; to recreate Bolivia in order to bring all the 
sectors and regions of my country closer together; to 
recreate Bolivia, but not to take revenge against 
anyone, although we have been subjected to 
discrimination; and, in particular, to recreate Bolivia to 
put an end to this contempt, this hatred for peoples. I 
say this because my mother told me that when she 
would go to the city, she did not have the right to walk 
in the main squares of my country’s cities; as recently 
as 30 or 40 years ago, she did not have the right to 
walk on the pavement. 
 Fortunately, however, we have decided to move 
beyond that social, labour and communal struggle to a 
new electoral struggle so that we ourselves can resolve 
social, economic and structural problems. We are 
casting our lot with the reform-minded Constituent 
Assembly. I would like the United Nations to 
participate in this process of peaceful and democratic 
change, which is the best thing that we could do for our 
abandoned and marginalized families. 
 Surely, many other countries have the same 
problems as my country, a nation with so much wealth 
but also so much poverty. Historically, our natural 
resources were stolen, plundered, sold off and 
delivered to transnational corporations by neo-liberal 
Governments. The time has come for those in the 
vanguard of the struggle of peoples for power and 
territory to recover those natural resources for the 
Bolivian State so that they can be under the people’s 
control. 
 When we talk about recovering our natural 
resources, they tell us, in this dirty campaign of 
accusations, that the Government of Evo Morales is not 
going to respect private property. I want to tell them 
that my Government will respect private property. It is 
true that we need investment; we need partners — not 
bosses, not owners of our natural resources. We 
understand perfectly well that an underdeveloped 
country needs investment. 
  
 
06-52737 34 
 
 I would like to clear up for everyone a number of 
concerns and false accusations. If the Bolivian State 
exercises its property rights over natural resources such 
as natural gas, hydrocarbons and petroleum, we will 
not expel anyone or confiscate anything. Investors will 
be respected; indeed, they will be guaranteed a return 
on their investment and the right to make a profit. But 
they will not make fat profits as they did before, and 
then fail to resolve my country’s social problems. 
 I have not come to tell anyone how to govern. I 
have not come to threaten a country or to start to set 
conditions for a country. I wish only to ask that, as 
international organizations, as States with a spirit of 
solidarity, as nations with principles of reciprocity and 
brotherhood, all players participate in the process of 
moving towards democracy. We are very concerned 
that there be an awareness, in international forums such 
as the United Nations, of the need to work to bring 
about peaceful change. 
 All are aware, in North America in particular as 
well as in Europe, that many Bolivians are leaving 
their country to find work. It used to be Europeans who 
invaded Latin America, and especially Bolivia. Now, 
however, it seems that the situation has changed. It is 
the Latin Americans and the Bolivians who are 
invading Europe, as they did previously the United 
States. Why? Because, at the present time, there are no 
jobs. What is needed is fair trade, trade by peoples for 
peoples, trade that resolves employment problems. 
 Of course, trade by corporations is important, but 
trade by small producers is even more important. For 
the benefit of these cooperatives, these associations 
and these collectives, their products — not my brothers 
and sisters — are the ones that should go to Europe. 
That is what we wish to see. Greater awareness on the 
part of the international community is required if we 
wish to resolve the problem of migration. 
 Our brothers and sisters will not go take over 
thousands of hectares, as others did when they came to 
Latin America. They came to take our wealth and our 
resources. It is important to note that, even in my 
country, this so-called free trade is affecting major 
agribusiness concerns. As a consequence of the free 
trade agreement that Colombia signed with the United 
States, soy farmers, Bolivians, and even Colombian 
agribusiness concerns have lost market share. I am 
convinced that it is important to import what we do not 
produce and export what we do produce. That would 
resolve economic problems and the problem of 
unemployment. 
 I should like to take this opportunity to speak of 
another historical injustice: the criminalization of the 
coca leaf. This coca leaf is green, not white, like 
cocaine. The coca leaf is symbolic of Andean culture, 
of the Andean environment and of the hopes of 
peoples. It is not acceptable that the coca leaf be legal 
for Coca-Cola and illegal for medicinal consumption 
not only in our country but throughout the world. 
 The United Nations should be aware that 
scientific studies have been carried out in American 
and European universities that have shown that the 
coca leaf has no negative effects on human health. I am 
very sorry that because some have a drug habit, the 
coca leaf has become illegal. We are aware of that. 
That is why, as coca leaf producers, we have stated that 
there will not be unfettered coca leaf production, but 
neither will there be zero production. Conditionality-
based policies implemented in the past focused on zero 
coca-leaf production. But zero coca-leaf production is 
equivalent to zero Quechuas, zero Aymarás, zero 
Mojeños, zero Chiquitanos. All of that ended with 
another Government. We are an underdeveloped 
country with economic problems resulting from the 
pillage of our natural resources. We are here today to 
begin to regain our dignity and the dignity of our 
country. 
 In that context, I wish to say that the best 
contribution to combating drug trafficking has been 
through an agreed, voluntary reduction, with no deaths 
or injuries. I was pleased to hear that the United 
Nations report recognizes the honest and responsible 
effort that has been made to combat drug trafficking. 
Drug seizures have increased 300 per cent. However, 
yesterday I heard the United States Government state 
that it would not accept coca cultivation and that it was 
imposing conditions on us so that we would change our 
system. 
 I want to say, with all due respect for the United 
States Government, that we are not going to change 
anything. We do not need blackmail or threats. The so-
called certifications or de-certifications used in the 
combat against drug trafficking are simply an 
instrument for the recolonization or colonization of 
Andean countries. We will not accept or allow this. 
 We want, and need, an alliance to combat drug 
trafficking, but it must be genuine and effective. The 
 
 
35 06-52737 
 
war on drugs cannot be an instrument or a pretext to 
subjugate the Andean countries, just as the idea of 
preventive war was invented to intervene in certain 
countries of the Middle East. We must wage an 
effective battle against drug trafficking. I call on the 
United Nations and invite the Government of the 
United States to reach an agreement and to forge an 
effective alliance to combat drug trafficking. The war 
on drugs should not be used as an excuse or a pretext 
to dominate or humiliate us, or to try to establish 
military bases in our country under the pretext of 
combating the drug trade. 
 I should like also to take this opportunity, in the 
context of this process of change, to say that we want 
justice. That is important to our peoples. I believe that, 
through the Constituent Assembly, justice will be 
decolonized and nationalized. That will be true justice. 
As long as some violate others’ human rights, as long 
as peoples are threatened by military intervention, 
there will never be justice. 
 We are committed, as Presidents and heads of 
State, to safeguarding the dignity of humanity by 
putting an end to the impunity promoted by my 
country’s previous Governments and to the massacres 
of people demanding their economic rights and 
claiming their natural resources. It is not acceptable 
that the perpetrators of genocide and the most corrupt 
criminals can escape and move to the United States. 
With all due respect, I ask the United States, as a 
developed country, to expel those corrupt, genocidal 
criminals who are living there. If they have nothing to 
hide, why are they not defending themselves before the 
Bolivian judiciary? 
 I am obligated, as President, to ensure that they 
are tried by the Bolivian justice system. I do not 
believe that any country or any head of State can 
protect criminals or those who are guilty of genocide. I 
hope that, with the support of the American people, 
through international organizations, those responsible 
for so much economic damage and so many violations 
of human rights will be brought to justice, or there will 
never be respect for human rights. 
 I have been entrusted by the Permanent Forum on 
Indigenous Issues to say the following. Previously, 
debates on the rights of indigenous peoples were held 
in the United Nations Sub-commission dealing with 
that issue, in Geneva, and in the framework of the 
Organization of American States (OAS). But I have 
been informed that the debate has now moved to this 
highest of bodies, the United Nations itself. 
 I call on the Assembly, on behalf of the 
indigenous peoples of the world, and particularly those 
of Abiallal — now known as America — urgently to 
adopt the declaration on the rights of the indigenous 
peoples of the world: the right to self-determination, 
the right to live in communities, and the right to live a 
life based on solidarity and reciprocity, and, above all, 
on brotherhood. 
 There are regions and communities where there is 
no private property, only community property. We 
indigenous peoples want, quite simply, to live well, not 
better. Living better means exploiting, pillaging, 
robbing, whereas living well is living peacefully in 
brotherhood. That is why it is extremely important for 
the United Nations, after the Decade of the Indigenous 
Peoples, to adopt as a matter of urgency the 
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 
including the right to natural resources and the right to 
care for the environment. 
 We indigenous peoples, particularly the poor, are 
of the culture of life, not the culture of war. This 
millennium must really be about defending life and 
saving humanity. If we want to save humanity, we must 
save the planet Earth. We indigenous peoples live in 
harmony with Mother Earth, not only in reciprocity 
and solidarity with human beings. We are very sorry 
that hegemonistic policies and rivalries are destroying 
the planet Earth. I feel that it is important for all 
countries, societies and international organizations to 
begin to debate this subject truly, in order to save the 
planet Earth, to save humanity. 
 This new millennium in which we are living must 
be a millennium of life, not war, a millennium of the 
people, not of empire, a millennium of justice and 
equality; and all economic policies must be directed 
towards ending or at least reducing the so-called 
asymmetries or differences between countries and 
social inequalities. There is no question now of 
implementing policies that involve the economic 
humiliation or pillaging of others, whether with rules 
or with troops. 
 With all due respect, I wish to say that it is 
important for the troops to be withdrawn from Iraq, if 
we want to respect human rights. It is important to 
abandon economic policies that allow capital to be 
concentrated in just a few hands. I feel that these 
  
 
06-52737 36 
 
actions have to be of historic importance in order to 
change the world and to change economic models and 
interventionist policies. In particular, we want these to 
be times which enable us to defend and save humanity. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
This is the second time I have addressed the Assembly 
in my 20 months as President. I come here to share our 
experiences with the Presidents of the many countries 
of our world. I wish to take this opportunity to say how 
pleased I am at the election of a new Secretary-
General, who will be leading the international 
Organization for the good of humankind, and above all, 
for the good of the abandoned and the dispossessed. 
For that reason, I wish to briefly comment on my own 
country.  
 For the first time in Bolivian history, the groups 
most forgotten, despised, hated and reviled throughout 
the history of Bolivia — we indigenous peoples — 
have assumed the leadership of our country to change 
our beloved Bolivia — to make political and economic 
changes, to reshape and re-establish our country, 
orienting it towards searching for unity, respecting our 
differences and respecting our identity so that we can 
work together to resolve our economic and social 
problems.  
 In this brief period, I have felt and seen that it 
will be difficult and will mean fighting for the equality 
and justice of peoples, of all of us who live in the 
homeland. But at the same time, we shall do so with a 
great deal of strength, because the popular movement, 
the indigenous movement and the intellectuals and 
even the business and professional communities, have 
taken a chance on their land and their people, and are 
striving peacefully for democratization, ensuring a 
cultural revolution in my country.  
 But sometimes it is more important to regain our 
natural resources. I very much regret to say that in my 
country, during the neoliberal regimes, natural 
resources and State-owned enterprises were privatized 
under the pretext of capitalization. In fact, they 
decapitalized the country, claiming that private 
enterprise would be the solution for unemployment and 
corruption. We actually saw an increase in 
unemployment and in corruption. Just a few years ago, 
Bolivia was considered to be the world's runner-up of 
corruption, but now I am delighted to see that 
international organizations have said that there has 
been a great decrease in corruption in Bolivia. We want 
to eradicate it.  
 I want members to know that in 2005, before I 
became President of the Republic, Bolivia received 
only $300 million in revenue from hydrocarbons. That 
was a time when hydrocarbons, oil and natural gas 
were privatized, when they were given to the 
transnationals. Now that we have changed the oil laws 
and nationalized and recovered these very important 
natural resources, Bolivia will receive more than 
$2 billion in revenue this year.  
 For that reason, Bolivia wants to share its 
experience with all leaders and with all nations where 
natural resources have been privatized. It is important, 
with the strength of the people, to recover these natural 
resources so that they can benefit the people and the 
nation. Of course, I completely understand that 
companies have the right to recover the economic 
resources that they have invested. They have a right to 
profit, but not like in the past when all they were 
concerned with was plundering our natural resources.  
 The most important thing in all of this is that we 
have begun to decolonize Bolivia, both internally and 
externally. I say internally because my country 
previously had masters. If we look back at our history, 
there were masters that were descended from the 
viceroys, religious groups and the oligarchy. They 
ruled and the people were powerless. Now we are 
building up the power of the people so that the people 
are sovereign, not groups of families, and so that we, 
the peoples, have the right to decide on our future.  
 That is the best kind of democracy we can 
implement, because it does not mean merely accepting 
certain policies or being subjugated by masters or 
bosses in my country. When I say that we are 
decolonizing externally as well, I mean that right now, 
there are no ambassadors in my country who change or 
appoint ministers. Before, unfortunately, United States 
ambassadors changed and appointed ministers. That is 
over. Thus, we have begun to decolonize our country.  
 Once, policies were imposed on us by the World 
Bank and the International Monetary Fund. That is 
over too. I would like to share a little story about our 
country that I remember clearly. In 2003, the World 
Bank and the International Monetary Fund told our 
leadership to choose between a gasoline tax and an 
income tax to avoid a deficit. The Government decided 
to put a tax on workers' wages. In two days more than 
15 people died in Bolivia because of clashes among 
Bolivians. 
 Now let me say that last year, without income 
taxes, without gasoline taxes, Bolivia had a surplus 
thanks to the return of a natural resource, 
hydrocarbons, that is so important for my country.  
 That is why I say that we have begun external 
decolonization. We are gathering the proposals and 
initiatives of our peoples organized in civic and trade 
union forums, in particular people who have economic 
problems. They have the wisdom to propose initiatives 
and solutions from their own neighbourhoods and from 
their own trade unions. That is my experience, and so I 
think it is important to create people's power. Let 
social forces take the decisions, and let the leaders 
follow the wishes of the people. In that way we can 
resolve our problems.  
 Over the past few days I have listened to some 
very encouraging statements, but also some that were 
rather disappointing. They spoke, for example, of 
global warming and of climate change, and I know that 
many countries are victims of these natural 
phenomena. But I cannot understand why so many 
lives are lost to floods, interventionism, war and 
hunger? It seems that economic models are not going 
to solve the problems of humankind. I am all the more 
convinced of that after having heard many of those 
statements and the experiences that have been shared 
by world leaders. Concentrating capital in the hands of 
the few is not a solution to the problems of humankind. 
Having the wealth of the world in the hands of the few 
does not solve the problems of human existence. 
Indeed, it exacerbates problems of the poor who 
inhabit planet Earth.  
 We talk of global warming and the melting of the 
ice, but we do not say where it comes from. I am 
convinced that it comes from that ill-termed 
globalization — or selective globalization: a 
globalization that does not respect plurality and that 
does not respect differences.  
 If we are to talk about globalization, first of all 
we must globalize the human being. I do not know how 
everyone here got to New York - or to the United 
States - but my delegation had many visa problems. 
Our parliamentarians could not obtain United States 
visas. When I arrived at the airport, I was blocked, and 
my ministers - my indigenous compatriots - were 
subjected to hours and hours of controls at the airport. 
Some of us, the representatives of countries, were 
practically threatened by our hosts, by President Bush. 
If that continues, perhaps we should seriously consider, 
as Presidents and nations, changing the site of the 
United Nations. I personally am not willing to come 
here to be the subject of investigation. I feel that the 
decolonization of the United Nations too should begin 
and that everyone should respect us, whether we are 
small or large, whether we have or do not have 
problems.  
 I listen to statements about glaciers melting, and 
they are made without addressing the underlying 
causes of melting and global warming. It is capitalism 
and the exaggerated, unrestricted form of 
industrialization in some countries which are creating 
so many problems on our continent and on planet Earth 
as a whole. When we organize alongside social 
movements to protest and condemn these unsustainable 
policies, these economic models that do not solve 
economic problems, then what we get is military bases 
and interventions, wars, demonization, accusations of 
terrorism, as though peoples had no right to speak out 
about their needs, their rights, or to formulate new 
approaches to saving lives and humankind.  
 I therefore believe that it is important for us, as 
Presidents, nations or delegates, to tell the truth in all 
sincerity about these economic problems, which are not 
exclusive to Bolivia, North America or South America. 
When the democratic change is under way in South 
America - i.e. the kind of democracy that liberates 
and does not submit to imperialism - there are further 
accusations and misrepresentations. There are 
accusations of people being cruel dictators, such as 
those I heard from the lips of President Bush yesterday 
with respect to the President of Cuba. I wish to greet 
all revolutionaries, especially President Fidel, for 
whom I have a great deal of respect. Fidel also sends 
troops to many countries, but they are sent to save 
lives, whereas the President of the United States sends 
troops to end human lives. Therefore, since we here 
today are presidents, let us think about life, 
humankind, how to save planet Earth and the question 
of climate change, which is a subject of ongoing debate 
throughout the world. 
 I am convinced that it is not possible for basic 
services to remain private enterprises. Fortunately, 
thanks to the foreign ministries of the Americas, water 
has been recognized as a human right. If water is a 
human right, it is important that it should become a 
public utility, instead of a private business. It is 
important that energy should now also be a human 
right. I hope that we can all ensure that energy is a 
human right. If energy is a human right, then it will 
never again be a private business. It must be a public 
utility so as to meet the needs of our people.  
 I cannot understand how we can continue, under 
the guise of hegemony or of concentrating capital in a 
few hands, to do damage to humankind, to affect the 
poor and to marginalize other needy sectors. I feel we 
are making statements here in order to change these 
economic policies that have done, and continue to do, 
so much damage and that are leading humankind down 
the path to genocide.  
 I still fail to understand why some countries are 
involved in an arms race. I cannot accept war. In 
Bolivia we are discussing, as a social and political 
endeavour, how a new political constitution could lead 
us to renounce war. I am convinced that war is the 
industry of death and that the arms race is one more 
industry that complements the industry of death. In this 
new millennium, how can countries and presidents 
keep thinking in terms of interventionism, 
authoritarianism and arrogance on the part of some 
countries towards other countries, and not think about 
humankind?  
I believe that we must work together to save 
planet Earth. That is the most important thing, if we 
want to save life and humankind.  
 Yesterday, too, I heard, and tried to comprehend, 
statements about biofuels and agrofuels. I do not 
understand how we can make use of agricultural 
products or food when it comes to cars. I cannot accept 
that that is what the products of the earth should be for. 
I believe that food should be for human beings and that 
soil should be for life. Are we really going to divert our 
land and food resources to provide for automobiles 
because of a gasoline or diesel shortage? Two days 
ago, I said that if we are really talking about life, then 
let us give up luxury. It is important to give up luxury. 
We cannot continue to accumulate garbage, we cannot 
continue to think about just a few families instead of 
thinking about all of humankind. I think we have 
profound differences, when we talk about these matters 
of life and about our national majorities.  
 I want to take this opportunity to express thanks 
for the support received from everyone, with the 
exception of four Governments, for the adoption of the 
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. We 
feel very gratified. The peoples of the Americas have 
waited for over 500 years for their rights to be 
recognized. We are part of a culture of patience. I wish 
to say that the fact that we now have this Declaration 
does not mean that we will act vindictively towards 
others. Indigenous people are not vengeful. We are part 
of the culture of dialogue and, most fundamentally, 
part of the culture of life.  
 I want to ask the United Nations to convene very 
soon a United Nations world summit of indigenous 
peoples to compile data on different cultural 
experiences. We are compiling data on our experiences 
in Bolivia through a programme called “Living Well”. 
To live better, one must sometimes exploit. To live 
better, one must sometimes rob. To live better, one 
must sometimes discriminate. To live better, one must 
sometimes plunder. But to live well means to live in 
community, collectively. This does not just apply to 
living among human beings. It also means living well 
in harmony with Mother Earth. The earth, for the 
indigenous movement, is something sacred. Mother 
Earth is our very life, it is Pacha Mama, as we say in 
our languages. Mother Earth cannot be turned into 
merchandise. Mother Earth cannot be turned into a 
business. If we talk about global warming, if we protest 
and fight global warming, let us remember that we are 
talking about Mother Earth. Since Mother Earth gives 
us life, we need to review our policies, but we also 
need to pay attention to what has been stated by our 
indigenous movement.  
 We have lived in communities, collectively. What 
is being debated is collectivism and community against 
capitalism. Let us continue to debate, to reclaim these 
ways of life in order to defend life and to save 
humankind. 
 I also want to take a moment to say that this new 
millennium must be the millennium of life, equality 
and justice, of respecting our identities and upholding 
human dignity. That is why we are talking about 
changing economic models, those systems that do harm 
to mankind. But if we want to make changes, then it is 
important for us to change ourselves first. Let us not be 
selfish, individualistic, greedy, ambitious or sectarian 
in our attitudes, concerning ourselves with just a few 
families instead of with the entire family on Mother 
Earth. So as presidents, as representatives of our 
different nations, we are talking about changing 
ourselves first, with a view to also changing economic 
models in a quest for equality and justice. During my 
20 months as President, I have learned that I must work 
with the people and listen to their needs. There will 
always be groups who do not wish to lose their 
privileges, but those are ill-gotten privileges or 
privileges that enable them to use the State for family 
business rather than thinking of the families of others.  
 I have learned, during my 20 months as President, 
how wonderful it would have been to work for the 
homeland and not for money, how wonderful it would 
have been to work for those abandoned by the peoples, 
how wonderful it would have been to work together 
with people who do not have many economic problems 
but who cherish their homeland and want to work for it 
in solidarity and with a sense of complementarity.  
 I would also like to say that, as members know, 
we have a historic problem with our sister republic of 
Chile on the subject of the sea. We have now 
succeeded in laying the foundations of a certain trust 
between us: trust between our peoples, our 
Governments and our Presidents, through peoples' 
diplomacy. It is our hope that these historic claims can 
be worked on and resolved, within the framework of 
complementarity, because neighbouring countries, 
Latin American countries and the countries of the 
world need to work in a complementary way if we  
want to resolve the problems of our peoples and 
nations. Complementarity is very important, and that is 
why we want to continue to work for humankind.  
 In conclusion, as sometimes the red light on the 
rostrum makes one nervous, but never mind - I would 
like to say that I hope we can keep learning from 
events of this kind, in which so many participate. 
These are the best universities we have. But let us 
speak clearly and sincerely. Let us not falsify the truth, 
when we talk only about the effects of humankind's 
problems and not their causes. In that context, I want to 
say that it is important to change our economic models 
and eradicate capitalism.  


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
This meeting of the United Nations is being held at a 
time when there is a rebellion of peoples throughout 
the world, a rebellion against poverty and destitution 
and against the effects of climate change, against the 
privatization policies that have caused the financial 
crisis. 
  
 
08-51606 30 
 
 I wish to tell the Assembly that in Bolivia in 
recent years we have experienced great uprisings by 
our people, social movements from the countryside to 
the cities, of indigenous workers and farmers 
questioning economic models and systems that simply 
privatized natural resources and steadily sacked the 
country. The privatization of basic services and the 
policies imposed by the World Bank and the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) did not solve 
anything for the majority of Bolivians. I came to the 
presidency in 2005 and 2006 as a result of that struggle 
by the social movements, which was accompanied by 
an ongoing labour and social struggle by our Bolivian 
comrades and brothers who were seeking equality and 
social justice.  
 With a little experience I can say that in the two 
and a half years of my Government we have 
nationalized the natural resources, such as oil and gas, 
and the economy is beginning to change profoundly. In 
2005, before I was elected President, the Bolivian State 
received only $300 million for its oil and gas 
resources. Last year, 2007, after nationalization and 
after we changed the hydrocarbons law, the Bolivian 
State received $1.93 billion. Being a small country 
with about 10 million inhabitants, that enabled us to 
improve the national economy. The recovery of our 
natural resources is so important that that has been the 
goal of a historic fight by our peoples.  
 I wish to speak about some results with regard to 
social issues and about some profound changes in 
democracy that took place with the participation of the 
workers in various social sectors. However — and I am 
certain that in the last few days the world has been able 
to grasp this — there is an ongoing conspiracy of small 
groups against this process of change. I want it known 
that since the first day of my Government some 
conservative parties that favour imperialism have 
consistently tried to weaken us and to wear us down. 
Last year they requested a referendum to recall the 
President. I accepted that calmly, and instead of my 
being recalled, some prefects and some opposition 
authorities were recalled by the Bolivian people. I 
received the support of 67 per cent of the people in the 
recall referendum of 10 August 2008.  
 I should like to recall something important that 
our forefathers used to say — our leaders who fought 
for control of our land, people such as Tupac Catari. In 
1741 we were cut into pieces by the Spanish invasion. 
Before Bolivia was founded and before dying, our 
leader said, “I die, but I will return transformed into 
millions of people”. For the first time a President of the 
Bolivians has received more than 2 million votes. So 
the statement of Tupac Catari, the leader of our 
ancestors, has come true. But that was part of a process 
of change in the democracy, with the awareness of the 
Bolivian people.  
 After 13, 14 and 15 August, that small group of 
conservatives began to organize a coup d’état of 
municipal authorities and prefects against the 
Government and the State. I will quickly list some of 
those events. On 14 and 15 August there was a meeting 
of a so-called national coordinating committee of the 
right, which attempted to prevent the national 
authorities from reaching four regions of the country. 
They attacked the departmental command of the 
national police, and there was an attack on the police 
subcommander. A roadblock was set up in four regions 
to cut off food supplies for the population. Oil 
installations were surrounded. There was a general 
attack on institutions, and in four departments 
75 government offices were taken over. The State radio 
and television were silenced, especially the community 
radios. The airports were taken by those groups. 
 I remember that, when I was a boy, in the military 
dictatorships the coups d’état began with takeovers of 
the State television stations. History is repeating itself, 
but thanks to the conscience of the Bolivian people this 
civil coup in Bolivia has been defeated. Thanks to the 
participation of the nations that have now come 
together in the Union of South American Nations, this 
attempted civil coup d’état has been defeated. 
 Here, I would like to say something. Surely, some 
participants are waiting for me to tell them why we 
expelled the United States ambassador. Europe and 
Latin America repudiated the attempted civilian coup, 
but the Government of the United States did not, nor 
has it denounced those acts of terrorism. This morning 
I heard the statement of the President of the United 
States condemning terrorism. In Bolivia, right wing 
groups are setting fire to gas pipelines and cutting off 
the valves for the export of gas to Brazil and Argentina, 
but the embassy of the Government of the United 
States does not condemn such acts of terrorism.  
 It is not hard to imagine that, if some social 
movement were to steal his country’s national wealth, 
the United States ambassador would condemn, 
denounce and repudiate such an act. I would like to 
 
 
31 08-51606 
 
hear the representatives of the United States 
Government denounce these acts of terrorism. Of 
course, the terrorists know that the United States is 
their ally. It is never going to condemn them. The 
ambassador of the United States was clearly the 
primary human element conspiring against the United 
States Government. I remember perfectly the year 
2002, when I was a parliamentarian. On the 
instructions of the United States embassy, I was 
expelled from Parliament. I was accused of drug 
trafficking and of being an assassin. In 2002, the 
United States created a governance programme through 
the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID) to finance the strengthening of 
the conservative political parties and put the brakes on 
a growing political liberation movement, a political 
movement for the sovereignty of our peoples, a 
political movement that was designed to bring an end 
to injustice and to seek equality for Bolivians.  
 I also remember — some participants may not 
recall it clearly — that in 2002, when I was called for 
the first time to be a candidate for the presidency, the 
United States ambassador said: “Do not vote for Evo 
Morales. If you vote for Evo Morales, there will be no 
international aid or international cooperation”, thereby 
instilling fear in the Bolivian people. And they did not 
stop there. They also said: “Evo Morales is the Andean 
Bin Laden, and these farmers are the Taliban”. Hence, 
standing before this Assembly is an Andean Bin Laden 
who represents the Taliban, which is the indigenous 
farmers’ movement that historically fought for its 
claims. 
 There are so many accusations of that kind. When 
we came to power, we found a CIA office in the 
Government palace. After we discovered it, we had no 
problem getting rid of it because we had no need for a 
CIA office in the palace. Obviously, they were 
operating from there. For example, in 2004, they 
wanted to force the National Congress to give 
diplomatic immunity to civilians or members of the 
Bolivian military. We rejected that, of course, thanks to 
our social cohesion. In 2005, they began dismantling 
the military’s missiles, together with some commands 
and, of course, the administration in place at that time.  
 Dismantling the military is treason; it is not 
possible that the Southern Command of the United 
States armed forces would practice such a policy. 
However, they continuously tried to control some 
members of the military. For example, in previous 
Governments, they created a special counter-terrorism 
force, the F-10, and at one point in time their 
representatives informed me that, in 2005 or 2004, they 
were prepared to kill labour or political leaders who 
opposed capitalism and imperialism.  
 When I appointed a commander, he was vetoed 
by the United States embassy. Of course, we are not 
going to allow any more vetoes. Last year, special 
firearms munitions were illegally brought into the 
country at the instigation of the commander of the 
United States military group, Colonel Campbell. We 
were told that these were missiles for training 
purposes. Moreover, they illegally employ young 
students belonging to United States peace groups to 
carry out spying activities on officials of the 
Governments of Cuba and Venezuela. They are 
working in secret against the Government of Bolivia, 
thus violating the constitutional rights of their own 
United States citizens who come to Bolivia on 
scholarships. 
 I would point out that when one works for 
equality and for social justice, one is persecuted and 
conspired against by certain groups. These groups are 
not concerned about human equality. It is clear that this 
is a historic fight for our peoples and that it is nothing 
new. We can speak about the economy, or about the 
cost of silver as an industrial commodity, but what we 
are talking about is the fight between rich and poor. It 
is the fight between socialism and capitalism. That 
historic struggle is being resumed now, but I feel that 
these battles are uprisings and rebellions of peoples 
against an economic model — against the capitalist 
system. If we do not understand that capitalism is 
destroying humanity, then I am sure — and I hope that 
no one will be offended — that we will not solve the 
problems of life, the problems of the planet or the 
problems of humanity.  
 I am not accusing anyone of being an accomplice 
of capitalism. From a communal and labour struggle to 
an electoral one, from organizer to President, I have 
become perfectly aware that capitalism is the worst 
enemy of humanity. As I said a few days ago, with 
great sincerity, while touring my country, I was 
brought up in social movements among workers, 
farmers and indigenous peoples. More than 500 years 
ago, our forefathers fought colonialism and 
imperialism, and that is why I am anti-imperialist 
today. No one is going to move me from that position. 
If people like me, they like me a lot, but if they do not 
  
 
08-51606 32 
 
like me, so be it. What the world is going through is 
unjust.  
 So much has been said about climate change, 
flooding, droughts, how our mountains are losing their 
snow. If we continue in this way, we will all be 
responsible for destroying the planet, and thus 
humankind.  
 I have heard good statements from other 
presidents participating in this debate, from which I 
have learned a great deal; but I am sorry to say that I 
do not believe that it is enough to simply raise the 
problems unless we also provide the solutions. I would 
like to say that some blacklists have been drawn up to 
punish Governments.  
 It is difficult to imagine that those terrorists 
groups are not condemned, while the national 
Government is decertified for supposedly being 
involved in drug trafficking. According to United 
Nations reports, some countries are increasing their 
coca plantations, but they are not on decertified lists 
because they are pro-capitalist. To those countries that 
support the counter-narcotics struggle by reducing their 
coca cultivation, we did not say that there would be no 
coca, but that there would be no free cultivation of 
coca, since the coca leaf does have medicinal and 
nutritional benefits. Once we clearly defined our 
anti-imperialist position, we were decertified. 
However, I am quite sure that this is not about 
certification or decertification, terrorist or non-terrorist 
countries.  
 Mr. Bush, President of the United States, sent me 
a message recently in which he wrote: “If I am not a 
friend, I am an enemy”. I do not care whether I am a 
friend of the President of the United States, but I am a 
friend of the people of the United States. I have had 
many meetings with representatives from social 
movements in the United States and we agree on our 
approach to life and humankind. That is why we have 
to put an end to blacklists. We are living in times where 
there are no empires, no dominance or imposition of 
economic models that can greatly harm countries or 
continents or the whole world.  
 I wish to say that we have begun to work on a 
proposal. It is called “Ten commandments to save the 
planet, humankind and all life”. I hope that my 
colleagues will distribute this document, and with the 
participation of all it will help us save the planet, 
humankind and life. One of the first subjects we raise 
here is how we can put an end to capitalism. Wherever 
there is capitalism, there is exploitation. Wherever 
there is capitalism, our natural resources are plundered. 
That is what we have seen and experienced. 
 Our second point is that we must denounce war. 
As everyone knows, we are working arduously to put 
Bolivia back on track by drafting a new constitution. In 
that new political constitution for the Bolivian state, 
for the first time the State and the people of Bolivia 
will constitutionally pledge never to initiate war. That 
does not mean that we renounce defending ourselves. I 
do not believe in wars. 
 Speaking of war, I am sure that peoples do not 
want wars. They do not want the military intervention 
of any country in any part of the world. In our new 
political constitution for the Bolivian State, we propose 
that Bolivia should not accept the military base of any 
country of the world on its territory. In that way, we 
shall assert our dignity and defend the sovereignty of 
Bolivia and of other peoples. I have very respectfully 
suggested to the people and the Government of the 
United States that it would be best to withdraw their 
military from Iraq and Afghanistan and other parts of 
the world as soon as possible. If they do not, the 
peoples themselves will expel them because 
interventionism and war are no solution for life and 
humanity.  
 Our third point is a proposal for a world without 
imperialism and colonialism. Last year, I heard a 
critical issue discussed here by several heads of State. 
That issue was water — water as a right of all living 
beings. We also heard discussions on energy and how 
important it is to have clean, environmentally friendly 
energy.  
 Speaking of nature, the indigenous peoples have 
experience living in harmony with Mother Earth and 
nature. Mother Earth is neither a shopping centre nor a 
commodity. Thus, the historic struggle of our peoples 
is for land and territory, and that struggle is being 
repeated in our country.  
 Our next point, as I said earlier, is to Mother 
Nature within the United Nations. I hope that can be 
taken into account. I would also note that the new 
Bolivian political constitution incorporates the ten 
commandments to save humanity and the world. 
 Basic services should be human rights. Water, 
light and telecommunications cannot be in private 
 
 
33 08-51606 
 
hands. If they are human rights, they should be a public 
service and not left to the private sector. To be sure, we 
have many differences with multinationals. Investment 
is certainly important, but we need investors in Bolivia 
who are not the owners of our energy and our oil, but 
who are our partners.  
 My next point is that we should consume only 
what we need and prioritize local consumption in the 
context of food sovereignty. We also need to respect 
the diversity of cultures and economies. 
 Our final point concerns how to live well. What 
does it mean to live well? Living well is living in 
equality, solidarity and complementarity, eliminating 
inequalities between families and the deep-rooted 
disparities that exist among countries and continents. 
When we try to live better, sometimes all we do is to 
become selfish and ambitious. We never think about 
the larger family, which, for us in Bolivia, is the whole 
of Bolivia.  
 The struggles of peoples for democracy and for 
the re-establishment of the rule of law is being 
repeated in Bolivia. In the past, great social movements 
led by indigenous farmers brought down dictatorships. 
In recent days, they defeated an attempted coup in 
Bolivia, and we hail them. We have just been informed 
that social movements are wisely mobilizing 
themselves in a search of peace and asking that new 
standards be adopted to ensure equality be for all 
Bolivians. 
 In conclusion, I wish to say that I am convinced 
that only the conscience of the people can defeat the 
interests of certain groups and United States 
imperialism. I heard some leaders this morning sue for 
peace with a regulated, moderate form of capitalism. I 
do not believe in that. There will be peace only when 
there is equality among all human beings; there will be 
peace only when our identity and the dignity of every 
people are respected. 
 I do not think there can be peace with capitalism, 
no matter how moderate or regulated. We need to work 
together, we need to participate in the struggles of our 
peoples for equality. Only Governments and leaders 
working together with their peoples can find equality. 
When we have equality, there will be social peace 
throughout the world. 

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====

Once again, we meet at the United Nations to share 
concerns, problems and experiences and to discuss the 
various ways in which we can serve our peoples 
worldwide. 
 Since this morning I have listened closely to 
statements, starting with that of the Secretary-
General — to whom I offer a special, revolutionary 
greeting — until this moment, when we just heard the 
President of Iran. In all of these statements, there has 
been great convergence on problems such as the 
financial crisis, problems arising from the 
environmental crisis and problems concerning stability 
and institutionalization of democracies in a number of 
countries. There have also been ideas and proposals 
such as those offered by the Secretary-General, who 
called for unity among Presidents and unity within the 
United Nations. I fully agree that it is important that 
we Presidents and Governments unite to meet the 
demands of our peoples, in order to resolve these 
crises.  
 I would say that in my country the crises have 
been imposed from above and from outside. We need 
unity within the United Nations for the sake of the 
equality of our peoples; we need unity for dignity; we 
need unity above all to tackle the deep economic 
divergences, the deep asymmetries between continents, 
between families and between countries. But it must be 
unity in a context of complementarity, in order to meet 
our peoples’ demands.  
 There is an ongoing debate on the financial crisis 
and on climate change, as well as on the problems of 
democracy and the energy and food crises. I welcome a 
number of the statements that addressed and focused 
on the origins of this crisis. But the majority of 
Presidents and the majority of the statements referred 
only to the effects, not to the causes.  
 I would like to speak frankly to the Assembly — 
my listeners here, and to all others who are following 
the debates taking place in this global forum. I would 
like to say that the origin of these crises was the 
unbridled accumulation of capital in a few hands, the 
irretrievable looting of natural resources and the 
commercialization of Mother Earth. And above all, I 
believe their origin lies in an economic model, an 
economic system, namely, capitalism.  
 If we do not tell our peoples the truth about the 
origin of this crisis, then we will be misleading 
ourselves and the international community too. We will 
be misleading our peoples, who have great 
expectations of their Presidents and Governments and 
of forums such as this one.  
 Although we are promoting and seeking peace, in 
the light of our experience, we know that we will not 
find social peace while there is economic inequality, 
and all the less when there are military bases in some 
countries. These may be located on many continents, 
including Latin America and South America. How can 
we hold discussions when United States military bases 
provoke distrust among peoples?  
 I would like to briefly tell the Assembly that I 
was a victim of the military bases operating in my 
country before assuming the presidency, before the 
social movements were not merely opposed to policies 
but also actors in a new country of equality and social 
justice. All of us were victims of the United States 
military presence in Bolivia, and as victims we know 
what uniformed armed United States personnel can do 
in South American countries. For that reason, I would 
like to say that when there is a United States military 
base, particularly in Latin America — I do not know 
about their conduct in Europe or on other continents, 
but in Latin America, the presence of military bases is 
no guarantee of social peace or of democracy. 
Certainly, it cannot guarantee the integration of our 
countries, much less of the peoples who are seeking to 
bring about deep-wrought changes in our social, 
economic and cultural structures.  
  
 
09-52228 38 
 
 Now we have Honduras. If there is a United 
States military base in Honduras, why can this military 
base not guarantee democracy? It cannot because there 
are Presidents who change these countries, which are 
constantly threatened by military bases. 
 I hail the courage of our colleague, President 
Zelaya of Honduras, who is democratically and 
pacifically resisting with the aim of restoring 
democracy. My respect and admiration go to him as he 
strives together with his defiant people to uphold 
democracy. How good it would be if the United 
Nations, this great international organization, were to 
adopt a resolution issuing an ultimatum to the military 
dictatorship in Honduras to withdraw and restore the 
only internationally recognized President. 
 I am convinced that the United States Southern 
Command does not accept Latin American countries or 
their Presidents that are seeking liberation. I have even 
heard from some friends, comrades and brothers that 
they supported the dictatorships in Bolivia and 
elsewhere in Latin America. They say that the only 
reason there has been no coup d’état in the United 
States is that there is no United States Embassy in the 
United States. There are coups d’état occurring 
everywhere, but let me say that in September last year 
there was an attempted coup d’état in Bolivia, and 
thanks to the union forces and the involvement of the 
international community, particularly from the southern 
cone, we were able to halt that civilian — not 
military — coup d’état.  
 For these reasons, we are convinced that military 
bases cannot guarantee democracy, integration or 
social peace.  
 We have also been discussing the subject of 
climate change, and I would like to take this 
opportunity to propose a number of issues to the 
Assembly which are of the utmost importance for all of 
us who inhabit Mother Earth. For the indigenous 
movement, this is Mother Earth — or, for many others, 
planet Earth or the environment. For those of us who 
live in harmony with Mother Earth, not just in harmony 
with human beings, Mother Earth is something sacred. 
It is Mother Earth which gives life, which provides 
water, natural resources, oxygen. We all promote the 
well-being of our peoples. We are struggling and 
fighting and working for the well-being of our peoples, 
but first of all, we must ensure the well-being of 
Mother Earth. 
 If we cannot guarantee the well-being of Mother 
Earth, then it will be impossible to guarantee the well-
being of our countrymen or of all the peoples on planet 
Earth. I have reached the conclusion that Mother 
Earth — or planet Earth — can and will exist forever 
with or without human life. But human life cannot 
exist without planet Earth — Mother Earth. 
 After having listened to many statements and 
after having listened to my brothers, I have reached the 
conclusion that at this point in time, in this new 
twenty-first century, it will be more important than 
ever before to defend the rights of Mother Earth than to 
defend human rights. 
 If we do not protect the rights of Mother Earth, 
there will be no point in defending human rights. I am 
prepared to discuss this concept, and sooner or later 
everyone will understand why it is so important to 
defend the rights of Mother Earth. 
 As we are currently discussing climate change, I 
propose to Presidents, representatives and all our other 
brothers and sisters who are listening throughout the 
world our very simple, three-point proposal.  
 First, the developed countries must acknowledge 
and pay the climate debt that they and all humankind 
owe Planet Earth. 
 Secondly, a court for climate justice must be 
established to try and to punish those who fail to meet 
their commitments and those who continue to damage 
Planet Earth. We need a structure that can quantify the 
damage caused by some countries and transnational 
companies, and therefore it is important that such a 
court for climate justice be established. 
 The third proposal is one of those that have been 
developed above all by rural and indigenous 
movements: the United Nations must draw up a 
declaration of the rights of Mother Earth, in order to 
defend the right to life, the right to the regeneration of 
bio-capacity, the right to a clean life and the right to 
harmony and the coexistence of us all. 
 I hope that these proposals will be taken into 
account during the discussions in Copenhagen. We also 
hope that Copenhagen will provide a grand solution to 
resolve the serious problems that affect us all, in all the 
countries of the world. 
 I also take this opportunity to take up some of the 
proposals made by a number of Presidents. If we want 
 
 
39 09-52228 
 
to change the world, we must first change the United 
Nations. If we want to effect change in our countries, 
seeking equality and dignity for our compatriots, why 
not first change the structures of the United Nations? 
 Listening to what many other Presidents said 
about the Security Council, I felt that there were many 
points of agreement. We need a real democratization of 
the United Nations, for which I make the following 
suggestions. 
 The status of permanent membership of the 
Security Council and the right to veto must be 
abolished. It is not possible in the twenty-first century 
to maintain outdated totalitarian practices going back 
to the time of monarchies. All countries must have the 
same rights within the United Nations. Those who 
proclaim themselves to be the leaders of democracy 
should give up their privileges and accept true 
democratization of the Security Council. We must be 
responsible with democracy and begin to democratize 
the United Nations. 
 I shall soon end my short intervention, as I do not 
wish to exceed my time limit, in keeping with the 
discipline that our peoples teach us. But first I am sorry 
to have state a truth that may upset the Government of 
the United States. I had great hopes of President 
Obama. I welcome his closure of Guantanamo, which 
represents progress. But in addition the economic 
blockade of Cuba should be ended. That is my 
respectful request to the Government and people of the 
United States. 
 Bolivia, like Latin America as a whole, used to 
enjoy certain tariff preferences, but under ex-President 
Bush they were removed, because we were accused of 
not combating drug-trafficking and poverty. We know 
that that was a political decision, but ex-President Bush 
never took into account Bolivian norms or our 
Constitution.  
 Now, under President Obama’s Government, we 
see documents which include references to our new 
Constitution, which, for the first time in the 183 years’ 
existence of the Republic, was approved by a vote of 
the Bolivian people. There is a reference to article 56 
and respect for private property. That strikes me as 
direct interference by the United States Government in 
the Constitution and other norms and standards, and I 
roundly reject it. What we want is diplomatic relations 
not of interference, but of cooperation and investment. 
While the new Constitution for the first time 
guarantees private property and State property, 
fundamentally it guarantees collective property — 
property held by associations and cooperatives, and 
communal lands belonging to the indigenous, native 
movement. 
 In addition, an accusation is made against me in a 
United States report stating that current challenges 
include the explicit acceptance and encouragement of 
coca production at the highest levels of the Bolivian 
Government. That is to say that I encourage the 
cultivation of coca. It should be understood that 
growing the coca leaf is one thing and that cocaine is 
quite another. We do not defend cocaine; we shall fight 
it. Indeed, our proposal is zero cocaine. What I have 
just said does not mean having free cultivation of the 
coca leaf, though in its natural state it is beneficial and 
healthy for human life. 
 We have launched a campaign on decriminalizing 
the traditional consumption of the coca leaf. I 
guarantee that there will never be free cultivation of 
coca, but neither will there a zero coca leaf policy. But 
there is a zero cocaine policy. It cannot be said that I 
encourage coca cultivation in Bolivia. That is not true. 
 The Assembly will know that I come from the 
trade union and social movements, and that I was a 
union leader. Now President, fortuitously and for the 
time being, I am extremely concerned that it is said 
that the Government will dismantle the union 
movement by decree. How could I eliminate the 
unions, when they and the social movements are the 
backbone of the Evo Morales Government? I have built 
union headquarters and encouraged unions, workers 
and indigenous peoples, and yet I am accused of 
dismantling the unions. 
 President Obama may not be aware of the 
documents to which I have referred, which perhaps 
come from the State Department. I perfectly 
understand that sometimes when change is desired it is 
difficult to change State structures. But after reading 
the documents very carefully I wonder how it is 
possible for someone who has suffered discrimination 
to discriminate against another. At least in Latin 
America, the so-called Afro-Americans and 
Afro-Bolivians are the sectors most discriminated 
against in society, together with the so-called Indians 
or indigenous people. We are called “negroes” and 
“Indians”. I do not understand how a black person who 
has been discriminated against and excluded can 
  
 
09-52228 40 
 
discriminate against and exclude an Indian. It is a 
matter of grave concern.  
 It is to be hoped that those historic errors can be 
rectified, not for the good of the President, and not just 
for the good of Bolivians, but for the image of peoples, 
such as the people of the United States. I well 
understand that sometimes it is not easy to change 
structures which may work against our peoples. 
 Finally, I refer  to some historical demands, such 
as the return of our access to the sea. Our two peoples, 
our brother republics, Chile and Bolivia, feel sufficient 
trust in each other to seek to resolve the issue of  
maritime access. I hope that it can be settled bilaterally. 
If not, intervention by the international community will 
be needed. Progress has been made. I feel that there is 
trust, which is needed in order to resolve any problem. 
Otherwise, important steps must be taken. 
 I thank my brothers and sisters for listening to 
me. I would like to continue to share their experience,  
proposals and concerns for the good of mankind as a 
whole.

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====

This is the first time I have participated in the general 
debate since the declaration of the Plurinational State 
of Bolivia and my fifth as President — since I took on 
enormous responsibilities towards my people, acting 
through social movements. 
 I would like to quickly say that in four and a half 
years in government, we have begun to bring profound 
structural and social change to Bolivia. Fortunately, 
two weeks ago, the United Nations recognized that 
extreme poverty had decreased from 41 to 32 per cent. 
In four and a half years, our small country of 
10 million inhabitants has seen its national reserves 
grow from $1.7 billion to $9 billion. The rate of 
economic growth is currently 5 per cent, while before I 
arrived it was barely 3 per cent. 
 There has been a democratization of the national 
economy, with grants and subsidies that have allowed 
for the improvement of the economic situation of the 
poorest and most abandoned — in particular those of 
the rural and indigenous movement, but also our 
brothers and sisters the workers, and our brothers and 
sisters from the barrios of Bolivia’s big cities. 
 However, the improvement of our economy has 
basically come with the recovery of our oil and gas 
reserves, and with the nationalization of these natural 
resources. Let me say that earlier, and unfortunately, 
under instructions from the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF), our natural resources were privatized. 
Moreover, the IMF contracts stated that the owner, the 
transnational oil company, would have the rights from 
the wellhead. The Fund Governors were telling us that 
as long as the oil or gas was underground, it belonged 
to the Bolivian State and the Bolivian people, but that 
once it was taken out and reached the wellhead, it was 
the property of the transnationals. From these 
mega-fields the oil transnationals received 82 per cent 
of the gas and oil revenue, while the Bolivian people 
were left with only 18 per cent. 
 It is a matter of responsibility. Countries that 
invest have the right to recover their investment and 
they have the right to make profits, but not 82 per cent 
of all of the profits from our oil and gas resources. On 
1 May 2006, the Government decreed, first, that the 
State would take control of all oil fields. We 
nationalized them. Secondly, so that the investing 
company, seeking to recover their investment, could do 
so and make a profit. We looked at the numbers 
 
 
35 10-54833 
 
carefully in order to ensure that the company would not 
be harmed. Our data showed that with 18 per cent of 
the profit, they would recover their investment and 
they would even have access to profits. 
 What I did with our supreme decree, after taking 
total State control of gas and oil, was to ensure that the 
State, the Bolivian people, received 82 per cent of the 
profits and the investing oil company, 18 per cent. 
These companies continue to be present in our country 
and continue to invest in Bolivia. We had discovered 
that there was an ongoing sacking of our natural 
resources and this alone has brought changes to our 
economy. For example, since 1940, Bolivia had never 
had a budget surplus, only deficits. But once we had 
nationalized oil and gas, in 2006, the first year of my 
administration, we had a surplus. With this surplus, we 
were able to provide grants and subsidies for some of 
the most vulnerable sectors of the population, namely, 
young people and the elderly. 
 In February 2003, when I was a union leader and 
National Deputy, the International Monetary Fund 
instructed the then Government to institute an income 
tax or to increase fuel prices in order to decrease the 
budget deficit — not to eliminate it, but to decrease it. 
The Government decided to institute an income tax. 
There was an uprising by those affected by this tax, 
and in two days of confrontation there were 15 dead. 
 I would like to say from here at the United 
Nations to the world and to the Bolivian people that, 
without income taxes and without increasing fuel 
prices, we had a surplus in the first year of our 
administration. It was so important to have recovered 
our natural resources and to have recovered our 
companies providing basic services. 
 Sooner or later the International Monetary Fund 
has to redress the damage it has done to Bolivia and to 
Latin America. But it appears that the International 
Monetary Fund, under the pretext of structural 
adjustment, is continuing to impose policies on some 
countries — policies of pillaging natural resources. It 
did us great harm. I am demanding officially that the 
International Monetary Fund pay for the economic 
damage and the damage to human beings that resulted 
from these impositions which, in Bolivia, resulted in 
death, injury and hunger. So I am very pleased that we have begun to 
change Bolivia. Of course, it is impossible to meet all 
the demands that our indigenous brethren have been 
making for 500 years, or that other brethren or regions 
have been making for hundreds of years — or indeed 
the demands which have arisen from 20 years of 
neoliberal Government in our country. 
 We are living in times of deep and sweeping 
changes. We have an enormous responsibility to future 
generations. The fate of Planet Earth depends on what 
we do or do not do. 
 We know ourselves. We have many ideological 
differences. We have many differences in our 
programmes, our cultures and our societies. We have 
many differences from one continent to another. The 
economic asymmetries are profound. But despite these 
differences we at the United Nations must work 
together, united. Why united? We must be united so 
that human rights will be well and truly protected 
around the world. I come here to propose an alliance of 
all presidents and Governments so that we can save 
humankind and save Planet Earth — or save 
humankind by saving Planet Earth. 
 There are four main objectives, the first being the 
protection of human rights. I commend the many 
Governments that last week adopted a proposal from 
the Government of the Plurinational State of Bolivia 
that water be recognized as a human right. Next will be 
energy and after that communication. We must move 
forward and respond to the needs of the most 
vulnerable — the poor, the disenfranchised, the 
migrants. All basic services in Bolivia are a human 
right under the Constitution. And we are currently 
translating that concept into practice, so that all these 
basic services will truly be a human right. That is why 
I think it important to have an alliance now, in this new 
millennium, to see that human rights are guaranteed for 
all. 
 I should also like to say that it is indefensible in 
the twenty-first century to continue to persecute and 
expel migrants — whether they are migrants because 
of economic problems or because of climate change or 
a natural disaster. I would like to take this opportunity 
to say that I learned from the media that President 
Obama is rejecting the Arizona law. We must recognize 
the need to put an end to policies — wherever they 
originate, including the return policies of Europe — 
that have the effect of expelling migrants. When our 
  
 
10-54833 36 
 
ancestors migrated because of war or famine from 
Europe to Latin America there was no expulsion of 
migrants. Those European migrants took over 
thousands of hectares and pillaged natural resources, 
and no one said anything. But now that our brothers 
and sisters, driven by lack of work, emigrate in search 
of jobs in the United States or Europe, they suffer 
persecution, discrimination and expulsion. This has to 
stop. Our alliance must also examine the fate of these 
brothers and sisters. 
 I have also heard it said that walls or fences are 
being built in, for example, Mexico and Palestine. As 
far as I know, fences are only built to keep in cattle, 
sheep and cows. We cannot confuse human beings with 
animals and build fences to keep them in. It makes no 
sense. But I also want to say: how can we prevent 
human beings from going from one continent to 
another? We have heard much opinion in this debate on 
the subject of free-market policies. Are commodities to 
circulate freely around the world but not human 
beings? What type of discriminatory policies do we 
have? Those walls of shame must disappear. I listened 
carefully to the address by the Secretary-General. He 
wants the United Nations to be strong in the interests 
of good governance. I share that opinion but believe 
that we can only achieve this when we resolve the 
problems of the world’s most defenceless people, who 
are migrants in this case. And that is why it is 
important for us to be rid of these walls. 
 But there is something else that is unthinkable in 
the twenty-first century: the economic blockade of 
Cuba. Everyone calls for the lifting of this embargo, 
imposed because Cuba was a Communist or socialist 
country. I want you to know that I too preside over a 
Government that is anti-capitalist, which, I think, is 
why the United States Department of State tries to 
marginalize and exclude us. That is not a solution. 
People will continue to rebel against systems and 
economic models that do not resolve the problems of 
the majority in all our countries. I respectfully ask 
President Obama to put an end to the economic 
blockade of Cuba and the economic blockade of the 
Gaza Strip in Palestine. If the United States is — and 
we all know this to be the case — the supreme world 
Power, it has the authority to end this injustice and this 
violation of the human rights of millions around the 
world. 
 The second objective of this alliance of 
Governments to save humanity is its most important 
responsibility: determining how to save Mother Earth. 
What concerns me greatly is that some countries, 
instead of conserving Nature, are looking at how to 
make a business out of climate change, putting a price 
on Nature. We must not privatize our forests; we must 
not sell carbon bonds as if the forest’s only role were to 
absorb carbon dioxide. Any country that does so is 
making a grave mistake. 
 I want to share something from our culture and 
our experience in the indigenous world. We indigenous 
peoples live in harmony with Mother Earth, in 
harmony with Nature. Why do we live in harmony with 
Nature? We came from the Earth, we live on the Earth 
and to earth we will return. The Earth, Planet Earth, 
Nature, “Pachamama”, Mother Earth — this is our 
home, this is our mother. The Earth gives us life: water, 
natural resources, the abundance of Nature. How can 
we turn Mother Nature into a business? 
 Because of the discussion I have with social 
movements around the world, particularly with 
indigenous movements, I am convinced that the planet 
can exist without human beings, but human beings 
cannot exist without the planet. As human beings have 
rights, like the right to life, so too does the planet, 
Mother Nature, have the right to life. Just as we human 
beings reproduce, biodiversity has a right to 
regenerate. For these and many other reasons besides, 
we have the obligation to save Planet Earth. 
 Within that context, our proposal is quite simple. 
Here at the United Nations we must develop a project 
to protect the rights of Mother Earth. This morning 
President Obama referred to the adoption in 1948 of 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the 
United Nations. That was 62 years ago; before that we 
did not have rights. Later civil, economic and political 
rights were adopted. Three years ago the rights of 
indigenous peoples were adopted here. Now in this 
millennium we should adopt the rights of Mother 
Earth. And if we do not do this, we will be responsible 
for a world disaster. 
 To take an example: in a plane some people travel 
in first class, others in business class, while the 
majority travel in coach, economy class. If the plane 
crashes, no one survives — neither the first-class 
passenger nor the economy-class passenger. Is that 
what we want? It will be the same if we do not save 
Mother Earth. The transnational company with lots of 
money, the millionaire — all of us will be equally 
 
 
37 10-54833 
 
affected by the environmental problems that come with 
climate change. 
 That is why I want to tell you how important it is 
that we prepare for Cancún, where we will have a great 
opportunity. I will propose there that we have an 
alliance of all the presidents and heads of government 
of the world, headed by the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations. What will the alliance be for? So that 
together we can determine how to cool the planet. We 
are talking about global warming. How can we cool the 
planet? We, as peoples and Governments, are 
responsible for humankind. The people, at a summit in 
Cochabamba, Bolivia, said that we must stabilize the 
temperature increase at 1 degree Celsius. The 
developed countries, which are primarily responsible 
for global warming, must commit to reducing their 
greenhouse gas emissions by 50 per cent during the 
second period of the Kyoto Protocol. Let us assume our 
responsibilities to cool Planet Earth. 
 I would like to discuss the serious situation in 
which my country finds itself. We sometimes buy drills 
to deal with droughts, and yet even by drilling we 
cannot find water. And if we do find it, it is buried ever 
deeper and occurs in ever-smaller quantities. Soon, 
despite all our drilling to obtain water, we will not find 
it. So what use will the drills be then? Our mountains 
are losing their snow fields. This is extremely serious. I 
therefore find it extremely important that we stabilize 
the temperature increase at 1 degree Celsius, as the 
people of the world have said. 
 The third objective, so frequently mentioned in 
statements, is peace. We are all fighting for peace. We 
are all fighting for freedom, but the basis of freedom is 
equality and justice for all peoples. There will not be 
peace without social justice. Moreover, peace is not 
made with military bases; peace is not ensured by 
military interventions undertaken on the pretext of 
fighting against drug trafficking and terrorism but 
really aimed at developing geopolitical interests — 
aims I do not share. Yes, we must combat drug 
trafficking. The best way to do so, I would say, is to 
put an end to banking secrecy. It is not right that the 
United States Government should decertify countries 
that are not following the capitalist line. The Bolivian 
Government is making an effort to reduce coca crops. 
But while the major cocaine-producing countries are 
certified, the country that makes a real effort against 
drug trafficking, a small country, is decertified. 
 These are, of course, political decisions, and that 
is why I draw the conclusion that anti-imperialist, 
anti-capitalist countries will never be certified by the 
United States Government. In the end, this does not 
concern or affect my Government. We are convinced 
that there will be this type of scare tactic, harassment 
and intimidation. That has always existed. But there 
are contradictions here as well. The United Nations 
tells us that coca cultivation has increased by 1 per 
cent, while the United States Department of State says 
that coca crops have increased by 9.4 per cent. Whom 
are we to believe — the United States or the United 
Nations? Imagine the spin that is put on this to penalize 
a Government or a country. The reports recognize the 
strong efforts undertaken by the national Government 
in the fight against drug trafficking. For example, dried 
coca is down to 43,000 tons from 43,500. But even this 
effort is not recognized, which is why we are 
convinced that this is clearly a political problem. 
 I believe that it is important to put an end to the 
acts of aggression, to the interventions in such 
countries as Afghanistan and Iraq, and to the threats to 
Iran. Let us put an end to the entire nuclear arsenal, 
because the nuclear arsenal is a threat to life. Let us 
begin with the United States and then continue with all 
the other countries. And this is not merely an attempt 
to punish a country that may wish to implement other 
policies. Instead of spending so much money allegedly 
on defence and security, in the end it is for war. If we 
are responsible to humankind, we must change 
everyone’s mindset. 
 The last objective of this alliance would be to 
work together to strengthen the United Nations, but we 
also have to begin to democratize the United Nations. 
This is a very difficult task, of course. We have heard 
statements made by heads of government and by 
presidents. Some anti-capitalist presidents are accused 
of being authoritarian or totalitarian, of being dictators. 
Delegations know, and the world knows, how a coup 
d’état in a country such as Honduras can be ensured 
here. This morning President Obama talked about 
working with countries that fight against poverty. In 
Bolivia we have greatly reduced poverty, and yet 
investments are cut. He has said that he will work with 
democratic Governments. In Bolivia, in five years I 
have won two referendums and three elections, all with 
more than 50 or 60 per cent of the vote. Where is the 
dictatorship? Where is the authoritarianism? The 
authoritarianism is here at the United Nations. Some 
  
 
10-54833 38 
 
Governments, some countries have permanent seats 
with the right to veto. That is authoritarianism, and that 
is why we must begin to democratize the United 
Nations if we want to move ahead with a democratic 
mindset or focus. We must start by practising 
democracy here. But, above all, I want to tell you, 
brothers and sisters present here, that we must work 
together to ensure that, sooner or later, the United 
Nations becomes an anti-capitalist Organization, if we 
are to save humankind. If we do not do that, we will be 
held responsible. And I assume my responsibility by 
telling you this in a direct and straightforward way. I 
am not at all scared because I know what the 
consequences of capitalism are — in particular, with 
regard to the destruction of Mother Earth. 
 I was thinking that our United Nations — and as 
a President I feel part of the United Nations — should 
have a slogan, a war cry for the effort to save 
humankind. I propose to the Assembly and its 
President that our war cry should be “The planet or 
death; we shall win!” And I wish to say that, from what 
I have learned in my four and a half years as President 
of my country, if there is the political will to serve the 
people of the world, the people of the world can be 
saved.

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====
Being present at this forum is very important to express 
what we think, what we feel and what we work on, but 
it is also important to express major differences 
between Presidents and between Governments, our 
differences on policies, programmes, projects, 
 
 
11 11-50847 
 
principles and values with some countries in this 
world. 
 This morning we heard the statements of some 
Presidents, and I realized that there are enormous 
differences between the so-called small countries, 
developing countries, underdeveloped countries, 
compared with some Powers. For example, in the 
debate here at the United Nations there is a clear 
difference between the culture of life and the culture of 
death, between truth and falsehood and between peace 
and war. 
 Of course, we all have the right to have our 
differences. We have a right to deep differences about 
life, but I believe that our Organization, the United 
Nations, has a duty to make it possible to align the 
constant work of Governments to guarantee peace and 
the equality and dignity of all those living on plant 
Earth. 
 When I say that there is a deep difference 
between the culture of life and the culture of death, I 
feel that it will be difficult for us to come to an 
understanding with economic policies that concentrate 
capital in the hands of a few. Data show that 1 per cent 
of the world’s population holds 50 per cent of its 
wealth. If there are such deep differences, how can we 
resolve the problem of poverty? And if we cannot put 
an end to poverty how can we guarantee lasting peace? 
 Furthermore, imperialism seeks to control the 
sources of energy throughout the world, and to that end 
it has instruments to impose, control and constantly 
invade. And it is not just now; it has always been so. I 
remember when I was a child seeing rebellions of 
peoples against the capitalist system, against economic 
models that involved the permanent pillaging of our 
natural resources. Left-leaning union leaders and 
political leaders were accused of being Communists in 
order to arrest them. There was military intervention 
against social forces. People were confined, exiled, 
killed, persecuted and jailed, accused of being 
socialists, Maoists, Leninists and Marxist-Leninists.  
 I feel that that has ended. We are no longer 
accused of being Marxists or Leninists, but now drug-
trafficking and terrorism are given as excuses. In 
countries with many natural resources, particularly 
related to energy, we are threatened by foreign 
intervention, when Presidents, Governments and 
peoples are not pro-capitalist or pro-imperialist.  
 And then there is talk about a lasting peace. How 
can there be a lasting peace where there are United 
States military bases? How can there be lasting peace 
when there are military interventions? 
 I believe that our United Nations is subordinate to 
the Security Council. What is the use of the United 
Nations if a group of countries decides on 
interventions, on killings? It is a Security Council for 
whom? It is a Security Council for Presidents, 
Governments, peoples who are pro-imperialist or 
pro-capitalist. But it is the Insecurity Council for 
Presidents, peoples or Governments who seek 
liberation — not only cultural liberation, but also 
economic liberation: the recovery of their economic 
resources. Those are the deep divisions between the 
Presidents from the various continents who are taking 
part in our debates. 
 If we want the Organization to have the authority 
to see that its resolutions are respected, we should 
think of founding afresh the United Nations. We cannot 
continue on the current footing. 
 Why do I say that? Every year at the United 
Nations, almost 100 per cent of the Member States — 
the United States and Israel being the exceptions — 
decide that the economic blockade of Cuba should be 
ended. Who ensures that that decision is respected? 
The Security Council will never ensure that such 
United Nations resolutions are respected; the United 
Nations cannot ensure respect for that decision of the 
whole world to lift the blockade against Cuba.  
 I cannot understand how the resolutions of an 
Organization of all the countries of the world are not 
respected. What, then, is the United Nations? It is time 
for an in-depth debate on founding afresh this great 
Organization, the largest in the world. We should 
debate its role so that the United Nations is recognized 
and respected by the peoples of the world. That can 
happen only with the re-establishment of the United 
Nations as a body which fights for the equality of all 
the inhabitants of planet Earth, for the dignity of all 
those whom we represent at the United Nations. 
 I have heard a number of interventions about 
Palestine. Of course, Palestine has our full support. 
Bolivia not only supports recognition of Palestine at 
the United Nations, but also wishes to welcome 
Palestine to the United Nations. Here I have a profound 
observation. When Israel bombs, attacks, kills and 
takes Palestinian land, there is no Security Council for 
  
 
11-50847 12 
 
that; there is no international organization that can stop 
those bombings and killings, the genocide in Palestine. 
 When there was a coup d’état in Honduras, where 
were the military bases to defend a President elected by 
the Honduran people? Where was the Security Council 
or the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to 
defend democracy in Honduras? 
 It is time for us to think deeply about this. When 
there are anti-imperialist Presidents with anti-capitalist 
Governments, the empire tries to create internal 
conflicts with what appear to be major confrontations, 
making it appear in the media that a certain President 
should fall, or it tries to divide a country to justify 
intervention. 
 When there was a coup d’état in Honduras and 
there were killings in Palestine, where was NATO? 
Where was the Security Council? They were nowhere 
to be found. 
 For those and many other reasons, it is important 
to think again about re-establishing the United Nations. 
 How can we Presidents and Governments face 
our responsibility of freeing our countries? Let me 
speak of some important aspects of my experience as 
President. 
 First, our natural resources can never be 
privatized. They can never be handed over to 
transnational companies, whether they be minerals, oil 
or other natural resources. Before I became President, 
hydrocarbons were in the hands of transnational 
companies. What did the contracts say? They declared 
that the owner assumed the right of ownership at the 
mouth of the well. Governments told us that as long as 
the resource — gas, oil — was underground it 
belonged to all Bolivians, but the minute it came out of 
the ground it belonged instead to the transnational 
companies. In the contracts they concocted the idea 
that the contract holder acquired ownership at the 
mouth of the well; as soon as the oil and gas came out 
of the ground they no longer belonged to Bolivians. 
That was a constant pillaging of our natural resources. 
 On 1 May 2006, we nationalized and recovered 
our natural resources through a supreme decree. From 
then on our national economy began to change. From 
then on Bolivia stopped being a beggar State. Before 
2006 — I say this very sincerely — Bolivia was a 
small country sometimes considered an 
underdeveloped or developing country; it does not 
matter what term is used.  
 We have just 10 million inhabitants. Investment 
in Bolivia in 2005 was only $600 million, and more 
than 50 per cent of it was credits or international 
cooperation. Less than 50 per cent consisted of our 
own resources. How much investment has there been 
this year? The answer is $3.6 billion, with 20 per cent 
or 30 per cent of that being through international 
cooperation or credits, while almost 80 per cent is our 
own resources, thanks to our recovery of hydrocarbons, 
gas. How our economy has changed! 
 From 1948 until 2005 Bolivia never had a fiscal 
surplus; it was in deficit. In our first year in charge — 
2006 — we achieved a fiscal surplus. We also created 
bonds for children and the elderly. We started to 
democratize our economy, apart from increasing 
investment. For the 180 years after Bolivia was 
founded in 1825, what international reserves did we 
have until 2005? The answer is $1.7 billion. Over 
180 years, Governments of all kinds — liberal, military 
dictatorships, neo-liberal — were able to save for 
Bolivia only $1.7 billion. In less than six years we have 
saved over $10 billion; Bolivia now has $11.7 billion 
in international reserves. 
 In 2005, we were the next to last country in terms 
of international reserves. Now we have improved, 
thanks to the recovery and nationalization of 
hydrocarbons. Recovering natural resources, having 
them in the hands of the State, is very important for 
improving the economy; we cannot privatize natural 
resources and hand them over to the transnationals.  
 We can have partners. That is fine. But 
companies cannot be the owners of our natural 
resources. The State, the people, must be the owner. I 
mention this experience because thanks to our 
decision, responding to the call of the Bolivian people, 
we started to change the national economy. 
 I have a second point. Basic public services can 
never be provided by private businesses. I am speaking 
of water, energy, electricity and the telephone service. 
This morning, someone said that the prices of 
agricultural products are rising by 25 per cent or 30 per 
cent — even 50 per cent in some cases — and have 
been doing so for four or five years. Prices are going 
up because we do not yet control agricultural 
production. Since the State has controlled basic 
services in Bolivia, electricity, telephone and drinking 
 
 
13 11-50847 
 
water tariffs have not risen, because they are basic. 
Public utilities must be the responsibility of the State, 
and not of the private sector. 
 How can we allow water, the stuff of life, to be in 
private hands? I welcome the support we have received 
from the General Assembly for water to be a human 
right and express thanks on behalf of the people and 
Government of Bolivia. It is our responsibility to 
implement throughout the world the concept of water 
as a human right, thus supporting the least privileged 
when it comes to water. 
 My third point concerns the constant struggle of 
peoples for dignity and sovereignty. In Bolivia I too 
have to put up with a United States military base. And 
what do the uniformed United States outsiders do? 
They command the national police and the armed 
forces, because of political decisions of former 
Presidents, those who preceded me in the Palacio 
Quemada, as it is known in some sectors of society. 
The Chimore airport could not be used without the 
permission of the United States embassy. That woke us 
up to the importance of defending the dignity and 
sovereignty of our peoples.  
 What I have described gave rise to a great 
movement, not only social and cultural, but also 
electoral. It led to a political liberation movement, a 
movement to return dignity to all Bolivians, and to my 
attaining the presidency. 
 When I became President, I closed the military 
base. How is it possible in this new millennium, in the 
twenty-first century, for there still to be foreign 
military bases all around the world? How is it possible 
for there still to be interventions decided upon by the 
Security Council? That situation is a threat to 
humanity, an attack on the dignity of all the countries 
of the world. That is why we must develop proposals 
for the United Nations that will make it possible not 
only to free all the people living on this planet, but to 
restore dignity to them. 
 My fourth point concerns international financial 
institutions. I remember that when I was a union leader 
Governments could never obtain the resources for 
investment. We were told that Bolivia did not have the 
capacity to borrow. Bolivia did not have easy access to 
international loans. But what did the International 
Monetary Fund do? It made loans conditional. It told 
Governments that if they privatized refineries and 
telecommunications they would give credits of 
$30 million to $40 million. 
 A usurious bank, conditional credits and credits 
requiring security are no solution. No credits were 
given to States, or to the productive sector. They were 
all for services and trade. Above all, they went to the 
transnationals. 
 When I became President, one of the 
transnational oil companies told me that the 
Government would have to guarantee a credit of 
$100 million to build a pipeline. I wondered about the 
purpose. Finally, the oil company, Transredes, was 
conspiring politically, and we therefore decided to 
nationalize its properties — oil and gas pipelines. We 
expelled it. Then we began to invest through the State 
company, Yacimientos, without borrowing a single 
dollar, and the Carrasco Cochabamba pipeline is now 
under construction. But if the transnational had 
continued to be responsible, we would certainly have 
had to guarantee a loan for it. 
 As the Assembly is aware, I come from the 
indigenous peasant movement. When our families talk 
about a company, they think of it as something that has 
a lot of money and is made up of millionaires. So I 
could not understand how a company could ask the 
Government to lend it money for an investment. 
 The international financial institutions deal 
through companies, but who has to pay? It is the 
peoples, the States. So we must create other financial 
institutions. Fortunately, we are making good progress 
in South America. The Bank of the South will be 
completely different from the usurious banks that 
feather their own nests and make money through 
speculation. That must end. Regional integration will 
free us from the domination of those banks. 
 It is important for us to go further in that 
integration. In Bolivia we have barriers to overcome, 
and other countries of the Union of South American 
Nations (UNASUR) also have problems. For example, 
we have a historic demand upon Chile for a sovereign 
corridor to the Pacific. We decided to have recourse to 
international tribunals to ask for that access. 
Resolution 37/10 of 15 November 1982 establishes in 
its annex, the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful 
Settlement of International Disputes, that recourse to 
an international tribunal to settle disputes between 
States should not be considered an unfriendly act. 
  
 
11-50847 14 
 
 Bolivia has right and reason on its side in going 
to an international tribunal, because our landlocked 
state results from an unjust war, an invasion. For 
Bolivia, calling for a solution in the international 
sphere means for Bolivia redressing a historic injustice. 
 Bolivia is a friendly, peaceful State which gives 
priority to dialogue with its neighbours. We therefore 
keep open channels for bilateral negotiation with Chile, 
without, however, renouncing the right to go to an 
international court. There is regional involvement as 
well, since this is not just a bilateral problem, but is a 
regional problem as well. 
 Peoples are not responsible for the landlocked 
state of Bolivia. Those responsible are, as always, the 
oligarchies, the transnationals, which wish to protect 
their access to natural resources. The 1904 Treaty did 
not lead to either peace or friendship, because for more 
than a century Bolivia had no access to a sovereign 
port of its own. I take this opportunity to call on the 
United Nations, other international organizations and 
especially the region to support us, so that we can 
return with sovereignty to the Pacific Ocean. 
 In addition, there is another movement of 
countries taking place, that of the countries of Latin 
America with the Caribbean. I would say that it is a 
new Organization of American States, without the 
United States, in order to free us of certain impositions, 
with the benefit of our experience in UNASUR. I say 
that because we no longer find ourselves obliged, when 
there are conflicts between countries and within 
democracies, to have somebody coming from outside 
and above to re-establish order. Presidents and 
Governments meet to resolve internal problems. This is 
a great liberation for us. 
 I also take this opportunity to touch on a central 
topic: the fight against drug trafficking. United States 
imperialism is using the war on drugs for political 
ends. The United States Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) in Bolivia was not fighting drug 
trafficking; it was controlling it for political purposes. 
The DEA would implicate union leaders or anti-imperialist 
political leaders.  
 Many politicians have been saved from that dirty 
work of the empire in attempting to implicate us in 
drug trafficking, which still goes on. Last week some 
parts of the United States media said that my aircraft 
had been detained in the United States with traces of 
cocaine. How false! They are trying to confuse the 
people, trying to conduct a dirty campaign against my 
Government and against the State of Bolivia. 
 What does the United States do? It decertifies 
Bolivia and Venezuela. What moral authority does it 
have to certify or decertify nations of Latin America, 
when the United States is the world’s leading drug 
consumer, when the United States is one of the world’s 
producers of marijuana — in some years the biggest? 
What authority does it have to certify or decertify any 
country? This is another way of trying to scare 
countries or punish them. 
 However, Bolivia, very responsibly, continues to 
fight drug trafficking. A report by the State Department 
recognizes that there has been a net reduction in coca 
cultivation, with improved interdiction. Where is the 
market? The market is what drives drug trafficking, 
and the market is here. Who is decertifying the United 
States because it has not cut down the market? This 
morning President Calderón of Mexico said that the 
drug market continues to grow. Why is no 
responsibility taken for eliminating the market? As 
long as there is a market coca leaves and other 
products will be turned into drugs. 
 A great responsibility must be borne. Here I make 
an appeal. Let us fight with shared responsibility. Why 
do we not put an end to banking confidentiality? The 
biggest drug traffickers put their millions of dollars not 
in briefcases or backpacks but in the banks. Why is 
there fear of banking secrecy? In Bolivia we are not 
afraid. Banking confidentiality must be ended if we 
want to fight drug trafficking head on. 
 One of the crises on the margin of the crisis of 
capitalism is the food crisis. New international 
financial structures give opportunities to people with 
low incomes by providing microcredits to small 
producers. We have some experience in Bolivia, where 
credits at zero interest have been given to producers of 
rice, wheat, corn and soy at zero interest. Food 
producers can even pay their debts with their products. 
Soft credits are given to encourage food production. 
 Yet the international banks never take the small 
producer into account; they never pay any heed to 
cooperatives, to associations, which can very well 
contribute if given the chance. 
 There are new ways to encourage production 
through fair trade. We have to put an end to the 
so-called competitive market. In a competition who 
 
 
15 11-50847 
 
wins? It is the most powerful, those with the greatest 
advantages. Transnational companies are always the 
winners. The losers are the small producers, families 
wanting to rise through their own efforts. Therefore, 
we are trying in the region to implement policies of 
complementarity and solidarity, and not of competition. 
With naked competition we shall never be able to solve 
the problem of poverty. 
 Finally on this matter, the crisis of capitalism has 
no exit. When I was a young boy much mention was 
made of the foreign debt of poor countries. It was said 
that it could never be paid. Now the situation is quite 
the opposite: the debts of the poor countries can easily 
be settled, but the crisis of capitalism is a bottomless 
hole. The crisis of capitalism is not just because of 
circumstances; it is structural. 
 What do capitalist or imperialist countries do? 
They seek any pretext to invade a country and make off 
with its natural resources. This morning the President 
of the United States said that Iraq was already free and 
would govern itself. The Iraqis will be able to govern 
themselves, of course, but in whose hands is the oil 
now?  
 The fall of autocracy in Libya was hailed, and 
now there is democracy, but in whose hands is Libyan 
oil? The world and the Libyans have come to realize 
that reason for the invasion and the bombings was not 
to bring about the fall of Al-Qadhafi by rebels but a 
desire for Libyan oil. Next year we can review the 
situation and see which countries have their hands on 
Libyan oil.  
 There is a desire to overcome the crisis of 
capitalism by making off with our oil, gas and other 
natural resources. But we also have the great 
responsibility of defending the rights of Mother Earth. 
I continue to be convinced that the best way to defend 
human rights is to defend the rights of Mother Earth. 
 Here we have the great responsibility of looking 
after the rights of Mother Earth. Only 60 years ago the 
Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights; it was only 60 years ago that the United 
Nations realized that the human being also has rights. 
After political rights, economic rights, the rights of 
indigenous peoples, now we have the enormous 
responsibility of defending the rights of Mother Earth. 
 We are also convinced that infinite growth on a 
finite planet is unsustainable and impossible. The limit 
to growth is the regenerative capacity of the planet’s 
ecosystems. We therefore call for a new 10 commandments 
concerning social demands, financial systems, natural 
resources, basic services, production, and dignity and 
sovereignty. On that basis we should begin to re-
establish the United Nations so that it can be the 
highest instance to settle issues of peace, poverty, 
dignity and sovereignty. 
 I hope that my experience as President of Bolivia 
will be useful to all those present. At the same time, I 
come to learn from many of them so that I may 
continue working for the equality and dignity of the 
Bolivian people.

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿The meetings we hold at the United Nations are
always very important events at which we debate
social, environmental, political and economic issues
throughout the world. I commend the President of the
General Assembly on having chosen as our central
theme the peaceful settlement of disputes throughout
the world.
I wish to take the great opportunity of my presence
here today at the United Nations to inform the
Assembly about a dispute between Chile and Bolivia.
In 1879, as the result of an unjust war — an unjust
invasion — masterminded by Chilean oligarchical
interests, with the participation of transnational
corporations with an eye on Bolivia’s natural resources,
we lost our corridor to the Pacific Ocean.
Bolivia was founded in 1825 and lost access to the
sea in 1879. In the early 1900s, a treaty was signed that
has not been complied with. It is for that reason that I
have come here to take advantage of the theme of our
debate, the peaceful settlement of disputes, to say that
major disputes among States have been resolved and
injustices rectified through the resolve and goodwill of
the relevant authorities.
Chile cannot disregard Bolivia’s rights or the
pronouncements of an entire continent, much less
prolong indefinitely our forcibly imposed landlocked
status. An unjust, imposed and non-implemented treaty
cannot be allowed to continue to harm a people that is
only calling for justice and for an end to its country’s
status as a landlocked country.
The intangibility of treaties means that they are
not dogma. Treaties, like all other creations of human beings, can be changed. I say that because when we state
that Chile must return our sea corridor, we are asked,
what treaty? I therefore wish to take this opportunity
to speak of a treaty signed in 1903 between the United
States and Panama on the Panama Canal.
In 1903, a treaty on the Panama Canal was signed
under which the United States was authorized to build the
Panama Canal and received sovereignty, in perpetuity,
over the territories on both sides of the Canal and the
area of the Canal. In other words, according to the
Treaty of 1903, that country would be the owner for all
eternity of the Panama Canal. However, a renegotiated
treaty was signed in 1977 that gradually transferred
sovereignty over the Canal zone from the United States
to Panama, and in 1999 Panama recovered control and
administration of the Canal through the Panama Canal
Authority.
How did the United States return the Panama Canal
to Panama when, through the first treaty, it had to be
the owner of the Canal in perpetuity? And how is it
possible for Chile not to return Bolivia’s sea corridor?
I wish also to take this opportunity to say that
today, in this millennium, is a time of integration and
of focus on the protection of humankind, not a time of
domestic or external colonialism. That is why I wish to
reaffirm once again that the Malvinas are for Argentina
and the sea is for Bolivia. These demands, conflicts and
disputes have to be resolved peacefully, and Bolivia is
a peace-loving country, in keeping with the State’s new
political Constitution.
Bolivia appeals once again to the Government of
Chile, here before the Assembly, to resolve definitively
the issue of our landlocked status through peaceful
settlement mechanisms. We call on the international
community to support us in that endeavour, so that this
conflict, which does great harm to the integration of the
American continent, may finally come to an end.
Among the Bolivian people, among children and
grandparents alike, there is a strong sense of the need
to recover our sea corridor. Bolivia was born with a sea,
and it is not possible that oligarchies and transnational
companies, in order to plunder our natural resources,
can be allowed also to wrest from us our territory. We
need the support of all those at the helm of the United
Nations to put an end to a historical injustice on the part
of international Powers. Yesterday I listened to the various statements on
issues related to democracy, human rights and peace,
and I feel that the statements we make here as Presidents
show that we agree in theory. All of us here are great
defenders of human rights who want peace and defend
democracy. But we are divided. The United Nations is
not united, and that makes a great difference. I listened
very carefully to the statement made by Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon telling us that we have to change
the world. We very much agree that we have to change
the world. But how can we change the world if we do
not change the United Nations? How can the United
Nations be responsible for interventionism on many
continents?
I have listened to two or three addresses by several
countries, and I was very pleased. There seems to be a
rebellion on the part of States against powers, authority
and capitalism. I am very pleased, because when I came
here for the first time in 2006, only the countries of the
Bolivarian Alliance for the Countries of Our America,
with great ideological, political and programmatic
clarity, stated that everything was for the people. I
know some countries on other continents — very timid
and fearful countries — feel that today are losing their
fear of the Powers. I would like to say to them, to their
representatives and to their Presidents that we should
not be afraid. We should not be afraid of empires or
capitalism. Capitalism and imperialism are not the
solution to life or to humanity.
We are living in times of the crisis of capitalism,
of a crisis in food. I remember when I was still a
trade union leader, we conducted campaigns to have
the external debt of underdeveloped countries — at
that time, they were called underdeveloped countries,
instead of developing countries — cancelled. Now I
realize that our debt as poor countries can be paid, but
the debts of capitalism are impossible to pay. That is
what the world we are living in today shows.
We speak here of democracy. We have to defend
democracy and, in order to do that, we have to
intervene in some countries. But if we really wanted to
be democratic, we would respect all of the resolutions
of the United Nations. Just to cite an example, does the
Government of the United States of America respect
United Nations resolutions on the economic embargo
against Cuba? It has never respected them. That is due
to pride on the part of the rulers, not of the American
people. The rulers are never going to respect those resolutions, but they speak of democracy and of
defending democracy.
In that connection, I must express our full backing for
the Cuban people. Their commander, former President
Fidel Castro, the most caring person in the world that
I have ever known — and I admire that revolutionary
people — is, despite the embargo, engaged in continuous
battle at the side of his people. It is not possible that in the
twenty-first century an economic embargo continues
against the Cuban people, a genocidal embargo that
has failed and which violates the rights of an entire
people. The embargo has been condemned by almost
all of humankind and the international community,
including the allies of the United States of America,
for its extraterritorial character and its imposition in
violation of humanitarian and international law. Bolivia
also denounces the unjust inclusion of Cuba on the list
unilaterally assembled by the United States in its report
entitled “State Sponsors of Terrorism”, the purpose of
which is to justify the embargo and continue imposing
new sanctions on the regime and the people of Cuba.
What authority does the Government of the United
States have to include a country in the list of terrorist
countries? Do not all the peoples of the world realize
that the number one terrorist country practicing State
terrorism is the Government of the United States?
There have been so many interventions, so many dead
and wounded, so much killing — under the pretext of
defending democracy.
Moments ago, a fellow president spoke about an
intervention in Libya to restore democracy, which is
a lie. They intervened in Libya not for its people but
to recover oil for the Powers. We have to be sincere
and straightforward with humankind, but where there
are presidents who stay in power without practicing
democracy but are in favour of capitalism and
imperialism, there is no intervention because they are
allies of the United States Government; they are allies
of the empire; they are allies of capitalism. Where there
are natural resources, like oil, in the hands of the people,
they have to intervene under any pretext — terrorism,
dictatorship or drug trafficking — all of it to recover or
to plunder the natural resources.
Furthermore, I would also like to launch an appeal
for the immediate release of five Cuban anti-terrorist
political prisoners in the United States. Their release
would show a political will to defend human rights.
The President of the United States could release them;
the power to do so is in his hands. I hope that justice will be done to our five Cuban brothers, who have been
imprisoned unjustly.
In truth, I do not understand it when the presidents
who speak in defence of human rights are never the
ones who respect human, either within or outside
their own countries. I do not understand how one can
speak of peace while there are economic inequalities
in the world. While there is an economic policy that
concentrates capital in the hands of a few and which
impoverishes many, there will never be justice, there
will never be peace or respect for human rights. Indeed,
the economic models that concentrate capital in a few
hands provoke injustice and create uprisings.
I feel that now is the best time — I am referring
to various meetings at the United Nations — to gain
better understanding of the situation of all the peoples
of the world. We had requested the revision of some
important international treaties concerning a very
important product for the indigenous peoples of the
Andean region, the coca leaf. Although the coca leaf has
medicinal and ritual properties, it has been penalized
under the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
Therefore, Bolivia, which wishes to remain faithful to
its commitment to fight drug trafficking, has requested
adherence to the Single Convention with a reservation
that preserves the right to use coca leaf for cultural
purposes, especially medicinal purposes, within our
territory.
In some states of the United States, it is legal to
sell cocaine, but the United States does not allow us to
consume coca leaf — which is not cocaine. I welcome
the support for the proposal on the part of many
countries of the continent and the world — non-aligned
countries — recognizing, after thousands of years, the
consumption of coca leaf as legal. I respectfully request
that the Assembly, acting on behalf of the United
Nations, correct a historical prejudicial act.
Unfortunately, since there is an illegal market for
coca leaf, that is, a market for cocaine or drugs, a portion
of the harvest is diverted to the illegal market — but we
are fighting that. We in Bolivia say that there will be no
free cultivation of coca, but there cannot be zero coca
leaf.
I commend the United Nations for issuing a report a
few weeks ago affirming that, for the first time, Bolivia
had reduced the cultivation of coca by more than 12 per
cent. That is a Government achievement without any
dead or wounded; previously, that kind of reduction resulted in many dead and wounded. Now, while
maintaining respect for human rights and appealing
to the conscience of my coca-producing brothers and
sisters, we have had a net reduction.
Coca cultivation has increased in some countries,
which are subsequently decertified by the United States
of America. But the United States has also decertified
a country like Bolivia, even though it has reduced the
cultivation of coca by 12 per cent. Do we then have to
plant more coca for the Government of the United States
to certify us? One cannot understand it. Of course,
since we are an anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist
people and Government, we have been decertified. That
decertification is a political statement; it does not take
into account the efforts made by the Bolivian people
through its Government.
We are not interested in whether we are certified
or not. That is the least of it. What we are interested
in is the United Nations data. Honestly, the United
Nations works in a transparent manner to recognize
the work that our Government has done to reduce coca
cultivation.
I would also like to take this opportunity to talk
about the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
Bolivia was previously a little-known country that had
been abandoned, living on foreign aid. We welcomed
foreign aid. I would just like to present what we have
achieved since we took charge in Bolivia, in the context
of the MDGs.
Bolivia was supposed to reduce extreme poverty
to 24.1 per cent by 2015. I would like to report that,
by 2011, we had reduced extreme poverty to 20 per
cent. We have a plan. By the time Bolivia celebrates its
bicentennial, we will have eradicated extreme poverty.
The numbers from international organizations confirm
that, last year, 10 per cent of the population went from
extreme poverty to the middle class. That is 1 million
Bolivians.
The second figure to note is that, according to the
MDG targets, 78.5 per cent of the population should
have access to safe drinking water by 2015. I would
like to say that, as a result of our programme, this year
we reached 78.5 per cent of the country, especially the
indigenous rural communities. We have a programme
called “My Water” to promote greater investments
in water. What I did personally was to bring together
all of the projects on safe drinking water or water for
irrigation from every municipality in the country. For
the second year in a row, we have invested $300,000 per municipality, and that has been rather helpful, in
addition to other programmes by the Ministry of the
Environment and Water, in particular in cities and in
rural areas. Those programmes for drinking water mean
that we have achieved our goal in 2012, not in 2015.
Hopefully, by 2015 we will have achieved 90 or 100 per
cent drinking water coverage. That is our programme.
Another of the Goals pertains to coverage in terms
of hospital births. The MDG target for 2015 is 70 per
cent. I am here to report that by 2009 we had achieved
70 per cent coverage, not to mention other programmes
such as the one that provides subsidies for pregnant
women and children under the age of two. We are
making good progress, although with slow steps.
Why has there been such rapid change? Social
programmes and structural changes have allowed us to
change Bolivia. One example is telecommunications.
Bolivia has 339 municipalities. In 2006, telephone
coverage or mobile phone coverage in rural areas existed
in only 90 municipalities. The day after tomorrow, I
am going to inaugurate mobile communication in the
last municipality, the furthest from the cities, in the
Bolivian Amazon. Now my brothers and sisters living
in rural areas have telephones or mobile phones in all
339 municipalities. Entel, our telephone service, had
been privatized. We took it back, nationalized it, and
began to invest in it in order to provide better service.
We have made progress for the following reason.
As President, I received a mandate from the Bolivian
people to recover or nationalize our natural resources.
The biggest company in Bolivia is Yacimientos
Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB). For 20 years,
neoliberal Governments worked to privatize our natural
resources. They sold our natural resources, especially
oil, to transnational corporations. Bolivia received only
18 per cent of all the profits, while 82 per cent went
to transnational corporations. In addition, what did
the contracts signed by neoliberal Governments say?
Who was the owner? The oil transnational corporations
acquired the right of ownership at the mouth of the
well. The Governments would tell us that the oil and
gas continued to be ours as long as it was under the
ground. But once it came to the mouth of the well, it
belonged to the transnational corporations. We fought,
we mobilized, we raised awareness among the Bolivian
people as to the importance of retaking or nationalizing
that natural resource. On 1 May 2006, we nationalized
that industry without any misgivings. That act changed the national economy. In 2006,
our international reserves stood at $1.7 billion. Our
international reserves now stand at more than $13 billion.
In 2005, YPFB had $300 million in revenue. This year,
it has $3.5 billion. In 2005, total public investments
amounted to $600 million. Out of that $600 million,
70 per cent came from aid and loans and only 30 per
cent came from the national treasury. This year State
investments will amount to approximately $6 billion,
with an additional $6 billion in private investments.
How did that change come about in such a short period
of time?
Of course, Bolivia is a small country. But we
have managed to change our national economy. That
is why I say to countries whose natural resources,
including oil and gas, are still in private hands that my
recommendation is for them to nationalize and recover
their natural resources. Natural resources cannot
belong to transnational corporations; they belong to the
peoples of the world, under State administration.
I would also like to say that there have been
social changes. Through a constituent assembly, we
have guaranteed basic services as a human right.
Consequently, they cannot be in private hands.
It is a task for the State. Water, electricity and
communications — we have nationalized them and
turned them into human rights. It is very important that
those basic services be human rights. While we still
have some problems in Bolivia with electricity, we will
continue to work to ensure that that basic service is a
human right as well.
I am here to share our brief experience with
Governments, presidents, ambassadors and prime
ministers. Where there is the will to change, there will
be change. It depends to a large extent on willingness,
constant efforts to educate our people and transparent
work. Of course, we still have so many demands to
meet — sometimes, too, exaggerated demands from a
particular social sector or region — but regardless of
our interests or claims, our homeland and humankind
as a whole come first.
Dealing as we are with the problems we have in
Bolivia and the world with climate issues, I would like
to take this opportunity to convey an invitation to an
international meeting on 21 December to greet a new
era, an invitation to the celebration of the end of the
cycle of non-time and the beginning of a new cycle of
equilibrium and harmony for Mother Earth. It would take too long here to go into the knowledge of our
indigenous brothers in Mexico, Guatemala, Bolivia and
Ecuador, but basically we are issuing this invitation to a
virtual — and actual — debate on the following topics.
First, the global crisis of sapitalism; second, the
crisis of civilization — world Government, capitalism,
socialism, community and the culture of life; third,
the crisis of climate — human beings’ relationship to
nature; fourth, the energy of community and change;
fifth, awareness of Mother Earth; sixth, recovering
ancestral practices and customs and the natural cosmic
calendar; seventh, living the right way as a solution to
the global crisis — because once again we affirm that
we cannot live better by plundering natural resources,
and that is a profound debate that we should have with
the whole world; eighth, food sovereignty and security
through food sovereignty; ninth, integration — through
brotherhood, community, economy, complementarity,
the right to communication, and community learning
for life; the new human being with an integrated
identity; complementarity; self-knowledge, awakening
and, of course, health, which is so important.
I would like to say that according to the Mayan
calendar, 21 December marks the end of the non-time
and the beginning of time. It is the end of the
macha — the darkness — and the beginning of the
pacha — communitarianism; it is the end of selfishness
and the beginning of brotherhood; it is the end of
individualism and the beginning of collectivism. As
scientists know very well, 21 December this year
marks the end of the era of anthropocentrism and the
beginning of biocentrism. It is the end of hatred and
the beginning of love, the end of lies and the beginning
of truth, the end of sadness and the beginning of joy, it
is the end of division and the beginning of unity. This
is a theme to be developed, and that is why we invite
all those here, those who are betting on humankind, to
share their experiences for the good of humankind.
As always, I would like to thank the President for
these debates at the United Nations. We are always
thinking about new generations and about the good
of humankind, although sometimes sectoral interests
intrude — but as representatives who come here from
time to time, we have an obligation to think about how
to shoulder our responsibilities, and that means, as
someone said just now, bringing an end to the powers
that be. This is not a time when we can continue to praise
those powers; we are living in a time when peoples must
be freed and where we must constantly seek economic and social equality for all human beings, a time to bring
dignity to every citizen.
I would like to commend those statements that
questioned interventionism, military bases and troops.
There will be social peace only when we change such
political and economic policies and put an end to
military bases and interventionism. My respect goes to
those who resist military intervention by the Powers,
which is not a solution. That is something we have
learned, and that is why we hope that these debates will
serve to help us think about life and humanity.

===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
I 
wish to convey my greetings to the Secretary-General 
and all the Presidents, Heads of State, delegations and 
international organizations from across the world. I 
convey also my special greetings to those attending this 
annual general debate of the General Assembly.

We are here once again, as usual, to share 
experiences relating to leadership and to work for the 
sake of life, humanity, equality and social justice. But 
we are also here to express our profound differences as 
concerns life, peace and democracy. Over the past few 
days I have been listening to the statements made by 
certain Powers, which leave a lot to be desired in terms 
of liberty, equality, dignity and sovereignty.

Thanks to the awareness of the Bolivian people, I 
have now held the presidency for almost eight years. In 
that time — despite the economic and financial crises in 
some so-called developed, industrialized and, I would 
even say, even exaggeratedly industrialized countries, 
because some Powers industrialize simply to put an end 
to life — we in Bolivia have an economic growth rate of 
4.8 per cent, on average. Previously it was just over 2 per 
cent under the economic policies of the free market and 
neoliberalism. This year the economic growth rate is 
estimated at 6 per cent, at least, so we are doing well. 

I would like to point out that thanks to that economic 
growth, in the context of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) we have reduced poverty; we have met 
the MDG of reducing poverty and extreme poverty. 
United Nations data for 2011 indicates that that year 
1 million Bolivian men and women entered the middle 
class. Bolivia has 10 million inhabitants, so that means 
that 10 per cent of Bolivia’s inhabitants improved 
their economic status. The rate of undernutrition for 
children under the age of 5 has decreased even more 
than required by the related Millennium Development 
Goal. The literacy-rate goal for people between 15 and 
24 years of age was met, and UNESCO declared Bolivia 
a country free of illiteracy thanks to the cooperation of 
Cuba and Venezuela, which have been working with us 
since 2006-2007.

The Goal on coverage in terms of maternal health 
has been reached, and maternal and child mortality has 
decreased. Thanks to that economic growth we have 
been able to create vouchers for pregnant women and 
for children under 2 years of age, which has made 
possible a decrease in maternal and child mortality. 
Coverage in terms of potable water has increased. For 
example, we created a programme entitled “My water 
(more investment for water)”. I must thank the Andean 
Development Corporation and the Inter-American 
Development Bank for their contributions. With their 
funding we put together “My water” I and II, and we 
are now on the third programme, with $300,000 per 
municipality in rural areas. That has made it possible 
for us to provide some municipalities with 100 per cent 
coverage in terms of potable water.

I have just come from a major event in the department 
of Santa Cruz, where I visited several municipalities. 
In two of them, the mayors — who are not from the 
party in power but from other parties — told me that 
“My water” III will result in 100 per cent of the local 
population having drinking water. We have made 
advances in that area. Investment in water is a blessing 
for life. It means minimizing disease, because potable 
water helps people avoid contracting diseases. 

I would like all here to know that we have been able 
to achieve this thanks to a State that lives in conditions 
of sovereignty and dignity. Why am I saying this? 
Because previously, politically we were subject to the 
American empire. The embassies of the United States 
decided who would be minister. Economically, we were 
subject to the International Monetary Fund. From the 
time we arrived, we have said “Enough!” to submitting 
to international organizations and to the United States 
embassy. Previously, for any loan, the International 
Monetary Fund set conditionalities, blackmailing the 
various Governments. Those conditionalities involved 
our giving up our natural resources to transnational 
companies, so that Bolivia would privatize basic 
services. But basic services are a human right and 
cannot be private property. So when we freed ourselves 
politically and economically, we started to do better.

One of the policies we adopted was to nationalize 
hydrocarbons — gas and oil. I want the Assembly to 
know, just to share a small experience, that previously 
State contracts with transnational oil companies stated 
that the bearer acquired the right to the land at the mouth 
of the well. When union leaders asked Governments 
why the gas and oil were not the property of Bolivians, 
they told us that as long as they were underground they 
belonged to the Bolivians, but once they were out of the 
ground that was no longer the case. They invented this 
title business for the land at the mouth of the well. 



In addition, 82 per cent of the benefits went to 
transnationals, especially in mega-oilfields, and 18 per 
cent to Bolivians. It was looting, it was theft. But since 
we nationalized hydrocarbons, I must say that we 
have really begun to improve the economic situation 
and the social conditions in our country. Just one 
example: oil income in 2005, before I was President, 
was $300 million. This year, thanks to nationalization 
and the fight waged by social movements, oil sales will 
total more than $5 billion. Last year we almost reached 
$5 billion. That figure continues to grow with new 
investments, and today we have reached the stage of 
giving added value to those natural resources.

As the Assembly is aware, I am not an expert in 
politics or in economic matters. But I am here at the 
request of the Bolivian people, learning daily about the 
needs, problems and demands of my people, the people 
of Bolivia.

I would therefore also like to say that this joint work 
with the social movements, which are the organized 
representatives of the people, is going well. I would 
like the United Nations and the Secretary-General to 
know that we have issued a directive and are working 
on the patriotic agenda for 2025. What exactly is that 
agenda about? As Bolivia was founded in 1825, the year 
2025 will be our bicentennial as a republic, while we 
are now a plurinational State. We are working with all 
social movements and authorities, be they local mayors 
or provincial Governments, to establish a medium- and 
long-term plan that will make it possible to guarantee a 
future for the generations to come.

Besides local issues, there are also pending regional 
issues, such as the one between Bolivia and Chile on 
sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. An invasion 
began on 14 February 1879, which on 23 March of 
the same year gave rise to a limited resistance. Who 
invaded us? It was the Chilean oligarchy of the time, 
along with British companies. We lost our access to the 
sea, and many meetings have been subsequently held 
on the issue. An unfair treaty was imposed on us, and it 
was not observed. 

I want the Assembly to be aware of the following. 
In a number of meetings with former Presidents and 
with the latest brotherly President of Chile, we have 
tried to reach an understanding. However, there has 
never been an official proposal to resolve the issue of 
the Bolivian people’s irrevocable right to return to the 
Pacific with sovereignty. 

What did the President of Chile say in September 
2010 when he addressed the General Assembly here 
in New York (see A/65/PV.12)? He said that treaties 
were inviolable and they must not be touched. On 
28 January 2013, during the summit of the Community 
of Latin America and the Caribbean States (CELAC) 
in Santiago, President Piñera Echeñique said that of 
course treaties could be perfected. First, he said they 
were untouchable, and then he said they could be 
perfected. That shows that this issue is on his mind and 
that it needs to be resolved. 

On 17 December 2012, Piñera Echeñique publicly 
stated that Chile would ensure respect not only for the 
treaties it had signed, but also its sovereignty, with 
all the strength in the world. But in January at the 
CELAC summit President Piñera Echeñique said that 
sovereignty could not be touched unless economic 
interests were at stake. On 22 September 2011, at the 
General Assembly President Piñera Echeñique said 
that there were no ongoing territorial issues between 
Chile and Bolivia (see A/66/PV.15). However, on 
2 February 2013, in an interview with La Tercera, a 
Chilean newspaper, he recognized the following: Chile 
has offered Bolivia autonomy in a territorial enclave. In 
other words, he is trying to resolve the issue. But that 
proposal has never been made official. 

There is a fourth contradiction. On 11 November 
2012, at the Ibero-American Summit held in Cadiz, 
Spain, the President of Chile said that Chile would 
demand that a valid treaty that was still in force — the 
treaty of 1904 — be respected, and that any conversation 
about the matter must be bilateral in nature: it did not 
belong in a multilateral forum such as that in which we 
are participating today. 

What did the President of Chile say on 2 February 
2013? He said that the possibility of a gateway to the 
sea without sovereignty, north of Arica, will come to an 
end if Peru won at The Hague. Another contradiction: 
in June 2013, President Sebastián Piñera Echeñique 
said that Chile had the right to defend its territory, 
sea and sovereignty with strength and conviction and 
that Chile was a country that would never bend in the 
legitimate defence of its territory. In June, he said 
that Chile would not cede to the Bolivian position 
while President Morales continued to belittle him. On 
7 September 2013, he said that, naturally, they would 
respect the ruling from The Hague. When it came to 
the ruling from The Hague, they were a country that 
respected rulings. 



I simply wanted to state that to avoid conflict. 
Since its foundation as a plurinational State, Bolivia has 
been by nature a peaceful State. With all due respect, 
I would like to inform members that we have turned to 
international courts. We have requested the International 
Court of Justice to declare that the Republic of Chile 
has an obligation to effectively negotiate, in a timely 
fashion and in good faith, sovereign access to the Pacific 
Ocean in order to re-establish Bolivia’s past, present 
and future rights to the sea. I want members to be aware 
that this request cannot and should not be interpreted as 
an act of hostility. On the contrary, it is a demonstration 
of Bolivia’s respect and confidence in the mechanisms 
for the peaceful settlement of international disputes. 

Members cannot imagine how much damage we 
have suffered, economically and geographically, or the 
damage that has been done to the people of Bolivia and 
to our past and future generations, by the 1879 invasion. 
Our grandparents continue to ask us when we are going 
to go back to the sea, because Bolivia was born with an 
outlet to the Pacific Ocean. So that everyone is aware: 
we are seeking a peaceful solution to this dispute. 

We have heard the various statements made over 
the past few days. One cannot listen to every single one 
of them, but I want to say that, while we are working 
to eliminate extreme poverty, we, the Heads of State 
and Government, are also working for peace with social 
justice. Nevertheless, a handful of Powers promote 
wars, armed conflict and military intervention without 
respecting even international organizations. 

We have heard here statements about freedom, 
democracy, peace, justice and security. As peoples 
who have been the subject of interventions and have 
been exploited, marginalized and robbed of our natural 
resources by the empires of the time, we wonder what 
democracy, what peace and what social justice some 
Presidents who come here are talking about. We witness 
Presidents and their retinues blocking airspace and not 
providing guarantees of our attendance to this forum, 
for example. How can they speak of democracy, when 
the spy services of the United States violate human 
rights and the privacy and security of other States while 
using private companies? It turns out that they spy not 
only on democratic Governments, but even on their own 
allies, their own citizens and the United Nations itself. 
Well, fine, let them spy on us anti-imperialist Presidents 
and Governments. But spying on the United Nations? 
Spying on their allies? I feel that there is a great deal of 
overweening arrogance towards humankind.

That is why we continue to speak out. Not only 
do they spy, they also hatch coups d’état. What peace 
can we speak of when military spending sacrifices the 
human rights of our peoples? I would like to ask the 
people of the United States: How is it possible, when 
there are so many people out of work, for their country’s 
Government and President to spend $700 billion on 
the military and espionage annually, when there are 
so many of our brothers in the United States who are 
homeless and jobless and without an education? One 
cannot understand how that country can spend so much 
money interfering with other countries while leaving 
its own unprovided for.

They talk to us of human rights while torture is 
being carried out in the prisons of Guantánamo and 
on military bases in the Middle East, and while union 
and political leaders who do not share imperialist 
and capitalist views are also tortured. I would like to 
say to the United States that it must not believe it is 
master of the world. It is mistaken. Furthermore, it 
signs agreements yet refuses to sign some of the most 
important treaties in the world. It does not respect 
United Nations resolutions.

The security of the empire and the fight against 
terrorism have become the biggest excuse and tool 
for unilateral military intervention. Terrorism cannot 
be combated through more military spending and 
interventions or the training of military forces. As 
far as I know, the way to fight terrorism is with social 
policies, not military bases; with religious tolerance, 
more democracy, more equality of justice and more 
education. 

What country is free from problems? Of course 
there are differences. The best thing to do is to provide 
means, even if not all our Governments have the same 
economic policies. Capitalism wants to emerge from its 
crisis through war and armed intervention. We must ask 
ourselves who benefits from the wars. Who distributes 
the natural resources after an intervention? Whose 
hands do they end up in, once countries are bombed? 
Who is really governing in the United States, I wonder? 
Is it its citizens, or the companies that promote wars? 
From outside, at least — I am not an ambassador living 
in the United States — what we see is that those who 
finance political and election campaigns are bankers 
and big businessmen, and they are the ones setting 
policy.

Those who govern cannot be mistaken or confused 
about the conflict in Syria. Naturally, we are against 



the use of chemical weapons and weapons of mass 
destruction. But who possesses the greatest nuclear 
arsenal? Who invented chemical weapons? Who 
industrialized those weapons that end human lives? In 
my region, at least, things are perfectly clear. We know 
whose hands they are in, where they come from and 
who produces them. 

Democracies do not wage war. What we are seeing 
is that those who make the decisions about wars are the 
arms industry, the financial system and oil companies. 
Plutocracy has become a substitute for democracy. The 
Government of the rich and powerful decides the fate of 
the world. We are facing a new moment in the imperial 
geopolitical disposition — and I do not wish to revisit 
how Latin America and the Caribbean, like Africa and 
the Middle East, were at one time carved up by various 
imperial Powers, who were interested not in resolving 
issues of poverty, democracy and equality but rather 
in those countries’ natural resources — and now, once 
again, those Powers wish to divide it all up through 
military intervention and with military bases.

Another subject being debated is the colonization 
of space, as we have seen in recent years. Those who 
believe they are the masters of the world have told 
us that their power has no limits and that they can 
intervene wherever they feel like. Again, I wonder what 
the United Nations is for. What do we have treaties and 
conventions for? What use is multilateralism? Human 
multilateralism we welcome; inhuman interventionism 
will be combated by people all over the world. I believe 
that as a union leader and as someone from one of the 
most humiliated sectors in the history of Latin America, 
the indigenous peasant peoples.

War is a business for capitalism. There can be no 
peace without justice; there can be no equality as long 
as the business of war has pride of place. It starts and 
wages wars for its businesses. That is why I believe it is 
important at this event to consider such issues in depth.

Another instrument of domination is the fight 
against drug trafficking. But I have to say that despite 
the efforts of the Bolivian people and Government, 
there are certain Powers that do not shoulder their 
responsibilities in combating the traffic in drugs, 
because the drug market is in the capitalist countries. 
Since we got rid of the Drug Enforcement Agency 
(DEA) and launched our own national policy — and 
thanks to some of our neighbours, such as Argentina, 
Brazil and Chile, to which I am grateful for their joint 
efforts — we have seen improvements and a better way 
of fighting drug trafficking than the way imposed by 
the DEA and the United States. I welcome the fact that 
the United Nations has acknowledged the decrease in 
drug trafficking in Bolivia, but it has not been certified 
by the Government of the United States. Who should 
we believe, the United States or the United Nations? I 
leave it up to the Assembly.

I have felt somewhat insecure when it comes to 
visiting the United Nations in New York, which is 
why we should think seriously about changing the 
location of the Headquarters of the Organization. The 
Headquarters of the United Nations should be in the 
territory of a State that has ratified all the treaties 
adopted by the United Nations. As the Assembly is 
aware, the Government has never ratified the treaties on 
human rights or the rights of Mother Earth. They do not 
guarantee us visas or overflights. I offer my solidarity 
with my friend Nicolás Maduro Moros, President of 
Venezuela. How can we be sure that a meeting of the 
United Nations here in New York is secure? Perhaps 
some of us do, but those of us who do not share the 
views of imperialism and capitalism feel completely 
insecure. 

I would just like to say, though not out of fear, that 
we should not be complicit in such an arrogant attitude 
to the peoples of the world. How can we genuinely 
believe in the United Nations if we do not respect 
resolutions — for example, those ending the economic 
blockade of Cuba. There are only two or three countries 
that do not vote to end it. Most of us welcome it and 
vote for the resolution every time. But if it is not 
implemented and not respected, then why are we here 
at the United Nations?

Furthermore, I wish to inform the Assembly 
that everyone knows that the United States harbours 
terrorists, criminals and the corrupt. They escape 
from Bolivian justice and arrive here. The United 
States Government is not assisting in the fight against 
corruption. What kind of an agreement could we then 
have in the fight against corruption? 

Beyond that, the United States accuses the 
Governments of other countries. It accuses Cuba, of 
promoting terrorism. How can Cuba do that? Perhaps it 
is due to such accusations that only 60 or 70 Presidents, 
of the more than 190, have come here. I feel that such 
policies scare off Presidents. Who will come next year 
to vote, when resolutions are never respected? 



That reason, and many others, should encourage us 
to consider changing the Headquarters of the United 
Nations. I do not expect it to be Bolivia, or South 
America. There are countries that have ratified all of the 
human rights treaties. That is where the Headquarters 
of the United Nations should be located.

There is blackmail when it comes to visas. I had to 
wait for a visa in order to come here, and then it was 
for only four, five or six days — no more. What good 
is such a visa? One has to watch the clock and when 
to leave, because the visa will be taken from us. We 
are being threatened, intimidated and blackmailed with 
visas.

If the Assembly is here to seriously discuss the well-
being of humankind, perhaps my country can share 
with some who are present here the idea of seriously 
considering establishing a tribunal of the peoples, 
including major international organizations that defend 
human rights, to begin an investigation of the Obama 
Government. 

I was surprised by the words of United States 
President Obama at the start of his term. It struck me 
when he stated, “I was elected to end wars”. Those 
were his words, found in newspapers, on radio and on 
television. I said to myself, this fraternal President of 
the United States originates from a family that suffered 
from discrimination like me. We are going to agree and 
we will put an end to war. I was deeply struck by that. 
Now we are seeing the exact opposite. Perhaps it is due 
to the Nobel Peace Prize. We congratulate him. In the 
end, however, it is a Nobel Peace Prize, rather than a 
Nobel war prize. 

What is the basis for a trial? It certainly includes 
crimes against humanity and the bombing of Libya. 
I would like to know who owned the oil in Libya 
beforehand? Who owns it now? Previously, at the least, 
the people of Libya benefited from that oil, but how is it 
being managed and used now? What happened in Iraq? 
I am convinced that behind any war or intervention, 
a plan is being devised on how to later seize the 
natural resources. That was our experience in Bolivia. 
However, we have recovered our natural resources 
democratically, without bullets but with votes, not 
with money but based on the awareness of the Bolivian 
people. 

As for prosecuting acts of international terrorism, 
the financing of terrorist groups and the arming of 
opposition forces — once I expelled the United States 
Ambassador to Bolivia, I had no regrets. We are better 
off now, politically and democratically. We are now 
ending our cooperation with the United States Agency 
for International Development, which had been plotting. 
We want and welcome cooperation, so long as it is 
unconditional and free of blackmail or preconditions 
involving Presidents or the privatization of natural 
resources and basic services. 

Imagine the damage inflicted on a country by 
an economic blockade. It is the best tool of genocide. 
Therefore, if we are truly responsible for the well-being 
of humankind, if we are responsible for truth, justice 
and peace, then we must organize to fight back so that 
no president — from South America, the Middle East 
or anywhere else in the world — will ever again cause 
harm to life or to humankind. 

Like previous debates here — on the financial, 
climate, economic and food crises — the Assembly is 
now addressing the issue of interventionism. As long 
as imperialism and capitalism exist, peace, justice, 
liberty, dignity and sovereignty for the people of the 
world will never be possible. I am convinced of that, 
because I have a little experience. We should therefore 
contemplate a world free of oligarchies, monarchies 
and hierarchies, and then consider the sort of human 
order we would want for the world.

All of us possess sovereignty and dignity, whether 
we are small and backwards — “developing”, as they 
call us — or whatever our situation. What damages the 
political class? Sometimes it is arrogance, the abuse of 
power and corruption. As Presidents of Governments, it 
is our obligation to fight against such policies that cause 
so much harm to the political class. It is our obligation 
to change the politics. In my experience, politics is not 
about business or profits. It is about service, commitment 
and extending the greatest effort for one’s people. If 
anyone thinks that politics involves business or profit, 
they are wrong. Such President or Government will not 
go far. If a Government allows bankers, financiers or 
multinational corporations to govern, it is mistaken. 
A Government must be controlled by a President who 
has been democratically elected by the people, with the 
participation of society and for the well-being of the 
majority of the people. 

We welcome the fact that private property is 
respected. However, it is something else when economic 
policy and governing are considered in favour of the 
few, rather than of the many. With my little bit of 
experience, therefore, I call on all members to fight 



against the economic policies that cause great harm to 
humankind around the world. 

I reiterate that as long as imperialism and 
capitalism exist, the struggle will continue, the people 
will continue to rise up, but there will be no justice. 
Freeing ourselves from imperialism and capitalism will 
certainly ensure peace and social justice and dignity 
and sovereignty for our peoples.


===== Session 69 - 2014 =====

Mother Earth and humanity are suffering, stricken by 
the environmental, climate, financial and food crises 
generated by an inhumane, predatory capitalism that 
turns human life and Mother Earth into merchandise. 
Today we have an historic opportunity to build a new, 
different world, and we must do so without delay. 
The post-2015 agenda must express that mandate that 
Mother Earth and humanity demand of us.

We welcome the proposal of the Open Working 
Group on Sustainable Development Goals that 
incorporates the proposals of Bolivia and the peoples 
of the world to respect Mother Earth and the concept of 
harmony with nature. That is not a matter of a simple 
political statement. It is a commitment shared with 
the entire world to change our visions of development 
to a more comprehensive, holistic vision. What we 
propose to the world is living well, in harmony with 
Mother Earth, and the construction of a culture of life, 
complementarity, solidarity and peace.

Respect for Mother Earth has been lost. Today 
she is being marketed and manipulated, causing grave 
danger to life. Now as at no other time, the premise 
that man believes himself to be the lord and master of 
nature is more true than ever. Humankind, encouraged 
by capitalism, has turned everything into a market, 
including genetic manipulation and the destruction of 
human beings.

Human and natural life and their happiness 
should be the reason why any vision, tool or focus for 
development exists. No vision of development makes 
sense if it does not respect or strengthen life. Economic 
growth does not in itself lead to the realization of 
social rights and good living. The horizon of equality 
calls for the distribution of wealth and the economic 
and political empowerment of the poor, the excluded 
and the marginalized. It calls for strengthening 
communities and building societies with solidarity, not 
exclusive societies based on the accumulation of wealth 
and governed by money, covetousness and the avarice 
of the market.

Together with the Group of 77 and China, I must 
state the fundamental importance of recovering the 
sovereignty of our countries and peoples over our natural 
resources. It is only by recovering control of our natural 
resources that we will be able to garner greater benefits 
for our peoples, in particular to eliminate poverty and 
to invest in economic diversification, industrialization 
and social programmes.

Each country has the right to decide on its priorities 
and strategies for development, but it is important that 
those strategies strengthen the environmental functions 
and the ecosystems of Mother Earth in the framework 
of complementarity and mutual support between 
productive systems, communities and nature. It is vital 
to strike a balance between the rights of Mother Earth, 
the right to development, the rights of indigenous 
peoples and social, economic and cultural rights, as 
well as the right of the poor to emerge from poverty. 
Complementarity and mutual support, not commercial 
incentives, are instruments to preserve Mother Earth. 
On this point we differ from the followers of the so-
called green economy.

An important issue to be promoted in the framework 
of the post-2015 agenda is the human right to water and 
the right of Mother Earth to enjoy water for regenerating 
and reproducing life. Three billion people today live in 
areas or regions where the demand for water exceeds 
its availability, and that reality will worsen as years 
pass. By 2030 the demand for water will have increased 
by 30 per cent. In 2050, four billion people will suffer 
from critical scarcity of water in the context of climate 
change.

In Bolivia, in accordance with human right to 
water and with our Constitution, and thanks to the 
national programme known as My Water, we have 
already reached the Millennium Goals. We did so three 
years ahead of schedule. Declaring the human right to 
water means it cannot be privatized. Water is life, and 
it cannot be an object of profit or commercialization. 
Likewise, to resolve serious social inequalities, basic 
services such as water, electricity, telecommunications 
and basic sanitation, as well as education and health, 
must be a human right.

We have a pending agenda to eradicate poverty 
and hunger, but for that we must also fight the pitiless, 
inhumane forces of capital and the market, the 
omnipresent power of banks and usurers who profit 
from consumerism and hunger. The so-called vulture 
funds are an expression of that. They are agents of 
financial rapine who live off speculation, stealing from 
developing countries with impunity, taking the bread 
from the poor, extorting and defrauding with the help 
of the legal systems of capitalism. They caused the 
financial crisis and profited from it.

We must profoundly change the exclusionary 
structures of financial institutions, such as the 
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. 
That should be part of the transformation of the world 
financial architecture. Those organizations cannot be 
governed only by developed countries, which, through 
clever financial strategies, blackmail and oppress 
developing countries, especially the poorest. That is 
what we call eradicating financial colonialism.

In the world there still exists an offensive, abusive 
reality — the 1.3 billion poor people and more than 
800 million who are chronically malnourished — as 
well as the gaps between the rich and the poor. That 
is due to an unequal distribution of income, but also 
to an unequal and discriminatory access to wealth, to 
the means and factors to live well and to enjoy basic 
services. The increase in the number of hungry people 
in the world is due, without doubt, to the financial 
crisis. If not for that, there would now be 413 million 
fewer hungry people in the world. But the eradication 
of hunger and poverty is unthinkable without changing 
the international financial architecture.

The violence of war feeds the darkest interests, 
such as the geopolitical control of the great Powers and 
corporations that promote conflicts in order to ensure 
their imperial or neocolonial interests. Today, it is the 
economic interests of capital that promote neocolonial 
wars. With the expense required for war campaigns, 
humankind could overcome many of its problems, 
including the Ebola virus, tuberculosis, AIDS or 
dengue.

We have again witnessed the cruelty and barbarity 
of the genocidal actions of the Government of Israel 
against the Palestinian civilian population. We have 
therefore denounced Israel for violating international 
humanitarian law and universal human rights. We 
demand an investigation of the crimes committed by 
Israel in the Gaza Strip. The Plurinational State of 
Bolivia, like other Latin American countries, agrees on 
the profound need to reiterate the legitimacy of United 
Nations resolutions demanding the end of the occupation 
of the Palestinian territories and the construction of an 
independent State within the borders existing prior to 
4 June 1967. That is why we again reiterate the need 
to recognize Palestine as a full-fledged Member of the 
United Nations.

As Chair of the Group of 77 and China, I cannot 
fail to mention the important commemoration of the 
fiftieth anniversary of the creation of the Group of 77, 


held on 14 and 15 June in the city of Santa Cruz de 
la Sierra, Bolivia. The Summit of Heads of State and 
Government of the Group of 77 and China adopted a 
declaration entitled “For a new world order for living 
well” (see A/68/948), which confirms the principles of 
unity, complementarity and solidarity and the building 
of a new world order that establishes a more just and 
democratic system for the benefit of our peoples.

We commend the Bolivarian Alliance for the 
Peoples of Our America-Peoples’ Trade Agreement 
(ALBA-TCP) on completing 10 years of tireless work 
towards the integration of peoples. That work goes 
beyond commercial profit and focuses on promoting the 
values of cooperation, solidarity and complementarity. 
In its 10 years, ALBA-TCP has become a major player 
in Latin America and the world.

Since March 2011, 150,000 people have died in 
Syria and 3 million people have fled as refugees to 
neighbouring countries. Bolivia agrees that the future 
and destiny of Syria must be determined by the Syrian 
people themselves in the full exercise of democracy, in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations.

Bolivia condemns and rejects the interference by 
the United States of America in Iraq that triggered the 
current crisis in the country. The war unleashed in 2003 
against Iraq destabilized the entire region. It was said 
that Iraq possessed large quantities of weapons of mass 
destruction. That argument remains one of the biggest 
lies ever told in the history of imperialism. On the basis 
of that lie, peaceful coexistence among social, ethnic 
and religious groups has been destroyed. The situation 
has given rise to a terrorist group called the Islamic 
State that is imposing a new war that threatens the entire 
region. Bolivia rejects the extreme violence with which 
that terrorist group has acted against civil society and 
wholeheartedly affirms that nothing justifies fratricidal 
violence.

The invasion of Iraq, together with other historical 
events, has taught us a lesson that wherever the United 
States of America intervenes, it leaves destruction, 
hatred, misery and death in its wake, but it also leaves 
wealth in the hands of those who profit from the wars: 
the transnational corporations of the arms industry and 
the oil industry. We must make use of the culture of 
peace to eradicate extremist fanaticism, but also the 
imperial warmongering promoted by the United States, 
which, faced with war, threatens more war. The United 
Nations was created to build and promote peace, not to 
justify wars and invasions.

Using war against war is not the same as peace. 
That is a perverse formula — the formula for death and 
endless confrontation. We must resolve the structural 
causes of war: marginalization, poverty, lack of 
opportunities, cultural and political exclusion, social 
discrimination, inequality, usurpation and territorial 
dispossession, ruthless capitalism and dictatorship of 
the interests of transnational corporations. Every year 
here we hear Mr. Obama deliver a discourse on war, 
arrogance and threats against the peoples of the world. 
It is also a discourse of extremist fanaticism.

The economic, commercial and financial blockade 
imposed by the Government of the United States 
against Cuba is the main tool of United States policy 
in its eagerness to destroy the revolution and restore its 
hegemony over Cuban territory. The blockade against 
Cuba is the most unjust, severe and prolonged system of 
unilateral sanctions that has ever been applied against 
any country. The blockade qualifies an act of genocide. 
That colonial blockade must be ended immediately.

We want to affirm before this Assembly the historic 
right of the Bolivian people to their access to the sea — a 
right that was trampled by a brutal invasion promoted 
by colonial business interests. The colonial imposition, 
the absence of genuine participatory democracy and the 
interests of foreign companies were interposed between 
the Bolivian and Chilean peoples, fraternal peoples who 
were led to a war favouring the transnationals. Because 
my country firmly believes in and promotes peace and 
harmony in our relations with all of our neighbours, we 
turned to the International Court of Justice in search 
of dialogue to resolve, peacefully and in good faith, 
a prolonged dispute over our sovereign access to the 
Pacific Ocean.

Our demand does not seek to alter the international 
order of the limits and boundaries or to threaten 
international treaties, as the the Government of Chile 
would have people believe. On the contrary, Bolivia has 
invoked international law and its principles to resolve, 
methodically and in good faith, the issue of its sovereign 
access to the Pacific Ocean. An effective and peaceful 
solution regarding Bolivia’s sovereign access to the 
sea would be in the interests of our peoples, the new 
generations, the region and the whole world. I therefore 
call on all countries of the United Nations system at 
this sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly to join 
us, not only Bolivia, but our neighbour Chile, in this 
challenge to peace, justice and rule of law.

We must eradicate violence and war and denounce 
the imperialist warmongering of the world Powers that 


arrogantly believe they embody the ideals of freedom. 
The imperial Powers use their communication media 
to manipulate the wills and the emotions of the people. 
They lie and deceive with impunity. They divide and 
pit nations and communities against one another to 
promote wars, control strategic resources and put them 
at the service of their foreign capitals.

This is the century of peace, but peace with 
sovereignty, with freedom for peoples and not with a 
free market. This is the century of agreements on liberty, 
life and peace and not for agreements on free trade 
in life. There will be no harmony if the arrogance of 
empires and their renewed colonialism harass, oppress 
and kill human beings, cultures and the peoples of the 
world. The empire of finance, the empire of markets, 
the empire of the arms industry must all fall to give way 
to the wisdom of life and life in peace and harmony.

To summarize with the greatest respect and 
admiration for the Assembly, I would like to say that if 
we want to put an end to poverty, if we want to defend 
life and Mother Earth, our only path is to put an end 
to the capitalist system and imperious thinking for the 
well-being of humanity.


===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
I am enormously happy to be here, on behalf of the Bolivian people, to express our feelings and to talk about our experiences and our actions to date. As everyone else has mentioned, we are here on the seventieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. The Organization was founded to seek peace after the two World Wars.
I feel it is important to make an in-depth economic, political, social, cultural and environmental assessment following 70 years of the existence of the United Nations. What has it achieved? In the eyes of the people, wars and invasions continue even after 70 years of the United Nations. What is the cause of those wars and invasions on several continents? It is due to the ambition of some regions and nations and to policies that concentrate capital in only a few hands and in only some countries, which are administered by oligarchies along with transnational companies. I therefore feel that, 70 years after its founding, the United Nations has not fulfilled its goals of peace and stability in the world.
This morning we heard various statements. Starting with President Obama (see A/70/PV.13) and then other Presidents from other continents, all of us are seeking peace. But I want to say to everyone here, representatives of all the peoples of the world, that there will be no peace without social justice. Calls were
26/34 15-29425

28/09/2015 A/70/PV.15
made against terrorism and armed insurgent groups on several continents — that they have never been able to understand their demands — while certain Powers want to understand how those problems can be solved. I also heard statements condemning social movements and confusing them with terrorist movements. I came out of social movements and the indigenous movement. Those of us from social movements are not terrorists, but rather contribute to social peace with results, as well as equality, dignity and justice.
I also want to say to those who have championed capitalism for the past 70 years that capitalism has failed. It is a failed model because, as many also said this morning, it has brought humankind only crises —humanitarian, financial, energy and food crises. The common thread of the various statements was that nearly half the inhabitants of the world are going hungry and that untold billions of dollars in economic resources are being devoted to destroying Mother Earth — or Planet Earth, as it is called in the West. Some have said that $100 billion is needed to confront and reduce global warming. Has it occurred to anyone how much money is being spent to destroy the planet, and how many countless billions are spent to invade countries?
I listened intently to the words of my brother Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, as he despaired at what the Libyan and Syrian peoples were going through. What is the cause for their suffering? Let us not forget that the United States Government overthrew Al-Qadhafi. This morning they called him a tyrant: the military intervention by the United States and NATO was to target the tyrant, the President at the time. But Mr. Al-Qadhafi was not really the target. The goal was Libya’s oil. I ask members to ask themselves to whom Lybia’s oil belongs. Does it belong to the Libyan people or the Libyan State? Or does it belong, in fact, to a few American and European transnational corporations? Imagine: they used fallacious arguments to intervene and, now that the poor Libyan people have been torn apart, they are no longer interested in them, for the economic and natural resources are now in the hands of the transnationals. That is capitalism.
I could speak about the many countries that were taken over before and since the founding of the United Nations, not to mention the situation in Syria and other countries. That is why we are convinced that capitalism is not the solution for life, and even less for humankind. That is the profound difference between us.
Some presidents at times speak in half-truths here; they do not speak the truth about what is happening in the world. While some may think that they are going to live better, such a policy is not going to resolve social problems or humanitarian issues. Living well, as our brother the President of Ecuador says, is the very synthesis of community-based socialism, while living better is the synthesis of capitalism. There is a profound difference between the two. By living well I mean living in solidarity and in complementarity — not just in solidarity with other human beings, but living in harmony with Mother Earth. For us in social movements, especially the indigenous movement, it is about Mother Earth. We are convinced that the human being will be unable to live without Mother Earth, and that Mother Earth would get along better without human beings.
There is one other thing that many may not understand, but I still want to say it. Under this way of living, basic services cannot be under private business. That comes from our significant experience. Basic services were once privatized in Bolivia — water, energy, electricity and telecommunications. Through our Constitution we decided that basic services were a human right and could never be private businesses. For we are talking about water, which is life.
Also with respect to living well, we are convinced that natural resources can never belong to foreigners or to transnational corporations. Let me comment from my own experience. After coming to power, we heard from the vigorous voices of my people and social forces in Bolivia. On 1 May 2006, in due homage to workers, we nationalized the fossil fuel industry and recovered our natural resources. During the campaign we said that there could be no masters or owners, and maybe just partners.
I shall give just one statistic in that regard. Prior to our taking office, income from oil leases stood at barely $300 million. Since the law on hydrocarbons was changed and we nationalized the industry, that income had risen to $5.6 billion by 2014. Imagine how much money was stolen from us in Bolivia under imperial domination and the neoliberal model. We went from $300 million in 2005 to $5.6 billion in 2014. For a country of 10 million inhabitants, those economic resources are exceedingly importance for economic freedom.
That is why we are convinced that natural resources should belong to the people and be under
15-29425 27/34

A/70/PV.15 28/09/2015
the administration of the State. That is our experience and that is how we have freed ourselves economically. That is why we do not believe in capitalism. Why the interventions into other countries? To take dominion over natural resources so that they can then continue to concentrate capital in the hands of a few.
Secondly, let me also say that we will face a huge responsibility in December in Paris concerning the environment. As Presidents — at least as I see it — it will be important that we take with us proposals from our peoples. After consulting my brothers and sisters in Bolivia, we will take with us policies, projects and programmes aimed at cleaning up and healing Mother Earth. If we do not take on the responsibility for saving Mother Earth, future generations will hold us responsible.
I will mention another personal experience, and I apologize for speaking even more about myself. When I travel to the countryside in Bolivia, one can no longer tell what season it is. A friend from the tropics called me at one or two in the morning one day and asked what I was doing. I said that I was in bed, and asked the same question in turn. He told me he was leaving the house to go to the river because it was too hot to sleep, and of course they still had no shower. The entire family was going to the river at that hour to protect themselves from such a high temperature. The current increase in global temperature is less than 1°C; what will happen if the temperature rises 2°C? Some experts have predicted that, if we do not stop global warming, by 2030 the temperature could rise 4°C or 5°C.
I feel that future generations will become anti-imperialists and anti-capitalists because that is the legacy of capitalism. Northern countries are now telling us that we should be the stewards of the forests for them. But we are not going to be their stewards, and they should not transfer their obligations and responsibilities to us in developing countries.
So that is another responsibility we have. We must go to Paris bearing our awareness of the responsibility to find a way to save Mother Earth. I invite participants to attend the international event of the worldwide social movement that will be held in Bolivia from 10 to 12 October, and to bring with them the proposals and ideas of their peoples. We need not be subjected to the initiatives of the American empire or of the multinationals. Now is not the time to be pursuing alien policies.
Today I heard two very interesting and very different statements: one by President Obama and the other by the President of China. What did President Obama say to us about providing security to his country and to his allies? What did he say about combating terrorism? He said that he could provide war and interference. What did the President of China offer us? Assistance and cooperation. That State is not an expansionist one.
I commend social movements. Our movements engender unity and integration for liberation, not invasion policies for the purposes of domination. We have profound differences. We welcome the words of the Chinese President, who again has offered us assistance and cooperation. We acknowledge his country’s leadership. From the media, we are also aware that the United States is in hock to China. Well, that is their problem. I hope the press is not lying. But they still threaten interference as a way to dominate the peoples of the world.
There is a debate under way. Some this morning talked about democracy. I would say that there are two types of democracy. There is the democracy of the people and there is the democracy of transnationals. The democracy of the people involves the social movements in which people organize themselves. But what does social movement democracy consist of? We do not just have representative and participatory democracy. In my experience, first as a union leader and now as President, we have always taken decisions with the leaders. There have always been differences: some sectors are more ambitious than others, and some of their demands can be both unattainable and undesirable. But the people understand. Policies are decided and programmes proposed in a joint manner. Our responsibility lies in how to meet the demands and carry out the economic and social proposals and programmes.
In the other type of democracy, which is supposedly representative, voting ends on the day of the elections. But who governs then? Let us be honest. It is not President Obama who governs, but the bankers, businessmen and transnationals who govern. What kind of democracy is that? They deceive the people into voting, and then they do not govern. I heard a candidate say in the media that he financed both Republicans and Democrats: “I command them”. That is not democracy; that is capitalism. Humankind faces serious problems. That is why we are convinced that, if we want to end poverty, we need to end the capitalist system. There is no other way.
28/34 15-29425

28/09/2015 A/70/PV.15
Moreover, I am also convinced that the new millennium should be a millennium of the peoples, not that of hierarchies or monarchies. However, I respect their rights. If monarchy is their way, we respect that. But it cannot be monarchy exported from Europe to Latin America. That must end. This is not the time for oligarchies, and much less the financial oligarchies that exist today. That is why we have an obligation to work together to combat the problems we face. While 70 years after the inception of the United Nations there may no longer be coups d’état and military takeovers, what we now have are soft coups, espionage and the stopping of presidential planes. I do not understand these times. Now there are military bases. That is why, honestly, I do not share such policies.
I do not know the degree of certainty or resolve with which they said it, but those detained for their opposition in the past have expressed the notion that ideas could not be imprisoned. We see so many terrorists, criminals and corrupt presidents who violate human rights — after killing 30, 40, 50 or 70 people — coming to the United States. If we are fighting against terrorism, crime and drug traffickers, why are those drug-traffickers, terrorists and corrupt politicians who violated human rights not thrown out of the United States and tried in their own countries? I cannot comprehend how the United States has become a graveyard for corrupt people and criminals, but that is what has happened. And some authorities and Governments wonder why they do not agree with imperialism and capitalism.
I also want to take this opportunity to address the serious issue of migration, which I did not hear other Presidents mention. Migrants are being criminalized and deported. I speak as an inhabitant of Abya Yala, our home continent called America. Europeans invaded us 500 years ago. Did my grandparents criminalize those who invaded us? But they put in place policies to exterminate indigenous peoples. They pillaged our natural resources. Yet there were never provisions or programmes in place to expel them. Some of our brothers are today leaving Latin America for Europe or the United States to work, and are finding themselves criminalized and persecuted.
Money has its tax havens under capitalism, while human beings suffer hellish poverty, and migrants are expelled. That is why we propose to work together to create universal citizenship. We all have a right to live wherever we wish in the world. Globalization should
not simply be a matter of trade and money, but it ought be for all human beings around the world. Our brother migrants should never be expelled. On its part, Bolivia never deports anyone. Our companies are now no longer the masters or the owners, now they simply provide services in our country.
The important issue of drug trafficking is another legacy of capitalism. We have nationalized the fight against drug trafficking and, in cooperation with several South American countries, have also regionalized the effort. It is very important to be aware of United Nations statistics. Drug trafficking has been guided by purely geopolitical interests. Look at the United Nations statistics. Look at those of South American countries and to those on other continents. What are the results where military bases are set up and many billions of dollars are invested? Zero. Instead, drug trafficking has increased. After having genuinely nationalized, we in Bolivia are better off without military bases, the American Drug Enforcement Administration or the economic resources that the United States should provide as part of a shared responsibility. I am not calling for such aid, but we welcome Europe’s unconditional contribution to the fight against drug trafficking. We see the results of the fight against drug trafficking.
I wish to reiterate that we countries with anti-imperialist Governments are accused of not complying with certain regulations and of being drug traffickers, while pro-imperialist and pro-capitalist countries, where drug trafficking has increased, are congratulated for their efforts. What a lie! I am not complaining, but I would simply ask members to take a look at the United Nations statistics on the fight against drug trafficking.
Fortunately, other countries have already understood the results we have achieved in Bolivia, and we are now debating the model of combating drug trafficking in Bolivia. We never said that we would attain zero coca production, but also that we cannot be free cultivation of coca. If we had more technology, such as radars, the results would be much better than at present. I inherited from the former Government more than 30,000 hectares of coca leaf plantations. This year, without the death of a single peasant, we have 24,400 hectares for traditional consumption. Look at the United Nations statistics and at those of other countries of the world.
I join the many other presidents in welcoming the agreement between Cuba and the United States of
15-29425 29/34

A/70/PV.15 28/09/2015
America to establish diplomatic relations. But I have something I would like to share with everyone, and I hope that I am not tiring members.
When I took up my functions of President, I visited the Ambassador of the United States of America, when we still had an Ambassador. He was giving me instructions: “President Evo, you cannot have diplomatic relations with Cuba, Venezuela or Iran.” Then a group of United States Congressmen came and they instructed me, “President Evo, you cannot have relations with those three countries.” Of course, I refused. I said, “If we had the economic resources, we would have Embassies in every country of the world. No one is going to tell me with whom I can and cannot have diplomatic relations.” Since then, I have never accepted the instructions of the United States authorizing or not authorizing me to have diplomatic relations with Cuba or Iran. But now I congratulate the United States of America for having diplomatic relations with Iran and Cuba, and hopefully soon they will even have relations with Venezuela.
Diplomatic relations with Cuba should not end with just an exchange of Ambassadors. Our great dream as the Bolivian people is that the United States will return Guantánamo to Cuba and that the economic blockade will be lifted once and for all. We hope that the words we heard this morning from President Obama will be followed up with action to lifte the economic blockade.
President Castro, my brother, rightly said that with the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States we have declared a zone of peace. We might have a little problem in Colombia with the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC) but, fortunately, thanks to the support and mediation of Cuba, we were very pleased to hear about the preliminary agreement between FARC and the Government of Colombia. We commend the efforts and patience of President Santos Calderón in reaching that agreement. But I want to say to my FARC companions that we have had 50, 60, 70 years of revolutions with arms and bullets; now a revolution is achieved through the vote, awareness and the democratic struggle. That is our experience.
Change can be made to the social and economic situation, not only here on this continent but also on other continents. When groups or social sectors are in the right and fight for the dignity and sovereignty of the people, people support that struggle, that quest to achieve liberation. We genuinely welcome that agreement.
There is another issue in our continent, that of the Malvinas Islands. With apologies to Argentina, however, the Malvinas Islands do not just belong Argentina, but to all Latin America. How can they control an island that is so many thousands of kilometres away, and so near to our continent? That has to end. We hope for understanding in putting an end to such problems that we continue to have.
We also have another pending matter, at The Hague. I welcome the presence of my Chilean brothers, who are filming me and listening attentively. One hundred and thirty-six years ago, through no fault of the Chilean people, a group of oligarchs, supported by British multinationals, invaded us for economic reasons. Just to refresh members’ memories, the invasion began on 14 February 1879. The first resistance took place on 23 March, after more than a month of invasion. I want to highlight this: after many commitments and offers from Chile, which I commend, I very much regret to say that none have been fulfilled.
That is why we turned to the International Court of Justice, because Bolivia is a peaceful country under its Constitution. We do not have an expansionist mentality that makes us want to invade neighbouring countries. That is why we are petitioning the Court. Unfortunately, certain Chilean officials — not all — say they have no pending issues with Bolivia. Recently, the Court said there was a pending issue in our continent and it deemed itself competent to resolve the case between Chile and Bolivia. It is with humility and great dignity that Bolivia welcomes that the fact that the Court has acknowledged a pending case, as this is the world’s highest judicial body, created by the United Nations.
I want to say to my Chilean brothers, and especially the Chilean people, that we do not want there to be any winners or losers. All we want is to resolve the question through dialogue and for the good of our peoples. That our great desire as Bolivians. It is not a matter of pitting anyone against each other. We are two neighbours, two brothers. How could be at odds all life-long? All we want is for what has been on offer to be fulfilled.
I welcome the support of everyone. I very well understand the great solidarity that exists on this matter, and not only on the part of former presidents, Governments, social movements and institutions. Kofi Annan, a former Secretary-General of the United Nations, gave his timely support to the case, saying “resolve the matter of access to the sea”. Not just Pope Francis, but John Paul II also expressed his support.
30/34 15-29425

28/09/2015 A/70/PV.15
It is a matter of record. Four former United States Presidents and three Nobel Peace Prize laureates said that the issues of access to the sea should be resolved. This is not just a claim, but our right. Sooner or later, as a matter of justice and with the support of the entire world, we will return to the Pacific with sovereignty. We hope that it will be through an agreed dialogue, for the good of all our peoples.
I want to conclude by commending the work of the United Nations. Two weeks ago, we found out from the media that the Ambassadors and Government representatives from all over the world had adopted the principles and values of the Andean indigenous movement: do not steal, do not lie and do not be idle. Those are values from my family. I as President, as well as the Vice-President and Cabinet, apply those values. That is why we have moved ahead in such little time.
Bolivia is no longer as it was before. We came to power when Bolivia was ranked the second-to-last country of the continent, the last country in South America. Thanks to the struggle of the Bolivian people, to our social movements and to the programme now in place, Bolivia is no longer a poorly viewed, small country, as it was before. I referred to our policies briefly a few moments ago. Those three values should the standard for transparent and honest governance in the service of our peoples throughout the world. In the name of the indigenous movement of Bolivia and the Andean region, we are happy and grateful to the United Nations for having endorsed those values.
I also want to take this opportunity to commend and show my estimation for the joint efforts undertaken by Argentina, the Group of 77 and the General Assembly for adopting the Basic Principles on Sovereign Debt Restructuring Processes (resolution 69/319) and the necessary limits on the voracious transnational vulture funds. Such funds are yet another means to strangle and suppress the economies of sovereign countries, which we reject categorically. That is a way of defending the economic sovereignty of countries.
Lastly, I thank Pope Francis for everything contained in his message. My mother raised me to be Catholic. Unfortunately, because of the shortcomings of some leaders of the Catholic Church, I have been disappointed by it. Because of Pope Francis, a brother who questions capitalism and does not submit to the god of money, my morale has been uplifted, and I feel more Catholic today. And so I want to commend Pope
Francis’ message of peace. I now really do have a Pope. I know that Pope Francis, through masses and religious ceremonies, sends us his blessings and prayers. Because for the sake of life and for the sake of peace he is risking his life, we have the obligation to defend and help him. That is all I ask.


===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
I am once again participating in the regular session of the General Assembly to reaffirm our respect, admiration and congratulations to our brother, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his contribution to the life of the peoples of the world and of Mother Earth. We appreciate and express our deep respect for his work as Secretary-General of the United Nations. I am also here to reiterate that we are living in a time of renewed global obscurantism, spurred by the capitalist and imperialist barbarism that is killing human dignity, the integrity of our common home, Mother Earth, and the sovereignty of our countries.
Mr. Sogavare (Solomon Islands), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Today, according to United Nations data, some 94 per cent of the world’s wealth is in the hands of a mere 20 per cent of the global population. More than 800 million people in the world are suffering from hunger. This grim social reality is the true face of capitalism. Humankind’s main goals during this century should be to eradicate capitalism and imperialism as the prevailing societal model. If we do not build another model of society as soon as possible, the Sustainable Development Goals will be replaced with the sustainable goals of death for all living things and Mother Earth.
This year has been the hottest in the history of the planet, and each year is hotter than the previous one. This year, Bolivia is also experiencing one of the worst droughts in history. We have to be alert and take immediate action to prevent the barbarism of capitalism from transforming the Paris Agreement into an agreement of lies and blackmail.
The capitalist countries have built borders and walls everywhere — on water, on land and in the air. One out of every 100 people in the world is either a refugee or someone displaced by global warming, wars or imperialist invasions, as occurred in Syria, Iraq, Libya and other countries. We hope that all of the world’s peoples can start building universal citizenship and one great country where people live in harmony and as part of a common family.
The expansionist and warmongering policies of the State of Israel and its allies are major expressions of barbarism in the modern world. We strongly condemn Israel’s attacks on the civilian population of Palestine and demand that Israel cease hostilities immediately. We urge the United Nations to fully and immediately recognize the State of Palestine and take tangible action to stop the brutal genocide of the Palestinian people.
We return to the General Assembly to express our strong rejection of the coercive and unilateral economic measures imposed by the United States against Cuba for political reasons. It is not sufficient to restore diplomatic relations. The United States must compensate Cuba for the economic blockade and restore Guantanamo to Cuban territorial sovereignty.
We commend the signing of the peace agreement between the Colombian Government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. It shows that we are fulfilling the promise of membership in the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States — to make our region a zone of peace. We must never forget that peace can be achieved only with social justice. We highlight and admire Cuba’s leadership in facilitating the peace agreement.
We lament the fact that other Governments, such as that of the United States, perpetrate attacks, such as the most recent bombing of military positions in Syria, which left dozens of soldiers dead or wounded. It shows the hypocrisy and the ongoing non-compliance with the commitments they undertook in the Syrian ceasefire agreement, announced by Russia and the United States on 9 September in Geneva.
We condemn terrorism, violence and war, but in order to eliminate terrorism, we must attack the root causes of this scourge for humankind. It must be said that as long as wealth remains in the hands of a few, as long as poverty and exclusion exist, as long as racism and discrimination persist, as long as the identity and the sovereignty of peoples are not respected and their natural resources are pillaged for imperialist purposes, there will be grounds for violence and terrorism. We must build a world of peace and equality with dignity and brotherhood among peoples.
Many brother countries have been affected by the global economic crisis. In Bolivia, however, we have developed policies and are taking measures to deal with the repercussions of the global crisis in the capitalist system. Bolivia is leading economic growth in South America, as it is one of the countries that has achieved complementarity among economic growth, distribution of wealth, public investment and a significant reduction in poverty while expanding equality. None of this would have been possible without the sovereign measures it has taken, such as the nationalization of our natural resources and strategic companies.
Imperialist interests are creating a process of political destabilization in our region. We condemn foreign political intervention in our brother country of Venezuela. We salute the revolutionary fight of the people, undertaken with their leader, Commander Maduro. The new imperial conspiracy in the twenty- first century is no longer through coups d’état but rather through parliamentary or judicial takeovers. They may be legal and constitutional, but they are not legitimate, nor do they respect the decisions of the people.
We express our deep concern about and rejection of the actions taken by the Secretary General of the Organization of American States (OAS), which are in breach of the basic principles of the United Nations. The Organization of American States needs to be a true representation of the all the countries of the Americas, and not an agent or mouthpiece for the interests of the United States. We do not need an imperial leader to control our people. If the OAS does not represent or respect, the sovereignty of its member States, it would be better if it did not exist at all.
Last week, on 18 September, the Heads of State and Government of the countries of the Non-Aligned Movement met on Margarita Island, Venezuela, and strongly condemned action taken by the United States of America relative to its Transnational Drug Trafficking Act of 2015, which involves implementing extraterritorial measures that violate the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. I take this opportunity to inform members of the Assembly that Bolivia, without military bases or the presence of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), is now faring better in the fight against drug trafficking, and this fact has been recognized by the United Nations.
I also note that thanks to a few police officers of our armed forces, we learned the following: when the DEA was in Bolivia, when it seized drugs, 50 per cent were burned and 50 per cent went to DEA for trade. A Bolivian officer inquired about the latter 50 per cent, and the response was that the DEA used the money to pay off our police. Investigations that were conducted proved that the DEA was training police and military personnel to plan the assassination of leaders. For these reasons and many more, I would like to tell those present in this Hall today that terrorism and drug trafficking are twins that serve the imperial interests of the United States, which seeks to invade and control other countries around the world — I am completely convinced of this.
Furthermore, I recall that in 1879, the Bolivian coast was invaded by Chilean and English transnational military forces with a view to taking the substantial natural resources there by force. For more than a century, Chile has expressly and repeatedly rejected the pressing need for Bolivia to once again be a coastal country, and it has undertaken to negotiate with Bolivia the restitution of maritime access.
Bolivia has relied in good faith on all the legal commitments undertaken, which served as the basis of our claim brought before the International Court of Justice. The Court declared its jurisdiction over the matter on 24 September 2015, after the Government of Chile presented an objection regarding said jurisdiction. We understand that these are times of dialogue, that we must work together on solutions that will allow us to resolve pending matters peacefully and with the full involvement of the people. We invite Chile to put an end to one of the longest-lasting conflicts in the history of Latin America, whose solution continues to be an outstanding debt between our nations. The solution to the conflict will benefit not only Bolivia but Chile and the integration of Latin America as a whole. We are certain that we will find a solution whereby everyone is a winner.
I would like to thank the organizations of the international community and the various presidents, former presidents and peoples of the world for their ongoing support for Bolivia to regain sovereign access to the sea. I would also like to highlight the fact that the United Nations created an institution of such importance, the International Court of Justice, so that international conflicts and controversies could be resolved peacefully. We trust that the Court will serve justice.
Our greatest wish is to see the message of Pope Francis become reality — to establish channels of dialogue and tear down the walls that divide us. We want to launch a dialogue that satisfies the mutual interests of our countries. In Bolivia, we are building a country that will be an exemplar of equality, liberty with dignity, and sovereignty for the world. For these reasons, we insist and will continue to insist that all basic services must be recognized as human rights, and that, further, we recognize and respect the rights of Mother Earth. The new world order with social justice must be built on the foundation of fraternity among nations and harmony with Mother Earth for the well- being of all of us.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
On behalf of the people of Bolivia, I wish to express our full solidarity with the people of Mexico. Alarmed by this afternoon’s earthquake, we extend our support and brotherhood to Mexico as it addresses the resulting problems.
Once again, as leaders of the world we have gathered here in the historic Hall of the General Assembly. We meet yet again to voice our positions on the major challenges facing our family — the human family. The United Nations, as set forth in its Charter, was established to save succeeding generations from war, promote social progress and improve the standard of living of all peoples. Unfortunately, many of those promises have come to nothing, and after more than 70 years we see that in many instances, instead of making progress towards those objectives, we have regressed.
As we have affirmed many times, due to the abusive practices of imperialism, the market of savage consumption that supports capitalism and endless colonialist adventures, the world is enduring a multiplicity of crises that, instead of being resolved, are growing worse. War and violent conflict remain the scourge of millions of people. External aggressions in Iraq have led to more than a million deaths to date. In Syria, almost half a million people have lost their lives. In Libya, tens of thousands have been killed. In Yemen, the humanitarian crisis is of great proportions.
History has shown that, in order to appropriate natural resources and control the world geopolitically, military bases are deployed, invasions are organized, and Governments are brought down to create chaos and take advantage of the situation. Many of these invasions have fuelled the emergence of terrorist groups and unleashed violent confrontations and attacks on civilian populations, causing even more harm to innocent victims. Bolivia condemns terrorism and calls for fighting it and for resolving the structural causes of its emergence.
To this terrible situation is added the climatic crisis. We note that this year has again been the hottest in the history of the planet. Hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, droughts, pollution of the air and oceans and the consequent extinction of species are results of the capitalist model, consumption levels and excessive industrialization. In this situation, the countries of the South, which pollute the least, are the ones that suffer the most. It is imperative that all our countries join the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to work together to address the enormous challenges involved in saving the planet.
It is unjustifiable and inadmissible that the United States has decided to turn its back on the Paris Agreement. As one of the world’s main polluters, its Government, by refusing to do its part in the global effort, has become a threat to Mother Earth. What is necessary is unequivocal political will. We cannot expect market forces to finally convince the leaders of the capitalist world to take action. We extend our embrace of solidarity to our brothers and sisters in the Caribbean who are suffering the consequences of the passage of hurricanes. Together, as a united family, we will share with them what we have, even if it is not enough.
Our rivers, our seas, our forests and science have given us irrefutable evidence and call upon us to act. Water is the blood of Mother Earth that gives life to rivers, lakes, seas and oceans, which in turn are a source of life and generate balance. They are universal commons that cover three-quarters of our home. They bathe everything on all continents and islands of the Earth. They do this naturally, with no regard for political borders or nationalities. They should be respected, cared for, shared and preserved for future generations.
Bolivia has promoted the recognition that water is a human right. It is essential for the survival of humankind. Accordingly, our Constitution also prohibits it from being the used for profit or commercialism. The use of water must lead the way to opportunities that promote collaboration, interaction and harmony among peoples, not to cause conflicts over its origin, ownership or use. It is in this spirit of safeguarding human rights and sovereign rights related to our natural resources and in pursuit of good-neighbourly agreements that Bolivia hopes to resolve its Silala water dispute, which has been brought to the International Court of Justice. Water should not be the cause of internal or international conflicts. It must bring together and unite all States, nations, communities, peoples, social movements and individuals. For Bolivia, which is the hydrographic heart of South America, this concept is very important. Where water flows, peace must flow.
Not only is the world growing warmer every year, but each succeeding year is growing more unfair and more unequal. The gap between those who have the most — everything — and those who have almost nothing is widening every day. According to the most recent report from Oxfam, eight people have the same amount of wealth as 3.6 billion people, that is, half of the population of the planet.
Inequality is immoral. If 800 million people suffer from hunger, it is not because there is a lack of food. If millions of children die from infection, it is not because there is a lack of medicine. If 1.1 billion people do not have electricity, it is not because of a lack of energy in the world. If there is illiteracy, it is not because there are no books. If there are poor people in the world, it is not because there are no resources.
Due to war, terrorism and other conflicts, we are experiencing the worst humanitarian crisis since the founding of the United Nations. More than 128 million people in 33 countries require humanitarian assistance. More than 65 million people have been forcibly displaced. More than 22 million are refugees, which is the highest number ever recorded in the human history. More than 10 million people are stateless.
This calls for our attention. Bolivia condemns the construction of walls and laws that seek to criminalize migration. Accordingly, we propose the creation of a universal citizenship. The social and immigration crisis has its origin in the dominant world order, with its limitless greed for profit and appropriation of the commons, produces violence, promotes inequalities and destroys Mother Earth. Migrants cannot be held responsible for the economic and financial crises or
17-29281 15/24 for insecurity. We must not allow them to be viewed as criminals either. No migrant is illegal.
Some Governments, far from helping to resolve the structural causes of this phenomenon, such as war, the consequences of climate change or the economic asymmetries among the States, proclaim greater restrictions in their migration policies, massive expulsions and the building of walls. Walls counter the history of humankind. Walls cripple science and knowledge. Walls confine our souls, fuel hatred of difference and stifle freedom.
In Tiquipaya, Bolivia, representatives of social movements from 45 countries around the world came together at the World Peoples’ Conference in June for a world without walls towards universal citizenship. At that conference, we drafted alternative proposals with a humanist vision to welcome, protect, promote and integrate migrants. In August, Pope Francis dedicated a pastoral document to those four verbs.
We too call on the Governments of the world to come together to tackle criminal networks that traffic in human beings by declaring the trade and traffick in human beings as a crime against humanity and by considering the formation of a world ombudsman as an authority of universal jurisdiction responsible for ensuring human rights. Once again, I call for a global pact to act as the bridge to move towards the universal citizenship that we desire, because there are no categories and there are no differences between nationals and foreigners. We are all human beings and children of Mother Earth.
The United States of America must unilaterally and unconditionally put an end to the unjust embargo that has caused so much suffering to the Cuban people for nearly 60 years. It is an unjust and failed policy, and must be abandoned. The recent actions announced by President Trump spell a resurgence in the financial and trade embargo against Cuba and reverse the progress made between the two nations. The United States must not only lift that criminal embargo, but also make economic reparations for the damage caused and return Guantánamo to Cuban sovereignty. I pay deepest tribute to the memories of Commander Fidel and Commander Che Guevara, who from this very rostrum warned us not to trust imperialism.
We welcome the peace process in Colombia, including the consolidation of the ceasefire, disarmament and the integration of the Fuerzas
Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia into political life. Revolutions take place through the ballot box and social consensus, not through bullets. Latin America and the Caribbean are coming together as a region of peace.
Bolivia unequivocally condemns the unilateral sanctions and the threats of invasion levelled by the Government of the United States against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Our region is nobody’s back yard. We also reject the conduct of the Secretary General of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, who is the spokesperson for anti-Latin American interests. We express our support for and solidarity with President Nicolás Maduro and the Venezuelan people. We welcome and support the ongoing democratic dialogue.
For Bolivia, the Palestinian cause is indisputable. We condemn the criminal Israeli occupation of Palestinian territory. We condemn the construction of new settlements, and we condemn military aggression against the Palestinian people. We demand the achievement of a two-State solution and the establishment of a Palestinian State withing the pre- 1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We condemn the unilateral and illegal military actions of the United States in deploying its forces in the Syrian Arab Republic. We welcome the efforts of the Secretary-General, Russia, Iran, Turkey and Kazakhstan in seeking a ceasefire and in contributing to the peace negotiations process. We believe that if it were not for interventionism, we would not be suffering that war.
Bolivia condemns the production, development and use of all nuclear and chemical weapons, which pose a serious threat to peace, security and human life itself. We demand that all military interventions be avoided in resolving the situation in the Korean peninsula, and that negotiations be resumed as soon as possible to resolve that conflict peacefully. It is clear that the main threat to mother Earth, multilateralism, peace and freedom is the Government of the United States of America.
It is my duty to describe the economic and social situation of my country. Bolivia has consolidated an economic model that has successfully coped with the global crisis of the capitalist system. Bolivia leads economic growth in our region. We have recovered our homeland. Bolivia is a land that is free of illiteracy, free of North American military bases, free of the Drug
16/24 17-29281 Enforcement Administration and free of the United States Agency for International Development. It is a land free of impositions by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Over the past decade, we have reduced extreme poverty from 38.2 per cent to 16.8 per cent, and we will eradicate it by 2025. We have reduced inequality. In 2005, the wealthiest 10 per cent held 128 times more wealth than the poorest 10 per cent; now, the wealthiest 10 per cent hold 46 times more wealth than the poorest 10 per cent. Bolivia ranks second in the world among the countries with the most women in Parliament. We are committed to multilateralism, the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the peaceful and negotiated resolution of conflicts.
In 2003, Bolivia came before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, seeking a peaceful solution to its unresolved 100-year-old dispute with the Republic of Chile that would allow us to exercise our right to sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. We seek a solution that will satisfy both the historical and legislative background and the future understanding between neighbourly and fraternal peoples through an opportune and effective negotiation in good faith.
We trust in the Court’s decision and in a process of dialogue and negotiation that, unlike the invasions that we have suffered in the past, will help us to overcome our differences and promote our complementarity, free and sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean and the proper use of our shared natural resources. We are grateful for the solidarity shown by many States, peoples and leaders who have expressed their support for our maritime cause. I take this opportunity to ask all participants in the Assembly to accompany us in our peaceful quest for justice. It is anunwavering challenge for the brotherhood of our people over the coming generations.
With every passing year, our challenges become greater. War continues to destroy cities and global warming is a growing threat. If we truly want to resolve those issues and defend the interests of our peoples, it is essential to recognize basic services as human rights, respect the rights of Mother Earth and take up the fight against capitalism, colonialism and imperialism. Only if we win that fight will there be an authentic global order, based on solidarity, equality and social justice and respect for the right of peoples to peace and development so that they can live comfortably.

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the President of the General Assembly on her recent election to her important post.
The men, women and children of every continent in the world throughout our shared home, planet Earth, hope that our deliberations will bring concrete improvements to their lives. The world sees its leaders meet once a year and continues to hope that we will collaborate in complying fully with our mandate to build a more just society for all. When the United Nations was created, after the Second World War, it established clear purposes that now serve as a measure of our triumphs, failures, threats and opportunities. We sought to maintain international peace, security and justice, prevent and eliminate threats and suppress acts of aggression. We sought to resolve our disagreements by peaceful means and to foster friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principles of equal rights and the self-determination of peoples.
The theme of the general debate this year — “Making the United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies” — allows me to cite a practical provision of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which is that Member States
“shall settle their international disputes by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security, and justice, are not endangered”.
I am referring here to the  proceedings that  Bolivia has brought before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, whose decision will be  announced  next week. The  case  deals  with  Chile’s  obligation to negotiate with Bolivia in an effective and timely manner on sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. It tests the shared responsibility of two States to agree on just solutions within the framework of international
 
law. The Court asserted its jurisdiction to hear and resolve that international disagreement in 2015,  whose hemispheric interest was recognized by the Organization of American States because it involves two neighbours and undermines efforts  to  achieve the regional integration of peoples. Bolivia’s goal is the good-faith achievement, together with Chile, of a durable, sustainable and mutually satisfactory solution to a 100-year conflict that has put two neighbouring countries at odds.
Its worst consequence  is  that  Bolivia  has  been a landlocked country, with its people and the State deprived of access to the Pacific Ocean, a state of affairs that has severely affected our human and economic development and continues to do so. Bolivia’s maritime suit is related to its understanding of diplomacy as working for the people, their life and their right to access to the sea and its vast resources, the largest setting for life on the planet and the shared heritage of humankind and its peoples. Human beings are supported by the sea. Life on Earth is not possible without water, and it is  not possible to think about the lives of people without access to the sea. Not only is it a door to trade, markets and modern transactions, it is also a window on other peoples and on life itself.
We hope that the legal proceedings that have been brought before the International Court of Justice will be recognized and will help to bring the parties closer to the start of productive negotiations. We also hope that to the extent possible, with the support of the international community, it will help us to reach a genuine agreement that honestly outlines the causes and effects of the conflict that has driven us apart for more than a century. The agreement should also critically examine the inadequacy of the agreements and attempts to overcome Bolivia’s landlocked status, while validating and illustrating the reciprocal advantages of timely and effective agreements in the context of the principles  of regional and global integration and reconciling two peoples engaged in an absurd conflict, often for reasons that are alien to their values of brotherly coexistence.
The conflict between Bolivia and Chile over access to the Pacific Ocean is not the result of a recent or passing political or electoral issue. It goes back to the very origins of our territorial dispute at the end of the nineteenth century, when the interests of foreign corporations seeking to exploit the natural resources of the Atacama area, such as guano, potassium nitrate, silver and copper, launched a hostile, asymmetric and
expansionist campaign in the region. The landlocked status imposed on Bolivia could not be remedied through treaties that proved insufficient or through attempted agreements and failed commitments.
The Bolivian people’s ongoing claim is more than a century old, both at the regional level and in multilateral organizations. Bolivia is certain that whatever the International Court of Justice decides, it will mark a new era in the relationship between Bolivia and Chile so that we  can face the future with righteousness and a determination to explore mutually acceptable and lasting solutions. Our peoples and their leaders must unite their desire for peace and their political will in a single voice if they are to identify feasible, functional solutions that make them feel that they have won rather than lost. Practical solutions, forged by creative and effective diplomacy, have been found to even the oldest and most complex controversies in the world.
The Governments and the  peoples  of  Bolivia and Chile must wait patiently for a  legal  decision  that, beyond its formal  aspects,  can  open  the  door to a new era of peace, justice and brotherhood. Such an opportunity deserves the attention of the States Members of the United Nations, since the decision of the Organization’s main legal body to assume jurisdiction over, hear and adjudicate a dispute, and, in this case, to suggest parameters for a  possible  solution,  will  set a precedent for fairer societies that are willing to share the responsibility for resolving their differences. That would be a contrast to the past, when domination by winning wars was all that counted. That is the significance of our case in the context of the theme of the seventy-third session of the General Assembly.
We have frequently warned the Assembly about the many crises facing humankind and life as a whole on our planet. Unfortunately, every year we attend this event to confirm that,  despite  many  praiseworthy  efforts, a number of those crises have not only continued but worsened. I want to take this opportunity to talk about the three biggest threats we face. The first is climate change. Every year is warmer than the one before. Every year more severe weather events occur. Every year more people and other living creatures are irreversibly affected by hurricanes, floods, droughts and pollution. While we consider global efforts such as the Paris Agreement important, if we do not tackle the underlying structural causes of climate change, we will not be able to stop it, all the more so when the biggest polluter in the history of humankind, the United States,
 
turns its back on science, multilateralism and thereby on humankind. Climate change is an inseparable consequence of capitalism, overproduction and patterns of consumption. The planet is exhausted and so is life along with it.
The second major threat is the arms race, the culture of war and the possibility of a nuclear disaster. Many leaders of countries, especially those that have the most weapons, come to this forum to talk about peace. Military spending is growing, with an increase of 1.1 per cent in 2017 over spending in 2016, and has now reached the extraordinary sum of $1.739 trillion, or
2.2 per cent of the global gross domestic product. The world cannot live at the expense of those who believe that they have the right to produce and use weapons capable of totally destroying life on our planet. In addition, the arms industry feeds off war, and as its weapons are proved to be effective at killing children, the value of their shares increases in the stock market. That criminal logic must end. That threat also comes at the hand of those who are willing to invade countries and change Governments in order to expropriate their peoples’ natural resources. They install military bases with the aim of controlling the entire planet.
The third great threat is inequality. Every year our wealth is concentrated in fewer hands. In 2017, 82 per cent of the world’s increase in wealth ended up in the hands of the richest 1 per cent of the population, while half of humankind saw no increase at  all. According to data from Credit Suisse, 42 people are now worth the same as 3.7 billion others taken all  together.  Those figures are shameful, and we should all be ashamed, because they represent a model of wealth accumulation and poverty distribution rather than one of wealth distribution.
Bolivia condemns in the clearest and strongest terms the illegal, inhuman and criminal economic and financial embargo imposed on Cuba by the United States. The United States has the obligation to make financial reparations for the damage done to the heroic Cuban people and should comply with the relevant General Assembly resolutions by immediately lifting the blockade. It should also restore Guantanamo to Cuban sovereignty and refrain from any interference or intervention in its internal affairs.
From our seat on the Security Council, we have closely followed the progress and difficulties in the implementation of the peace agreement signed between
the Government of Colombia and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia-Ejército del Pueblo. We are hopeful that the new Government of Colombia will promote the processes for the social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants and will protect the lives of human rights defenders and community leaders, thereby once again affirming that Latin America and the Caribbean is a zone of peace.
Our brother country the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is suffering shameless aggression at the hands of the United States and its allies. Latin America firmly rejects any attempts to intervene militarily in Venezuela. Venezuelan issues must be solved by the Venezuelans, and the United States  must  abandon  the illegal and unilateral measures that are one of the causes of Venezuela’s economic problems.
We also want to take this opportunity to condemn the criminal Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories and the United States Government’s unilateral and illegal decision to declare Jerusalem the capital of Israel, which jeopardizes any possibility of reaching a just and lasting peace. We also reiterate our support for a two- State solution, with a free, independent and sovereign Palestinian State based on the pre-1967 borders with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We deeply regret the fact that the war  in Syria  has caused more than half a million  deaths  in  the past eight years, a consequence of policies of regime change, interference in internal affairs and efforts to expropriate natural resources. Bolivia repudiates the violations of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity directly or indirectly perpetrated by different States, including the United States, and we hope that the efforts of the United Nations to reach a political agreement by and for the Syrians will soon bear fruit. We welcome the efforts of Russia, Iran, Turkey and Kazakhstan to prevent any more suffering by the Syrian people.
In conclusion, it is my duty to inform the Assembly about the situation in Bolivia. As is well known, we have liberated ourselves from the bonds of United States military bases, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the United States Agency for International Development, and from the demands of the International Monetary Fund as well as other types of taxation. Bolivia is now an example to the region and the world. We have one of the fastest-growing economies in the region. In the past decade we have reduced
 
extreme poverty from 37 per cent to 17 per cent. We have increased life expectancy by eight years, lowered infant mortality by 56 per cent and reduced chronic child malnutrition by 50 per cent. Bolivia invests more money than any other country in the world in renewable energies in relation to gross domestic product. We are building a more just society. We also want to take this opportunity to inform the Assembly that, as part of an initiative to fight corruption, our President and Vice President have renounced bank secrecy. We call on all Heads of State to pursue such a measure with a view to governing as transparently as possible.
Those achievements have been made possible thanks to the unity of the Bolivian people, the defence of our sovereignty, the recovery of our natural resources and strategic enterprises, the pluralistic economic model and the redistribution of wealth. We reaffirm our commitment to multilateralism. It is imperative that we work together to build a society with equal opportunities for all. We must take care of this planet, our only home. We must make this a world where justice is possible and peace a reality.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
We gather once again at humankind’s most important multilateral Organization to collectively reflect upon and analyse the global problems that affect the people of the world. We note with concern the deterioration of the multilateral system as a result of the unilateral measures promoted by some States that have decided to act in bad faith and ignore the commitments and global structures set up for healthy coexistence among States, within the framework of international law and the basic principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
We meet in this forum to discuss and seek solutions to the serious threats to humankind and life on the planet. Our home, Mother Earth, is our only home and is irreplaceable. Fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts and other disasters are becoming increasingly frequent. Each year is hotter than the previous one, global melting is increasing and ocean levels are rising. Every day we suffer the disappearance of species, land erosion, desertification and deforestation.
We have been warned that, if we follow this course of action, by the year 2100 the global temperature will have increased by 3° Celsius, with concomitant massive and devastating changes. According to data from our Organization, the consequences of climate change will condemn millions of people to poverty, hunger, lack of drinking water, the loss of their homes, forced displacement, more refugee crises and new armed conflicts.
We have been surprised in recent weeks by the forest fires that have broken out in different parts of the planet — in the Amazon, Oceania and Africa — affecting the flora, fauna and biodiversity. In recent weeks, Bolivia has experienced literal hot spots, which we have been battling with financial, technical and human resources. Our country has spent more than $15 million to date to mitigate fires. We thank the international community for its timely cooperation in our fight against the fire, as well as its commitment to participate in post-fire relief.
The arms race, military spending and technology in the service of death and the unscrupulous arms trade have all increased. The financial system continues to be anti-democratic, inequitable and unstable. It promotes tax havens and banking secrecy, which subjugate weak countries and force them to accept conditions that perpetuate their dependence. We note with sadness that the great social asymmetries persist. According to Oxfam data, currently 1.3 billion people live in poverty, while 1 per cent of the richest held 82 per cent of the world’s wealth in 2017. Inequality, hunger, poverty, the migration crisis, epidemic diseases and unemployment are not merely local problems, they are global problems.
Nevertheless, humankind’s creative ability surprises us every day with new inventions and new technological applications, which have provided great solutions to very complex problems. Technology has meant a qualitative leap for humankind. However, it is necessary for this multilateral body to establish agreements in that domain with the participation of all States.
It is essential that we talk about the structural causes of the various crises. Transnational companies control food, water, non-renewable resources, weapons, technology and our personal data. The aim is to commercialize everything in order to accumulate capital. The world is being controlled by a global oligarchy; a mere handful of billionaires define the political and economic destiny of humankind. Twenty- six people possess the same wealth as 3.8 billion people. That is unjust. That is immoral. That is inadmissible.
The fundamental problem lies in the production model and consumerism, the ownership of natural resources and the inequitable distribution of wealth. Let us put it very clearly — the root of the problem lies in the capitalist system. That is why the United Nations is more relevant and important than ever despite individual efforts, which are insufficient, because only joint action and unity will enable us to overcome those problems.
As we have already said, our generation’s responsibility is to pass on to the next generation a fairer and more humane world. That will be achieved only if we work together to build a multipolar world with rules common to all, while defending multilateralism, the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international law.
We have taken some very important steps in Bolivia. We are the country with the highest economic growth in South America, averaging 4.9 per cent in the past six years. Between 2005 and 2019, the gross domestic product increased from 9.574 to 40.885 billion dollars. We have the lowest unemployment rate in the region, which fell from 8.1 per cent in 2005 to 4.2 per cent in 2018. Extreme poverty fell from 38.2 per cent to 15.2 per cent over 13 years. Life expectancy has increased by nine years. The minimum wage rose from $60 to $310.
The gender gap in land titles owned by women has been reduced — only 138,788 women had received land by 2005, while 1,011,249 women had received land by 2018. Bolivia has the third-highest participation of women in Parliament in the world — more than 50 per cent of its representatives are women.
Bolivia declared itself an illiteracy-free country in 2008. The school dropout rate fell from 4.5 per cent to 1.5 per cent between 2005 and 2018. The infant mortality rate has been reduced by 56 per cent. We are in the process of implementing a universal health- care system that will guarantee that 100 per cent of Bolivians — women and men — have access to free, quality services that are caring and that respect their dignity. We have adopted a law on free care for cancer patients.
The data I have just mentioned are part of the achievements of our democratic and cultural revolution, which have brought political, economic and social stability to Bolivia. How did we achieve that in such a short time? How did Bolivia embark upon the path to defeating poverty and underdevelopment?
It was thanks to the conscientiousness of the people — social movements and indigenous people, campesinos, workers, professionals and rural and urban men and women. We nationalized our natural resources and strategic businesses. We took control of our destiny. We built a communitarian and productive socioeconomic model that recognizes basic services as a human right, not as a private business. Today we can say with pride and optimism that Bolivia has a future.
There is one outstanding issue in the region, and that is the sea. The sea is indispensable for life, integration and the development of peoples. For that reason, Bolivia will not give up its right to sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. In 2015 and 2018, the International Court of Justice in The Hague ruled on the following elements in its judgments.
First, in paragraph 19 of the 1 October 2018 judgment in Obligation to negotiate access to the Pacific Ocean (Bolivia v. Chile), the Court stated that “Bolivia had a coastline of over 400 km along the Pacific Ocean”.
Secondly, in paragraph 50 of the 24 September 2015 ruling in the same case, it stated that “the matters in dispute are matters neither ‘settled by arrangement between the parties, or by arbitral award or by decision of an international court’ nor ‘governed by agreements or treaties in force’”.
Thirdly, in paragraph 176 of the 1 October 2018 ruling, it also stated that “[nevertheless, the Court’s finding should not be understood as precluding the Parties from continuing their dialogue and exchanges, in a spirit of good neighbourliness, to address the issues relating to the landlocked situation of Bolivia, the solution to which they have both recognized to be a matter of mutual interest. With willingness on the part of the Parties, meaningful negotiations can be undertaken”.
That judicial decision did not put an end to the controversy; on the contrary, it explicitly recognizes that the controversy persists and emphasizes that it does not exclude the possibility of both States finding a solution. Therefore, the United Nations should monitor the situation and demand full compliance with the Court’s decisions, so that both peoples continue negotiating in good faith to close open wounds. It is possible to promote a spirit of good neighbourliness and to open a new chapter in our relationship in which mutually acceptable and lasting solutions can be forged.
Our countries face diverse and contentious situations that must be approached in a sovereign manner and for which solutions must be found through dialogue and negotiations that benefit the interests of our peoples. Bolivia, in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations, ratifies its rejection of the economic and financial blockade imposed against Cuba, which violates all human rights.
Finally, I take this opportunity to thank all the member countries for their support in the various initiatives promoted by Bolivia, such as the International Year of Indigenous Languages, the United Nations Declaration of the Rights of Peasants and other People Working in Rural Areas and the recognition of 21 June as the International Day of the Celebration of the Solstice.
To conclude, we ratify our commitment to consolidate a new world order of peace with social justice, in harmony with Mother Earth, with a view to living well while respecting the dignity and identity of the world’s peoples.


===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
Thank you very much. It is a pleasure and an honour to share the Assembly Hall with all of you.
At no other time has Latin America seen more clearly that it must choose between the two roads that lie before it.
The two roads do not lead — as many intellectuals in the region have asserted — either towards the left or the right; statism or neo-liberalism; or socialism or capitalism.
The two roads, one of which we must choose, are simpler. One is the road of freedom and the other is the road of oppression.
In other words, we are once again faced with the dilemma that arises between the choices of democracy or dictatorship. In short, we are faced with the dilemma of modernity.
Did we create the State to oppress or to guarantee freedom? Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to choose.
Let us admit that, in general, Latin America has not overcome the threat of authoritarianism.
And let us concede that very important people in Latin American politics remain in the thrall of authoritarian temptation.
And, consequently, let us accept that many of our societies are at risk of surrendering to new forms of authoritarianism and oppression.
And what are these new forms of authoritarianism that threaten several of our nations?
They are simply the pursuits of caudillismo and authoritarian populism.
They encourage the appropriation and, if necessary, kidnapping of public life by a caudillo and his caste.
It is not matter of parties, the armed forces, unions or ideologies. In sum, it has nothing to do with any organization or institution conceiving of the common good.
It is about individual pursuits of power.
Those pursuits aspire to see the Caudillo and his caste gain complete control of the political sphere, culture, the economy and ultimately the freedom of the people.
They are founded on the idea of privilege. And, for that reason, run contrary to the idea of rights.
It is the system of the few. It is the system of castes. It is the system of the political elites. It is the system of the political clan.
In short, Latin America has before it the road offered up by caudillismo and authoritarian populism. But it also has another path, which is different and opposed to caudillismo and authoritarian populism, respects the people and is based on democracy. In effect, after having lived through the populist era, Latin America has the option of building political coexistence, based on the republican tradition — which is the tradition of freedom.
That is the road we are building in Bolivia. It is the road leading towards returning power to the people. It is the road leading towards validating the rule of law.
It is the road leading towards overcoming more than a decade of populist and authoritarian caudillismo. It is the road leading towards restoring the freedom of the citizens.
And it is precisely in order to build that road to freedom that we are supporting fair and transparent elections on 18 October.
And we are supporting them despite the fact that the proponents of caudillisto populism attempted to stop and sabotage them with brutal and violent actions a few weeks ago.
Those actions included blocking highways so that oxygen intended for patients who had fallen ill to COVID-19 would not get by. It was an extraordinarily inhuman and cruel way of sowing chaos and terror. Such actions led to death and damage, which under the eyes of the law can clearly be seen as crimes against humanity.
The Bolivian people, however, courageously and determinedly stopped the organized and systematic attempt to overthrow democracy and reinstall the dictatorship in Bolivia. We are a people who have decided to turn the page and leave behind the populist dictatorship.
We are a people who no longer want to see Governments building palaces or museums dedicated to the caudillo. We are a people who want democracy, health care, employment, education and opportunities.
And that is why the decision of the current Government to invest 10 per cent of the national budget in health care has been a very important step for Bolivia.
And that is also why the efforts we have made in health care have been very important in achieving in three months what had not been achieved for decades in our country. They involved thousands of health-care jobs and other initiatives to equip hospitals and treat free of charge thousands of citizens who contracted the coronavirus disease.
Similarly, in keeping with the purpose of establishing the Republic — the Government of the people, the Government under the law for all and the Government devoted to political freedom — we have established in Bolivia a support system for the people, which is unprecedented in our history.
The pandemic reminded us of the enormous importance of helping one another.
It reminded us of our Christian value to care for one another. And it reminded us of the ethics of mutual help as a path leading towards healthy coexistence among people who consider themselves to be brothers and sisters, free and equal.
The support and assistance system that we have established is based on the providing cash vouchers to the population — directly to all Bolivian families, with special emphasis on the people and families who are most in need.
Well then, in view of the two roads of freedom and oppression, which I took the liberty of expounding upon, it is a pleasure to say in the Assembly that Bolivia has chosen the road of freedom.
But I would be remiss if I did not conclude my statement without condemning before the world the systematic and abusive assault that the Kirchnerist Government is carrying out from Argentina against the institutions and republican values in Bolivia.
We have nothing against the noble Argentine people. Moreover, it is a nation that we esteem and love like a brother. We have nothing against Peronism, which we value as a political tradition — the national popular tradition — and has been the driving force behind enormous achievements in the social modernization of Argentina.
It is a tradition that we are familiar with in Bolivia where the 1952 Revolution, which exemplified the national popular tradition, set the stage for extraordinary progress with regard to equality and social justice.
Nor do we harbour any bitterness towards other Governments, such as the Government of Havana, with which we do not agree ideologically. But we maintain the due respect and courtesy that characterize the relations between two sovereign States and between two brotherly peoples, who share a common history.
But the case of the Argentine Government is different. It involves behaviour that I described earlier when I spoke of the populist castes, which do not hesitate to use frankly abusive methods to carry out their plans, obtain power and take stands that run contrary to promoting freedom.
What is the Argentine Government’s authority to make interference the key to its foreign policy towards Bolivia? And what is its authority to protect a violent conspiracy by Evo Morales against Bolivian democracy from Argentine soil?
And even worse, what is the authority of the Argentine Government to offer impunity to Evo Morales in cases as serious as the national and international investigations that are under way against this former dictator, for human rights violations, for sexual violations against girls or underage women, or for complicity in political murder?
Kirchnerist populism knows that the Bolivian nation is not the private property of any caste. We are a sovereign and respectable people.
Bolivia is respected. Bolivian democracy is respected. The Bolivian people respect themselves.
Nor can I fail to mention the maritime issue in this speech. I call on the international community in these new times to resolve through negotiation and fraternal understanding the critical and pending problems between States, such as the Bolivia’s lack of sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Bolivia has chosen freedom. She has chosen the republic. And no matter who your enemies are, the important thing is that democracy, freedom, institutions and republican values have come to stay in Bolivia.
We invite the world to look at our electoral process, which, unlike that promoted by Evo Morales last year, will be clean and free of fraud. We invite the world to look at our system of aid, bonds and solidarity, which has launched in Bolivia a historic stage of assistance to those who need it most.
We invite the world to visit us, because we are a people that, despite so many political, social, economic and health difficulties, now looks forward with courage, freedom and joy.
Thank you very much. God bless you.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
First of all, allow me to hail your election, Sir, as President of the General Assembly, and to congratulate the Secretary- General on his reappointment for another term.
We are gathered in the most important forum created by humankind since the Second World War, which was conceived as a space for debate, reflection and the search for effective solutions to the multiple crises facing our planet. The United Nations was conceived based on the principle of the legal equality of States, to which the principle of political equality would be added, in order to prevent the planet from falling back into armed conflicts among States, which jeopardize the world peace we all yearn for.
Those goals have not been fully achieved — we continue to be exposed to ambitions to control access to natural resources and dominate peoples in the form of direct armed invasions, criminal blockades and indirect military, political, economic and media interventions.
The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has revealed the fragility of our societies and States through its unprecedented negative repercussions for health, the economy, education and other sectors and has jeopardized the timely achievement of the goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The health crisis has compounded the multidimensional economic, social, environmental, food, energy and inequality crisis of capitalism.
At the same time, the crisis has highlighted the continuing inequality between the countries that are at the hub of capitalism and those on the periphery, which are euphemistically referred to as “developed”
and “developing” countries. The increase in poverty and extreme poverty and the inequitable distribution of vaccines has been condemned by the World Health Organization. According to available data, to date only 30 per cent of the world population requiring vaccination has received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, and barely 15.5 per cent is fully vaccinated. Meanwhile, only 1.1 per cent of the population in low-income countries has received at least one dose.
Capitalism has commodified all dimensions of social life, and health care has not escaped its reach. Medical science must be at the service of humankind without any kind of geographical, political, social or nationality-based discrimination. Access to vaccines must be considered a human right. We cannot be indifferent, much less profit from providing health care during a pandemic.
We firmly believe that the pandemic can be overcome by the highest level of global vaccination coverage. The World Health Organization has confirmed that, once 70 per cent of that goal is achieved, we will be able to overcome the pandemic. However, access to vaccines, especially for peripheral countries, is limited. In that context, we believe it is important that transnational pharmaceutical manufacturers waive their patents and share their knowledge and technology to produce COVID-19 vaccines, that in working together we guarantee immediate access to everyone in every country in the world and that supranational organizations, such as the United Nations, as well as Governments, work together to prevent the hoarding of vaccines and promote universal, fair, equitable and timely access to vaccines, medicines and medical supplies to address the COVID-19 pandemic.
The current circumstances caused by the pandemic call for solidarity and international cooperation among brotherly peoples to promote life. In the fight against COVID-19 throughout the world, thousands upon thousands of health workers have fulfilled their roles, and today we pay tribute to them and express our gratitude for their work. In Europe, despite their problems, countries have come together in agreement and have allocated billions of dollars to reactivate their economies. The United States has also reached consensus among its politicians to direct billions of dollars to its economy.
In contrast, in Latin America and the Caribbean and in Africa, States and Governments lack organizations to deal with the struggle to survive. Quite the opposite — organizations such as the Organization of American States (OAS) divide us, promote coups d’etat and produce destabilization.
The COVID-19 crisis has also exposed the vulnerabilities and inequalities of the financial system and the global economy. In a closely interconnected world, it is important to deepen solidarity and complementarity and respond to the needs of our peoples in the post-pandemic world. To that end, it is imperative to strengthen integration and cooperation so that we can confront the multidimensional impact on the economy and our industries and ability to achieve security with food sovereignty. In that context, we must rebuild our economies with a view towards social protection and health. That means safeguarding and protecting workers, farmers, indigenous peoples, micro-entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs in the same way that banks, large companies and global corporations are protected.
In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, it is imperative that we confront the threats posed by the pandemic. In that regard, let us examine and propose comprehensive solutions to the vulnerability that debt has led to in periphery countries in relation to central capitalism and financial institutions. Accordingly, it is important to adopt comprehensive measures that the international financial institutions apply with a sustainable vision and that do not entail increased costs or debt levels for beneficiary States.
States must prioritize the eradication of extreme poverty and inequality in all its dimensions and the provision of access to basic services for the population. We must responsibly assume the challenge of building a future based on solidarity, complementarity, sustainability and cooperation among peoples. Little progress will be made, however, in reducing or eliminating those social indicators as long as the current world economic order continues in a way that is unjust by every standard, fosters unfair trade and hinders industrialization.
Moreover, I would be remiss if I did not underscore that, unfortunately, the digital divide persists. The rapid progress in digital technologies and e-commerce has become an instrument that can help in economic recovery. However, the digital divide prevents such benefits from being shared equitably; indeed digital technologies and e-commerce are being converted into instruments to consolidate the unjust world order.
In that regard, the Plurinational State of Bolivia proposes to move forward on agreements with multilateral financial institutions to refinance, or provide relief from, external debt at the global level and support social policies for populations in vulnerable situations, with a comprehensive and sustainable development approach. Similarly, it is important that the various international financial mechanisms grant concessional loans and design and implement medium- and long-term measures to ensure the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Our planet — shared home and Mother Earth — continues to suffer from the serious consequences of consumerism and the excessive greed for natural resources. We once again reaffirm that the capitalist system is one of the main causes of the climate crisis. According to the worldview of indigenous peoples, human beings and nature are interdependent.
Therefore, as a State we advocate a new model of coexistence for our well-being, which our peoples call, “living well”. It promotes a change in the perspective on life by rejecting greed, irrational competition, excessive consumerism and the insatiable quest to accumulate profit to the detriment of Mother Earth and life on our planet. The civilizing perspective of our indigenous peoples is valid for all the peoples of the world because, if capitalism is jeopardizing anything, it is jeopardizing humankind and nature.
Embarking on the path towards living well means that our public policies and way of life must be in harmony and balance with nature. We must restore our relationship with Mother Earth, because our survival as a species is at stake. The growing threat posed by non-economic risks to financial and macroeconomic stability, such as the climate crisis, has highlighted the need to devise policies that help in transitioning to a new economic model. In line with our approach, we have conceptualized the Bolivian vision for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We propose that all States parties to the Convention attend the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the Convention, to be held in Glasgow, at which we will propose the following recommendations.
First, the only concrete solution to limit the temperature rise to 1.5°C is through the distribution of the carbon budget among countries, based on climate justice criteria and according to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Secondly, the countries of central capitalism must assume the climate debt and the historical compensation with the rest of the countries of the world through financial cooperation, technology transfer and capacity-building, thereby complying with the relevant agreements established to date.
Thirdly, it is vital that we return to the knowledge, practices and experiences of indigenous nations and peoples in building societies and ecosystems that are resilient to climate change.
Fourthly, there is an urgent need to strengthen and speed up countries’ efforts against the climate crisis, particularly approaches that are not based on carbon markets — efforts that must be effective in reducing domestic greenhouse-gas emissions. We are convinced of the urgent need for a reform of the global architecture that aligns financial, investment, trade, development, environmental and social policies. In the same vein, we welcome the holding of the United Nations Food Systems Summit, as the health and life of humankind itself depend upon them. We must recognize and strengthen the important contribution to the economy and the preservation of nature made by peasant and indigenous producers.
I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Assembly on the important decision it took to declare the Decade of Indigenous Languages, which begins next year. Languages transmit culture, knowledge, wisdom and the history of peoples, which is why it is important that, throughout these years and the years to come, States promote actions to recover and revitalize indigenous languages, which are part of the wealth of humankind.
The Charter of the Organization is the ultimate point of reference for safeguarding international law, which governs relations among countries. The United Nations therefore has a preponderant role, especially in safeguarding human rights. It is therefore inconceivable that hegemonic countries promote unilateral actions and measures that generate negative effects against the right to life, health, food and education of millions of people — as has been expressed on repeated occasions here at the General Assembly. Coercive measures are taken following unilateral decisions and applied extraterritorially, which is not only immoral but also
goes against international law and the very Charter of the United Nations.
While weakening multilateralism, such measures are even more reprehensible and condemnable when they intentionally and directly affect the exercise and enjoyment of human rights. Human rights are inherent to human beings; there can be no double standards.
Access to vaccines, medicines, medical supplies and essential goods such as food cannot be subordinated to political interests, and neither should the right to life or health be used as a political pressure mechanism to the detriment of the lives of millions of people who depend upon them, much less so in times of pandemics.
We reject any unilateral measure aimed at preventing countries from exercising their right to freely determine their own political, economic and social systems. A clear example of the application of unilateral measures is the inhumane and criminal commercial and financial blockade against Cuba, which puts the lives of more than 11 million citizens at risk in the midst of a pandemic. It is a crime against humanity, but at the same time a regrettable example of how the decisions of the General Assembly are not complied with by certain countries. It is frustrating to admit that, year after year, despite the virtual unanimity worldwide in condemning the blockade, those responsible for this crime ignore the clamour of humankind.
Before concluding this intervention in the General Assembly, allow me to inform Member States that, after a regrettable coup d’etat that took place in November 2019, the Plurinational State of Bolivia regained its democracy in October 2020, thanks to the unity, struggle and conscience of the Bolivian people, ratified at the ballot box. We are also regaining our intercultural democracy as well as our political, economic and social stability, which we had worked so hard to build.
The rupture of the constitutional order in my country involved the participation of national actors: politicians who did not have the support of the people at the ballot box, bad actors among the police and the armed forces, civic committees, the Catholic hierarchy and the hegemonic media. But it also counted on the participation of the OAS — through its Secretary General, Luis Almagro — as well as other Governments, such as the previous Argentine Government, which sent weapons and ammunition to the coup plotters, and representatives of the European Union and international non-governmental organizations.
The last report presented by an international group of independent experts found that serious human rights violations, massacres and summary executions were committed in the Plurinational State of Bolivia. Our commitment to the Bolivian people is that justice be done for the 38 lives lost, for the hundreds of wounded and detained, for the persecuted, the asylum seekers and the exiles and for the serious human rights violations that were committed during a de facto Government. For justice is an essential condition for any democracy and for building genuine social peace.
Unfortunately, the right to the presumption of innocence and due process was systematically violated. The persecution, prosecution and imprisonment of innocent people became a normal daily occurrence. Humiliation, repression, desecration of our patriotic symbols, such as the wiphala, and racist and sexist use of force were directed against the population mobilized for their rights, mostly indigenous people, workers, peasants and farmers.
Strong and dignified nations have always been built on learning the great lessons from the tragedies and misfortunes experienced, collectively building social peace through processes of memory, truth and justice. And that is our commitment to the Bolivian people. My Government, democratically elected, in spite of the multiple difficulties, including the COVID-19 pandemic, is making the greatest of efforts to regain stability and economic growth with social justice. With the confidence of more than 55 per cent of the votes cast by the Bolivian people, we have the responsibility to defend our independence and dignity as a free and sovereign State.
In this global forum, the Plurinational State of Bolivia claims its right to secure free, sovereign and useful access to the Pacific Ocean, through dialogue and agreement with the Republic of Chile, as determined by the International Court of Justice in its judgment of 1 October 2018, which urged Chile and Bolivia to continue working towards a meaningful resolution of the problem.
Bolivia takes paragraph 176 of the judgment as an invocation and a clarification in the sense of
“continuing their dialogue and exchanges, in a spirit of good neighbourliness, to address the issues relating to the landlocked situation of Bolivia, the solution to which they have both recognized to be a matter of mutual interest. With willingness on the
part of the Parties, meaningful negotiations can be undertaken”.
The important integration processes that are taking place throughout the world must be based on and involve an effective solution to the major unresolved issues in Latin America. Like the issue of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, Bolivia’s landlocked situation is still an open wound in our continent. That issue should be resolved with dialogue, diplomacy and understanding among brotherly peoples in this new era.
Here in the Assembly, we reiterate our commitment to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the targets set for the Sustainable Development Goals, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the elimination of all forms of discrimination and racism. Multilateralism is the right tool for ensuring greater dialogue, cooperation and the quest for solutions to issues that affect humankind. It will enable us to re-establish the primacy of international law, preserve social justice and peace and reconfigure a weakened world order.
There is no doubt that the challenges we encounter daily are increasingly complex. If we want a better future for the current and next generations, we must reflect on the path we take to overcome the polarization in the global architecture and, instead, join efforts to promote international cooperation that allows us to stand strong in addressing current issues.
We are at an unprecedented juncture where the future of humankind depends on our decisions. It is our duty to build a more just and more democratic world based on greater solidarity. Let us work to end the climate crisis and build equality so that enjoying life means access to education, health care, food, decent work, comprehensive development and true harmony with Mother Earth. Let us work to ensure the self- determination of peoples and lasting peace.


===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. Csaba Korosi on his election as President of the General Assembly and to express to him, on behalf of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, our support for his work for the benefit of the international community. May this seventy- seventh session allow us to continue strengthening multilateralism to more effectively confront the new and old threats that beset humankind.
Today, we are facing a multiple and systemic crisis of capitalism that increasingly endangers the life of humankind and the planet. There is no doubt that the challenges we are facing are becoming more complex every day. If we seek a better future for current and future generations, we must not only reflect on the economic, social, food, climate, energy, water and trade crises, but also clearly identify their origins so as to change a system that perpetuates the domination, exploitation and exclusion of the vast majority, generates the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few and prioritizes the production and reproduction of capital over the creation and reproduction of life.
At the same time that we face the multiple and systemic crisis of capitalism, we are witnessing the final chapter of the unipolar world. The construction of a new world order, which we hope will be for the benefit of all States and peoples of the world, is inevitable. Convinced that another world is possible, we in the Plurinational State of Bolivia propose the following.
First, we should declare the world a zone of peace. In that connection, we express our dismay at the considerable number of armed conflicts ravaging humankind, many of them promoted by transnational military corporations, as well as by the desire to impose a global political and economic order that benefits the interests of capitalism. Those conflicts have a great human cost and, in many cases, lead to the destruction of our cultural and environmental heritage.
Regardless of the origin, nature or geopolitical reasons for international tensions, the Plurinational State of Bolivia has been and will remain committed to a culture of dialogue among nations, through diplomacy among peoples. Unfortunately, however, we are seeing the growing deterioration of the multilateral system due to the capricious failure of the capitalist Powers to acquiesce to the existence of a multipolar world with a balance of power. Multilateralism is the only mechanism that represents a guarantee of respect among States, regardless of their economic or military power. We therefore believe that any breach of international peace and security is linked to the insufficient application of the mechanisms provided for in the Charter of the United Nations or, failing that, to their flagrant violation.
In 2014, the countries of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States declared the region a zone of peace. We committed ourselves to settling our disputes peacefully and banishing forever the use of force in the region. Along those lines, we call for the Assembly to be the space for a great historic agreement — an agreement in which dialogue and diplomacy prevail over any dispute — and for the world to also be declared a zone of peace.
To achieve that goal, it is vitally important, among several initiatives, for the United Nations to work tirelessly to achieve a ceasefire between Russia and Ukraine, for the historic rights of the people and State of Palestine to be respected, and for NATO to stop entertaining its expansionist plans.
Secondly, we should replace the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction with fair compensation to the world’s poor. It is precisely the lack of dialogue and measures of preventive diplomacy that has dragged us into an era of great tensions worldwide and of growing uncertainties and instability in global security. We are living in times in which there is a concentration of a large number of weapons of mass destruction in a small group of countries, which, by refusing to eliminate them and prioritizing their geopolitical interests, are endangering the peace and security of our planet.
Nine countries today have 12,705 nuclear warheads, 9,440 of which are in military stockpiles, ready to be used. Given this frightening reality facing the world, we must raise the banner of replacing military spending on the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction with the fair economic compensation that the main capitalist countries owe, morally and historically, to the countries of the periphery and the world’s poor countries.
Thirdly, we oppose the commodification of health care and favour universal health-care systems. In the past two years, our peoples have had to face not only uncertainty resulting from conflicts, but also a serious health crisis resulting from the coronavirus disease, which exposed the vulnerabilities and inequalities of health-care systems around the world, as well as of the financial system and the global economy.
In the face of health-care systems that benefit only those able to access private insurance, and in opposition to those who have turned health into a commodity, it is imperative to strengthen universal health-care systems in which the State meets its obligation to protect and guarantee collective rights, within the framework of the pre-eminence of economic, social and cultural human rights, thereby reducing the effects of the global economic crisis on the most vulnerable sectors of the population.
Fourthly, we need a global food sovereignty programme that is in harmony with Mother Earth. Another manifestation of the structural and multipronged crisis of capitalism is the food crisis, which is exacerbated by the effects of the pandemic, global geopolitical conflicts and the numerous environmental crises facing the planet. This situation has not only affected the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, but also threatens the most basic rights of millions of human beings.
According to the 2022 The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World report, the number of people suffering from hunger in the world has increased dramatically over the past few years. In 2021 alone, a total of 828 million people, accounting for 9.8 per cent of the world’s population, were the victims of food insecurity. Asia, with 425 million people affected by the food crisis, and Africa, with 278 million affected, remain the regions hardest hit by the crisis. In Latin America and the Caribbean, the food crisis has affected more than 56 million people.
To address the food crisis, we must urgently implement a global food sovereignty programme that ensures better production conditions for small- scale farmers. That means access to seeds, fertilizer, technology, infrastructure, credit and private and community-based access of all kinds to markets. It also means better living conditions in their communities, in full harmony with Mother Earth.
Fifth, we must rebuild the productive and economic capacities of the countries of the periphery hard hit by the unrestrained logic of the concentration of capital. In addition to the impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic, which has degraded our economies and business transactions, today we are on an expansionary path, sustained by inflation, which has become a critical problem. For example, in August, the United States recorded annual inflation of 8.25 per cent, the highest in the past four decades, and there was unprecedented inflation rate of 9.1 per cent in the Eurozone. In addition, the war between Russia and Ukraine has exacerbated pressure on the price of energy, food, fertilizer, commodities and other products. In July this year, interannual inflation with respect to food reached double digits in some countries of Europe and in the United States.
In an interconnected world, it is important to respond to the needs of our peoples in the post-pandemic context by strengthening integration and cooperation, based on the principles of solidarity, complementarity and respect for the self-determination of peoples. In so doing, we can address the multidimensional effect on the economy and our industries, as well as on our productive capacities and self-sufficiency.
To that end, it is essential that we restructure the global financial architecture to ease the external debt burden globally so that developing countries have an opportunity to implement, in a sovereign manner, social policies with a focus on comprehensive and sustainable economic and social development. As always, the countries of the South are calling for balance in trade relations, as current trade relations continue to benefit only countries of the North.
In that regard, I would like to humbly share Bolivia’s experience. Following the restoration of democracy in 2020, thanks to the unity, struggle and conscience of our people, we returned to the path charted by our democratic and cultural revolution, dignity and sovereignty. We resumed the construction
of our plurinational State and the consolidation of our economic, social and community-based production model. It is a sovereign economic model. We have not accepted and will never accept measures that are imposed by the International Monetary Fund.
Our economic model reflects our political, economic, social and cultural reality and is based on the active role of the State in the economy, the nationalization of our strategic natural resources, the development of economic organization of all kinds, increased public investment, import substitution industrialization, the revitalization of the domestic market, product diversification, food security and sovereignty, income redistribution and the fight against poverty and inequality. In other words, we seek economic growth with social justice, inspired by our civilizing political objective to ensure that our people live comfortably, which has its origins in our indigenous roots.
Such responsible and sovereign policies have enabled us to return to the path of stability, economic growth and income redistribution. In the first quarter of 2022, economic activity increased by 4 per cent, fuelled by domestic demand. Our inflation rate stood at 1.6 per cent in August. Our economy has the lowest inflation rate in the region and one of the lowest in the world, compared to the inflation rates of various countries that, over the past 12 months, have exceeded double digits.
With regard to social development, in the second quarter of 2022 Bolivia recorded the lowest unemployment rate in the region — 4.5 per cent. International organizations, such as the Economic Commission for Latin America, have listed us as the country leading in poverty rate reduction in 2022, while poverty rates in other countries will increase. However, as with many other periphery countries, we continue to make herculean efforts to solve issues related to the multidimensional and systemic crisis affecting us, making our recovery increasingly challenging.
We deplore the fact that, while capitalist countries spend copious amounts of money on war, they make miniscule contributions to comprehensive sustainable development, decolonization, elimination of the patriarchy and the eradication of poverty and economic and social inequalities. One example is that in recent months, 20 times more financial resources were earmarked for the conflict in Eastern Europe than were pledged to the Green Climate Fund over the past decade. Peace is achieved not by buying and selling weapons, but rather by working together to build and, if necessary, rebuild the economic and productive capacities of all countries.
Sixth, the climate crisis requires accountability, solidarity and harmony between human beings and nature, not profit-seeking. Another crisis that threatens to destroy humankind and the integrity of our Mother Earth is the climate crisis, which is leading towards environmental collapse. The discouraging rates of emissions reductions that have been observed and estimated to date demonstrate that countries with the means to change their production and consumption patterns do not have the political will to do so. Those that have set ambitious targets for themselves have not received the means for implementation, as promised in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to achieve those targets.
Furthermore, those that are mainly to blame for greenhouse gas emissions are now asking each country to chase the illusion of decarbonization by 2050, without considering the past responsibilities of developed countries or the capabilities and limitations of developing countries, for whom access to the latest clean technologies is out of reach. Perhaps the historic climate debtors want us all to be concerned only about the future so as to avoid, in the present, talking about the unfulfilled promises that were made to developing countries on funding, technology transfer and capacity-building.
The recent flooding in Pakistan, to whose people we offer our solidarity, serves as the most vivid and tangible example of the high human and material cost of the loss and damage caused by centuries of poor capitalist development. Today, more than ever before, it is clear that we need a specific financial mechanism that is based on solidarity, and not on profit-seeking, to address the losses and damage caused by the climate crisis in countries engaged in intense development of their productive forces.
We firmly believe that a future that is low in emissions and resilient to the climate crisis will not be possible if wealth remains concentrated in the hands of a few. Therefore, to reverse the climate crisis, we must resolve the economic, social and political contradictions that have been created by the capitalist model, as well as those human beings and nature.
Seventh, we must focus on the industrialization of lithium for the benefit of peoples and as a key pillar for the energy transition. I am referring to a strategic natural resource. Our country possesses the largest reserves of lithium in the world. We have managed this resource very responsibly, in particular as we take steps towards its industrialization, while ensuring that it is used to benefit all humankind as a key pillar of a global and just transition to a future that is low in emissions and respectful of Mother Earth.
We do not want our reserves of lithium to follow the path of other natural resources that, under conditions of colonialism and capitalist development, serve only to enrich a few and foment hunger among peoples. Bearing that in mind, we have consolidated our sovereignty over our natural resources, such as lithium. Its industrialization and benefits are for the well-being of peoples, not to enrich transnationals or a small, privileged group. We retain sovereign ownership of the economic surplus, which should be distributed among the lowest-income earners in the population.
We also reject interference or attempts of any kind to destabilize our country’s democracy with the goal of controlling our lithium. According to remarks by the commander of the United States Southern Command just a couple of months ago, the United States has the so-called lithium triangle, located in South America, formed by Bolivia, Argentina and Chile, in its sights. The United Nations must take measures against all those countries that do not respect sovereignty and the principle of non-interference and that challenge peoples to take control of their strategic natural resources. We are not pieces on a chessboard. We are peoples who work, day in and day out, to move ahead, and we have every right to make decisions about our natural resources.
Eighth, we must shift from nationalizing to regionalizing the fight against drug trafficking. We must change our approach to the fight against drug trafficking. We continue to focus only on supply and not on demand and that has served as a pretext for militarization and the waging of a global war on drugs. That has affected the farmers of the global South, while major criminal groups go unpunished, as they have never been publicly identified in the countries where drugs are consumed.
The global war against drugs criminalizes and leads to unilateral sanctions against countries of the South. However, it provides opportunities for asset-laundering, facilitates drug trafficking and other related crimes in the countries of the North. That cannot continue. Having enjoyed positive results in the fight against drug trafficking, Bolivia defends its model. We believe that the time has come to work with Peru, Colombia and other countries affected by the transit of drugs to regionalize the fight against drug trafficking, based on a comprehensive approach that is less militarized and more focused on economic and social issues. Here at the United Nations, we must work on a mechanism to assess results, not only in countries of the South, but also in countries of the North, one of which unilaterally endorses the war on drugs.
Ninth, we must strengthen international mechanisms offering preferential treatment to landlocked countries. Allow me to draw the Assembly’s attention to the law of the sea, which is now a major issue in international legal relations. All landlocked or isolated States have serious challenges in accessing the sea and taking advantage of its resources and marine areas have considerable development potential for countries, in particular developing countries.
All countries have the right of access and use of oceans, seas and marine resources, as stated in the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We must ensure a just distribution of rights and responsibilities with respect to marine resources, which play a decisive role for the future of the peoples of the world. The sea is a right of all peoples, and no one should be prevented from enjoying that right or using it for development purposes.
Therefore, guided by the principles of equality, non-discrimination, international solidarity and social justice to rectify imbalances and global injustice, we believe that it is important to strengthen international mechanisms to provide preferential treatment to States that have no sea coasts and are therefore at a severe geographical disadvantage with regard to taking advantage of marine resources.
It has been proven that landlocked countries are at a double disadvantage. It costs us more to import products and we face major obstacles in our development. In that regard, we must remind the international community that my country, Bolivia, was created with access to the sea, However, it is now a landlocked country, compelled by past circumstances to address various challenges in the areas of transport, communication and trade. We hope that, sooner rather than later, dialogue and diplomacy will triumph to right the injustices of a war imposed by capitalist interests and build a better future for kindred nations.
Tenth, we must enlarge our limited view of human rights and democracy. There is no doubt that democracy and human rights are inseparable. The Plurinational State of Bolivia experienced for itself that, when democracy is undermined, the very foundation for the enjoyment of human rights is also undermined. That is why we are most firmly committed to the decisions and actions taken by the Organization to protect the most vulnerable groups in our society.
Bolivia has decided to rebuild its institutions by incorporating the plurinational nature of our State, which means that our 36 indigenous peoples are an integral part of our State. A nation that is proud of its diverse identity can build a better country, based on its intercultural nature. Bolivian men and women know that. From the historical perspective, this has occurred in very short order and our challenge is to ensure that the transformation continues, with the goal of ensuring that everyone lives comfortably. We must expand our criteria for human rights in relation to democracy. Neither human rights nor democracy can exist if the privileges of the few are preserved at the cost of the economic, social and cultural rights of the majority.
Eleventh, concerning intergenerational solidarity, we firmly believe that the current vibrant and productive generation must show solidarity with those who have laid the foundation of our nations. We cannot ensure equality among generations if we do not consolidate equality among present generations. We are concerned about the overemphasis on future generations in the multilateral sphere without considering all the work done by the older people in our countries. We are concerned about the fact that, to date, there is no universal treaty that protects older people. We hope that in-depth reflection on this issue can take place at the Organization.
Twelfth, we must proclaim a decade of action for depatriarchalization in order to combat all forms of violence against women and girls. In the same vein, I would like to draw attention to a cause for alarm at the global level — the violence that continues against women and girls, particularly indigenous women and girls and those living in poverty. The pandemic and the structural crises of capitalism are degrading living conditions, especially for women in rural and urban areas, who continue to face complex and intersectional forms of violence.
The Gender Snapshot 2022 report issued by UN- Women and the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, which evaluates the annual progress on the nine targets of Sustainable Development Goal 5, points out that
“Gender discrimination has long relegated women and girls to positions subordinate to men in the workplace, politics and the home [...] and it will take at least another 21 years for laws to address and prevent violence against women to be in place everywhere and 286 years to secure gender equality in legal frameworks based on the current rate of change.”
The report also notes a worrisome setback in progress in poverty reduction and that rising prices are likely to exacerbate the trend. By the end of 2022, some 383 million women and girls will live in extreme poverty. Many other women in most parts of the world will not have an income sufficient to meet basic needs, such as food, clothing and adequate housing.
Mrs. Gonzalez Lopez (El Salvador), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Our Plurinational State of Bolivia has declared 2022 the year of the cultural revolution for depatriarchalization for a life free from violence against women. We are promoting policies aimed not only at strengthening regulatory frameworks, but also at tackling the structural causes of violence through education and strengthening women’s economic independence, as well as through cultural processes, in order to change the unfortunate reality created by the oldest system of oppression, the patriarchy, which sustains itself through colonialism and capitalism.
We call for the General Assembly to proclaim a decade of depatriarchalization. We refer to depatriarchalization because it is a complex process that requires community-wide political, economic, social and cultural change aimed at building reciprocal relationships for a life free from all forms of exclusion, dominance, exploitation, discrimination and violence for all of humankind and our Mother Earth.
Thirteenth, we must reject unilateral sanctions. It is inconceivable that in a world hit by crises and the pandemic that unilateral coercive measures are still being applied with the aim of breaking Governments at the expense of the hunger and suffering of their peoples. In the current global context, no country should be
persecuted, sanctioned or cornered for exercising its right to freely determine its own political, economic and social systems.
Putting Bolivia on a list of major drug transit or illicit drug-producing countries is one example of the unilateral actions that some countries have taken. The Plurinational State of Bolivia has a sovereign policy on combating drug trafficking that has yielded important results, and we reaffirm our Government’s commitment to strengthening the fight against that global scourge. However, it is clear that the war on drugs — primarily the one unleashed by the United States — has failed. That country therefore urgently needs to thoroughly consider changing its policies in view of the fact that it has become one of the major drug-consuming countries. Regrettably, during the previous administration, more than 100,000 people died of overdoses or drug addiction in the United States.
Another clear example of ongoing unilateral sanctions is the inhumane and criminal commercial and financial embargo against Cuba, which threatens the lives of millions of citizens. Maintaining such measures is a crime against humanity — not to mention that the United States designates Cuba as a State sponsor of terrorism. That unfortunate example should also give us pause to reflect on the fact that some countries do not comply with the majority of the decisions taken every year in the Assembly.
Finally, we must ensure the full application of the Charter of the United Nations and the principle of multilateralism. If we, the international community, cannot overcome the major problems we are facing, we will lead our peoples to a mass catastrophe. Fulfilling our responsibility to demonstrate the effectiveness of the Charter, as well as international law and the institutions it governs, is more crucial than ever. The multidirectional crisis the planet is suffering because of capitalist ambition — and we are far from overcoming it — will worsen if we do not take urgent measures. Only by strengthening multilateralism can we achieve greater dialogue and cooperation in seeking solutions to the crisis. Revitalizing multilateralism in earnest will allow us to restore the legitimacy of international law, ensure peace through social justice and reshape the fragile international order to make it pluralistic and solid.
Based on the experience it has accumulated since its democratic and cultural revolution in 2006, the Plurinational State of Bolivia is hopeful that we will overcome the current polarization in the global architecture — as well as the capitalist world order that has left us in a dizzying, dangerous, never-ending race of consumerism that threatens humankind and the planet — and build, in its place, a more just, inclusive and equitable world for all based on the principles of living well and people’s diplomacy.

===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
Brother Vice-President of the General Assembly. Diego Pary Rodriguez. it is a source of joy and pride for Bolivia to see you lead the General Assembly of the most important multilateral Organization created by humankind, and we are sure that, together with President Dennis Francis and his leadership, you will elevate the names of the countries of our Latin American and Caribbean region.
A year ago in this forum (see A/77/PV.5). we denounced the fact that the world was facing a capitalist crisis that put humankind and the very existence of the planet at risk. Unfortunately, a year after that declaration, that sensitive scenario has not changed. The capitalist system, in its eagerness to impose its decadent hegemony, replicates practices of colonial domination and exploitation that should already have been overcome. Unfortunately, many of the brilliant proposals that have emerged from the heart of the Assembly have been ignored or simply omitted, owing to the functional interests of the savage system of capitalist exploitation that prioritizes the production and reproduction of capital, rather than safeguarding the lives of human beings and the existence of the planet.
It is evident that we are facing a weakened economy due to the effects of the multiple armed conflicts that are currently shaking the world and our reality. Peace and security are at imminent risk due to the lack of will of the international community to propose solutions that privilege dialogue and put an end to the belligerent efforts promoted by transnational war corporations.
Added to this are the serious effects of the ecological crisis on life systems in all corners of the world. According to experts, due to the prevailing system, we have exceeded six of the nine planetary limits within which humanity and Mother Earth as a whole can continue to develop and prosper. It is worth highlighting that this tragic situation has deteriorated even further over the recent decades of unipolarity and unilaterality, of inaction and unfulfilled commitments. 
The pending challenges remain numerous and enormous, but today we find ourselves at the dawn of a new international configuration. We are convinced that we are witnessing the construction of a new world order, a situation in which the General Assembly, in accordance with the principles by which it was created, must play a main role; a new world order in which we all participate with equal rights and obligations, without impositions of any kind, without masters or slaves, without double standards to measure one another, without sanctioners or sanctioned; a new order in which solidarity, complementation and collaboration are set above selfishness and meanness. In the certainty that this better world is possible and necessary, the Plurinational State of Bolivia wishes to share the following seven ideas and approaches:
First, we reiterate, as we did last year, our proposal that the world be declared a territory of peace. We must put an end once and for all to the arms race and prioritize sincere dialogue and peoples’ diplomacy to resolve the armed conflicts that threaten the existence of humankind. It is urgent that our nations join together in a collective effort with diverse voices, especially those that come from regions far from confrontational rhetoric and that nevertheless suffer the repercussions of war in its various dimensions. We must give peace a chance, and in that task the United Nations has a fundamental role to play in reducing tensions and advancing dialogues that allow us to consolidate political and diplomatic solutions to the conflicts on the agenda of our Organization.
In that order of ideas, we reiterate our deep concern about the escalation of violence in the conflict in Eastern Europe and the threat emanating from several countries to exacerbate the situation through a confrontation using weapons of mass destruction, weapons that incorporate depleted radioactive elements and unconventional weapons, which are prohibited by international law through various binding international instruments.
We see with great concern that military spending in the world has reached historic heights. As of April, the world had invested more than $2.24 trillion in weapons and the war industry. If those resources were invested in peace, mediation, dialogue, the development of peoples and life instead of in destruction and death, we would not find ourselves on the brink of a crisis that amplifies inequalities in the world and which, contrary to the objectives that we have set in this Hall, deepens poverty on the planet.
The ways and means of waging war cannot be unlimited. A growing number of countries are seeking to use outer space to improve their military capabilities in order to protect their national security, further endangering the peace and security of our planet. We deeply regret that the maintenance of peace and security has become an increasingly challenging goal. Genuine peace can be achieved only through the effective implementation of the mechanisms provided for in the Charter of the United Nations and the complete elimination of all types of weapons.
Bolivia will always be committed to defending and strengthening multilateralism and to continuing to contribute to disarmament in compliance with international law and international humanitarian law. based on a vision focused on peace with social justice, the well-being of people and peaceful coexistence. .
We reiterate our regional commitment by proclaiming Latin America and the Caribbean a zone of peace, based on the promotion and respect for the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international law. as we set out in the framework of the seventh Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC). Likewise, at the CELAC-European Union Summit held in Brussels in July, we expressed our desire for a peaceful Latin America. Caribbean and Europe. May our peoples achieve the peace that the capitalist model has not been able to offer them, abandoning practices that, historically, have not resulted in an equitable and complementary relationship between our regions.
Second, it is necessary to break as soon as possible with the unjust international order that overwhelms our people, to sit down now to debate within the framework of the United Nations and to build a new pact for the future. In Bolivia, we have begun to discuss the possibility of a new pact for the future, but to do so we must remember the past, resolve the present and prepare for the future. We are obliged to address the needs of present and future generations equitably. We cannot allow a child to die of hunger today to ensure a snack for another child who has not yet been born. Eliminating poverty and inequalities today will prevent unimaginable economic and ecological distribution conflicts in the future.
To rebuild trust we need to abandon petty interests and build reciprocity, for example by enabling all technology transfer that helps to save lives and restore Mother Earth. To revive global solidarity, we need to recognize ourselves in each other and repair our relationships as human beings. For example, in the context of climate change, let us agree that each State shall dedicate resources to the Loss and Damage Fund in proportion to its historical responsibility for greenhouse gases.
Action on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development can be accelerated if we make peace and solidarity the engine of prosperity. Let us dare to transform the expenses of war and death into investments for life. With those resources, the sustainable development objectives could be far exceeded. Likewise, we will be able to keep Mother Earth within a safe operating space for humankind only if sustainability with ecological and social justice becomes the only path to progress. But we must achieve those objectives in a fair and equitable manner, with everyone and for everyone, and without political or financial impositions.
Third, it is necessary and urgent to change the capitalist system in times of neoliberalism, which multiplies and reproduces the forms of domination, exploitation and exclusion of the great majorities. The multidimensional crisis of capitalism has been exposed in the post-pandemic context and exacerbated by the effects of the military conflict in Eastern Europe. Those are nothing more than expressions of the transition towards the configuration of a world order different from the current one.
In response, and as has never happened before, the global South is rising peacefully and constructively through regional and interregional processes of cooperation and integration. We are hearing a rising call to reconfigure the international financial system and transform our understanding of what scientific development, respectful of Mother Earth, should be and how to pursue it equitably, recognizing the respective historical responsibilities of our nations in all dimensions.
Given the irreversible march towards a multipolar world, the increasingly stronger influence of new initiatives of economic, commercial integration and cooperation between countries is undeniable. The emergence of trade blocs such as those in Asia. Africa. South America or the BRICS countries Brazil. Russia. India. China and South Africa, today allows nations to access international markets without the need to compromise their sovereignty.
In that context, despite an adverse international context. Bolivia has developed its Economic and Social Development Plan 2021-2025. “Rebuilding the Economy to Live Well. Towards Industrialization with Import Substitution”, which lays the foundations to confront the global economic crisis and develop public policies to strengthen the national economy and promote our development capabilities. In that regard, the actions taken for the economic and reproductive reconstruction of our economy exceeded 6 per cent in 2021. and in 2022 reached 3.5 per cent. Our nominal gross domestic product (GDP) increased from $40,703 billion in 2021 to $44,315 billion in 2022. the highest figure in our history. In the same way. GDP per capita increased by 7.4 per cent compared to the 2021 figure, reaching $3,691. which was also the highest figure in the history of our country.
I also note that so far this year, accumulated inflation is only 1.6 per cent, the lowest figure in our region and with respect to many countries of the planet. We have achieved that indicator without raising interest rates, without practicing neoliberal monetary policies and always taking care of the pockets of the poorest, which is where inflation hurts the most. The achievements of our country are based mainly on the civilizational concept of living well, which vindicates the culture of community life in fullness, respecting the coexistence in harmony, balance and complementarity of the human being with the rest of nature on Mother Earth.
Fourth, the climate crisis requires concrete actions and renewed commitments. Bolivia proposed the recognition of Mother Earth in the General Assembly through resolution 63/278. adopted on 22 April 2009. in an effort to ensure that we. as an international community, became aware of the importance of restoring natural processes for the survival of human beings, proposing an alternative, anti-colonial vision against capitalism and mercantilism. In that understanding, our vision for the sustainability of development has strong roots in our vision of living well and in harmony with nature. That vision is born from the ancient and ancestral thinking of the nations and indigenous peoples who constitute the basis of our plurinationality.
Regarding the needs for mitigation, adaptation to the climate crisis and growing losses and damages, it is important that all countries shoulder their responsibilities. In that framework, the developed countries must assume their corresponding share of the climate debt and compensation and historical reparations to developing countries. The first step towards that end is to fulfil outstanding commitments on the provision of financing, technology transfer and capacity development.
In that global problem, there is a common problem that is beginning to take its toll on the poorest countries: water scarcity and the increase in the evaporation rate of fresh water. We urge our Assembly to pay unflagging attention to that problem, which mainly affects the poorest of the five continents and is already beginning to affect social sectors that are not found in the conventional frameworks of poverty.
Bolivia highlights the fact that this year the High Seas Treaty on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction was concluded and adopted by consensus because it represents a significant step towards the protection of our oceans and the sustainable use of their resources, greatly benefiting developing countries and especially landlocked developing countries. The Treaty will establish rules and regulations to prevent the sustainable exploitation of resources, which will protect the interests of landlocked countries and prevent the depletion of marine resources. The Treaty is a historic opportunity to make a difference in the protection of our oceans, because they constitute a common good of humankind. In that context, we highlight the special mention of indigenous peoples and landlocked developing countries. Together, we can ensure that the oceans continue to provide life and prosperity for present and future generations in an equitable manner.
Fifth, we must continue promoting a broader view of rights humans and democracy. Despite the progress achieved, the world remains unequal. While it is true that people build their own destiny, it is also true that the well-being of our peoples has been undermined for centuries by legal, economic and ideological colonialism.
Representatives here know better than I do that it has not been possible to exercise the right to development due to a matter of historical magnitude. The systematic transfer of wealth from the South to the North has put us at a disadvantage to this day. We have had to navigate the gale of a crisis imposed only on the South. From that perspective, talk of economic, social and cultural human rights — such as the rights to health, education, food, access to knowledge and technologies — is different on one continent than it is on another, in the South or in the North.
In that context, it is not possible to plan without addressing historical responsibilities. Unless we do so. it will be impossible to reach our full potential as peoples and make our right to development possible. In the Plurinational State of Bolivia, we understand that no democracy is possible without development, and development cannot have a better indicator than the exercise of collective rights, promoted, protected and guaranteed by the State, but also combined with a high democratic participation of social groups.
In Bolivia we understand that economic stability also means a substantive change in favour of food sovereignty, access to intercultural and multilingual education, and the sexual and reproductive health of Bolivian women. From our experience. I want to highlight that the active participation of indigenous peoples in State affairs is what has made our recent achievements possible, and I therefore call on the Assembly to continue advancing in strengthening their rights and participation.
Another topic of special interest to my country is women’s rights. It is estimated that 736 million women in the world — that is. one in every three women — have been subjected to physical violence and/ or sexual violence. The violence suffered by women must stop being a solitary and private experience and be recognized as a public issue concerning which we must take urgent action.
Maternal mortality is another of the major problems that we must face, given that 800 women die every day from causes related to pregnancy. Sustainable development will not be possible if we do not give women the opportunity to live without fear of violence and to exercise their sexual and reproductive rights with access to universal health services.
Sixth, we must banish the implementation of sanctions and unilateral coercive measures from the international system. Another issue that I cannot fail to mention on this occasion is related to the unilateral coercive measures and sanctions that are applied to brother peoples, undermining their development and most basic human rights. Such measures are an example of a dysfunctional system alienated from international law and multilateralism. A clear example of such measures is the illegal, inhuman and criminal economic and financial blockade imposed by the United States against Cuba. The restrictions imposed have made it difficult for Cubans to access food, medicine and other 
basic goods, generating human suffering and impacting their economy and development. We call for compliance with the multiple resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and to build a more just and supportive world in which all countries can prosper regardless of their political differences.
Likewise, we reject and condemn the inclusion of Cuba as a promoter of terrorism within the unilateral lists of the United States, using that argument to impose greater restrictive measures against the Cuban people. Those measures are contrary to the Charter of the United Nations and the mandate of the Security Council, and they therefore have no support or validity in the light of international law; worse still, they seriously affect the right to development of the Cuban people.
Seventh, let us stop the abuse of the Palestinian people as soon as possible. Regarding Israel’s occupation of Palestine, we cannot continue to allow the suffering of the Palestinian people. We reiterate our support for global and regional initiatives, international law and United Nations resolutions that seek to guarantee a solution whereby the Palestinian people can exercise their right to self-determination and build their own free, independent and sovereign State within its pre-1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Finally, the current crisis demands a strong United Nations consistent with the principles that created it and committed to peace; a United Nations that maintains its intergovernmental character but without subordination to any hegemonic Power, be it economic, political or military. The solutions to the multiple challenges facing humankind will become a reality only with the genuine commitment and political will of all countries and their actors, prioritizing the common interest of humankind, the peoples and the most vulnerable sectors of society.

===== Session 79 - 2024 =====
Thank you very much, Mr President.

1. I begin this statement by greeting the President of the General Assembly, Mr Philemon Yang, the Secretary-General, Mr António Guterres, and all the delegations present.  
Mr President, distinguished colleagues,  

2. Today we meet at a challenging time for humanity. We face not one, but multiple crises that threaten both our present and the future of upcoming generations—from climate change to inequality, pandemics, geopolitical conflicts, and democratic crises. These crises feed off each other, deepening vulnerabilities and presenting challenges that require urgent, coordinated, and collective responses.

3. The current global economy is exacerbating inequalities. The model of capital accumulation—based on the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few—has increased poverty, marginalisation, and social instability in many parts of the world. While financial markets continue to generate enormous profits for the global elite, the wealthiest 1%, millions of people struggle to access the most basic resources. This is not only an economic crisis—it is also an ethical and social one. It exposes the deep structural failures of a capitalist system that prioritises profit over life, well-being, and Mother Earth.

4. Wars, weapons production, massive military spending, and the proliferation of arms not only divert vast resources that could be directed towards sustainable development but also fuel conflicts that intensify human suffering. Billions of dollars are spent on weapons, while millions lack access to essential services like education, health, food, and water. Rather than solving our common problems, this fosters global instability and hinders progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

5. The environmental crisis is one of the greatest threats we face—and our actions are still insufficient. Global warming, deforestation, pollution, and biodiversity loss are devastating our ecosystems. These phenomena also directly impact millions of lives through increasingly intense extreme weather events—droughts, floods, and hurricanes—that affect local communities and Indigenous peoples.

Mr President,  

6. The unprecedented technological transformation, including the development of new technologies and artificial intelligence (AI), is reshaping the way we interact, work, and navigate our daily lives. However, this technological revolution also raises profound questions about global governance in a world where technological power is concentrated in the hands of a few corporations and countries. Global governance must adapt to ensure that these technologies are used equitably, ethically, and in service of humanity's well-being—rather than exacerbating inequality or introducing new forms of exclusion and control.

Brothers and sisters of the world,  

7. In the face of these crises, we must act decisively to collectively confront global challenges. It is time to rethink our development models, strengthen multilateral institutions, protect the planet for future generations, and ensure that justice, equity, and solidarity are the guiding principles of our actions—always upholding international law and the United Nations Charter.

8. The system that has governed the world order since the end of World War II has proven insufficient to address today’s challenges, such as climate change, inequality, regional conflicts, pandemics, and new forms of economic interdependence. Therefore, a new world order—based on effective multilateral cooperation, respect for the sovereignty of all countries, and equity in global decision-making—is imperative.

9. To this end, a profound restructuring of international institutions such as the UN Security Council is necessary—so that they are more democratic and representative. We must move toward a system where global decisions are made inclusively, respecting diverse perspectives and the needs of developing countries.

10. In the same spirit, we must deeply reform the international financial architecture. This should be centred on economic justice, sustainability, and inclusion—creating fairer mechanisms for sovereign debt restructuring, increasing the participation of developing countries in financial institutions, and promoting financial flows that support sustainable development and climate action. It is also essential to redesign international tax cooperation mechanisms so that vulnerable economies have access to the resources needed to confront multiple crises. Restructuring the international financial system is not just a technical issue—it is an ethical and political necessity to build a more equitable, resilient, and solidaristic global economy.

11. The 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) remain valid and are a crucial roadmap for addressing today’s urgent global challenges. They provide us with a clear framework for international action and cooperation. Despite the delays in implementation, we must redouble our efforts and strengthen our collective commitment to ensure that this ambitious plan becomes a tangible reality that transforms the lives of our peoples.

12. The *Pact for the Future* must become a historic opportunity to rethink our path as humanity. It compels us to pursue an agenda that not only addresses immediate problems but also drives sustainable, inclusive, and equitable solutions for future generations. The Pact for the Future must not end with diplomatic meetings—it is now our task to bring these decisions to life, to energise the SDGs, and to make real changes in our communities and cities.

13. Sustainable development and climate change are two sides of the same challenge that will define the future of our planet and future generations. Action does not only mean reducing emissions—it means transforming our models of production and consumption, protecting biodiversity, and ensuring that economic progress leaves no one behind.

Mr President, distinguished colleagues,  

14. Bolivia sees the international community as a space of solidarity and cooperation under the principles of international law and the UN Charter. In this context, we reject unilateral coercive measures that violate fundamental human rights and hinder the development of many nations. We express our solidarity with Cuba, Venezuela, Nicaragua, and all other countries unjustly subjected to such sanctions.

15. Likewise, we strongly condemn the economic, financial, and commercial blockade imposed by the United States against our brother nation, Cuba. Sixty years of injustice have not been enough to punish a people that have courageously resisted imperial power’s attempts at domination. We are confident that, sooner rather than later, justice and truth will prevail. This injustice is further compounded by the unilateral inclusion of Cuba on the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism. Cuba should instead top the list of the most supportive nations in the world, as its solidarity has reached every corner of the planet.

Mr President,  

16. For decades, Palestine has suffered a prolonged conflict that has undermined regional stability and shattered dreams of a just and lasting peace. Occupation, forced displacement, and genocide have brought the Palestinian people to a state of devastation—turning their land into an open-air prison for thousands, especially children and women.

17. Peace and security in Palestine will not be achieved without a genuine commitment to human rights and an end to genocide. Bolivia reiterates its full support for the exercise of Palestinian self-determination and independence, within the 1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital. We hope to see Palestine soon become a full member of the United Nations.

Mr President, brothers and sisters of the world,  

18. In this Assembly, I reaffirm Bolivia’s commitment to the fundamental principles of the UN Charter and international law. We recognise the UN as the leading multilateral body created by humanity for development, peace, and security—not only within our borders, but globally.

19. Accordingly, Bolivia reaffirms its firm intention to comply with all decisions and rulings issued by international judicial bodies. Along these lines, Bolivia approached the International Court of Justice in The Hague regarding sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. The Court urged Bolivia and Chile to continue dialogue and exchanges, in a spirit of good neighbourliness, to address matters concerning sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean—a solution that both parties have recognised as a matter of mutual interest. The Court called on both countries to resolve the issue through dialogue in a way that benefits both peoples, with the goal of restoring Bolivia’s sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean, from which it enjoyed access at the time of its declaration of independence, as the Court acknowledged in its ruling. My country is willing to engage in dialogue when our counterpart so decides. We believe the sea is a right of peoples.

Mr President,  

20. Bolivia calls on the international community to protect and support Indigenous peoples, who have long been guardians of biodiversity and ancestral knowledge. They now face compounded vulnerabilities from overlapping crises. It is important to acknowledge their contributions to climate action—their knowledge and practices offer us a new development model to live well (*Vivir Bien*) in harmony with Mother Earth.

21. In this context, I wish to share our concern over the negative classification of the coca leaf, which for our Indigenous and peasant communities is a fundamental part of our identity and culture.

22. Furthermore, we propose continuing to advance and deepen gender and social policy, incorporating the lenses of decolonisation and depatriarchalisation—tools that will help transform power structures and social relations that have perpetuated gender inequality and the oppression of women.

23. Today, on behalf of the Bolivian people and our constitutional President, Luis Arce Catacora, we reaffirm our democratic conviction and commitment to the well-being of the Bolivian people, to achieve the 2030 Agenda and *Vivir Bien* in harmony with Mother Earth as soon as possible.

24. We regret that internal and external interests are currently creating conflict in our country and attempting to destabilise a democratic government. But we are confident that with your support and solidarity, we will preserve and strengthen our democracy and institutions.

25. Bolivia is a people that has shown throughout its history that its democratic spirit is unbreakable. Strengthening our institutions and ensuring a future of peace, stability, and progress for all is our sole objective.

**Jallalla the peoples of the world!**  
**Thank you very much.**

