

===== Session 01 - 1946 =====
I shall occupy this rostrum for a few minutes in order to state in general terms the views of Chile on certain points of great importance. First of all, I desire to reaffirm my country’s support for the system of pacific settlement as laid down in the United Nations Charter, and for the principles and rules embodied therein for the maintenance of peace and security.
Chile cherishes an unshakable faith both in the far-reaching task entrusted to the Economic and Social Council and in the wisdom and authority of the Security Council. We are prepared, within the limits of our resources, to lend our full support to all efforts designed to achieve the purposes and to ensure respect for the principles laid down in the Charter. We do, however, reserve the right to have a share in the interpretation of the provisions of the Charter, wherever necessary, and we shall be unable to recognize the validity of unilateral interpretations if that contingency should arise. In the last instance, the supreme authority competent to interpret a treaty, when once the Assembly has reached its decision, is, in our opinion, the International Court of Justice.
Chile is a country which is traditionally in favour of pacific settlements, as indeed are all the States of this American continent. Our Pan-American system has confirmed this, tendency, with the result that, in this respect, neither the Covenant of the League of Nations nor the United Nations Charter was any novelty to us. The strength of the Pan-American peace system is essentially based on respect for treaties which lay down the rights of every sovereign Power and regulate the legal order of the community. This principle cannot be weakened by any Article of the Charter; it is necessary to repeat once again, however, that this system does not constitute a political bloc.
Chile is organized on the basis of a representative republican constitution with a democratic structure. Our democratic system has just won yet another victory by the free and fair election of an eminent citizen, Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, to the office of President of the Republic, and that victory was achieved strictly in accordance with constitutional rules. Chile therefore takes her place in the ranks of those who are ideologically opposed to any regime engendered by fascism. In this connexion, I should like to say that it is not our intention to abuse that expression, but we do not restrict its scope by applying it to notorious cases, even though I consider that the manner of stating the question should be modified.
Under the agreements of Montevideo and Buenos Aires, the Pan-American system has proscribed interference by any State in the domestic or foreign affairs of another State. It makes no difference whether the interference is collective or individual. The United Nations Charter provides in Article 2, paragraph 7, that the United Nations is not authorized to intervene in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State, except in the application of enforcement measures under Chapter VII. That is the law. Well now, I think that the best way of defending the principle of non-intervention would be precisely to endeavour to eliminate any dictatorial regime of government established by fascist intervention in a specific State. It does not matter whether the Powers which intervened have disappeared in the fray: the important thing is to demolish the structure which they set up through their intervention.
In other cases, where the regimes are simply anti-democratic, the principle of non-intervention, particularly in America, should be reserved as an instrument of action against such regimes if they claim in any way to intervene in their turn in the domestic or foreign affairs of other countries.
Nothing of what I have said, however, applies to the situations resulting from the war in areas or countries under military occupation pending the conclusion of peace treaties.
One of the most important tasks of our Organization will be to define fundamental human rights, respect for which must be promoted and the effectiveness of which has become an imperative necessity. In this particular connexion, the delegation of Chile would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the draft declaration on the international rights and duties of man and to the report attached thereto, drawn up by the Inter-American Juridical Committee in accordance with resolutions IX and XL of the Pan-American Conference of Mexico. These documents might well serve as a contribution to the studies undertaken by the appropriate Commission of the Economic and Social Council under the chairmanship of the eminent Mrs. Roosevelt.
There is another point of great interest. At the San Francisco Conference, Chile was not an enthusiastic supporter of the veto right in the matter of pacific settlements and supported the Australian amendment at that time. On the instructions of Chancellor Joaquin Fernandez, representing the Government, it was my duty to state the views of the Chilean delegation on that occasion, and I said, “If the amendment is not adopted, Chile will respect the decision of the majority and will, in like manner, offer her co-operation to the machinery of peace and security.”
I also expressed the hope that after some time had elapsed the necessity for amending the Charter would be generally recognized. The present Government of Chile, in agreement with the President elect, does not at present find that there are adequate grounds for considering that rectification of the Charter in this important respect, is necessary. The Organization is beginning to work and it is working well, in spite of the extremely difficult conditions prevailing in the world as a result of economic disturbances and the fact that, legally, peace has not yet been established with former enemies.
It has occasioned no surprise in Chile that there should be certain differences between the great Powers with whom the main responsibility for the maintenance of peace rests. My country is confident that these differences will be smoothed out before long. If it should not be so, all the small nations would lose their faith in the United Nations and in the great Powers. Hence, Chile would like the present text of the Charter to stand, in so far as it refers to the method of voting in the Security Council, unless very cogent reasons persuade the five great Powers and the majority of the other nations that some substantial reform is needed. It is reasonable to hope that the great Powers will restrict the use of their veto right as far as possible.
Turning to a different category of questions, the Chilean delegation thinks it fitting to refer to a very Valuable practical observation made by the Secretary-General in his supplementary report read at the plenary session on 24 October. Mr. Trygve Lie then said:
“The time is perhaps now approaching i when it may be proper to ask ourselves whether the family of specialized agencies is not already large enough. The larger the number of agencies the greater is the financial burden on Member Governments and the greater are the dangers of overlapping and duplication.”
The smaller States, of which Chile is one, view with alarm the enormous increase in the expenses which they are required to meet by reason of their participation in all kinds of international organizations. These expenses must be reduced. Our foreign exchange reserves are not always prepared for considerable annual disbursements by way of contributions, representation and other onerous activities. We do not sell our exportable products at sufficiently profitable prices to meet the cost of our imports in rising world markets. It is therefore desirable for the Organization to be pruned so that co-operation may be promptly effected, and the budgets should be reviewed so that proportional burdens do not become excessive.
Before concluding, I should like to present, on behalf of my Government, sincere congratulations to the President of this Assembly, to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and his eight Assistant Secretaries-General for the splendid work they have performed in spite of the lack of the material facilities which the Organization needs. May this problem soon be solved satisfactorily and, above all, may conditions favourable to its work be found, for which purpose the vast territory of this wonderful country offers a wide choice.

===== Session 02 - 1947 =====
I have the great honour of presenting before this democratic Assembly of the nations of the world, united in the common task of maintaining international peace and security, the general principles that inspire the foreign policy of the Chilean Republic at this decisive hour of our civilization.
The Chilean people, throughout its long history as a republic, may boast with legitimate pride of the facts which bear witness to its deep democratic convictions, its solid institutions based on social rights and justice, its lasting respect for all individual freedoms and guarantees and its constant defence of human dignity.
These principles, transferred to the international plane with calm and realistic judgment, cannot fail to be expressed by a generous spirit of co-operation, a sincere desire to contribute to the best of our ability to all efforts to strengthen the fraternal solidarity of the nations and to safeguard cultural values, which are the only means of bequeathing to future generations that happier world to which they are entitled.
For these reasons Chile has always given its disinterested co-operation to all international conferences and organizations of a world-wide character and has been at pains to contribute to the unity of the nations of the Western Hemisphere. It has strengthened the links that unite them by its direct action and spirit of continental brotherhood, and by collaborating with all these nations in that identification of hopes and fears which has resulted in positive manifestations of brotherhood, in real common achievements such as those attained at the recent inter-American conferences of Foreign Ministers and, most especially, in the Act of Chapultepec and in its recent complementing by a pact for security and defence of the hemisphere signed at Rio de Janeiro.
American ideals, which the genius of the great President Roosevelt so greatly enriched by his good-neighbour policy, are our ideals; and it has therefore been our concern to translate them into concrete forms on the international plane and make them effectively represent the voice of the world that is now being born.
Of these American achievements, the most significant and the most important for the Chilean people is the new and transcendental meaning we have given to democracy. Indeed, we have stripped it of its purely intellectual or political meaning in order to revitalize it, place it beyond the limits of rigid formulas, make it a basic human concept, founded on respect for the condition of man, for ideas in general and for social equality; a respect which, on the international plane is transmuted into the right to live without fear in the sincere defence of peace.
Such is our message and our mission. Faithful to this message and this mission, Chile signed the United Nations Charter which embodies the same ideals; we have more than once affirmed our unshakable faith in the principles which inspire it, in the fundamental rights of man, in the juridical equality of nations, in absolute respect for the pledged word, in tolerance and in the peaceful relations among all peoples.
Faithful to these principles, Chile identifies herself with the view expressed by President Roosevelt that hope for a peaceful and progressive world will depend on the good will and judgment of the peace-loving nations, both great and small, which
assume a responsibility proportionate to their individual capacity, for the purpose of working together for the maintenance of peace and security.
Faithful to these principles, Senor Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, the President of Chile, recently said that “Chile’s international policy is one of loyal and disinterested collaboration in the maintenance of peace.”
Chile considers that the United Nations provides the last opportunity to rid the world of the scourge of a new war and secure for the peoples those four freedoms for which they fought on the fields of China, the steppes of Russia, the deserts of Africa, the isles of the Pacific and the beaches of Normandy.
Finally, Chile believes that in signing the San Francisco Charter it assumed an unavoidable responsibility in the arduous task of building a new world based on social justice and human: solidarity, a task which can only be fulfilled if we continue, in this difficult post-war period, that joint and victorious action which the great Powers successfully carried out at the most critical junctures of the last war.
My Government wishes to point out to this Assembly the urgent necessity of ensuring the economic stability and development of those nations which, directly or indirectly, are suffering the consequences of the recent conflict or are faced with the most grave and tremendous problems in the fields of finance, industry agriculture and commerce.
Political independence and security, both internal and,international, must be developed in that economic peace which affords men and States the opportunity for living in dignity.
The maintenance of peace requires that the present world crisis be overcome. We cannot speak of political solidarity without giving primary consideration to economic affairs.
Economic co-operation is absolutely necessary for the American nations, and with this in mind the Chilean Government, through its representative on the Economic and Social Council, urged the advisability of establishing an economic commission for Latin America to study and remedy the present precarious situation of those countries.
The economic picture of Latin America viewed as a whole, shows a group of countries with colonial economies, producing raw materials, short of capital, sparsely industrialized and populated, and with low standards of living. These conditions, seriously aggravated by the effects of the war, and more tragic in some countries than in others, are a serious obstacle to continental security and consequently to the economic recovery of the whole world. Moreover, they constitute a potential danger to the survival of democratic regimes. Ideas subversive of constitutional and juridical order are nourished by economic prostration.
This critical situation of the Latin American countries, which motivated the Chilean proposal, was explicitly acknowledged by the Economic and Social Council when it set up preliminary machinery for the appointment of an Economic Commission for Latin America. The Council’s resolution also requests the Secretary-General to initiate immediate studies of the problems which threaten the stability and development of the Latin American countries.
Our delegation is pleased with the result achieved and feels confident that the bodies concerned will carry out their work speedily and effectively, toward the rapid realization of the hopes shared by all the Latin peoples of America.
Our commercial policy is inspired by the desirability of rationalizing and co-ordinating" the economies of the countries of the Western Hemisphere, overcoming adverse conditions, creating more secure domestic consumer markets, using our own raw materials for industry, and facilitating the concentration of capital.
These are the motives which inspired Chile to amplify her former policy of pacts based exclusively on mutual concessions. We now advocate agreements of wider scope which may result in the creation of complementary economies and in the opening of wider markets than those existing at present. These motives also justify our position in the Economic and Social Council and are of the greatest importance to the new economic structure of the world.
Such are the basic guiding principles of Chile’s international policy.
We are a nation of free men, living and experiencing democracy; a nation which does not persecute anyone because of his ideas; which devotes its efforts to work in complete freedom and which, in the international sphere, offers its loyal co-operation to all nations in the defence of world peace and security, the juridical equality of all States, the respect of treaties and the foundation of world security in the economic co-operation of all countries and the rejection of those false claims of autarchy which lead only to sterile antagonisms.
Chile feels that all these aspirations can be concretely realized through general or regional agreements in strict conformity with the principles inspiring the United Nations and constituting a real complement to that body; for example, agreements like the recent treaty of Rio de Janeiro signed by the, nations of the New World for the purpose of defending hemispheric security.
The nations of our continent have felt the vivifying inspiration of such desires. They have realized the transcendental nature and assumed the responsibility of the era through which our civilization is passing. In Rio de Janeiro they inarched boldly and surely forward to the future and convened a conference to meet in the latter half of next year to study the economic conditions and solve the economic problems which now press heavily upon us.
Such regional agreements, which contribute to the work of the United Nations and adhere to the rules laid down in the San Francisco Charter do not, in any wise, imply the formation of regional blocs of a political character, which Chile has always rejected because they tend to cripple joint action, to obstruct mutual understanding and to breed dangerous and harmful suspicion.
The noble and decisive task of defending international peace and security demands the most effective co-operation, the deepest understanding and that generous disinterest which subordinates minor conflicts and the purely private advantage of individual nations.
With this conviction, Chile makes a fervent appeal to the good will of all the peoples of the world to forget transitory difficulties and to devote all their energies to achieve their common permanent goals.
With the deepest sincerity, the Government of Chile cannot but deplore the fact that understanding and co-operation today seem weakened and even gravely impaired by differences of the most dangerous proportions.
The world views these misunderstandings with fear and anguish, and this anguish and fear are manifested by a spirit of sceptical defeatism as to the efficacy of the United Nations and its ability to achieve the high purposes of the San Francisco Charter.
This spirit of pessimism — for it must be recognized as such — has recently been intensified by the struggle which international public opinion observes is being waged constantly in the Security Council through the repeated use of the veto. This situation moves Chile to recall that the privilege of the veto was granted at the San Francisco Conference as a sincere proof of the confidence of the small nations in the great Powers. The latter, for their part, undertook to use that privilege with prudence and discretion in conformity with the principle of the juridical equality of States.
Oppressed by the hardships of today, man must be able to go forward with a firm step towards a hopeful future, and the United Nations must restore to him this security by the sincere collaboration of all countries, by removal of the misunderstandings which arise from different philosophies, by the lasting guarantee of peace and the confidence that there will be no more recourse to arms in the defence of particular interests or ideologies.
Now that humanity has witnessed, horror- struck, the two terrible catastrophes produced by war when war was applied as a means of solving problems, and now that efforts have been made beginning with the Briand-Kellogg Pact to outlaw the use of force as a political instrument, we must refuse to allow war, which the ancients called the ultima ratio, to become the prima ratio or the unica ratio.
While determining the new bases of community life, we cannot allow the fundamentals of peace to be forgotten either, nor can we allow nations to work towards the development of political and economic situations which might provoke another war; especially as the period of military operations is always the shortest in the tragic development of a conflict.
Chile believes she is interpreting the wishes of the small nations in making this appeal to all the peoples of the world so that they, in a noble demonstration of their understanding of history, may restore to mankind the peace which it has so fully earned through the harrowing years.

===== Session 03 - 1948 =====
Mr. FERNANDEZ stated that Chile was linked to France not only by traditions of friendship but by the even stronger bonds created by admiration for France’s steadfast adherence to freedom and democracy. France was the heart of Christian civilization. The perils which threatened civilization therefore threatened in the first place French democracy. France, however, as it had always done in the past, would face and overcome the difficulties through which it was passing.
France was the centre of a new mode of international co-operation. Despite the serious damage suffered during the war, France’s economy was reviving under impetus from generous and sympathetic aid by those who shared its desire for peace, and were trying to meet its most pressing needs. That was a fine example of international co-operation which justified hopes for a better world.
International insecurity was disturbing the internal situation in all countries. The atmosphere of insecurity and fear made it impossible to begin many schemes essential for social and economic progress.
The United Nations had created at San Francisco a mechanism to maintain peace, but peace must exist before it could be maintained. The war had unfortunately not yet ended. The peace treaties which should have concluded the war had not yet been signed. That was the main obstacle to the effective work of the United Nations. Consequently, forces hostile to democracy were able to draw their strength from the existence of widespread lack of confidence, scepticism and suspicion. Those who had stubbornly hindered moral disarmament and the establishment of a just and lasting peace were responsible for the general feeling of insecurity.
In recent months, countries previously free had been absorbed politically and economically and had been brought under the dictatorship of certain ideological minorities. Frontiers in Europe and Asia had been overrun. Such events had caused rising concern among the friends of democracy.
Chile was a young country. It was, however, the melting pot of many races and nationalities who had emigrated thither fleeing from political or religious persecution and seeking freedom. Chile was a country which welcomed full inspection by international opinion. There was no curtain of any kind to prevent other countries from observing what went on within its boundaries and drawing their conclusions. As a consistent defender of human rights, Chile had denounced in the Security Council the intervention of a foreign Power in the internal affairs of a neighbouring country (S/69 6). He believed that the action of a disciplined Communist minority, acting as sworn ally to a great Power which had imperialist plans, had wiped out the democratic way of life in Czechoslovakia, a country whose people had shown during their brief existence as a republic the loftiest moral and spiritual values.
The smaller nations should be most careful to see that such developments did not become the standard practice in their relations with stronger and more developed countries.
Chile had requested the Security Council to investigate the origin of the events in Czechoslovakia. It had done so in a spirit of loyal cooperation with the institution created at San Francisco, in order to help strengthen it.
Certain countries had learned by bitter experience that concessions and appeasement merely made war inevitable, once an aggressive country had obtained by territorial expansion the material force and the new frontiers which would permit an advance with impunity against fresh victims.
That was why Chile had asked the Security Council to investigate what had happened in Czechoslovakia. The Chilean denunciation had been accepted by a clear majority of the members of the Council. But once again the privilege granted to the five great Powers by the smaller countries at San Francisco had been brought into play in order to hush up the facts and elude the appropriate sanctions.
The Chilean delegation at the San Francisco Conference had objected to the veto formula because it believed that it violated the principle of equality before the law of all States, a principle which Chile had always respected in international relations.
Chile had attempted at San Francisco to reduce the scope of that method of voting to its narrowest possible limits. Chile had supported an amendment submitted and defended by Mr. Evatt, now President of the General Assembly. When that amendment had been rejected, Chile had abstained from voting in favour of the unanimity rule. When the unanimity rule had been written into the Charter by tacit or express consent of the countries in conference at San Francisco, Chile had subscribed to it, relying upon the promises made by the five great Powers that it would be used only in cases in which it appeared absolutely indispensable.
But the excessive and unjustified use of the veto was detrimental to the spirit which moved the nations to accept it at San Francisco. It produced stagnation and paralysed the work of the United Nations, creating at the same time in public opinion the feeling that the work of the United Nations was sterile.
Representatives could verify the fact that an arbitrary and excessive use had been made of the privilege given to the great Powers. A simple examination of a statistical table on the number of times that the veto had been used would lead the representatives to the irrevocable conviction that one of the five great Powers had exceeded the trust which had been placed in it.
For that reason, the Chilean delegation would support any formula which, while restricting the use of the veto, would permit the United Nations to act speedily and effectively in view of the serious problems facing the world at present. With that goal in mind, the Chilean delegation would take into account especially the very complete report on the veto prepared by the Interim Committee (A/578).
Chile was fully aware of the positive work done by the United Nations to prevent a new war from destroying the achievements of the present civilization. The action taken in Palestine, the mediation efforts in the conflict between India and Pakistan, the role played by the Organization as peacemaker in the Balkans, in Korea and in Indonesia, were all successes achieved by the United Nations.
Furthermore, the constant activity displayed by the United Nations in the economic and social fields gave real ground for optimism. The Chilean delegation considered that the work done during the past year by the Economic and Social Council deserved full recognition and appreciation on the part of the General Assembly. The Chilean delegation had always held the opinion that the task of creating the conditions necessary for the maintenance of peace surpassed in importance all the other tasks assigned to the United Nations by the Charter. The Economic and Social Council had carried out its duties in spite of the differences in principles arising out of divergent concepts of the problems with which it was faced. The President of the Economic and Social Council, Mr. Charles Malik, had already given a full account of the work achieved by that body. As other representatives had also raised the matter, he would only refer to those questions which were of particular importance or which were more directly connected with the views supported in the United Nations by the Chilean delegation.
The draft declaration on human rights which the Economic and Social Council had sent to the General Assembly was perhaps not perfect. Yet it could not be denied that the recognition of the individual’s fundamental right to life, liberty, and security, conformed to the ideas which had animated the authors of the Charter and the inspired advocate of the «four freedoms».
A great war had been fought with unequalled fury in defence of human dignity. But humanity was now asking itself whether those sacrifices had been made in vain, as it contemplated the mockery with which human dignity was treated in certain parts of the world. The people asked the United Nations to define the rights and principles which should govern the relations of the individual with the community and with the State.
It was the Chilean delegation’s concern for human rights and fundamental freedoms which had led it to bring before the General Assembly the numerous cases of women who, being married to foreigners, had been obliged to remain in their countries of origin (A/560). The United Nations should take the matter up as it went beyond the limits of the purely national sovereignty of a country, and impinged upon one of the most elementary rights of man: freedom of movement, the right to marry freely, and the right to emigrate.
The Economic and Social Council set up last February the Economic Commission for Latin America and gave new guidance to the Economic Commission for Europe and the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East. In the opinion of the Chilean delegation those activities constituted the most practical and concrete achievement of the United Nations in the economic field. That achievement was a source of particular satisfaction to Chile because Chile had been the initiator and the untiring defender of the idea that the Economic and Social Council should orient its work specifically to the solution of the economic problems of under-developed regions of the world.
A special commission established by General Assembly resolution 120 (II) in 1947 had recommended the creation of an economic commission for the Middle East (E/AC.26/16, p. 27), which undoubtedly would be set up by February 1949. Thus the principles which Chile had ardently defended throughout the period of its service on the Economic and Social Council had definitely been adopted.
The representative of Chile expressed the view that the third session of the General Assembly of the United Nations would, be of positive benefit to humanity because it would contribute to the clearing up of the international situation. It would determine whether mankind could continue to place its faith and its hope in the procedure of the United Nations in order to achieve peace.
There were three alternatives for the immediate future: war, peace or the continuation of the prevailing false armistice. Mankind must know whether, in order to achieve the peace, it would again have to undergo the horrors and suffering of war, or if the benefits of peace could be realized through the noble and generous procedures established by the Charter.
An intolerable element serving to foster propaganda against democratic institutions was the indecision about ending the existing situation which destroyed all possible well-being because of the disturbing influence of one great Power. No matter how cruel it was, reality was preferable to the tortures of doubt.
In accordance with its traditions, its principles, its blood ties and its geographical situation, Chile endorsed the action of the sister republics of America and the nations representing Western Christian civilization.
At the present juncture, urgent action was required. The positive accomplishments of the United Nations in the economic and social field should be extended to the political field. Accomplishments in the economic field would be ineffective if the disturbances which divided the world into two antagonistic forces continued. The destiny of mankind depended on the decisions of the General Assembly. As President Roosevelt had said, contemporary statesmen had a «rendezvous with destiny». But the rendezvous would be brief.
The world was under the impression that time was running out. An armed conflict of proportions never before imagined threatened to engulf mankind in darkness. The fate of civilization depended on the immediate action of the General Assembly.
The responsible spokesmen of the nations assembled in Paris could not disregard the anguished voices of the millions of men who might, in the near future, become sacrificial victims through the blindness and inaction of their leaders.


===== Session 04 - 1949 =====
Mr. SANTA CRUZ began by saying that the greatest concern of the General Assembly was to see whether the United Nations still enjoyed the faith and confidence of all the nations. Referring to the Secretary-General’s annual report, he said that it could be gathered from that document that the life of the Organization had not reached the pace foreseen in San Francisco, and that its results did not fulfil the hopes born on that occasion, although the year which had passed since the preceding session of the General Assembly had been, in the words of the Secretary-General, on the whole, a year of progress towards a more peaceful world.
76.	What San Francisco had promised the world was a change of outlook, a change which originated in the sorrow and suffering of millions of human beings. With due regard for the sovereignty of nations and for the free self-determination of peoples, a feeling of international responsibility for the safeguarding of world peace and security had been fostered. Moreover, a causal connexion between the progressive improvement of the standards of living of human beings and the gradual elimination of the deep-rooted causes of conflict had been explicitly recognized.
77.	If the Assembly analyzed the world situation, keeping in mind such principles, it would have to admit that those fundamental ideas which inspired the United Nations were making headway among the nations against great difficulties. Such international feeling was evident in the stages which had led to the formation of the Council of Europe — a step taken by the western European countries to pool their resources, coordinate their plans and achieve their goal of political unity. That was a striking event of modern times. After repeated efforts towards unification in the course of its history, Europe was seeking unity on a democratic basis, respecting forms of government and ideological and religious tendencies. That was one of the finest experiments in the history of the West and an invaluable lesson for the rest of the world.
78.	Referring to the execution of the agreements to the New Delhi Conference, Mr. Santa Cruz stated that the new countries of Asia were proving to the world that in history, which determined universal destinies, more than one continent counted, and that the countries of Asia were capable of influencing the structure of the world of the future. As the Secretary-General’s report stated, those same principles, applied by the United Nations, had won for the United Nations a great victory, namely, peace in the Middle East.
79.	He went on to speak of the Kashmir dispute and the ideas expressed at the beginning of the debate by the representative of India (222nd meeting), and said that the reiterated assurances that India was determined .to find a peaceful solution were important guarantees for those who hoped that nothing would separate nations which were to share a noble and historic destiny.
80.	The Assembly had to contrast those successes in the political field, and the partial solution of the Berlin conflict, with new and extremely serious situations which proved that in other respects the spirit of San Francisco had been disregarded and even deliberately violated.
81.	Part of the territory of China was occupied by military forces engaged in a movement of expansion which ran counter to all the principles of the United Nations. Part of that nation, comprising millions of human beings, would therefore remain isolated from any idea of international co-operation. The leaders of that movement, the invaders, were boasting at that very moment of putting into action a policy of defiance and hatred. Upon reading the statements of Mao Tze-tung, one was conscious of a great defeat of the principles of the Charter. The danger which hovered over all Asia could not be ignored if world peace was still regarded as one and indivisible. The participation of the USSR in those events, which had been denounced by the representative of China (223rd meeting), showed the tragic seriousness of the situation.
82.	Nor could the General Assembly ignore the existence of a. new element of conflict, the effects of which could not be foreseen. A nation, a Member of the United Nations, was being subjected to economic, political and ideological aggression on the part of a great Power and a group of its satellites solely because it had not complied with orders detrimental to its own interests. While the Charter adopted in San Francisco promised a world of peaceful collaboration among nations, the Soviet Union was promoting a red crusade intended to subjugate to its will the external and internal affairs of a sovereign state, Yugoslavia. What should really alarm the United Nations, however, was the will to bridge that ideological schism by violence, and the hatefully imperialistic nature of such an attitude, an attitude which recalled that of Nazism and was thus a flagrant threat to the peace.
83.	Mr. Santa Cruz said that the peace offer made the previous day (226th meeting) by the USSR representative was profoundly ironic. The Soviet Union spoke of peace at the very moment when Moscow was calling for aggression against Yugoslavia and the formation of a Government subservient to its wishes, and at the very moment when it was concluding its work in China.
84.	The leader of the Chilean delegation described the Marshall Plan as a typical and effective example of a sense of collective responsibility. Referring to the financial problems besetting the United Kingdom, which kept the democratic nations in a state of uneasiness, he said that everything which weakened and jeopardized the stability of the United Kingdom weakened and jeopardized the peace, because that country was one of the most solid and respected guarantees of democratic co-operation in the world.
85.	The case of the United Kingdom once again emphasized the contradictions in the reconstruction of areas directly affected by the war and in the economic development of backward regions in a world which only recently had begun to speak and to understand the language of international co-operation. The under-developed countries had recently suffered the impact of international economic disorder; they had seen their national resources seriously depleted and their low standard, of living reduced even further, because of the drop in the price of certain basic products.
86.	Nevertheless, it was necessary to record the progress achieved in international co-operation for the economic development of under-developed areas. Mr. Santa Cruz referred in that connexion to point four of the programme of the President of the United States; to the plans for technical assistance which had been drafted as a result of that programme; and to the activities of the International Bank and the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Such action indicated that government leaders had become aware that international economic co-operation was a collective obligation deriving from the Charter itself and from the realities of the economic situation,
87.	In order to avoid betrayal of the spirit of the United Nations Charter, one of the indispensable conditions was to demand a kind of economic development aimed at obtaining a better standard of living for those peoples. Referring in particular to the African continent, Mr. Santa Cruz said that plans were being discussed to invest large amounts of capital there in order to utilize that continent’s natural resources. Such a programme merited praise, on the condition that it was carried out with the due regard for human and universal factors which must characterize any plans for development.
88.	The head of the Chilean delegation then mentioned the work of mediation accomplished by the United Nations in Palestine, Kashmir and Indonesia. Other attempts which the Organization bad made to intervene had been paralysed by the abuse of the privilege of the veto, or had proved ineffective simply because of the persistent refusal of some countries to carry out the resolutions of the General Assembly. That had happened in the case of Korea and Greece, and as in the case of the recommendation contained in resolution 285 (III) of 25 April 1949 to the effect that the Soviet Union should permit Soviet women married to foreigners to leave the country.
89.	The struggle for peace could not be confined to the defence of the structure which had been designed to maintain it; it should also be extended to safeguard and propagate the idea which had given it birth.
90.	Referring to the former Italian colonies, Mr. Santa Cruz expressed the hope that the fate of those territories would be settled in the course of that session. Libya, Eritrea and former Italian Somaliland were still awaiting a solution which would give them a definitive status. The Chilean delegation did not want the future of those colonies to be linked to that of some Non-Self-Governing Territories where, in spite of the efforts of the Trusteeship Council, the standard of living of the population was incompatible with any concept of justice and humanity.
91.	There were even some nations which refused to co-operate with the United Nations and which boasted of having established discriminatory regimes on the African continent.
92.	The activities of the regional commissions and of some of the functional commissions of the Economic and Social Council deserved special mention that year. The preparation of the programme of technical assistance was one of the most important steps ever taken by the United Nations. Technical assistance would be eminently useful and, in addition, would create the proper atmosphere for a new international concept which, if applied to finance and to all other forms of co-operation, would put to the test the effectiveness of the United Nations and the spirit of its Charter. President Truman’s announcement that the United States Government, by financial and technical assistance, would make a major contribution to the execution of the programme, was in harmony with the new sense of international solidarity and co-operation.
93.	The programme of technical assistance took into consideration the need for adequate co-ordination of all organs called upon to participate in its execution, and the Chilean delegation hoped that the General Assembly would approve that programme at its current session.
94.	Chile shared the concern expressed by the Brazilian delegation (222nd meeting) at the increasing number of organs set up by the United Nations, and at the excessive costs which the existing structure of international life was forcing on the nations. Chile was prepared to support any proposal aimed at ensuring efficient co-ordination of the work of the United Nations and its specialized agencies and elimination of superfluous activities. The specialized agencies should, in their own interests, collaborate in that task. The Chilean delegation was in favour of reducing some administrative expenditures.
95.	Chile realized that peace was an international responsibility and that war was indivisible; hence Chile associated itself with all the stipulations of the Charter adopted in San Francisco.
96.	Great efforts, have being made to spread the democratic idea in all Latin-American countries. The difficulties were tremendous for manifold reasons. Although certain facts might make it difficult to form a true idea of the spiritual and ideological conditions in that part of the hemisphere, it must be recognized that faith in democracy had become much stronger.
97.	Mr. Santa Cruz recalled the recent statement (222nd meeting) of Mr. Dean Acheson, United States Secretary of State, to the effect that the United States always deplored the action of any group in substituting its judgment for that of the electorate, and that it especially deplored the overthrow by force of a freely elected Government. The same was true of the countries of Latin America, which rejected all forms of totalitarianism and, in their different ways, were all moving towards the democratic system as the only permanent form of government. That had been shown by the victory of the Government and people of, Bolivia over a fascist uprising, a victory that filled all democratic Governments and peoples of Latin America with joy.
98.	The American nations are making tremendous efforts to diversify their economies and industrialize their production, and protect themselves from the international economic dislocation. Much remained to be done in Latin America, and the United Nations would have the opportunity to assist in that effort through the programme of technical assistance. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Monetary Fund had understood the peculiar situation in that part of the American continent, and a more progressive spirit was guiding their decisions. The great economic centres of the world which had obtained so much from Latin America had the historic opportunity to co-operate in the creation of wealth, in compensation for the riches extracted in the past. The Chilean delegation believed that such a sense of responsibility towards economically weak nations, a direct and authentic product of the spirit of the Charter, would prevail in those who were directing world economy.


===== Session 05 - 1950 =====
Before beginning my remarks, I should like to refer briefly to an event which must have given satisfaction to all the representatives here. I am referring to the announcement published this morning that the Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to Mr. Ralph Bunche, a distinguished member of the United Nations Secretariat, who was the mediator in the Palestine conflict. My delegation would like to congratulate Mr. Bunche and at the same time the Secretary-General on this high honour in which we are all honoured.
71.	The chief task before this General Assembly of the United Nations is to indicate clearly and precisely the road to be followed in order to prevent a war and to create a permanent foundation for peace and security, The decisions to be adopted during this fifth session of the General Assembly will decide whether these objectives are to be attained or not. And this is not only because the Assembly is the principal and most representative body in which nearly all the countries of the world are gathered, but also because the conduct of the United Nations in the face of aggression in Korea has earned it the people’s confidence and they now follow its deliberations with deep faith and are prepared to support its actions.
72.	After the speeches of the United States Secretary of State and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the USSR [279th meeting], we have before us two concrete proposals calculated, as their authors have said, to put an end to the present international tension.
73.	Owing to the position of these two countries in the international community, these two proposals become the centre of our general debate and it is the duty of all the States represented here to express quite frankly their opinions thereon.
74.	The representative of the United States has proposed [A/1377] that the system of collective security created at San Francisco should be strengthened and the democratic machinery within the United Nations system reinforced. The representative of the Soviet Union, condensing in one draft resolution [A/1376] his proposals of 1947, 1948 and 1949, is asking the General Assembly to condemn war propaganda, to ban the use of atomic weapons, to establish strict international control over atomic energy and to recommend that the permanent members of the Security Council should conclude a pact for the strengthening of peace and reduce their armed forces,
75.	Let us first consider the USSR proposal, Although the Assembly is a gathering of States, there is not the slightest doubt that the representative of the Soviet Union has never had the intention of starting a real discussion with the other delegations. The countries represented here, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and the other representatives, are thoroughly familiar with the difficulties caused by the USSR during the last five years.
76.	Surely, then, hardly anybody can believe in the sincerity of the proposal for condemning propaganda in favour of war, when we all know that, for five years, the media of information of the Soviet countries and of all the communist parties throughout the world have never done anything but poison relations between States and portray the democratic countries as possible aggressors; when the Soviet peoples have been kept in complete isolation in order, among other things, to prevent them from finding out the falsehood of that propaganda.
77.	It is hard to believe that the USSR delegation can honestly recommend the prohibition of the atomic weapon, when the records of the Atomic Energy Commission and the files in the Foreign Ministries show that the Soviet Union is the country which has opposed real international, control of atomic energy, openly refusing to allow any international authority to exercise such control on its territory.
78.	It is, indeed, a bold thing to tell this Assembly that the USSR is not following a policy of expansion when it has annexed the territories of the Baltic States and is exercising complete control over about ten neighbouring countries.
79.	No one can believe that the Soviet Union is serious in proposing to the General Assembly that the powers and responsibilities of the Security Council for the maintenance of peace should be strengthened, because everybody knows that it has never been possible and never will be possible for the Security Council to take any decision involving intervention in a situation in which the USSR is either directly or indirectly concerned. The forty-five vetoes cast by the Soviet Union prove all too clearly the truth of what I am saying.
80.	It seems equally incredible that the USSR should again be endeavouring to argue that a pact among the five great Powers would solve the present differences and put an end to the danger of war. A year ago, fifty-three sovereign States demolished the same argument put forward by the Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union and stated clearly that the only guarantee of peace lay in the strict observance of the principles of the Charter, in the democratic application of the decisions and recommendations of the United Nations organs and in collective action by all the Member States.
81.	Nor can the USSR delegation speak to the representatives at the General Assembly of the Soviet Union’s devotion to the cause of the United Nations and its cooperation in the work of the Organization. If we think of constructive international collaboration in economic and social questions, we must unfortunately confess that the physical absence of the Soviet representatives was not really noticed. They have always been absent from anything that meant understanding, aid and co-operation. The economic and social organization and arrangements of the post-war world, both within and outside the United Nations, have necessarily had to be limited from the very outset to the part of the world which was not under the control of the Soviet Union.
82.	It is also clear that the USSR is not addressing its arguments to the statesmen and diplomats in this auditorium. For the Soviet Union it is of little importance that the representatives at the General Assembly do not believe in the sincerity of its statements. What really is important for the USSR is to try to fool the man in the street in Europe, Asia, America or other continents, for the man in the street cannot consult diplomatic files which would convey an accurate picture of the Soviet Union’s responsibility for the present international situation. It is to that audience that the USSR is speaking when it says that the United States attacked Korea, that the United States is threatening China and that the Anglo-American bloc created the Berlin blockade.
83.	In the same way, its propaganda tries to bring the peoples of the economically under-developed areas to believe in the fallacy that independence, prosperity and the right to a life of freedom and human dignity can be attained only in a world and in an economic structure directed, and subsequently controlled, by the Soviet Union.
84.	These are the trump cards which the USSR is playing before the democratic world, and we must carefully assess the significance of Soviet strategy and combat it not only with our arguments in this gathering, but also with simple straightforward actions that will touch the heart of the common man in every continent. For we believe that the decisive struggle for civilization and for humanity which we are waging in the name of the principles of liberty, social justice and economic progress laid down in the Charter will not be decided by the leaders of the world and by the representatives gathered here, but by the weight of the masses, by the pull exercised, on one side or the other of the scales, by the least-favoured classes in the industrial countries and by the peoples of the under-developed countries and areas.
85.	In his analysis of the causes of the present international tension and of the reasons why peace and collective security have not been achieved through the United Nations, the United States representative stated that the primary cause was the policy followed by the Government of the Soviet Union during the past five years, and he mentioned the most dangerous manifestations of that policy.
86.	My delegation fully agrees with that analysis; at the same time, however, we wish to state that in our view there are other factors contributing to insecurity and instability which are as important as the causes referred to by the United States Secretary of State. I refer to the weaknesses and flaws in our democratic system, to the social and economic backwardness of more than two-thirds of the world, and to the conditions of poverty and social injustice which it has so far proved impossible to eliminate or even to relieve to any appreciable extent by international co-operation.
87.	In our opinion this session of the General Assembly must point out what measures the United Nations as a whole, or each of the Member States separately, should adopt to counteract these three causes of insecurity and danger of war: pressure, the weaknesses and defects of the democratic countries and the backward economic and social conditions in which a large part of the population of the world is living. Hence I am convinced that these measures must be taken simultaneously and that they must be equally effective.
88.	The United States Secretary of State has submitted, in the name of his Government, a four-point programme intended to increase the effectiveness of the system of collective security established by the Charter. You already know the principal provisions contained in that programme. In stating its general agreement with any measure likely to improve the system of collective security and the functioning of United Nations bodies, the Chilean delegation is merely acting in accordance with the unswerving policy adopted by its Government a number of years ago and repeatedly proclaimed.
89.	Five months ago my country, through the head of the State, declared that the fact that, from the time of San Francisco on, the world had been without any real and effective system of collective security, was due to the attitude of the USSR in the Security Council,_ in abusing the privilege of the veto and in making it impossible to create the United Nations armed force provided for in Article 43 of the Charter. At the same time my Government spoke in favour of making a last effort at conciliation with the Soviet Union, on a minimum basis, and said that if that should prove impossible, it would be necessary to unite the democratic world under a supplementary agreement for common defence against aggression and for the purpose of upholding and ensuring the observance of the principles of the Charter, in the political, social and economic spheres and in the sphere of the protection of human dignity.
90.	The events in Korea have shown us that, as matters now stand, it is difficult to make any attempt at conciliation and that agreement is possible only if the democratic world can prove that it is capable of stopping any aggression and if the United Nations shows that it is willing and ready to defend any State or territory from aggression.
91.	On 17 August 1950 my country therefore proposed that an item entitled “strengthening of democratic principles as a means of contributing to the maintenance of universal peace” should be placed on the agenda of the present session of the Assembly. The General Committee has unanimously recommended that this item ! should be included in the agenda.
92.	In the explanatory memorandum [A/1343] accompanying its request, my delegation stated that it would present a draft resolution proposing that the rules of procedure of the General Assembly and the Interim Committee should be amended in order to enable the General Assembly to act more effectively and promptly to deal with any situation which might constitute a threat to international peace and security. In this respect our proposal is identical with that presented by the United States.
93.	With regard, however, to improving the system of collective security, we believe that the United Nations should go further. We have proposed that the General Assembly should recommend to Member States to subscribe voluntarily to a solemn agreement pledging themselves to joint action to observe and enforce observance of the principles and purposes of the Charter. This agreement would be open to all Member States and would not exclude any that were willing to comply with its provisions. We still believe that complete and entire security can be achieved only if membership of the United Nations is world-wide and we should not take any step which would endanger that universality while there is any possibility of making it the foundation for complete security.
94.	In this agreement Member States would not lay down any new principles or purposes other than those established in the Charter, but they would voluntarily give the following undertakings:
95.	First, to co-ordinate their forces and resources, including their armed forces, to give effect to the decisions adopted by the competent bodies of the United Nations with a view to repelling direct or indirect aggression;
96.	Secondly, to carry out and help to carry out certain important recommendations of the General Assembly relating to the maintenance of peace and security;
97.	Thirdly, to co-ordinate their forces and resources to ensure economic stability and effectively to promote the development of the backward areas of the world and, for these purposes, to carry out and help to carry out certain important recommendations of the competent organs of the United Nations;
98.	Fourthly, under the aegis of the United Nations, to respect and enforce observance of the fundamental rights and freedoms which are mentioned in the Charter and laid down in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
99.	This pact would be unobjectionable from the legal and constitutional point of view. Moreover, there is no provision in the Charter which prohibits or prevents all or any of the Members of the United Nations from agreeing on common action to defend the principles on which this Organization was founded and to enable it to carry out its functions more expeditiously; there is nothing in the Charter which prohibits all Member States or any group of them from voluntarily pledging themselves to carry out jointly or separately the recommendations of the competent organs, which, according to the Charter, are not mandatory. It would, on the contrary, constitute an important step towards a better and more dignified international life which we all desire.
100.	The delegation of Chile believes that unless the democratic world clearly demonstrates the sincerity of its ideas of freedom and democracy, no measure against aggression and war can be effective. Moreover, conditions exist within the confines of democracy which seriously jeopardize human dignity and can in no way be reconciled with the principles of the Charter regarding fundamental human rights. We must make an honest and sincere collective effort to put an end to this state of affairs.
101.	The continued existence of the policy of racial discrimination or of the economic exploitation of large segments of the population constitute additional factors which weaken our cause and are powerful allies of aggression.
102.	The defensive struggle against aggression requires democracy to strive constantly for greater perfection. We cannot forget that arms alone do not make a cause victorious. A cause is won, above all, in the minds of men; a given objective is not attained in complete disregard of mankind. The cause of democracy will never be served through unworthy compromises involving the renunciation of its very essence. To speak of democracy will not suffice; it must be a way of life. Neither can democracy be the birthright of any given people or race. Mankind is indivisible. By the very fact that they are human beings, all men are the same. Those who say they are free cannot, therefore, think in terms of ethnical, religious or social discrimination. Hence the joint action which we are advocating must rest on the obligation to apply and enforce within our borders the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
103.	We are, nevertheless, the first to realize that, if the economic conditions now prevailing in most of the world are allowed to persist, the development of democracy will be a difficult and time-consuming task. Our own Latin-American countries have shown how great an effort is needed to defend and develop democracy in the uneasy social conditions in which the inhabitants live. Hence the necessary action of the United Nations in bringing about a decisive improvement in the standard of living of the peoples of the world, even if it were not an objective expressly stipulated in the Charter, would be an indispensable means of achieving human dignity and the maintenance of peace.
104.	Many are the obstacles which have so far prevented the eradication of the factors of insecurity represented by the economic and social conditions now prevailing in the world. The first is the faults we have ourselves committed: the selfishness of large sections and groups; the lack, for many years, of any decision or willingness to make of international co-operation that decisive instrument which the Charter has provided for changing the economic face of the world.
105.	In fact, until “point four” was announced by the President of the United States, the great Powers had taken no serious initiative to cope with the tremendous problem arising out of the fact that two-thirds of mankind are suffering from under-nourishment, the easy prey of epidemics and diseases; that they are living under conditions which make it impossible to keep up a standard of elementary decency. Moreover, there has been another obstacle which must be mentioned: first, there was the threat of war; then came the so-called cold war and now we have the aggression committed by North Korea which has compelled all free peoples to abandon their common policy of disarmament and, on the contrary, to divert a large part of their resources to preparing their defences.
106.	The financial burden of rearmament has seriously jeopardized the ability of governments to meet the urgent needs of reconstruction and development and threatens, moreover, to delay the achievement of the higher standard of living hoped for by the peoples of the world. In our opinion, the responsibility for that situation rests clearly with the Soviet Union. We believe that its responsibility is obvious, and, that its designs are premeditated. Having been forced into rearmament for defence purposes, we find that poverty in our countries must continue and that governments are hampered and unable to take any initiative towards collective improvement. Thirty or forty thousand million dollars allocated to rearmament means so many millions of dollars snatched away from the production and marketing of goods, and withdrawn from the funds set aside for giving effect to the policy of world economic development. Such a sacrifice weakens the home front, multiplies social problems and forces low-income families into desperate straits. Internal morale thus suffers a blow, faith in democracy is relentlessly sapped and the ground is prepared for the treasonable and anti-national activity of communist parties throughout the world. This is the Soviet Union’s five-year plan to achieve world domination.
107.	But to confine oneself to rearmament at the cost of abandoning all action in favour of the welfare of peoples would be precisely to serve the interests of the USSR; only when superior armament is backed by armies and peoples endowed with great moral strength can aggression be contained and repulsed. Fortunately, the United States representative has stated that we must continue to fight against want while at the same time arming ourselves against aggression.
108.	What do we mean by the fight against want? We mean by “want” the aggregate of social and national anxieties and aspirations. There are minimum material and spiritual needs. I have already referred to the latter. With regard to the material needs of the world, the diagnosis of the fundamental problems of mankind has already been made both within the United Nations and outside it. There has always been complete agreement about that diagnosis. It tells us of under-developed areas and under-nourished peoples. We are told that in one and the same era, in one and the same year, differences in civilization exist among peoples as a result of material limitations.
109.	The studies undertaken in connexion with President Truman’s “point four” programme and the United Nations expanded programme of technical assistance, the discussions in the Economic and Social Council on full employment and the financing of economic development, the final resolutions adopted on the subject, the experiences of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development — all these enable us to obtain a clear idea of the problem, of its scope and of the best means of solving it. Some figures have been given. Qualified technicians have stated that some 2,000 million dollars annually would be needed for international cooperation in the financing and development of these backward regions. What are 2,000 million dollars compared with the tens of thousands of millions required for armaments? Having diagnosed what is needed, the next step must be the announcement of a bold new plan which would effectively promote the economic development of the under-developed regions, a plan intended not only to increase available resources but primarily to improve the standard of living of mankind.
110.	Such a plan would further constitute the principal guarantee of economic stability in the industrialized countries and an essential element in achieving a stable peace. Prosperity, human dignity and peace are indivisible. Simultaneous action must therefore be taken in all these directions. Indeed it could be said that the foundations of this plan, which is designed to strengthen economic and collective security as a complement to collective political security, have been set out and debated on the international level both within the United Nations and outside this Organization.
111.	The “point four” programme covers the principal elements of this action. They may also be found in the extraordinary work done by the Economic and Social Council during the past few years in connexion with its programme of technical and financial assistance for economic development, in its plans for social and child welfare and in its recommendations for ensuring full employment in the world. Moreover, the necessary machinery to carry out such a plan is in existence. All that is lacking is a decision to provide the international institutions and organs with the necessary means to carry out the plan on the scale and with the speed required by the exigencies of the international situation. This calls for boldness and willingness commensurate with the danger and the need. We can now see the need and the danger.
112.	As was done in the case of Korea, where we were faced with a choice, we must, in this constructive and indispensable aspect of international co-operation, return to the spirit of the Charter.
113.	The past five years have taught us a great lesson. Rather than strive for a high standard of living in a future world at peace, we must, through a splendid collective effort, seek peace through a higher standard of living for all the peoples of the world.


===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
I should like first of all to express my delegation’s sincere gratitude for the friendly hospitality offered by this two thousand year old city towards which the hopeful eyes of the world are turned.
72.	It is no mere coincidence that the General Assembly of the United Nations is holding its sixth session in a country which is making a magnificent effort at reconstruction in a continent still suffering from the consequences of the Second World War and beset by fresh economic, political and social difficulties. The meetings of the General Assembly, the principal aim of which is to re-establish confidence in the possibility of peoples living peacefully together, cannot find a more propitious setting than this Republic which, after suffering twice in a single generation the horrors of war, draws strength from its painful experiences and hopes for living conditions which will enable it to view the future with optimism.
73.	My delegation believes that at such a critical time it is the duty of the small countries to state their opinions here with the greatest clarity and frankness, at least so far as the acute problems troubling humanity and this Organization are concerned, because blind and all-destructive war does not discriminate between small and large nations and relentlessly annihilates all the moral values of the community. The voice of countries which are not expected, on account of their geographical situation or their slender material resources, to assume the responsibility of moulding action, is of particular importance; for, being freed from the pressure of immediate interests and not suffering from the confusion of innumerable problems which constantly require the adoption of definite positions, they perhaps come closest to being able to present a comprehensive view and so convey the opinion of the common man, or, to put it differently, international public opinion. It is not difficult to trace the origins of the present crisis. Those of us who represented our countries at San Francisco in 1945 and signed the Charter there, hoping that we had succeeded in establishing an international organization which would maintain peace and collective security, have witnessed how, in the space of a few weeks, some peoples lost the freedom for which the democratic world had had to fight.
74.	There has been a systematic encouragement of underground political activities, of subversion of the existing order, of the violent replacement of independent regimes by others unconditionally subservient to foreign Powers, of the mockery of human dignity, the annexation of territories, and the constant refusal to sign peace treaties which would end conflicts once and for all.
75.	The mere enumeration of geographical names known to all of us is an eloquent indication of the state of slavery of many peoples which were solemnly promised that the free exercise of their rights would be restored and their security protected. An identical pattern would seem to be discernible in the events following both of the world wars. At the end of the First World War, an effort was made to establish an international organization which would safeguard the freedom of peoples, their self-determination, observance of the obligations undertaken and the protection of peace. After a few years the League of Nations found itself first threatened and then destroyed by new forms of imperialism which replaced those annihilated shortly before by the democratic countries at the cost of every kind, of effort and sacrifice.
76.	At San Francisco the four freedoms appeared to be a new and luminous cross stretching out its arms to envelop the world in an eternal resurgence of peace. Now, however, we are witnessing the decay of a system which arose at the end of the First World War as a reaction against the excesses of power and the abuses of capitalism. The doctrine set forth by the founders of that movement brought hope to the poor and was the signal for many of the coming of a new order: equality of opportunity, equitable distribution of wealth and the elimination of arms as a means of settling disputes.
77.	In every corner of the world there were people who believed in the truth of those theories and in the sincerity of their aims. The seed took root in the soul of millions of men of good faith. Now, however, there is an unbridgeable gap between the original pronouncement and the present attitude of the leaders of the regime. Thus, in the economic field the action undertaken by the international body and particularly by the under-developed countries has found them remiss in the accomplishment of their duties; and in the social and political field it may be asked: What principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and what standards of democratic action have they respected?
78.	All this points clearly to the responsibility of those leaders, but it also imposes a no less clear obligation on the statesmen and peoples of the democratic world. Some have already suffered the bitter disillusionment of seeing the apostles of a movement which called itself a movement of liberation taking the path of imperialism. It is unnecessary here to refer also to the disillusionment and despair of those who put their faith in democracy. Democracy must not abandon its heritage of spiritual attributes, but it must realize that the seed of disintegration takes root more strongly in the soil of economic and social distress.
79.	It is a noble truth that man will fight indefatigably for his ideals; but it is no less true that a humanity torn by two successive wars requires something more than illusions to enable it to remain strong and vigilant in defence of its freedom.
80.	Chile resolutely supports the three-Power statement on disarmament. We consider that it would, in a constructive way, help to end the present international tension and ease the economic burden of the countries which, directly or indirectly, are bearing the weight of the armaments race. In our opinion, there is not a single point in that programme which can in all honesty be repudiated.
81.	I think that I may add my voice to the voice of all small countries which are feeling the consequences of the present international situation and which, owing to their weak economy, are unable to absorb the impact of present economic and social conditions. We are speaking for the hopeful masses when we claim your attention for the tragic spectacle of ever-increasing social and economic injustice.
82.	To speak in concrete terms, we believe that the search for an understanding to put an end to the present extremely serious situation must not be abandoned. What we should like to see is direct contact between the leaders of the major Powers; a considered and objective study of the disarmament plan; the signing of those peace treaties which have been so unfairly deferred, with provision for equitable treatment of former enemy nations; and the admission to membership of the international Organization of all countries accepting the obligations of the Charter. In particular, Chile sympathetically supports the just aspirations of the Italian people.
83.	The collective work of the United Nations has made a great contribution towards the establishment of the rules of international relations as accepted by all civilized peoples. The persevering work of the specialized agencies is clear evidence of their effectiveness. The acceptance of women as intelligent collaborators on equal terms has made for harmony in their work and has infused charm into their mission. Results in economic matters would have been even better had not the circumstances of which I have spoken interfered.
84.	There are, however, a few words I should like to add in this connexion. In a few months, Chile will be ending its six years’ term of office in the Economic and Social Council; Chile was elected to the Council when the United Nations first began to function, and its term was renewed in 1948. While we were members of the Council, we had only one object: to comply faithfully, strictly and diligently with the letter and spirit of the Charter, which clearly stipulates that the duties connected with collective security are indivisible from the duty to co-operate in raising standards of living and in ensuring social progress and the rule of fundamental human rights.
85.	On leaving the Economic and Social Council, we see with great satisfaction that, with our enthusiastic cooperation, the first steps have been taken in decisive international action for promoting the economic development of under-developed countries. A technical assistance programme is already under way, and the basis has been laid for large-scale international financing of corresponding development programmes. We trust that the Council, following the lead given by the Assembly, will carry this work to a successful conclusion.
86.	When we were elected by the Assembly to a seat on the Economic and Social Council, we were expected some extent to represent the Latin American continent, as the Charter itself indicates. We should like to say at this stage to our colleagues of Latin America that never for one moment during the last six years did we forget this honourable duty of representation.
87.	We strove steadfastly to achieve those objectives which, while of universal interest, most closely and urgently affected our Latin America, as well as those, such as the protection of fundamental human rights and dignity, which take pride of place in the spiritual heritage of our peoples.
88.	The work done in the Committee on Collective Measures constitutes, beyond any doubt, a most important and historical development in the field of international cooperation and solidarity.
89.	Korea has both a symbolic and a real significance. It represents the first co-ordinated action taken by the Members of the international Organization to support the principles of the Charter by concrete deeds; it is, further, an instance of the state of insecurity which has spread all over the globe through the international tension.
90.	The Chilean people and its Government wish to make an earnest appeal for agreement and an honourable settlement of the differences which have arisen and which threaten to destroy us. We bear no responsibility for the origins of the present international crisis, and yet, in spite of that, we should find ourselves the victims in any outbreak of violence, just as would other nations which are as little responsible as we are.
91.	For that reason, and because we understand that confused reasoning or pride can vitiate any peaceful solution, we advocate a strengthening of the system of collective security; however, at the same time, we urge that such an effort should not entail the sacrifice of the living conditions which have engendered the democratic ideal in all free men.
92.	The steadily growing faith in this democratic ideal will help to strengthen the international Organization, and this ever-growing solidarity will be the soundest guarantee of stable peace and of confidence in a better future for mankind.


===== Session 07 - 1952 =====
Several countries, among them some that by the terms of the Charter have had special responsibilities laid upon them and special privileges accorded them, wherefore they are listened to with special interest by the Assembly, have decided to defer their participation in the general debate. They are waiting for the occurrence of developments that in their opinion may influence the decision of this plenary conference of the Member States.
71.	The delegation of Chile reserves the right to take part again in the general debate should the developments I have referred to or any others particularly affecting my delegation make it necessary, I am therefore prompted to refrain from broaching at this time some of the most important political problems that appear on the agenda, such as the question of Korea, the report on collective measures [A/2215], disarmament, or the admission of new Members.
72.	For some years, now, these political problems have been the main concern of the representatives of Member States and of the officers of the United Nations, and the general debate with which the Assembly begins its tasks has usually turned on them. This is because, as a result of the cold war between two great sectors of the world and the profound division between them of which these problems are the palpable manifestation in the United Nations, other questions that might be discussed by the Organization have been relegated to a secondary and almost obscure place. Furthermore, these disagreements have set at naught a great part of the efforts put forth by those who aspire after an effective international collaboration in all fields where a universal human problem exists, and the United Nations has consequently been put to such a severe test in the eyes of public opinion the world over that many have turned their backs upon it or have had their faith in it badly shaken.
73.	That is why there is possibly something felicitous about this decision of some large Powers to postpone for a few weeks the great political debate centred upon problems which for some years now we have unsuccessfully been seeking to solve. I believe that this may be an opportunity to take up for the first time all aspects of some other problems that will doubtless turn out historically to be more important than the first. So far, the United Nations has considered only certain isolated aspects of these problems, despite the fact that they are of fundamental concern to the great majority of the Member States of the Organization and to more than two-thirds of humanity, and they have never appeared in the forefront of the debates of the Assembly.
74.	Some of these problems are on our agenda; for instance, the so -called colonial question, in connection with the problems of Tunis and Morocco; the reports of the Trusteeship Council and the Administering Powers of Non-Self-Governing Territories; the report on the social situation in the world; the resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights on the self-determination of peoples; the accusations of violation of human rights in the form of racial discrimination, and the plans and proposals for speeding up the economic development of backward areas. These questions suffice to convince us that we are faced with a veritable world revolution that is assuming forms which, though diverse, are interrelated. The causes and repercussions of this revolution have never been examined with the necessary thoroughness by the principal organs of the United Nations. The fault for this lies, on the one hand, in the cold war and, on the other, in a traditional form of diplomacy under which action is confined to particular regions instead of to the world as a whole. An obligation rests with the General Assembly to make a more thorough examination of this phenomena if it is not to lag behind the march of events, if it does not wish this revolution, instead of developing in an atmosphere of co-operation, in keeping with the principles of the Charter, to lead to conflicts and war among nations as well as to social conflicts and strife within nations or, at best, to cause peoples to take refuge in national or regional autarkies, looking to economic self-sufficiency instead of to the co-operation which is so necessary in a world of growing interdependence.
75.	The world revolution I have been referring to can be defined very briefly as a result of the increasing pressure of millions of individuals in the most diverse regions seeking to attain a standard of living that will enable them to satisfy their vital needs, in things material and spiritual, and of the ever clearer consciousness that they have of their rights and possibilities as human beings and as members of national societies and the international community. This will and consciousness on the part of individuals is reflected in those of the peoples, who seek to achieve or to strengthen their political and economic independence, and who claim just treatment in international affairs and the right to take part in the settlement of any international questions affecting them. I think it is useless to give examples to prove the existence of these ever-increasing efforts, which are the result of the tremendous technical progress that has been achieved.
76.	In the last ten years, we have witnessed the advent of independence in dozens of countries, comprising nearly 1,000 million inhabitants and the struggle of dozens of others, who are knocking urgently at the doors of the United Nations to achieve independence. We have witnessed bloody social revolutions in countries which extend over more than half of Asia and in some countries of Africa; revolutions carried out by arms or by peaceful means in Latin-American countries; struggles of minorities in other parts of the world to combat discrimination. This is an irresistible avalanche, and the more quickly we take cognizance of these conditions the sooner shall we be in. a position to adopt the only logical course to cope with them, which is to give these movements a peaceful character by satisfying legitimate demands and ensuring collaboration for the common good and general progress. To be sure, the real causes underlying all those movements have been complicated by adventitious elements — religious and racial hatreds or class hatred, resentments, intervention of other States for their own national purposes, etc. But that detracts nothing from the justice of the cause, either from the point of view of theoretical international morality or from that of the solemn principles laid down in the Charter, for the right of peoples to self-determination, respect for human dignity, individual freedom and economic and social improvement of persons and peoples until they attain decent standards of living are proclaimed in the Preamble of the Charter and are among the basic objectives of the Organization.
77.	This pressure from millions of human beings to obtain political and economic independence, freedom, equality of treatment and economic progress is particularly strong in under-developed territories, whether they are partly or wholly self-governing, or colonies. The reason for that is simple enough. In these countries there dwell 1,600 million individuals, whose standards of living range between poverty and utter pauperism. Economic statistics tell us that the national per capita income in such countries ranges between $20 and $200 a year, the average being below $60. Three or four hundred million persons whose standards of living has gone up considerably in the last fifty years live at points a few hours’ distance by aeroplane and united by a whole system of modern communications.
78.	Year by year, the Secretary-General, in his economic reports, tells us that the chasm between the wealth of the industrial countries and that of the under-developed ones is widening in a dangerous manner; that while the latter are getting poorer every day the former are becoming richer.
79.	During the last session of the Assembly, in Paris, the delegation of Chile examined this process in detail, supplying figures that substantiated the dramatic facts that I have just mentioned. Nevertheless, many have argued that the national per capita income cannot be a fair index of the standard of living in the various countries. This year, however, the Secretary-General has swept away any delusions we might have had as to the possibility that, despite this meagre national income, the under-developed countries might be capable of maintaining at least a decent standard of living. He has submitted to us the first report covering the social situation of the world [E/CN3/267] drawn up at the request of the General Assembly. It is extraordinarily eloquent, not because it says anything that is new to many of us, but because in the aggregate it paints a picture that makes it possible to conclude that the world, as such, is in but an early stage of progress, since two-thirds of the inhabitants of the earth do not live appreciably better than did their ancestors, on average, a thousand or two thousand years ago. I am merely going to cite some details given in the report. The report shows, incidentally, over and over again, that although no statistics are available, for the poorest and least developed countries, it may be presumed that the actual, figures are, even more striking.
80.	While the general mortality rate in North America is 10 per thousand per annum, and in Europe 13 per thousand, it is between 28 and 32 per thousand in Asia and 17 per thousand in Latin America. The mortality rate of infants and adolescents is so great in the under-developed countries that life expectancy, which in North America and in the industrialized countries of Western Europe is over 65 years, averages 30 years in the under-developed countries for which statistics are available. The great social diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis, decimate the population in the regions where those diseases are prevalent. Whereas the under-developed countries have only 17 doctors available for every 100,000 inhabitants, the advanced nations have 106. In the matter of diet, the under-developed countries have great shortages in calories and proteins. The average number of calories per day and per person is 2,150, as against 3,040 in the developed countries. If we take 100 as the pre-war index for the food products availably we find that North America in 1950 shows 125; Europe, 89; the Far East, 87; and Latin America, 70. This means that the countries of Latin America have in fifteen years experienced in the aggregate a decrease of one-third in their already inadequate diet. This is something to which our attention is called each year by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the Secretary-General — the very grave problem of a population that is increasing while at the same time the production of food is decreasing.
81.	Whereas in the industrial countries at least 90 per cent of the population can read, there are countries, such as Haiti and Egypt, where the rate of illiteracy is 85 per cent, or India and Libya, where only 10 per cent can read. There can be no doubt that, in some of the colonies, these indices show even greater- educational backwardness.
82.	This situation of permanent poverty has been aggravated, in the last few years, by inflation, which to an ever increasing extent has affected the underdeveloped countries, particularly as a consequence of economic developments originating in other countries, with which they have had nothing to do themselves and for which they are in no way responsible.
83.	The rise in the cost of living has reached alarming proportions in many such countries. The last report of the Secretary-General tells of rises from 80 to 90 per cent in a year and a half. This decrease in the purchasing power of the population of these countries has been and continues to be a factor in the social unrest prevailing.
84.	Moreover, the balance of foreign trade of the under-developed countries has deteriorated heavily in the current year. The statistics for August 1952 snow the following deficits in their balance of trade during 1952 in millions of United States dollars: South America, 665; Central America, Antilles and Mexico, 385; Middle East 374; Far East 1,972; Africa 1,139. This means that the under-developed countries are faced with an impoverishment totalling $US4,535 millions during 1952.
85.	These 1,600 million under-nourished, disease- ridden human beings, whose standards of living do not attain to half of those of the United States or the United Kingdom, are not really poor. On the contrary, in the countries to which they belong there is immense natural wealth that is not exploited or is not adequately exploited, or else the nationals of such countries do not get the benefit they are entitled to as owners of the land and as principal factors in such exploitation through their labour.
86.	A few months ago, one of the most significant documents of recent times was published, the report to the President by the President's Materials Policy Commission. For almost two years, this Commission studied the problems of production, prices, conservation, consumption, future requirements, techniques, etc., of the raw materials of the world, with the exception of the Soviet Union and the other countries of Eastern Europe and China. I shall quote some of the most telling figures.
87.	As regards the part of the world to which the report refers, the under-developed countries have the following percentages of reserves of the raw materials named: manganese, 90 per cent; copper, 85 per cent (Chile alone has about 40 per cent); tin, 97 per cent; aluminium, 85 per cent; petroleum, 67 per cent.
88.	As regards the present production of these raw materials, the percentages shown for the underdeveloped countries are a little lower than the percentages of reserves, because some of their resources are not exploited as intensively as they are in the industrial countries. In all cases, however, the percentage, is everywhere over 50 per cent, and sometimes over 80 per cent. These materials are naturally consumed to the extent of more than 90 per cent in the industrial nations; they are fundamental to the industry of these nations and therefore of the standard of living of their inhabitants.
89.	However, the Commission supplies some other interesting information, which shows the importance of these raw materials derived from the economically backward countries. Taking into account technical advances, and even possible substitutes resulting from scientific discoveries, the Commission holds the view that in the next twenty-five years the consumption requirements of raw materials will increase in the following manner: tin, 68 per cent; copper, 97 per cent: zinc 100 per cent; iron, 127 per cent; petroleum, 384 per cent; aluminium, 706 per cent. These figures show that the world, and especially the industrial countries, will depend to a growing extent upon the raw materials emanating from the under-developed countries,
90.	Two years ago, the General Assembly approved the resolution [377 (V)] “Uniting for Peace”, which many have stated is the most important resolution the United Nations has adopted so far, since it provides the means for repelling any aggression. The Soviet Union and the other countries that pursue the same policies voted against that resolution. Only one section of the resolution was adopted unanimously and that was section E, which I had the pleasure of proposing on behalf of my country, reading as follows: “The General Assembly “. . . is fully conscious that, In adopting the proposals set forth above, enduring peace will not be secured solely by collective security arrangements against breaches of international peace and acts of aggression, but that a genuine and lasting peace depends also upon the observance of all the principles and purposes established in the Charter of the United Nations, upon the implementation of the resolutions of the Security Council, the General Assembly and other principal organs of the United Nations intended to achieve the maintenance of international peace and security, and especially upon respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and on the establishment and maintenance of conditions of economic and social well-being in all countries; and accordingly “Urges Member States to respect fully, and to intensify, joint action, in co-operation with the United Nations, to develop and stimulate universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to intensify individual and collective efforts to achieve conditions of economic stability and social progress, particularly through the development of under-developed countries and areas.”
91.	It seems to me that the resolution that I have just Quoted contains all the elements that are required to enable the Member States, through the agency of their common Organization, the United Nations, to direct towards the general well-being that universal revolution of which I have been speaking. The first thing of which the resolution reminds us is the inseparability of the purposes and principles of the Charter, as essential elements of peace. Peace is based on the principle of the pacific settlement of disputes, joint action against aggression, the development of friendly relations among nations, respect for treaties and other sources of international law, but it is also based on the principles of self-determination of peoples, of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms with distinction as to race, sex, language or religion, and on the promotion of social progress and the raising of the standard of living in larger freedom.
92.	The Assembly now has an opportunity to demonstrate how far it is prepared to put this solemn declaration into force. For example, it will have to envisage the question of implementing the principle of self-determination of peoples when it studies the different items on the agenda which I mentioned at the outset.
93.	I merely wish to point out that the General Assembly only recently reaffirmed this principle and decided to incorporate it in the draft international covenants of human rights which are feeing prepared by the United Nations, and to recall that the will of the peoples to enjoy self-determination is so strong that it would be most dangerous folly, for the future of world peace, to resist it.
94.	After the First World War, a clear trend was seen towards continentalism and great associations of countries and territories, as a result of the growing interdependence of the different parts of the world and the consequent necessity of international co-operation. This phenomenon was often adduced to buttress arguments against the national independence of peoples who, allegedly, would not be able to subsist on their own resources. The concept of self-determination, it is argued, is antiquated, and progressive reforms must be carried out within the structure of multinational systems. The truth, however, is different. In order that a regional or inter-continental system — as in the case of the British Commonwealth — should be able to function properly, it must be based upon the absolute political sovereignty of the countries that make it up. Only an association of independent and sovereign countries can create multinational systems wherein the interests of all are observed. Only an association of free peoples can work usefully for the progress of all and for the progress of the international community. The whole history of the world affords proof of this.
95.	However, the economic and political interdependence to which I have referred shows that, just as international political tension affects all countries and territories, so also economic tensions are universal in character. In fact, the latter can bring about the former. As a consequence of this analysis, the delegation of Chile maintained, at the sixth session, in Paris, that the free right of self-determination of peoples ought to include the right to dispose of their own natural resources. We refer to politically free countries that are not in command of their resources and cannot on their own authority dispose of their resources. Many of the under-developed countries, which represent the greatest part of the world and of its population, base their economic life principally upon certain natural resources. I have already pointed out the importance of these material resources for the whole of humanity. For historical reasons, the greater part of these resources belong to foreign companies, and the prices are generally fixed abroad. Since their economy is almost wholly based on such revenues, these countries are conscious that they are not truly free to govern their own destinies.
96.	In April of this year, the Commission on Human Rights, accepting a proposal submitted by the Chilean delegation [E/CN.4/L.24], embodied in the draft international covenants, on human rights, which the General Assembly is now going to consider, an article proclaiming that “the right of the peoples to self- determination shall also include permanent sovereignty over their natural wealth and resources. In no case may a people be deprived of its own means of subsistence on the grounds of any rights that may be claimed by other States”.
97.	This article, received the unanimous support of the representatives of the under-developed countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America on the Commission on Human Rights. It does not, as many people have alleged, mean an invitation to expropriate foreign interests. It is a solemn affirmation of the permanent right of a country to defend its own resources, to have an active share in the profits, to prevent any attempt to squander them, and even to nationalize them or to demand the revision of contracts which do not take these rights into consideration. I am confident that the General Assembly will confirm this declaration.
98.	I have already mentioned resolution 377 (V), in which the General Assembly, two years ago, voiced its unanimous opinion that a lasting and true peace depended upon the establishment and maintenance of conditions of economic and social well-being in countries and urged Member States “to intensify individual and collective efforts to achieve conditions of economic stability and social progress, particularly through the development of under-developed countries and areas”.
99.	One economist after another, commissions of experts and technicians appointed by the United Nations, other commissions appointed by governments, authors, journalists and university professors, have for years been repeating that the economic development of the under-developed countries is the key to world economic stability, the most important factor in the maintenance of full employment in the industrial countries and the only means of preventing a world depression’ if, as we all hope, we can put an end to rearmament.
100.	But despite that solemn declaration, and in spite of the technical reports, what has actually been done along these lines is so little that a world authority in economy and sociology, such as Professor Gunnar Myrdal, the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Europe, stated last May that, for the moment, all our efforts to extend progress to the underdeveloped regions were homeopathic.
101.	The United Nations has been studying the problem for years, has drawn attention to it, has proffered solutions, has roused public opinion, has taken stock of the poverty and backwardness of many areas, has drawn up recommendations showing how economic development could be speeded up by action both within the countries themselves and through international cooperation. In a word, the United Nations has completed all the preliminary stages for final action on this universal problem by the international community. This has been its greatest achievement. Without the United Nations, the problem would remain imprisoned in the universities or other intellectual centres or in the files of governments. The United Nations has brought it into the light and has placed it in the forefront of our concerns. Today, for example, the British House of Commons is discussing the subject on the basis of our discussions in the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council.
102.	It must be admitted that it is the under-developed countries which are responsible for the fact that this victorious stage has been reached, for it is thanks to their insistence, their unity, their vision of the future and their patience that there has been such a thorough examination of the question. The delegation of Chile is proud to have had an active part in this common action, from 1947 to this very day.
103.	The odd thing is that while nobody has denied the conclusions arrived at by the different organs of the United Nations, the achievements, on one pretext or another, are still, as Professor Myrdal says, of a homeopathic character. At the sixth session of the General Assembly, in the Second Committee, I gave the whole problem a thorough study, on behalf of my country, and considered what international collaboration was doing to solve if, I am not going to repeat the figures. I shall merely state that between technical and financial assistance, the nations, acting in concert both within the framework of the United Nations and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and outside, and including ordinary budgets and direct assistance, have devoted not more than $1,000 million per annum to the solution of what the United Nations has officially, through its Secretary-General, called the most important long-term individual problem besetting the world and the United Nations. This is less than 1 per cent of what the world is spending on armaments, and 25 per cent of the foreign trade deficit of the under-developed countries. This year, the prospects are no better, for even the modest but effective United Nations programme of technical assistance will have fewer funds available than last year, since some countries have decreased their contributions.
104.	The main argument adduced lately for deferring any decision on really effective action with regard to economic development is the lack of resources due to the rearmament forced upon us by the aggression in Korea. This argument was completely refuted by the under-developed countries in the General Assembly last year. They proved that sufficient resources existed to carry out both programmes, and in particular that the funds required for the financing of development projects were infinitely less than what was being spent on armaments; and they further proved that an active policy of economic development was an essential part of any programme for combating aggression, The Secretary-General himself stated in the introduction to his annual report on the work of the Organization: “The strength necessary for peace will never be found in arms alone”; and elsewhere he adds: “There are, I am convinced, sufficient productive and financial resources in many of the developed countries which, if mobilized and wisely used for these purposes, might in fact lead to improvement in the economic position of these same countries rather than increase the burdens upon them”.
105.	The people will gladly accept collective measures against aggression, provided that they are accompanied by collective measures against poverty. But the fact is that the leaders of the world have lacked the conviction and decision to view the problem and plan its solution as they should in this second half of the twentieth century. They are still fascinated by and cloistered in a political and economic outlook which has long been out of date. They believe that the problem can be solved by private capital investments. However, those who have the capital are unwilling to invest it in genuine economic development projects; furthermore, such capital cannot be employed in undertakings which, while they do not pay dividends, are essential for the implementation of a rational programme for the development of under-developed countries. And they believe that the methods by which other countries were industrialized and developed in the nineteenth century — in quite different geographical, demographic and historical circumstances — can be applied today to the intensive development of India or Indonesia, of Africa; Brazil or Chile.
106.	So far, we have shown that a great programme of economic development of backward areas must be undertaken at the international level for three main reasons: First, the duty of human solidarity in the face of poverty; secondly, the need to ensure world economic stability by creating new consumer markets, and to settle the problem created by the permanent dislocation of the balance of trade of Western Europe; thirdly, the necessity of strengthening, both materially and spiritually, the peoples who have been called upon to collaborate in the work of the United Nations on behalf of peace and against aggression.
107.	We shall now add two new considerations of no less importance, which are the natural sequel to what I have just set forth. The first is that it is by a bold and sweeping programme of economic development that we can best ensure that the great world revolution of which I have spoken is directed towards the goal of international co-operation and solidarity, for the benefit of all and for the prevention of social struggles and international conflicts. The second is that the under-developed countries are today conscious of the fact that their natural wealth is just as vital to the industrial countries as are the equipment, machinery, technical knowledge and capital of the latter countries to themselves. They are aware of their strength and consequently of the fact that they can negotiate on an equal footing with the industrial countries and demand that the economic problem which faces the world, the problem of expansion, production, conservation, transformation and distribution of wealth, shall be solved for the benefit of all, as an undertaking of common concern, by the co-ordination of all the available resources.
108.	This last conclusion is so obvious that the United States Commission of Policy of Materials explicitly acknowledges it when it states in the part of its report entitled “The Fundamental Concepts”: “We believe that the destinies of the United States and the rest of the free non-Communist world are inextricably bound together. This belief we hope will color everything we have to say about the materials problem. It implies, for example, that if the United States is to increase its imports of materials it must return in other forms strength for strength to match what it receives. It is this Commission’s belief that if we fail to work for a rise in the standard of living of the rest of the free world, we thereby hamper and impede the further rise of our own, and equally lessen the chances of democracy to prosper and peace to reign the world over.”5 The Commission goes on to state its conviction that if the United States and other countries wish to be strong, they must co-ordinate their resources with a view to common development, security and. welfare.
109.	It is the duty pf the world's leaders to impress upon their peoples the absolute necessity of planning and carrying out a great, new and bold programme of economic development for the under-developed countries, by reason of the political, economic and human considerations to which I have drawn attention. This programme must satisfy the following requirements.
110.	In the first place, it must be inspired by the firm conviction that it is for the good of all. Consequently, although it may appear to some to be a rather revolutionary idea, the programme must be based on the concept that its execution is the common, responsibility of every country and every individual. But this concept is no more revolutionary than that which in the past demanded individual sacrifice for the achievement of local and national aims. Only through increasing economic action on a world-wide scale, in a free and peaceful world, can we maintain and even increase the prosperity which is now enjoyed by a minority of the peoples.
111.	Secondly, its main and final objective must be to safeguard the dignity of the human person, as the United 'Nations has consistently proclaimed. Fundamentally, therefore, it must strive to raise the standard of living of the masses, in each country, increasing the value of the work they perform within a broad concept of liberty.
112.	Thirdly, it must be directed in such a way as. to help the peoples to realize their right to self-determination.
113.	Fourthly, therefore, it should aim at the diversification of economies, in order to eliminate or decrease the economic dependence of these countries on their raw materials. It should envisage a rational and harmonious development of industry, minerals and agriculture.
114.	Fifthly, it must be drawn up with a view to the general interests of humanity and not those of a specific country or region. It should therefore tend towards a co-ordinated, inter-regional and inter-continental economic development.
115.	Sixthly, it must be based on national efforts, economic and otherwise; but it must also envisage financial and technical assistance to the degree recommended by economists and technicians.
116.	Finally, it must of necessity be accompanied by a new and different policy in regard to raw materials and international trade. Nothing can be achieved by economic and technical assistance if the underdeveloped countries have to go on exhausting themselves as a result of the present policies of control and establishment of the prices of raw materials by a few purchasing countries, as well as of the present pattern of international trade which impoverishes them more every day. To think otherwise would be a childish illusion.
117.	General agreements should be concluded in which the under-developed countries can participate on an equal footing with the industrialized countries and in which the interests of both sides are safeguarded, so that all types of resources — raw materials, labour, technical processes, equipment, machinery and capital — may be used co-operatively. Only in this way can the general welfare be promoted in an equitable manner. The only way to see to it that an adequate programme of economic development satisfies the essential requirements which I have outlined, is to entrust its execution to the United Nations; for then the countries which receive assistance will have no fear that their interests will be sacrificed for the benefit of other countries or groups.
118.	The United Nations, through its regional economic commissions, is in a position to carry out objective investigations — as it has already been doing — of the needs of each country, and to recommend the internal or inter-regional policies that are indispensable if the plans are to be carried out in conformity with the general needs. Only the United Nations, by coordinating, through the Secretary-General and the Economic and Social Council, the work of these commissions, can harmonize the development of the various regions and ensure that the final objectives and essential principles are not forgotten. Thus a United Nations programme would guarantee to the countries of Latin America and Asia that the necessary development of Africa would not be carried out in such a way as to prejudice the development of Latin America and Asia, but would on the contrary, be co-ordinated with it, and would at the same time respect the principle that the purpose of the programme was to raise the standard of living of peoples, not to secure raw materials for industrialized countries at a low cost.
119.	The outgoing President of the General Assembly, Mr. Luis Padilla Nervo, emphasized the primary need for strengthening the United Nations, for increasing its prestige and for striving to achieve greater public support for it, particularly at this time when political tension is weakening its very foundations. Until some progress is made in solving the present serious international conflict, I see no better way of achieving this than to make a resolute attempt to solve, completely or partially, the tremendous problem of poverty and hunger which confronts two-thirds of humanity, and the problem of economic instability which confronts the other third.
120.	Mr. Padilla Nervo also told us that the people of the world had a firm faith in the work the United Nations is doing in the economic and social fields. I believe this to be true — at least up to now. There are indeed many who know of the patient and laborious work of study and investigation, of analysis, dissemination of results, planning and programme drafting which the United Nations has carried on to date in these fields. Unfortunately, however, this work has reached the man in the street only in a very limited form — in homeopathic doses, as Professor Myrdal said. But it is the man in the street, who, in the end, is the one who forms public opinion in all countries.
121.	If we do not advance in the direction I have suggested, faith in the economic and social work of the United Nations will disappear, just as the hope that the United Nations will be able to put an end to the present acute political tension is disappearing. If the United Nations fails to take a definite, clear, active and bold position on the questions arising in connexion with the implementation of the General Assembly resolution [377 (V)] on “Uniting for peace" if it does not take a clear stand in support of the principle of self-determination, of respect for human rights and of the economic progress of underdeveloped countries, it will be turning its back on the commandments of the Charter and, what is even more serious, it will be turning its back on reality. An organization like ours, if it is incapable of understanding the burning issues of the day, will be of no value whatsoever in the task of maintaining peace; other forces and other principles — not those of the Charter — will then direct the great avalanche of mankind’s yearnings for justice, liberty and progress.


===== Session 08 - 1953 =====
1.	Since the beginning of the last session, the international situation has substantially changed. We have seen the end of the war in Korea  —  the end, that is, of the hostilities to which communist aggression gave rise in that republic. If the present promising situation is compared with that of the world in 1948, when the Berlin blockade was in progress, or with the more recent period of war in Asia, it might be thought that international tension had diminished and that the aggressive groups had realized what risks they were running in pursuing a policy of provocation. World opinion wants nothing so much as a feeling of security. This may be seen from the enthusiasm which any peaceful gesture on the part of those who have the power to cause conflict or promote peaceful coexistence arouses.
2.	Upon reading the Secretary-General's report [A/2404], however, and especially the chapter on political and security questions, we realize that there are still problems and difficulties which could dangerously disturb this precarious coexistence. Moreover —  and this is much more serious — there is no sure sign of a change of heart in those who have long compelled the other peoples to live in fear. It would seem that the world has resigned itself to living in a state of permanent danger and that the cold war makes the peoples long for peace but without hope. In order to meet the threat of aggression, a level of rearmament has been reached which suggests that a world war is expected to break out any day.
3.	But international life is fraught with difficulties other than these caused by the totalitarian menace. There are latent conflicts, resulting from previous arrangements, which are now coming to the surface again, because the atmosphere of fear is so wide-spread as to give cover to any kind of violence. In our time, too, dogmatic fanaticism of every conceivable kind has renewed its strength. As we live in a state of constant anxiety, opposing sides, instead of seeking a friendly solution, prefer the path of violence. This menacing prospect might suggest that lasting peace is unlikely of attainment and that the only course is continued rearmament.
4.	Nevertheless, material forces are strengthened by moral values. The fact that war has not yet broken out and may not break out is due primarily to the existence of the United Nations. In many quarters the United Nations is criticized as ineffective. But the United Nations was organized to maintain peace, not to create it; that was the responsibility of the great Powers which were victorious in the recent world war. The United Nations has worked under difficult conditions in the political held, but its moral authority has prevailed, if war has not broken out, it is because the aggressor would have had to face the rest of the world.
5.	For this reason, in this time of unceasing vigilance, my delegation reaffirms its adherence to the United Nations; it believes that only in so far as the United Nations is supported by governments and peoples will peace be maintained even among those who doubt the possibility of it, so that even the aggressors will be compelled to live in peace.
6.	Faith in the United Nations is indivisible. The Charter signed at San Francisco conceived a system of collective security based on the restoration of normal relations among States, steadily increasing respect for human rights and a constant improvement in the standards of living of the peoples. It was considered that, in order to maintain peace, it was not sufficient merely to prevent the outbreak of war, and the last world war showed that a bold and imaginative effort was required to eradicate the causes of such great disasters. That was why there was talk of respect for human rights and why it was tacitly agreed that the individual was the real subject of international law. While there remain regions or countries where hunrm beings are despised and abandoned, the fear of war will persist, for it is impossible to believe that a State can be peace-loving in international affairs if it denies a peaceful life to its people at home.
7.	We must note with regret that very little progress has been made in the vast field of human rights. There are States which take refuge behind Article 2, paragraph 7, of the Charter and claim that anything relating to the abridgement of freedom in their territory is a matter of national sovereignty, of no concern whatsoever to the international community and entirely outside the competence of the United Nations. But for those who still believe, and with reason, that any country which denies freedom to its own people is not likely to behave in a democratic fashion in the world at large, that attitude constitutes a threat to the system of collective security.
8.	The Chilean delegation is therefore anxious that this General Assembly should take a decision on the draft international conventions on human rights, so that States may be given the opportunity of ratifying these instruments which, taken together, will encourage greater respect for those rights.
9.	Neither formal good relations among States, nor even a general respect for human rights, are in themselves enough to make possible a lasting peace. Good neighbourliness among all peoples and the full enjoyment of individual rights cannot be ensured until poverty and want have been eliminated. That was why the United Nations Charter stressed the importance of better standards of life and the possibility of building a society where there would be equal opportunity for all and industry could eliminate poverty.
10.	The industrial countries had to recover from the disaster of war. The under-developed countries sought to attain a satisfactory level of production and consumption. The effort required was too much for national resources and made international co-operation essential. Loans, gifts, technical assistance, credits and other forms of aid had to be mobilized to carry out this joint enterprise with all due speed. All were directly interested in a victory over want because all knew that until that victory was won peace was in danger.
11.	Unfortunately, the cold war too is indivisible. The democracies have had to arm to meet the danger of totalitarian aggression. The technique of destruction has reached a level at which the expenditures involved are tremendous. More than $80,000 million has been spent on armaments in the past few years. That is the price that has so far had to be paid to keep in check those who would engage in violence. If the same sum had been invested in production and the means of production, we should now have a flourishing and prosperous community, a world of common effort and well-being. During these years wc have lost the greatest opportunity offered by history and the whole responsibility rests on those governments which, dominated and consumed by an anti-human dogma, believe that war is inevitable, that it is a historical necessity and that it is almost a duty to precipitate it. The cold war has deprived the under-developed areas of capital. It has diverted civil industries to unproductive ends. It has hindered the economic recovery of the countries devastated during the last war through the conversion of some of their factories to armaments production. It has limited the scope of technical assistance by leaving it a tiny budget, the total amount of which is less than the cost of twenty military aircraft.
12.	The United Nations Secretariat has prepared valuable material on the world economic situation; we see, once again, that it has been impossible to halt inflation, that international trade has not returned to normal, that the pace of development in the underdeveloped areas is extremely slow, that economies are being bled white by the cost of rearmament and that the standards of living of the peoples have remained stationary. All this, and much more, is the result of the cold war. It is the price the peoples who wish to remain free have paid to prevent aggression by those governments which have no respect for the human person.
13.	Unsatisfied needs afford a breeding ground for misunderstandings of all kinds and contribute to the campaign of hate, dominated by a war psychosis, that has been launched against the free world. The democracies are wrongly accused of having provoked rearmament, when in fact they have merely used some of their resources to prevent aggression from devastating Western Europe and other parts of the world. They are accused also of denying their peoples better standards of living when the fact is that, to safeguard their existence as nations they have been compelled to sacrifice some part of their legitimate right to a better life so as to be prepared, albeit insufficiently, to meet the aggressor. It has been asserted that the United Nations forces used bacterial weapons in the war in defence of the Republic of South Korea, when in fact its armies deliberately refrained from using certain modern weapons in order to respect the moral principles of the United Nations.
14.	Nevertheless the propaganda machine of the totalitarian regimes has persisted in its campaign of hate which, unfortunately, has been able to affect a part of world public opinion.
15.	The Korean armistice and the appearance of quiet on the front of aggression would seem to show that the free world’s determination to defend itself has contained the totalitarian advance. If this interpretation were correct, the United Nations would begin its eighth session in a more favourable atmosphere. Nevertheless we are anxious lest what has been gained in the political field should be lost in the economic and social fields.
16.	It is essential that the effort that made military rearmament possible should be directed to economic ends and that from now on the cold war against want should be fought and won. A depression, a world economic crisis or the continuation of the present imbalance between production and consumption could cause as much harm as war and disrupt the democratic system. The most important thing at this point is to tackle die problem of financing programmes of economic development, to increase the resources of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to set up an assistance fund — in short, to enable all the peoples who desire freedom to live their lives in real freedom without the constant fear of want and poverty. For that reason, my delegation believes, now as always, that the economic and social questions on the General Assembly’s agenda are closely linked with recent victories in the political field, and if we do not make headway in dealing with those questions, the little we have gained in one sphere may well be lost in the other.
17.	The Chilean delegation, as the spokesman of its Government and of the people of Chile, believes that the eighth session of the General Assembly should be concerned principally with the mobilization of international effort to raise the standards of living of the peoples and to avoid an economic crisis whose consequences would be as calamitous as war. Now, more than ever, imagination is needed to surmount the difficulties that beset us. Although the international situation may seem to lead to scepticism, my delegation has confidence in this General Assembly, for faith has always risen above disillusionment.

===== Session 09 - 1954 =====
I should like to join in congratulating the President upon being elected to conduct the proceedings of this ninth session of the Assembly. My country has great pleasure in congratulating you, Mr. President, because you represent a friendly country, and I myself am particularly gratified to do so because I have been fortunate enough to meet you at several international conferences, where I have had the opportunity of appreciating your vast knowledge, your vigorous personality and the understanding with which you consider other people’s ideas. I am confident that, under a President endowed with these qualities, the Assembly will have a fruitful session and that by the time you have completed your task your prestige will have been greatly enhanced.
46.	Before reading my statement, I should like to say a few words to explain why I have come to this rostrum before representatives of greater countries than my own. I was particularly anxious to be the first speaker, though I gladly yielded to the representative of Canada when he explained his personal reasons for wanting to speak first; it was not for any ridiculous ambition of being first, but because after this meeting or tomorrow’s meeting the television cameras, the radio networks and the columns of the Press will be concentrated on the pronouncements of the representatives of the great Powers and the spotlight thrown upon them will cast into shadow what we, the representatives of the small countries, have to say. In size and population we are small, but there are many of us, and we represent a sector of international public opinion which, unfortunately — and I am not saying this as a complaint but as an appeal — is not adequately reflected in the great United States Press, in those many and powerful instruments of world-wide communication and dissemination of ideas which make up the press of that country. That press does not make the voices of the small nations heard as they should be, representing as they do a body of international public opinion which should be heeded and which should have the means of spreading its thoughts and ideas, for the small nations sincerely desire the establishment of a real basis for a stable world peace.
47.	Forgive me for these remarks. I shall now read the written statement that I was eager to deliver at the right moment. I am going to read it slowly because it contains a few ideas which I should like to sink into the hearts and minds of the representatives of the big countries and to make an impression on the newspapers and communication media of this great country.
48.	It is difficult to analyse the international situation over the period between one General Assembly and the next. However new the facts observed may appear to be, they form part of a complex of contradictions and difficulties which have beset the life of the international community since the end of the last world war, leaving no respite nor breathing space to the peoples, which placed their faith in the Charter signed at San Francisco in the belief that peace had been concluded with victory.
49.	In his interesting annual report, the Secretary-General says that the United Nations is “a tool created by the Governments of Members to serve them in their efforts to establish and maintain peace, and is in no way an end in itself . . .” [A/2663, p. xi]. That statement is a necessary one; for if any new trend can be discerned in international affairs during the last year, it is the tendency on the part of certain countries to seek procedures and solutions outside the Organization to which all belong.
50.	At San Francisco it was thought that in future, nations would deal with their problems, difficulties or differences within the United Nations system and that with the co-operation of all it would be possible to seek solutions in a peaceful atmosphere.
51.	However, there are States within our Organization which not only obstruct its work but which have even accused it of aggression because it participated, as it was bound to do, in the defence of the Republic of Korea. It is true that the last year has seen the end of hostilities in Korea and Indo-China, but it is no less true that had it not been for this forum of nations which desire peace and condemn aggression, these conflicts would not have been localized, brought under control and suppressed.
52.	It is for that reason that my country expresses its grave concern that in some cases the United Nations system is not being used in matters which are part of the paramount responsibility conferred on it by the Member States signatories of the Charter. This tendency, as the Secretary-General very rightly says, “may tend to weaken the position of the Organization and to reduce its influence and effectiveness, even when the ultimate purpose which it is intended to serve is a United Nations purpose” [A/2663, p. xi]. Nations which are small in area and population have no part, and can have no part, in the shaping of important international events occurring outside the United Nations; yet at the same time they must resign themselves to bearing whatever consequences may ensue. We can understand that peace must be sought within or outside our Organization; but what we cannot understand is the acceptance as an accomplished fact of the thesis that peaceful coexistence or a mere respite in the cold war can be achieved only behind the back of the United Nations and in defiance of the principles of the Charter.
53.	Our delegation reaffirms its faith in the system of collective security established at San Francisco, and believes that true peace, bringing tranquility to all nations and peoples — that is to say, a peace based on respect for human rights and offering the hope of an improvement in the standards of living prevailing today — can only be based on the principles of our Charter.
54.	During the period I am reviewing — and also outside the United Nations system — there was a renewal of the propaganda campaign which calls itself “an appeal for coexistence”. That slogan caused no surprise to the international community, for the years of constant tension and fear of aggression have taught nations to be surprised at nothing.
55.	If the countries having the greatest influence in world decisions only resolved to live up to the principles of the Charter, the whole human race could coexist in peace and prosperity. It is inconceivable that after the sacrifices of the last world war, after all the tragic experiences the peoples lived through, it should still be thought in some quarters that it is easier to ignore the United Nations and bargain in a world dominated and ruined by the burden of armaments over a precarious right to existence. I have stated, and I repeat, that peace is an aspiration of such transcendent importance that it does not matter whether we try to achieve it inside or outside our Organization; but while we must welcome any serious effort to achieve peace we cannot refrain, in this forum, from expressing our doubts with respect to the so-called communist appeal for coexistence.
56.	Not one inch of communist territory or territory dominated by communist troops has suffered aggression or been invaded by the forces of the free world. On the contrary, the territories of the free peoples have been attacked or invaded during these same years by communist forces in Europe and Asia, and the United Nations has been obliged for its part to assume grave responsibilities. Both in Korea and in Indo-China, peace has been obtained at the price of partitioning the territories and dividing the population.
57.	Nevertheless, the propaganda machine of the aggressor, not of the victim of aggression, has launched the slogan of coexistence. Those who for years have prevented other nations from living in peace; those who have imposed perpetual tension and fear; those who have blighted the hopes of economic prosperity by forcing other countries to rearm, now speak of coexistence and invite us to share in it, but outside the United Nations Charter, which defines coexistence in terms which they cannot accept, namely, respect for human rights and the self-determination of peoples.
58.	What is the price of this so-called coexistence? There is talk of admitting Communist China, the country which attacked Korea, into our Organization; of destroying the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and of closing our eyes to any emergency in Formosa. The price may be these or many other conditions; but there is one condition inherent in the entire Communist appeal for coexistence: the invitation to join, consciously or unconsciously, in the campaign of hatred against the United States.
59.	Communist strategy, using various means to permeate world public opinion, has made its appeal for coexistence coincident with its vicious attack upon the United States. Attempts have been made to link nationalist movements, social awakening, aspirations for economic betterment and even cultural and racial differences by a common denominator of abiding unrelenting and persistent hatred, towards this nation, in an impressive campaign to shatter the solidarity and understanding which had developed in the international community during the trying years of the last world war. For all these reasons, we continue to think that the only form of coexistence worthy of free peoples is that proposed in the Charter of the United Nations. We have great problems and differences, but no one can put his trust in a system of coexistence nurtured on hatred for one of the members of the international community.
60.	The agenda for this ninth session again draws the attention of Member States to those economic and social problems whose solution has been so long delayed.
61.	There is no need to emphasize once more the close relationship which exists between peace and prosperity, between political conditions, and economic and social conditions; or to point out that the solution of some of the existing economic problems would help to strengthen the peace-loving forces of the world. It is a fact that the agencies created by the international community in the post-war period to deal with reconstruction, currency stabilization and the development of world production have done everything possible under their charters and with the resources at their disposal; but at the same time it is also true that the measures they have taken have proved inadequate because of the immensity of the task. The statesmen of the post-war period failed to grasp the magnitude of the problems, both economic and social, which developed in the wake of the war, and the plans they made for a return to “normalcy” and a subsequent stabilization of international economic forces proved woefully inadequate.
62.	In reviewing the Secretary-General’s studies on economic development, international finance, agrarian reform, the development of natural resources, economic stability, full employment and international commodity problems, the reports of the regional economic commissions and the practical work of the principal agencies, such as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Monetary Fund, the Food and Agriculture Organization and others, a striking disproportion is to be noted between what is recommended to be done and what is actually being done or what we may hope to see done some day. We cannot but admit that international co-operation in this field has been characterized by generous intentions and modest achievements.
63.	What is the main obstacle? My delegation believes that for some time economic considerations have been transformed into an appendage of or addendum to the general political and military situation. International resources seem to flow to the areas of greatest danger, and almost invariably arrive too late.
64.	In addition — and it is necessary to state this here so that the views of all nations, large and small, may be known — there is a tendency to think that whatever is or has proved beneficial in the history of an industrialized country must necessarily be good for the development of a growing nation. Economic dogmas are as dangerous as political dogmas; perhaps they do not endanger peace or the peaceful coexistence of nations; but they undoubtedly jeopardize and distort the economic well-being of the great masses of the population and implant in the minds of the people an attitude of discontent and rebellion, as they perceive a high standard of living, which is appropriate to the country in which we live but unattainable to the majority of mankind.
65.	This year the tenth Inter-American Conference was held at Caracas, and the countries of Latin America, without exception, spoke the same language and pointed out that those who are in a position to have a deciding voice in matters affecting international economic cooperation must understand the real conditions obtaining in the nations concerned before attempting to impose rules or remedies which are not in conformity with the true conditions in our countries.
66.	The Economic Survey of Latin America, 1953 states that during the period 1945-1952 average per capita income in the Latin American countries rose 3.3 per cent, and that if this rate were maintained, Latin America could double its present standard of living in twenty-one years. It goes on to say, however, that this improvement resulted solely from increased income attributable to the terms of trade, which have now entered an unfavourable phase. In other words, we can no longer think of maintaining the rate of 3.3 per cent, and the dream of doubling the present standard of living will not be realized within the period of twenty-one years. Behind the technical expression “terms of trade” what the report is really saying is that the output of the Latin-American continent is beginning to decline in value on the world market, and that the same commodities that it has been producing are now worth less money. Thus a country’s effort, the mobilization of a country’s resources to achieve its legitimate economic development, are undermined and weakened by the operation of international factors beyond its control.
67.	If this is what is taking place in the field of production, let us see what has happened in that of international co-operation. During the period 1950-1953, net capital investment in Latin America amounted to an annual average of $421 million which, allowing for certain credit operations carried out for the purpose of adjusting the balance of payments, made up a total flow of capital of less than $530 million per annum. Of this amount, less than $80 million were furnished by international credit agencies, the remainder consisting of private investment. The total volume of public investment in Latin America during the same period amounted to $2,240 million; thus the contribution of international credit agencies to the whole of Latin America represented only 3 per cent of the total investment. Moreover, 56 per cent of the so-called “flow of private capital” resulted from the re-investment of profits; it did not represent fresh capital.
68.	Finally, the total investment in Latin America between 1950 and 1953 from public funds and private capital was $2,446 million, representing an annual average of $611,500,000. During the same period, remittances to cover repatriation or redemption of capital amounted to $358 million, or $89,500,000 per annum, and service of capital (dividends, profits, royalties, interest, etc.) amounted to $2,524 million, or $631 million per annum. In other words, if we compare investment in Latin America with the Latin-American countries’ disbursements during the period 1950-1953, we find that the investment was smaller than the disbursements by $535 million. Our region is a good business proposition.
69.	In this situation, we are receiving a generous amount of advice. We are told of the boundless importance of private enterprise and the danger of economic intervention by the State. Now our countries have long known, respected and encouraged private enterprise, but we prefer enterprise which is our own, which is national and which produces for the general good of the country. Latin-American private enterprise — an anomaly in the world of today — has no access to the international capital market. Foreign private enterprise has been and still is welcomed in our America; but it must be realized that it is interested only in exportable production; and furthermore, that the resulting service of capital heavily burdens our balance of payments.
70.	Exaggerated fear of economic intervention by the State evidences ignorance of the real situation. Before the First World War, when the State was virtually a passive element in national production, international sources of credit offered their capital directly to the State in the form of loans or other means of credit. And now that the emphasis is on private enterprise and private enterprise alone, international credit cannot be obtained without a State guarantee. In short, it is a sign of our times that Latin America, an area which is in the full tide of development and in process of expansion, at a time when it most needs international assistance, exports capital instead of importing it and disburses far more in payments for services and other items than it absorbs into its economy in the form of public or private capital.
71.	It was for these reasons that the Tenth Inter-American Conference at Caracas unanimously agreed to adopt the proposal put forward by the Chilean delegation and decided that this year, during the session of the General Assembly, a meeting of Ministers of Finance and Economy of the American States should be held in Rio de Janeiro to discuss once and for all our common problems, in order to make clear what international co-operation really amounts to.
72.	I have referred to the recent experience of the geographical area to which my country belongs in order to show you all one of the aspects of the drama of our time: the ignorance which exists of the true situation in which nations live and the obstinate persistence with which political and economic dogmas are imposed upon a humanity whose sole desire is for unity and understanding.
73.	On behalf of my country I should like to say here that our approach to political as well as to economic and social problems should be founded upon respect for human rights. The events of the past year should make us reflect upon the danger inherent in the fact that the importance of those first two factors of international action may make us forget that the true object of the Charter is precisely to impose these minimum standards of civilized co-operation.
74.	Despite the obstacles which confront it, our Organization should endeavour to intensify the work of drawing up the international covenants which have for long years been the study of the Commission on Human Rights. We cannot resign ourselves to the thought that the international situation destroys any hope of collective effort to enforce respect for these rights. Wherever there is any possibility of imposing or maintaining them, there our Organization should throw in the weight of all its experience and moral force.
75.	In conclusion, I should like on behalf of my Government to express the hope that this session coming, after so many years of anxiety and cold war, may serve all our countries as an occasion for self-examination. We must understand that international events have developed in such a way that the worst may happen at any moment; that the responsibility which each of us bears in relation to his opportunities is enormous, for not only has fear and terror been spread throughout the continents but faith in this Organization has dwindled, and it is essential that we should raise our collective conduct to the high moral level of the Charter.
76.	Chile greets the ninth session and declares its resolve to lend its assistance where it can and in such measure as it can, in order that when peace is spoken of, peace is really meant, and when co-operation is offered, we may be sure that what is offered is really co-operation.


===== Session 10 - 1955 =====
1.	It is my privilege to ascend this rostrum, at a very significant moment in history. Two factors, one of immediate interest and the other of a permanent character, give my statement here special significance: first, this is the culmination of ten years of work by the United Nations and, secondly, the Chilean people and their Government whole-heartedly support the principles of the Charter.
2.	During the first ten years, of its existence, the United Nations 'has worked untiringly to fulfil the mandate conferred on it at San Francisco, namely, to maintain international peace and security and to promote the welfare of all peoples. It is therefore appropriate to recall the magnitude and importance of the work accomplished, to analyse and formulate in concrete terms the experience gained and, on the basis of these facts, to establish a pattern for future action. The steps already taken in the matter of the economic, social and cultural, action included among the purposes and principles proclaimed in the Charter have shown that the application of these principles constitutes the most effective method of maintaining peace.
3.	 Recent international conferences have proved conclusively that it is possible to rise above the ideological differences of the modern world which are the causes of the cold war. Among these differences, the most important is that concerning the concept of freedom. From the philosophical point of view, the United Nations has worked out an equation based on mutual tolerance and respect for the beliefs of others. It is only by proceeding  on the principle that no one is infallible and that, consequently, what is true for us does not always hold good for others, that a workable formula for coexistence can  be found. If, however, we push this principle to the point of sophistry, in other words, if we consider that 1 die truth of this proposition is purely relative, we shall find ourselves constrained to accept the principle of the use of force to settle international disputes. Obviously, the ideal would be to cherish what unites us as human beings and to eliminate by common accord all that divides us; 
4.	The democracies of the so-called small nations, which include Chile, constitute the fundamental moral bulwark of the great Powers. Both the spirit and the substance of the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights bear out this affirmation. Without this moral support, the great Powers would forsake those principles which are of the very essence of the United Nations, they would commit flagrant violations of the principles of the Charter and of human rights and would cause the small nations, united in purpose and jointly affected by this abuse of force, to band together in defence of their interests and thus to adopt a legitimate attitude which, in the final analysis, would express the original spirit of the United Nations.
5.	My Government has made every effort, both in its foreign policy and in respect of social problems, to reaffirm its faith in the United Nations, and it has always acted in close co-operation with the Organization.
6.	My delegation feels that we should support the recommendations of the San Francisco Conference, included in the agenda of the tenth session, regarding the convening of a general conference of the Member States of the United Nations for the purpose of reviewing the Charter, on the basis of the excellent documentation prepared by the Secretary-General.
7.	From 1945 to the present day, there have been many changes in the international situation which have decided us in favour of a conference for the purpose of reviewing the Charter. The sharp contrast between the principles of the Charter and the conditions under which the United Nations has functioned leads us to consider the necessity of reviewing the text of the Charter. Nevertheless, my delegation realizes that perhaps the time has not yet come to make far-reaching amendments to the Charter. It is one thing to agree upon the right and the need to review it, but it is another thing to select the proper time to set forth the points of view which must be considered in the proposed review. The latter problem should be settled in the light of the political situation, for if a conference, of this type is to achieve constructive results and strengthen the application of the spirit of the Charter, it is essential that Member States should approach the conference animated by the desire to co-operate in such matters.,
8.	Above all, consideration should be given, in the political sphere, to the possibility of eliminating the veto in respect of the peaceful settlement of international disputes, the admissiorLof new Members and the appointment of the Secretary-General. In these three cases, the use of the veto has resulted from an erroneous interpretation. of the relevant Articles of the Charter.
9.	With respect to the admission cf new Members, the nearest possible approach to the principle of universality is essential for the united action of States in conformity with international law. It would be logical to hope that, in view of the overriding importance of this goal, the spirit which we might call the “Geneva spirit”, the new policy of conciliation defined and proclaimed in that city, will be translated into deeds, one of which should be the admission without discrimination of States possessing the qualifications which were carefully laid down in Article 4 of the Charter.
10.	The ten years of the United Nations’ existence have served, inter alia, to emphasize the importance of regional arrangements within the existing system of collective security. In view of this fact, it would be well to redraft some of the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter, so that there could be no doubt about the procedure to be followed in cases of disputes between States signatories of a regional agreement.
11.	Similarly, we should like to stress the opinion expressed by our Minister for Foreign Affairs at the recent San Francisco Conference, to the effect that the existing Economic and Social Council should be set up as two councils or bodies: an Economic and Technical Assistance Council and a Social and Human Rights Council. This arrangement would expedite the progress of the Council’s important work. We must bear in mind that the Economic and Social Council has become the most important body for the small nations, with their limited resources and low standards of living.
12.	There is, however, another aspect of the review which is of equally great concern to my Government: the necessity for a critical survey of the institutions and procedures for stimulating economic development in the under-developed countries. These institutions, which were set up, for laudable purposes, during the immediate post-war period, should take advantage of the experience acquired in ten years of work and adapt their functions to the present economic and social situation. In recent years, significant efforts have been made to penetrate, directly or indirectly, the economic and financial fields and thereby to mobilize international co-operation to the fullest possible degree, for the greater prosperity of nations and a higher standard of living for all people.
13.	All the representatives will remember the debates at Bretton Woods. At that time, it was considered to 'be the duty of all nations to help to create favourable conditions which would encourage a return to economic normality in the post-war period, with a few structural changes to eliminate the danger of a depression such as that of 1930 and 1931. The International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development emerged from the Bretton Woods Conference. These two new institutions may 'be said to be the synthesis of the creative efforts of the planners of that time.
14.	As we all know, the principal objective of the Fund was to create normal and healthy monetary conditions, to bring about convertibility of currencies, to eliminate exchange control and discriminatory policies and to promote free and prosperous international trade. The Bank concentrated, to begin with, on the reconstruction of the war-devastated areas, and subsequently it began slowly and cautiously to concern itself with economic development in the true sense of the term.
15.	What have these bodies achieved in their ten years of work? To begin with, convertibility of currency is not the general rule. At best it is a rare exception. The Fund could do no better; it was not within its power to change economic and financial conditions. The Bank has granted large loans, but it has done so in conformity with banking policies, which, owing perhaps to the source of its funds, have followed a conservative criterion,
16.	The total funds devoted to economic development  have been of considerable assistance. Can anyone claim, however, that the Bank has solved the problem of economic development? Can it be said that this institution suffices to overcome any difficulties in die way of financing? It is not the fault of the Bank or of its directors that the reply must be in the negative, for the fact is that the problem is of such magnitude that the Bank, with all its goodwill, has neither the resources nor the requisite business methods to be able to cope with it.
17.	The two institutions, which are specialized agencies of the United Nations, have also assisted Governments through their technical missions. This is another effective accomplishment. This work of technical assistance, over and above the loans, is impressive if it is viewed from the standpoint of the situation prior to Bretton Woods. Where there was a void, there are now two institutions functioning. Nevertheless, we must realize that the problems of economic development and its financing are beyond the scope of these institutions, and give them the appearance of being adjuncts to a broad economic and financial programme that is still non-existent, but that will inevitably have to be set up in response to the implacable demands of the age in which we live.
18.	From the outset, the United Nations has brought about a radical reform in international economic and financial ideas. The surveys and research carried out by the department concerned, as also the outstanding work of the regional economic commissions, are achievements for which we must express our high appreciation from this rostrum, Member States and those which are not-yet Members have begun to speak a new language and for many of them it has been their first economic idiom. The theoretical studies compiled by the United Nations and the continuing research programmes conducted by the regional economic commissions would of themselves amply justify the existence of the United Nations, if any justification were necessary.
19.	As a representative of Chile, I know best the work of the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA), I am certain that for all the countries of Latin America, the establishment of that Commission inaugurated a new stage in our common economic development, a period of insight into, the facts of economy and finance, a period during which possible alternatives are submitted or suggested for the solution of problems of a general nature.
20.	Having said this, what are the net results of this effort? The United Nations does not formulate doctrines or dogmas; it merely presents the facts and shows how they are interrelated, or outlines their probable causal relationship. Its markedly objective work gives rise, however, to one cause for concern: the basic problems of, world economy will not be mastered until a bold approach is made to the question of economic development. This same opinion is to be found in the analyses and conclusions of the Economic Commissions for Europe, for Latin America and for Asia and the Far East, and even in isolated studies on Africa. This is, therefore, a general conclusion which applies equally to the various geographical regions concerned.
21.  Let us consider, for a moment, our experience at the regional level. Following the Tenth Inter-American Conference, held at Caracas in March 1954, the first meeting of the Finance Ministers of the members of the Organization of American States was held at Rio de Janeiro in November 1954. As was natural, the chief topic of debate centred round the problem of the economic development of the region as a whole. It was decided that experts should study the possibility of organizing an Inter-American system, or bank, so that there would be an institution, at least at the regional level, to fill the vast gap in the facilities of the existing institutions. This project is in the planning stage, although it was impossible to enlist the support of the United States, which is economically the most important nation. A committee of Latin American experts, working in collaboration with the Economic Commission for Latin America, proposed that an Inter-American fund for the development of mining, agriculture and industry should foe established. This proposal, too, was rejected.
22.	What do these plans tell us? That the Latin American region realizes that its rate of development is slow, that national resources to accelerate development are meagre and that the co-operation of the appropriate international institutions is valuable but limited and out of all proportion to the magnitude of the task to be accomplished.
23.	In the early part of this year, there was talk of an International Finance Corporation, a subsidiary of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; We all know how this idea originated and how difficult it was to dissociate it from the concept of a fund for economic development. Nevertheless the two ideas were eventually separated. Accordingly, there will shortly be a new international institution for the granting of loans, particularly to private undertakings and without State guarantees. Its total capital will be $100 million, from which it will serve all geographical regions. In other words, little progress has been made.
24.	If, in addition to all the foregoing projects, we add technical assistance — both the United Nations Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance and the special programmes, we shall have a more or less complete picture of this collective effort to deal with economic and financial problems. I repeat that every one of these activities represents something constructive, and that it is not the fault of the individual institutions that their operations have proved very modest in comparison with the magnitude of the problems confronting them.
25.	Apart from action taken at the international level, the co-operation of certain countries, and particularly that of the United States, has been of decisive influence. The Lend-Lease Act, the Marshall Plan and the Mutual Security Program are too well known to Members for me to expatiate on them. This generous co-operation, without precedent in history, was designed to achieve two or three well-defined objectives, but none of these was primarily concerned with the economic development of the under-developed areas, nor could they be so, considering the grave political situation which gave rise to this programme. I shall do no more than draw your attention to this fact.
26.	If we could make a comprehensive study of international co-operation in economic and financial affairs over the past ten years, the measures taken on the regional and national levels, the generous collaboration of certain States, as well as other determining factors, it might perhaps be possible to arrive at some general conclusions. It is a fact that, on average, production indices have exceeded the pre-war figures. It is equally true that substantial progress in relation to the pre-war period has been registered in the under-developed regions. Nevertheless, as the Secretary-General pointed out to the Economic and Social Council on 12 July 1955, “although the international economic disintegration that marked the immediate post-war period had been halted, only a limited measure of economic integration had been achieved”.
27.	What has happened? Why has economic integration not been achieved in the last ten years? Some think that this integration has been jeopardized and impeded by the fact that international trade is divided into blocs. This field bristles with complications of every kind, but the progress achieved in it seems to indicate that although a world trade system would facilitate commercial interchange, this advantage would not solve the fundamental problem. It is not a matter of quantitative changes but of qualitative corrections.
28.	In the same speech, the Secretary-General said that “unfortunately, the progress made by the industrial countries had not been matched by the under-developed countries, either in respect of economic stabilization or in respect of economic growth”. In other words, the fundamental problem in the economic field is that production, greatly expanded by technical progress, is riot finding the necessary consumer markets. The constant threat hovering over the peoples of the world is not a crisis of over-production, but one of under-consumption. As long as there are no dependable and expanding markets to absorb the growing production of the world, we shall continue to witness the spectacle of this ruthless competition for export markets, and there will continue to be trade and exchange restrictions which will indirectly enable certain Governments to subsidize their products in the scanty foreign markets. Until this problem is given a priority solution, it is idle to speak of free international trade, convertibility of currencies or freedom of transport. This is a fact which is realized by each and every one of the industrial countries concerned, but which has not yet gained international recognition.
29.	Some there are who disapprove of the emphasis the under-developed countries place on the need to accelerate their economic progress and of their pressing for increased international co-operation. Others believe that everything can be reduced to technical assistance. We should try to understand that the ideas which have hitherto prevailed on these subjects have become obsolete, and that what is really needed is a reappraisal of world economic and financial conditions. We must realize that economic development is to the advantage not of the backward countries alone, 'but of all countries, especially those which are so anxious to obtain consumer markets.
30.	The tenth session of the General Assembly now has such an opportunity before it. The Second Committee is to study the question of the establishment of a Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development. The work of research and detailed technical analysis has been done. What remains to be done? Simply to take action. Is there or is there not a conviction that the progress of all backward areas is a necessary condition for the prosperity of the industrial countries? If those countries do not need these markets and have to maintain an export war with all kinds of subsidies, it is urgent for them to decide on the kind of international co-operation they want and the organization that would be most suitable for this purpose.
31.	There have been meetings at the highest international level to discuss political problems which endanger world peace. Some slight but definite progress has been made, and this has created a certain feeling of confidence. This has been the first step. We should not forget, however, that the search for peace calls for other measures too which, together with political action, will complete the circle of solidarity and understanding between nations.
32.	The United Nations Charter is very clear when it states the doctrine of the indivisibility of peace and prosperity. Our Organization should exert its influence, or take some practical step, to have critical economic and financial problems included in the agenda of meetings at this high level, so that the statesmen concerned could determine the nature of the economic difficulties threatening the various parts of the world, and the extent to which the more speedy economic development of the under-developed areas would help, in the interests of common prosperity, to create confidence and encourage coexistence by promoting the welfare of nations and their economic stability.
33.	As far as my own country is concerned, I should like briefly to draw the attention of the Assembly to a phenomenon which constitutes a perfect example of contemporary economic conditions and which may prompt us to study and to find out the causes and effects of a distressing situation. The Assembly is aware that Chile is suffering from a serious inflation. It is something to which we cannot close our eyes and in connexion with which we cannot shirk our responsibilities. Nor can this situation be attributed to factors that are exclusively or predominantly political. The causes of inflation in our country are clearly sociological in origin, and it would be a mistake to regard the situation with pessimism.
34.	From all points of view, statistics reveal an extraordinary peak in the economic development of Latin America, and this has been confirmed by the magnificent research work of the Economic Commission for Latin America (LCLA). Nevertheless, most of our countries have borne an unmistakable stigma for centuries, the stigma of manifest social inequality. Strictly speaking, there was no middle class in some Latin American countries until well into the present century, and in some others it would be rash to presume that such a class exists even yet.
35.	In this respect, Chile has undergone an extraordinary transformation during the last 20 years. From the social point of view, this positive transformation has brought about a surprising degree of equality between classes: the middle class has increased and become stronger, while the standard of living of the working class has improved in geometrical progression. To our credit, this historical development has taken place without convulsions or violence, and has been characterized by an absolute respect for the democratic institutions which are the pride of my country.
36.	From the economic point of view, however, as was the case in France during the years following the First World War, this development has brought about an enormous increase in the purchasing power of the classes which have risen in the social scale, an increase which has substantially out-distanced the economic development of the country. The number and density of Chile’s population is not such as to allow any cheap and efficient light industry to prosper there. The demand for consumer goods must be satisfied with foreign exchange derived from the export of products which are subject to the fluctuations of international prices. It is well known that instability is the chief cause of inflation.
37.	Chile has contended resolutely with these difficulties and has solved many of them by encouraging the industrialization of the country and by putting into practice the recommendations of the technical agencies of the United Nations, especially those of the Economic Commission for Latin America. However, in order to bring about a genuine rise in the standard of living of its population and to consolidate these gains by creating new sources of wealth, it must be able to dispose of its products on the world market on more equitable terms than those prevailing at present.
38.	After ten years of experience, the United Nations now possesses all the necessary background information to make an exhaustive review of the agencies which were created to solve these problems and of the methods I hitherto employed, at the international and regional levels, to eliminate the causes of the poverty and distress of the great masses of the population. It is the duty of j the United Nations to make use of this experience and to apply fully the principle of the Charter that peace and prosperity constitute two parts of an equation which is ineffective if they are separated. To ignore the unity and interdependence of political, social and economic facts is to be guilty of an inexcusable mistake which the statesmen at San Francisco were careful to condemn any action which ignores this organic unity will be purely artificial and is doomed to sterility.	
39.	If the Charter is to be reviewed, it should be with a view to creating contractual obligations between States that will lead to positive co-operation in the field of economic integration. The Commission on International Commodity Trade was established in accordance with this principle.
40.	In Chapter of the Charter, which defines its purposes and principles, care was taken to establish the following as one of the most important objectives of the United Nations: “To achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion.” The international co-operation achieved by the United Nations in solving the type of problems indicated in this paragraph has produced results of obvious importance. It is equally true that the number of problems that threaten collective peace and welfare makes it necessary to seek more effective solutions than those which have been proposed during the first ten years of the Organization.
41.	Fortunately, in various matters connected with this subject, there is a general awareness in our Organization that we must make faster progress in the search; for appropriate and effective solutions. One proof of this awareness lies in the fact that items such as the following are again appearing on the agenda of the. Assembly: “Question of the establishment of a Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development”, and’ “Question of the establishment of an International Finance Corporation”. My delegation will co-operate; whole-heartedly in completing these plans and ensuring their implementation. If the results achieved are not sufficiently timely or effective, it will be advisable to consider the necessity of calling a world economic conference under the auspices of the United Nations, which will assume the responsibility of proposing method that will enable us to overcome our present difficulties
42.	In the social field, it is satisfying to find that the second item on the agenda of the Third Committee is "Draft International Covenants on Human Rights”. The coexistence within the United Nations of the representatives of the various civilizations scattered over the face of the globe has been possible, fundamentally, because all the civilizations share the common denominator of one and the same spiritual need, which does not permit compromises or delays in the task of promoting respect for human rights. It is this that made it possible, at the third session of the General Assembly [183rd meeting] to obtain the impressive unanimous vote in favour of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which of all the projects sponsored by the United Nations is the most important from the moral point of view. Nevertheless, this Declaration belongs in the field of abstract principles arid the obligations attaching to its text are purely moral. The United Nations, therefore, has understood the need to sponsor the formulation of covenants on human rights, which will give these rights legal validity and make their enforcement an international responsibility.
43.	Without the realization that these rights are inalienable and that disregard of them would bring about the downfall of civilization, the international community, lacking moral stature, would disintegrate. The small nations would have no place in an organization that served only as a battle-ground for all kinds of material interests and any such conflict would inevitably lead the great Powers into violence and destruction. Thanks to the moral backing of the small countries, the United Nations is a bulwark of peace and conciliation and is aware that if it is to accomplish its mission it must encourage respect for human rights.
44.	The covenants already drawn up deserve, therefore, to 'be given priority, and we should endeavour to complete that task during the current session. That endeavour would be in the interests of all States, large and small, and would enhance the prestige of the United Nations.
45.	In the course of history, mankind has witnessed the rise and fall of empires and the collapse of systems and values which had been conceived as the expression of basic truths. The new moral code given the world from Mount Sinai in the Ten Commandments proclaimed principles which have successfully withstood the test of a hard struggle against all forms of slavery and savagery, and have become identified with the very essence of civilization. The principles proclaimed by the United Nations Charter ten years ago, put to the test by the harsh experience of the cold war, still stand today, and we know that they exercise an ever-increasing influence on the conduct of the peoples.
46.	Let us bend our will and our strength in this newly-opened tenth session of the General Assembly, without fear or flinching, to promoting the cause of peace, economic development and the observance of human rights, and we shall become more worthy of the confidence of the peoples.

===== Session 11 - 1956 =====
The Government of Chile wishes first of all to express through its delegation to the eleventh session of the United Nations General Assembly its great satisfaction at the election of Prince Wan of Thailand to the presidency of this Assembly. Knowing as we do his great culture, his thorough understanding of international affairs and his fine sense of tact, we are certain that he will guide and direct our discussions with skill in the difficult days ahead.
123.	My delegation further wishes to express to all the representatives gathered here its warmest thanks for the co-operation which they unfailingly extended to two of our compatriots in the arduous tasks which they were called upon to fulfil: I refer to Mr. Maza, President of the tenth session of the General Assembly, and Mr. Ortega, who presided over the recent emergency special sessions.
124.	Those emergency special sessions transferred to the regular session of the General Assembly two extremely acute problems which have kept all peace-loving peoples in a state of alarm and anxiety, namely, the action of foreign troops in Egypt and the violent suppression by invading armies of the Hungarian people’s struggle for emancipation. Both problems received the immediate attention of the United Nations and have continued unceasingly to afford us the most serious concern.
125.	Fortunately the danger that the fighting in the Suez Canal zone might spread and plunge the whole world into the abyss seems to have begun to subside. Uncertainty none the less still prevails, because fresh difficulties are constantly arising which give renewed impetus to charges and lend drama to recriminations. However, decisive statements made here in recent days by the representatives of the countries directly involved give reason to believe that the resolutions of this Assembly will be complied with in their entirety. The Secretary-General will thus be enabled to seek a settlement under which the peoples of the area can live together in harmony, and peace can be firmly established.
126.	A way must be found to reconcile legitimate sovereign rights with the rights of a world that urgently needs to be able to use a vital supply line in peace and safety. We are entitled to hope that obstinacy and misunderstanding will be set aside, so that agreements which will eliminate any threat to world peace may be reached.
127.	The news dispatches which arrive daily, and the reports received by the information services of Governments all over the world have been strengthening the impression, to the point of making it a certainty, that the Hungarian people, eager to throw off the foreign yoke, are being outraged, enslaved and martyred by a foreign Power as they wage their great struggle for freedom. The Assembly has reaffirmed its resolutions concerning this acute problem and has thereby demonstrated the almost unanimous conviction of the free nations that Hungary has been the victim of outside intervention and of acts of repression which constitute violation of the principles which each Member of the United Nations has pledged itself to observe and respect.
128.	My country, with its genuine democratic way of life and its unsullied tradition of freedom, cannot remain indifferent in the face of an invasion by forces of tyranny which, under pretexts that cannot possibly be taken seriously and much less justified, are violating the freedom of another nation and preventing it from choosing its own government and determining its own future. We stand with those who have raised their voices in protest and indignation against an act of aggression which is a threat to the sovereignty of every State and a violation of the most elementary human rights.
129.	Despite the refusal of some representatives to acknowledge the facts which the free Press records daily, and their insistence that the only truth is what their controlled Press chooses to publish, this Assembly continues to be convinced that masses of Hungarian citizens are being deported and martyred for having dared to proclaim their desire for independence. This is a shameful blot on the history of our time which can scarcely be attenuated even by the feeling of solidarity with the persecuted that has been expressed by almost all the peoples of the earth.
130.	The spontaneous offers of hospitality and aid are proof of the common desire to heal the deep wound which these persecutions have inflicted upon our civilization. My country is among those which are eager, to give the victims of ruthless foreign intervention in Hungary homes and security, and it has already begun to issue the necessary authorizations for the entry of up to 1,000 Hungarian refugees.
131.	Retrograde actions such as those to which I have just referred strikingly show how necessary it is that the United Nations should eventually be in a position to back up its decisions — which are acquiring such great moral force — with swift, effective and powerful action to deter territorial invasions and attempts against basic human rights. Acts such as those which we have had occasion to consider and deplore in this Assembly cannot and must not be repeated, because they carry within themselves the seeds of destruction which could generate a world catastrophe and with it the end of civilized life.
132.	We are therefore in complete accord with those who have expressed here the hope that the United Nations will organize a permanent armed force ready to step in whenever its services may be required to deter aggression by any State which forgets the commitments undertaken upon its entry into this world Organization and send its troops outside its own frontiers. For the sake of preserving the peace, no State would withhold its support from such a vital Undertaking.
133.	The mere presence of United Nations police forces in danger zones will deter aggression, however great and powerful the invading forces may be. We do not believe that any army would dare to challenge United Nations contingents, for such an adventure would be condemned from the outset by all the rest of mankind.
134.	The creation of this small force which is being sent to guard the frontiers in the Canal zone, and to which my country has offered its effective co-operation, will demonstrate the significance, not only symbolic but also real, of the proposal put forward in this Assembly. We hope that the idea will be promptly and adequately put into practice.
135.	I began by citing situations constituting a threat to peace and to the very existence of the United Nations, but other developments are full of promise, and their constructive nature encourages us to continue our zealous efforts to work out new and mere harmonious ways of living together.
136.	Since the founding of the United Nations at San Francisco, the world has undergone fundamental changes. Many a nation has joined the Organization in order to take part in the noble task of improving the condition of mankind. The backwardness which prevailed at the beginning of the century is being wiped out with startling rapidity. It is the pride of our era that nations which once contended for political hegemony are today working here and everywhere, inspired by a common desire for enlightenment and progress, with other nations that are now vigorously bestirring themselves from what appeared to be a state of lethargy into which they had sunk after having been in other times in the forefront of civilization. This has been a glorious awakening of peoples and races, who are now progressing towards ever greater achievements.
137.	But can we, for all that, afford to be complacent? Are there not still backward peoples who have only just begun to turn their eyes towards the horizons of culture and well-being, but as yet have not acquired the independence that would enable them to proceed of their own free will along the path of progress? Surely we cannot sit back now, but must rather keep up the fight so that all the peoples of the world may be able to make known their longing for freedom and their eagerness to overcome the primitive conditions in which they have existed until now.
138.	It becomes dearer every day, as the new concept of human solidarity takes root, that the economically advanced peoples must help those who have to contend with every kind of difficulty and all the disadvantages of belated participation in the universal task, of geographical isolation from the great arteries of wealth and activity, of a barren native soil or of secular subjection which has stifled independent development.
139.	For that reason I wish to draw attention here to one of the most effective and important contributions that the United Nations has made to the well-being of peoples everywhere, namely, its activity in the economic sphere. Working through numerous agencies, it has been and is now engaged in a far-reaching corrective and creative endeavour. To take up in detail this phase of the work of the United Nations would be superfluous, for we all know how much and in what way its technical missions and economic aid programmes have contributed to the development of countries with a rudimentary industrial or a primitive agricultural system. Still, even though we are fully aware of the value of this constructive endeavour, we believe that in view of the significance and the implications of the economic development of a people for the whole world, even greater emphasis and vigour could be given to this form of activity.
140.	Half the human race has for centuries been uneducated and led a static existence ignorant of the concepts of freedom, justice and sovereignly, and the reason has been the material backwardness of the peoples concerned. Technological development means emancipation and the first steps along the road of progress. We therefore believe that there is still muon to be done in this field, and that the United Nations might well intensify its already highly productive endeavours.
141.	We accordingly hope that our oft-expressed desire for the establishment of a special fund will be realized, because this would assist countries, which are trying, by the application of modem techniques, to diversify their agriculture and industry and thus to strengthen their economies in order to ensure their existence as independent nations and to raise the standards of living of their peoples.
142.	Fortunately, statesmen of vision are beginning to recognize that there can be no assurance of world peace as long as some nations are in a state of economic backwardness. This gives us reason to be hopeful concerning the effectiveness of this effort to aid countries which are economically weak. World peace, the freedom of peoples everywhere and the dignity of mankind make such an effort imperative.
143.	My own country has spared no effort to further the beneficial process of industrialization. In a few y ears, and thanks to an agency of its own making — the Corporacion de Fomento — Chile has built up its iron and steel industry to the point where not only domestic needs are supplied, but manufactured products are exported. We have, established an oil refinery which handles the output of our wells in the south; we have created a sugar-beet industry; we are building cellulose plants; and we are modernizing our factories and manufacturing methods in every branch of industrial activity. We are now drawing up plans for an alkali and a petro-chemical industry.
144.	At the same time, we have had to lay great stress on electrification, for otherwise our industrial development would have been impossible. Within a few years, the State electric-power agency of Chile has been able, through its hydroelectric plants, to triple the power output. We are now building a plant at Rapel which will be the largest in the country and will increase the total power available to industry by 360,000 kW. All this has, of course, been achieved at the cost of many „ sacrifices and, in addition, during a period of currency devaluation, which, however, has fortunately been checked through the rigorous application of carefully worked out plans to curb inflation and to readjust the national economy.
145.	Agriculture, too, with the generous assistance of experts of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, is adopting new and efficient procedures which should soon make the country self-sufficient as far as its food requirements are concerned.
146.	In mining, the modernization of extracting methods is also producing encouraging results.
147.	All this has helped to give our people, despite the inevitable difficulties involved, a level of living fully in accord with their cultural development and far removed from what it was during the first decades of the century.
148.	For that reason, we would like to see in all countries that are in the early stages of economic development a more rapid rate of progress as an essential element in their political, social and cultural advancement.
149.	We have a duty towards the world of today and towards the world of tomorrow. This means that we must, through the agency of a special body, study all the possibilities which the earth, as a storehouse of wealth and sustenance, offers mankind in the face of a growing world population. Can it be denied that the pressure on populations to satisfy their vital needs has been the cause of territorial expansion, and hence of invasion and war? From the remotest times, the search for food has led to migrations and movements of whole peoples, and to aggression and invasion. The Indian hordes of Rama, for example, descended on Europe for that very reason.
150.	The modern world is not, however, in a position to consent to the movement of peoples from one area to another, nor would our proud civilization be worthy of the name if it permitted the famines which, to mankind's shame, ravaged certain continents up to a few decades ago. We thus have the heavy responsibility of anticipating food shortages which, if not averted, would cause the world more harm than war and might even engulf us in chaos. We accordingly deem it essential to formulate a policy for conserving food resources — a task which could be entrusted to a body of scientists who, shunning the mirages of politics, would provide the world with rules for increasing its resources and its sources of supply.
151.	My country has always been concerned over these problems. It has thus, because of the indiscriminate exploitation of the resources of the sea by private profit-making enterprises, striven for the adoption of measures to restrict such exploitation so as to conserve and increase those resources or create new ones, instead of destroying them, as is being done today.
152.	To that end, Chile, in the worthy company of Peru and Ecuador and with the loyal backing of other American republics, has insistently stressed the need for revising the obsolete and inoperative concepts concerning the maritime zones which a coastal State may control with a view to safeguarding its fish stocks and preventing some species from being exploited out of existence. In this connexion, we cannot but express our disappointment at the fact that the International Law Commission, in its lucid and painstaking report on the subject of the international law of the sea [A/3159], failed to give due weight to the judicious proposals of certain States for the conservation of marine flora and fauna in a zone wide enough to allow the application of an effective and rewarding policy of conservation.
153.	We must also call attention to the constructive and unflagging work of the United Nations in fostering a world conscience so that man may live with dignity in society and that his duties and rights with regard to society may be defined. The work being done by the Commission on Human Rights, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Children’s Fund and other bodies* such as the Commission on the Status of Women, must always be pointed to as activities which redound to the Organization’s credit.
154.	The task which has been so perseveringly pursued for the purpose of inculcating a higher concept of the dignity of the human person, as embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, has gradually helped to give a clear idea of the attitude that is proper in these times, and to instil everywhere the principle that human groups have the right to determine for themselves the paths they must take to scale the heights of progress. The result of all this has been to awaken the peoples and races of all regions to whom I referred earlier and to bring into the realm of international cooperation peoples who but yesterday did not know the meaning of that noble word “independence”.
155.	However, in view of recent world events and of the need to buttress the political and moral principles of the Charter speedily by legal obligations, it is our earnest hope that the Covenants on Human Rights can very soon be brought into force so that they may be come, as it were, a code defining the standards on which nations will base their political and social systems, so as to ensure respect for the human person and to develop a strong spirit of solidarity in the face of misery and adversity.
156.	The inclusion in the agenda of the present session of the Assembly of the item relating to the peaceful uses of atomic energy was very gratifying to Chile. It fits in with our task of charting man’s future, for atomic energy will make it possible to combat poverty and create a basis of progress for the world of tomorrow. The recent meeting attended by representatives of eighty-one nations — the widest representation since the Second World War — which adopted the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency that is to develop the peaceful uses of atomic energy is a welcome development, and there is every reason to think that mankind will greatly benefit as a result of this action.
157.	It is not difficult to foresee that the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes will help enormously to raise the living standards of the peoples of the world. That is why Chile attaches particular weight to these decisive steps by mankind in this most important conquest in the field of science, and why it is making preparations for the new industrial revolution that is in prospect. These preparations include the establishment of a nuclear physics laboratory at the State University and the setting-up of a radioactive minerals company for supplying uranium.
158.	I began my statement by expressing our satisfaction at the admission to the United Nations of many new Member States, which will no doubt bring with them a most valuable stock of ideas that will be constructive and also beneficial to the international community. We also express the earnest hope that soon, and very soon, the United Nations will be able to benefit from the enlightened contribution of the delegations from two countries which have a high cultural standing and an exemplary capacity for work and are contributing intensively to the moral and economic guidance of the world: I refer to Germany and Japan, countries where freedom now flourishes and men work in peace. The United Nations will feel greatly invigorated once these countries make their voices heard in this Assembly.
159.	I cannot conclude my remarks without expressing agreement with those who have implied or suggested here that the Charter needs revision in order that the experience of eleven years may be reduced to statutory form. I would particularly like to endorse what has been said on the rued to abolish or at least modify the veto right enjoyed by certain Powers. The great majority of countries, faithful as they are to democratic principles object to this privilege, which, moreover, often disturbs the actual functioning of the United Nations by preventing it from taking action on issues capable of threatening world peace.
160.	Such revision has to come, and it is to be hoped that prompt action will be taken so that the General Assembly may as soon as possible be able to discuss a general proposal for amendments.
161.	Between the extremes of hope and anguish and of enthusiasm and disillusion, the United Nations has been accomplishing a work which can be said to have been a decisive factor in bringing about a broad collective advance, material as well as moral and spiritual. It has been, for the peoples seeking to work out their own destinies, a tremendous source of encouragement and advancement. Whether that work goes forward to the point where there are no longer groups of men anywhere in the world leading a primitive existence and knowing nothing of freedom depends on the firm will of all of us here present.
162.	This will, however, can only be expressed in a spirit of transparent and candid sincerity, requiring that our action be in strict accord with our principles. It is idle for us to boast of being champions of peace and of the principle of living together in freedom if our acts betray us as destroyers of another nation’s sovereignty, or if we fail to respect each other or to treat each other on a basis of equality regardless of the size or power of the States we represent.
163.	If we wish the great work of the United Nations to be complete, we must banish from our midst the reticence, suspicion and misunderstanding that hamper the work of creating harmony and lead instead to mistrust and antagonism. The world has undergone a profound change, and no longer are men anywhere in need of tutelage or resigned to ideological enslavement. Why persist, therefore, in the dangerous desire to oppress or exert pressure on any group? Why strive, as has recently been the case, to divide the world into irreconcilable camps, since man’s only wish is to live without fear in order to improve his conditions of life and achieve the highest level of culture under the protection of peace?
164.	May our debates give birth to a new spirit that will impel all the Governments of the world to discard the outworn tendencies to impose ideological or physical tutelage on peoples already able to go forward on their own. Let us, then, allow freedom, freedom in the truest sense of the word, to work in the mind of every man its miracles of justice, equality, tolerance and mutual respect and the urge for human betterment.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
It is a great honour for me to convey to you, Mr. President, the congratulations of my Government upon your election to the high office which your personal ability and distinction deserve. The way in which you were elected demonstrates the unity among the Members of the General Assembly and points the way towards the strengthening of that unity.
106.	I should also like to congratulate the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lebanon for an action which not only does honour to his country but to all those who supported his candidacy.
107.	There has been much criticism of the defects of the United Nations. The Secretary-General took it upon himself to refute that criticism in the introduction to his annual report [A/3594/Add.1] and did so brilliantly and with an excellent sense of proportion. The United Nations is a valuable instrument for the use of the Member States, and cannot be more than the reflection and projection of the policies of their Governments. Let us not, then, blame the instrument for without it, the world situation would be worse than that which we confront today with some trepidation.
108.	Every important institution acquires a life of its own, which is to some extent independent of the life of those composing it: that is the characteristic of institutional development. That development has been satisfactory for the twelve years of the Organization’s existence, and it is continuing to improve and to acquire its own physiognomy, which distinguishes it as unique in the world. The atmosphere in this hall is in itself the recognition of a democratic world, a world endeavoring to advance to better international coexistence and to work out solutions which will safeguard the most precious gift of mankind, peace. In this Assembly, the principle of a better world is being established, the nucleus of a world conscience which will affect and shape the lives not only of nations but of individuals, the life of the human being.
109.	Only five days ago [678th meeting], the representative of the Federation of Malaya was seated among us, and we were moved to see him mount this rostrum dressed in the national costume of his country. It was a solemn moment; it signified the recognition of the universality of the United Nations and also demonstrated the firm resolve to grant full rights to the peoples and to recognize their equality before the law.
110.	We have heard the criticism that small nations, or nations whose natural resources are still meagre, have equal representation in this Assembly with great and powerful nations at the peak of their development. That criticism is utterly unfounded. There are specific provisions in the Charter, perhaps unduly strict provisions, which ensure that the great Powers shall have a substantial influence on the Organization. Moreover, the comportment of the small nations has been sober and restraining. Nor should we forget that the whole structure of the United Nations is based on a democratic ideal which naturally may account for some of its defects, but also offers great advantages. It is no mere coincidence that the first words of the Charter are virtually identical with those of the Constitution of a democratic country like the United States: "We, the people…”
111.	I have referred to the institutional life of the United Nations, and I maintain that in the short space of twelve years, it has developed soundly and dynamically. Perhaps the best evidence of this is the fact that although the Organization began with only fifty Members and now has eighty-two, the basic principles and broad lines of its policy have not been changed by this vast growth. On the contrary, those basic principles have been strengthened. That fidelity to the provisions of the Charter illustrates to what extent its principles derive from natural law, which, in the words of Lord Bryce, is simple and rational as opposed to what is artificial and arbitrary; it is universal, as opposed to what is local or national.
112.	It is not the small nations which imperil the future of the United Nations. To some extent, the position might turn out to be quite the reverse. The world is watching with dismay an armaments race of the great Powers which is on an unprecedented scale. The danger inherent in this state of affairs cannot be overemphasized. It is a danger to all mankind, capable of destroying our civilization altogether. Furthermore, it is a heavy burden which hampers the progress of its peoples and diverts the production of consumer goods, so essential to the material and cultural well-being of any society, to destructive purposes. Lastly, it is especially unfair to the small countries, which, although not participating in the armaments race, suffer its consequences most acutely.
113.	The report specially prepared by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace for this session of the Assembly states: "One of the ironies of the Post-war world has been the coexistence of a growing demand for foreign capital to accelerate economic development and a marked reluctance of investors in the capital-exporting countries to commit their funds abroad, except in the case of such extractive industries as petroleum. The present situation contrasts vividly with that of the last century when European countries, notably Great Britain, financed a wide variety of enterprises overseas, ranging from power, rail and port facilities to plantations, mines and manufacturing industries.” The report speaks of a vital problem which may be summed up in these words: private capital has not the capacity to build the economic infrastructure of the under-developed countries - the necessary power, transport, communications, education, health and housing, which are prerequisites of development and cannot be financed in the expectation of immediate or short-term returns.
114.	Through technical assistance and the specialized agencies, the United Nations has contributed greatly to the raising of the economic level of many countries, particularly in Asia and Latin America. Its work in that direction represents a first step, and it represents a great deal. But technical assistance is not enough. For years now, the Economic and Social Council has been discussing the establishment of a special fund to satisfy the demand for capital which I have mentioned. That Fund would be SUNFED, and my Government is especially anxious to commend it to the Assembly. There have been long and difficult negotiations regarding the structure of that special fund in various working committees and expert groups. The idea in itself is not inconsistent with the flow of private capital which we so urgently need, nor does it provide a substitute for it. It is merely an instrument to facilitate the building of an economic foundation which would stimulate the flow of private capital. Many countries would like to see a more constructive and a more positive approach to this proposal. We are confident that this time our hopes will not be disappointed.
115.	Other events have happened which make worldwide economic measures an urgent necessity.
116.	The countries producing basic raw materials are still confronted with a sharp decline in world prices and with situations which are beyond their control and which they cannot rectify. Without the intervention of world organs, economic equilibrium cannot be achieved, and the United Nations cannot remain indifferent to a situation which vitally affects the welfare and development of many countries.
117.	In other respects, specific and decisive measures have been taken which but a few years ago would have been considered revolutionary. For example, the declaration of President Eisenhower in December 1953 [470th meeting] has led to the establishment of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The Preparatory Commission, which prepared the Statute of the Agency, held more than eighty regular meetings, not to speak of many informal meetings, which ultimately resulted in agreement and the establishment of a new agency which represents our hope for the future of our civilization. It is to be hoped that in the near future the production of fissionable material, which is now being stockpiled for military purposes or used in tests that may be harmful to human life, will be channelled towards the peaceful purposes represented by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
118.	Many other bodies also owe their existence to the United Nations. Their activities have an equally decisive, though less spectacular, influence on the lives of peoples. My Government is in duty bound to express its gratitude for the work of the United Nations Children’s Fund [UNICEF], the International Monetary Fund, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as for that of the Economic Commission for Latin America, whose research is most helpful to each and every one of the countries of the American continent.
119.	I shall not refer to the remaining items of the agenda, on which my Government will explain its traditional policy in the course of the specific debates. It is my duty, however, to mention item 50, proposed by the Secretary-General, which deals with a gift of land to be transferred by Chile to the United Nations in perpetuity as yet another token of its loyal cooperation in the common cause.
120.	It would also be wrong not to recognize the gradual progress being made in multilateral agreements concerning questions ranging from human rights to postal services and the list of dangerous goods. The variety of those agreements and conventions, concluded under United Nations auspices, is almost as great as the innumerable activities carried on in the modern world.
121.	Over and above that network of agreements and treaties which form a system of international coexistence, we can discern a striking phenomenon: in the course of twelve years, a world conscience has been created, an expression of common feeling which wells up from the innermost depths of the human community. Its voice was heard immediately after the tragic events considered at the Assembly’s eleventh session. It must not be lost; it must not be stilled. The world Press echoed it and it reached the humblest homes in the far corners of the earth. That voice of the world's conscience belongs to this Assembly, and nobody can rob the Assembly of this voice.


===== Session 13 - 1958 =====
137.	Before beginning this brief statement, I should like to join previous speakers in congratulating the President on his election to this high office for the thirteenth session of the General Assembly.
138.	At this time when it is customary, both in our own countries and in the international community, to reaffirm our fundamental principles I find myself attending this session of the Assembly just after the completion by the Chilean people of a new stage in their uninterrupted democratic progress, in the shape of presidential elections which have been a model of public order.
139.	By this act of democratic faith Chile has shown that it will not hesitate to give its fullest co-operation in the maintenance of international peace and security, which are so gravely threatened today throughout the world. We shall continue as before to exert all our endeavours to promote the greatest possible degree of economic development both in our own country and beyond its frontiers, and we shall spare no effort to bring to an end the state of under-development in which so large a part of the human race is living and which constitutes a major obstacle to the achievement of the essential purposes of our world Organization.
140.	In this connexion I should especially like to draw your attention to one plan, viewed with approval by Chile, which is aimed at stimulating the much-needed economic growth of the under-developed countries, I refer to the measures recommended by the Economic and Social Council at its twenty-sixth session held at Geneva, with a view to launching the Special Fund. We feel confident that Governments will respond to the resolution in question and that they will very soon be making statements on their contributions so that this well-conceived plan can take shape.
141.	We must also stress the urgency of speeding up the process of ensuring the full enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms by all human beings, without distinction as to race, religion or political ideology, We are anxious to see improvements in the intergovernmental institutions responsible for co-ordinating the search for peaceful and constructive solutions to problems created by clashes of interest and conflicting ideologies.
142.	In the American regional sphere, common historical traditions form a bend which unites us effectively in the face of our common problems. We are therefore concentrating our attention on material progress and a more effective pattern of coexistence as the most practical and useful contribution which we can make to the improvement of living conditions for all peoples. To enrich the collective patrimony of our territories to which all men of peace and good will are free to devote their mental and physical abilities, we are seeking to build up, on a foundation of ancient culture and civilization, new standards of social behaviour to take place of the inequalities which can give rise both to domestic and international conflicts.
143.	I come from Washington where we American Foreign Ministers have been meeting to consider what joint measures would make the most effective contribution to solving the problem of economic under-development of so many of the peoples of our continent, and to continue our often rather dispersed efforts to find solutions to world problems. The admirable proposal made there by the Brazilian representative, Mr. Juscelino Kubitschek, is in the best interests of the American peoples and of the entire world. The growth of the population, the use of vast untapped natural resources and the improvement of economic and social well-being, now inadequate and a cause of political instability, can all contribute to the restoration of normal criteria in international relations.
144.	The United Nations Charter recognized that the best way of co-operating in the maintenance of peace was by the use of regional machinery. The inter- American regional system is a good example of the effectiveness of machinery of this kind. The experience we have had of the working and improvement of our own regional system encourages us to believe that the best way to find a peaceful solution to the problems of the coexistence of peoples is to rely in the first instance on the equal co-operation of States which have common traditions and origins and which are most immediately interested in the preservation of peace in their own economic and political spheres.
145.	Nevertheless the search for peace through regional procedures in no way detracts from, the powers of this Assembly as defined in the letter and the spirit of the Charter and in the "Uniting for peace” resolution passed at the fifth session of the General Assembly [resolution 377 (V)]. It is not our purpose to weaken this world Organization; on the contrary we wish to keep it vigorous and alert and endowed with full authority with all its organs becoming increasingly efficient. Accordingly Chile believes in and is determined to support the principle of equality of opportunity for all men and all nations and favours the full acceptance of individual and collective responsibilities based on a realistic acceptance of the existing inequalities in the strength of the States.
146.	We realize that the new complexities of international life call for the use of new methods to prevent conflicts and maintain peace, and we attach the greatest importance to the use of the preventive measures laid down in the Charter. We also appreciate how important has been the personal contribution made by the Secretary-General, and I should like to pay a tribute to him on his recognized and proved abilities and on his skill in diplomacy. Nevertheless although satisfactory results have been achieved by the efforts made to deal with situations which were potentially very serious, we feel we must stress the fact that the measures taken have been no more than temporary expedients and that it is essential to use any respite to advance the solution of basic problems. This is the method used in our inter-American system, especially as the outcome of the Gondra Treaty signed at Santiago in 1923.
147.	This comment is not intended as a criticism of the work of the United Nations, but arises from the fear of the difficulties which may arise as a result of the transfer of the responsibilities of Member States to ad hoc machinery administered by the Secretary-General. It is the responsibility of the States themselves to seek a peaceful settlement of their differences by making use of regional machinery and of any other machinery set up by the Charter. We can readily understand the special circumstances which have lead to the recent neglect of this responsibility.
148.	The authority of a court would be gravely impaired if it failed to pass sentence for fear of giving offence to the parties. The same applies to United Nations organs if, for similar reasons, they fail to deal squarely with the substance of the questions brought before them and, for fear of aggravating the situation, deal only with the immediate consequences.
149.	Although it seems likely that conflicts endangering international peace and security will continue to arise, we should not underestimate the success of the experiment of using the United Nations Emergency Force, and we should study carefully the possibility of providing the Organization with a permanent military force, as contemplated in Chapter VII of the Charter although no such force has yet been set up.
150.	Chile would certainly not oppose the creation of any effective means of maintaining or restoring peace and of ensuring the rule of law in disputes. We must, however, point out that the procedures so far adopted to provide the United Nations with an armed force have proved exceedingly burdensome to our countries. In present economic conditions we are unable to meet expenditure of this magnitude, and it would be preferable to consider how far such plans could be combined with a much broader plan for disarmament.
151.	I do not wish to enter into greater detail at the present stage but I think that better results would be achieved if the creation of a stand-by force went hand in hand with the limitation of armaments, since both of these are in fulfilment of the aims of tire Charter.
152.	The heavy burden of armaments diverts a large part of economic resources which should be used for the welfare of the population, for increased production and for an expanded programme of social progress. For countries whose economies are under-developed, a reduction in expenditure on armaments, on the basis of effective international machinery, would be a decisive step towards the elimination of frictions caused by competition in armaments and would provide better guaranties of real progress towards a peaceful and just future.
153.	The Chilean record of democracy is a fine one, and Chile has always been true to its tradition of respect for and observance of human rights. It cannot therefore remain unmoved by the tragic situation of the Hungarian people. Notwithstanding the resolutions voted by the General Assembly, the armed intervention of a foreign Power in the internal affairs of Hungary continues, and its people are unable to decide on their own future by a free and spontaneous expression of the popular will.
154.	My country is keenly interested in seeing more effective steps taken to solve one problem which particularly hampers the work of international reconciliation: that of the reunification of various States which are still divided as a result of the cold war. The longstanding and close economic and cultural relations between the Chilean and German peoples make us particularly sensitive to the need to bring about the unification of the great German nation. Let us hope that the endeavours and political vision of the Powers which bear the primary responsibility, for world peace, will lead to the restoration of the German, Korean and Viet-Namese peoples as nations unified by historical tradition and common interests.
155.	An important item on the agenda of the present Assembly is the calling of a second United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea to continue the study of certain Important questions on which no decision was reached at the first Conference held in Geneva from 24 February to 29 April 1958.
156.	Chile has taken a strong stand in favour of the recognition of the preferential rights of coastal States to take measures for the conservation of their maritime wealth, for it believes that this is the only possible basis for arriving at a harmonious solution to problems affecting the sea. These rights have already been recognized to an extent which goes some way towards meeting the wishes of the coastal States, although progress had not been sufficient to solve the problems arising from the special circumstances of some countries. This is borne out by recent serious incidents, which are the logical outcome of this state of affairs. Further progress is needed in order to avoid a situation in which principles solidly based on considerations affecting the preservation of maritime resources can be used as a pretext for attitudes Wholly governed by political objectives, which cannot be acceptable to Chile.
157.	I should like to make special reference to the offer made by my Government in 1955 to turn over to the United Nations, free of charge, a park at Santiago in which buildings could be erected to house the offices of the United Nations and of those specialized agencies which have branches In my country. We are confident that, In the course of the present series of meetings, the General Assembly will decide to approve detailed plans for the realization of this project together with general arrangements for financing it.
158.	It would, I think, be inappropriate to comment now on all the other items of the agenda in which my country is interested. My aim has me rely been to give a general outline of my country’s attitude to questions of major importance in these grave hours and to certain other matters which are of particular interest to us.
159.	I offer this thirteenth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations Chile’s full support in the examination of all the items on the agenda both as a participant in collective action on the regional plane in the Americas and also in its individual capacity, mankind is so appalled by the fearful consequences of a possible war that it implores its statesmen to spare no effort of will and deed to maintain peace and concord.

===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
116.	I have great pleasure in paying a tribute on this occasion, on behalf of Chile, to the President of the general Assembly, Mr. Belaúnde, who is unfortunately absent. I should be grateful, to Mr. Schmidt, who is in the Chair, if he would convey the gist of my remarks to Mr. Belaúnde.
117.	We have known Mr. Belaúnde since he began to show an interest in international problems — the logical outcome for a mind like his, attuned to noble purposes. We have since watched him take in his stride the endless round of conferences and assemblies of this type and have admired his cool, balanced mind. Thus in every respect he seemed exceptionally qualified to occupy a position apart from the rough-and-tumble of political disputes and closely identified with the principles which gave birth to the United Nations Charter. We also pay a tribute through, him to a nation which attained independence at the same time as Chile and to which we are bound by firm bonds of friendship.
118.	The feelings of a country like ours when we attend this session are very strange. Let me tell you, in complete frankness, how we feel: here we have a world which is expanding every day, a world beset by problems that are constantly becoming more serious. At the same time there is everywhere an overwhelming urge to live, to find a place in the sun. Precisely because newly independent entities are springing up all round, a country will feel the imperious need to secure its political survival. Here are a whole series of new countries which yesterday were not in existence, but today find that they have a destiny to fulfil, beyond the uncertain times in which we are living. They have the right to speak and to vote here on the same footing as the most powerful countries. For the first time some of them can enjoy the privilege of thinking differently from the countries on which they were formerly dependent.
119.	To understand how much the world has changed for the better, let us simply recall the long years that elapsed between the proclamation of their in dependence by the Latin American republics and the recognition of that independence by the mother country, and the still longer period that other powerful countries of that era waited before deigning to accept them as equals. As late as the beginning of this century the payment of debts contracted by a Latin American State with the ordinary citizens or commercial firms of a number of powerful countries was subject to coercive measures. Of course I am not bringing this up in order to make charges of historical responsibility; nothing is further from my mind. I simply mention it to illustrate the tremendous progress humanity has made since then and to show the triviality of our present-day complaints — petty friction between sovereign Powers — in comparison with the sacrifices of dignity suffered in the past.
120. Let us recall that Cyprus should now be added to the long list of colonies or territories which have been granted their independence by England; that Nigeria will shortly become a federation and that Belgium is already talking to us about a free constitution for the Congo. Soon Togoland and the Cameroons under French administration will no longer be dependent upon France.
121.	Thus, around us is a world bearing the hallmark of its origin. Anything can be expected of it except suicide. Hence our earnest wish is to see every seat in this Assembly occupied by representatives of countries which are truly independent, and by that I mean countries whose democratic structure allows them to reflect the freely expressed thoughts of free men. To put the matter differently, what is the use of the enlightened outlook of the highly advanced nations if certain parts of the world are still under the sway of a disguised imperialism or of despots whose word is law?
122.	A country is not a name, or a flag, or a national anthem. It is a design for living based on tolerance and justice. If democracy seems to many people to be an imperfect system, let us admit that tyranny has given little evidence of its merits, other than the capacity to serve, blindly and for a limited period, some sinister purpose.
123.	The problems facing the world today are so vast and have such wide ramifications that it would be foolish for me to try to deal with them. Besides, Chile belongs to a regional organization which endeavours to avoid friction and to settle its little differences without having recourse to so wide a stage as this Assembly. The organization in question has just achieved some very satisfactory results at Santiago as has been recalled here by other speakers. There is no need therefore for me to sing its praises. I will merely reiterate our faith in the effectiveness of its methods.
124.	However, I do feel that we should contribute something of our own experience in regard to a few of the matters with which we have to deal. At the Santiago Conference, the principle of non-intervention was of course reaffirmed.
125.	This principle which in the past placed the former Spanish colonies beyond the reach of any foreign jurisdiction threatening their recently-won independence, now forms part of a statement of principles for our own internal use. It is no-less valuable for that reason.
126.	There is a tendency to meddle in the affairs of other Governments or to judge them from oar own particular point of view. This is especially true where frontiers permit easy contact between individuals and even actual infiltration with a view to changing prevailing systems.
127.	This would be a most unfortunate policy as far as American co-existence is concerned. As the President of Colombia said recently, each nation should purge its own system of the defects which lower its prestige in the eyes of others. Otherwise, we would forever be fighting crusades of liberation, as dangerous as they were turbulent.
128.	There is a great deal of talk about human rights. This expression is act at all unrelated to the political systems prevailing in various places. Nor is it unrelated to the right of the citizen to conduct himself as such, and to the right of the masses to a minimum of well-being. I am aware that this Assembly considers them as being on different levels; but unfortunately I do not see any way of separating them within the framework of certain concepts which we must extol, defend and encourage wholesale, if democracy is to uphold its prestige and fulfil its objectives.
129.	It is clear that the individual human being is constantly acquiring more international importance, if one may put it that way. The first step was to condemn slavery and white-slave traffic. Then the international community went somewhat further and faced the problem of refugees. Now it is felt that we cannot remain indifferent either to the fate of our brothers where their rights are not recognized or they are ill-treated. The word "civilization" has acquired a much broader meaning than it had twenty or thirty years ago. Its roots have buried themselves deep in the human spirit, which has continued to gain strength, until little by little a new map of the world has emerged, with frontiers now based on similarity of thought. Today we know which are the sectors where civilization prevails and which are the ones less worthy of respect, even where their material success is unquestionable.
130.	For us at least, countries where people are persecuted for political reasons or where the prisons are filled with persons who have not committed civil crimes, are not civilized countries.
131.	This theoretical attitude is not to be confused with the principle of non-intervention by one country in the affairs of another. It is distinct in character and in object. It pursues an ideal, of course. It is rather like the adoption of a person in political trouble who is out of reach, by many scattered persons who speak on his behalf and defend his interests.
132.	My country believes that if such a doctrine is put into effect its repercussions could be very vast. The exaltation of the State as an entity to be given unquestioning obedience would be offset by the exaltation of the individual with both his obligations and his rights. The primacy of the State brings with it the subjection of the individual conscience, because a person cannot be changed into an expendable commodity without at the same time being deprived of all his innermost convictions.
133.	The code of human rights is not yet written, although it is outlined at the beginning of nearly all our constitutions. It is made up, specifically, of a combination of principles linking human beings with their Creator. It tends to consider a man as the brother of all other men, who safeguard him from afar. He is removed from the arbitrary laws of the tribe and placed under the common protection of the human family.
134.	My country understands this because within its borders there are certain practices which link us to the most highly developed civilizations. I refer to the juridical system, and understand the reference —  namely, to the climate which is created where individual rights are respected, where courts operate independently and laws are obeyed even though we may not like them.
135.	However, it cannot be expected that at a time like this, full of unrest for a variety of reasons, the masses will continue to respect and extol the juridical system if at the same time they do not find it effective in solving some of their most urgent needs as a society.
136.	We are glad, therefore, that the so-called "operation Pan-America" is making fairly rapid progress on the practical level. Strengthening national economies by direct measures and improving the conditions of the masses is tantamount to enhancing popular respect for certain principles which at this time are being seriously challenged. It is perfectly logical for people to judge doctrines on the basis of the extent of the benefits they derive from them. It is not a question bf extolling the materialistic aspect of the problem; it is simply that proof must be forthcoming that democracy on the political level, like private enterprise on the economic level, does not merely consist of phrases which conceal an outlook inimical to the welfare of the workers. Conversely, these concepts must be given a value in keeping with the times, which will dignify, enhance and strengthen them,
137.	The Government of my country considers that along with the contributions or support it receives from abroad, it has the duty of putting its own house in order. It is doing so, though it is no easy matter. It believes that confidence must be earned before it can be accepted with dignity,
138.	I should like now to refer to the machinery of disarmament in relation to collective security. It would be hard to find any nation more eager than we are to divert for urgent social uses a large portion of the funds which are today being spent in certain particular fields. We realize, however, that other countries have a greater say in the matter than has ours.
139.	For the first time we have heard clear-cut, detailed disarmament proposals, worked out in stages, which will enable the great Powers to take a stand on a matter of serious concern to them, not so much because of the material burden involved in maintaining armed forces in a state of high efficiency today as because of the terrifying prospect for the world implied in the possible use of the weapons in their possession. I refer to the speech made in this hall by the United Kingdom Foreign Secretary, Mr. Selwyn Lloyd [798th meeting]. The voice of the United Kingdom had been gaining new respect by the way in which that country, without high-sounding declarations but with great understanding of the new times through which the world is passing, has been opening the door to political freedom in all territories in which the necessary conditions for establishing a nation were forthcoming.
140.	The case of Algeria, although it affects us only remotely, cannot leave us unmoved. After holding a referendum which ratified the permanent status of Algeria as a French territory, President de Gaulle has gone further and made new offers which now include guarantees of a new consultation, in the broadest and freest sense, of the inhabitants of Algeria. This turn of events — quite apart from the great value of having France as a country respected in the European community — is a source of gratification to all those who understand as we do the need to go on clearing away the problems still darkening the horizon.
141.	We are also concerned by the problem of Germany — a country still divided and afflicted deeply by other disturbing factors. The agreements reached during the last- war and the terms of the United Nations Declaration and Charter, gave grounds for hope that the division would last only as long as was necessary to enable Germany to stand on its own feet physically, legally and politically. No one dreamed that the division would become the most serious obstacle to peace in Europe. Unfortunately, that is the case. The German nation, by the very calibre of its citizens, had a right to something better. Today, when territories decidedly less ready than Germany for self-determination appear in the Assembly as territorially complete units, the absurdity of leaving a great nation without hope of solving the problem of its unification — a problem which should never have arisen — becomes even clearer.
142.	It will be most helpful to us to have at Santiago the fine building which the United Nations plans to erect on the large site made available by our Government, and conveniently located for the purpose. ECLA, FAO, UNICEF, UNESCO, and perhaps other organizations with branches in Latin America will be housed there. Thus the Chilean capital will be in close touch with a good deal of the work being done by the United Nations for the common weal in this part of the world; and we are certainly grateful for this honour done to our country. The formal handing over of the land granted by Chile will take place, and at the same time a start will be made on the planning and landscaping of the Vitacura Park.
143.	It often seems to us that this world is badly and illogically planned in some ways just as intelligence, beauty and health are badly distributed. Nevertheless, we try to make the best of things and respect the laws which have been established by every community to make survival and progress possible. In a succession of stages, man has gradually modified his individual behaviour so as to make it compatible with the way of life of others. That process is rightly called civilization.
144.	It is no mere fancy to think of such behaviour, so wise where human relationships are concerned, as also applying to the international field, now that the world has grown so small. It is becoming increasingly difficult in this Assembly to defend any idea in conflict with the progressive and fundamental achievements of the mind and the spirit. The principle of "might is right" is subjected to challenge from time to time, and its character is altered in the process.
145.	It is particularly gratifying for nations like ours, whose history is linked to the future, to find that beneath the appearance of selfishness there is a vast network of mutual assistance, financial contributions and disclosures of scientific knowledge which has only recently come into the limelight. A certain type of progress goes beyond the bounds of its country of origin and seeks healthy expansion elsewhere, wherever it can be useful.
146, The United Nations specialized agencies, the Bureau of Technical Assistance Operations, the Technical Assistance Board, IBRD and IMF work together with UNICEF, UNESCO, ECLA and FAO, and we could cite many other similar organizations and offices. My country still cherishes the hope that the Special Fund will include among its projects this year some educational ones of interest to us. We should also like to mention the common efforts being made to establish a Latin American regional market, a subject on which the previous speaker has said all that has to be said.
147.	With a future before us which promises a new world of untold capacity for development, the absurdity of undertaking another war in which it would perish becomes increasingly obvious. The texture of the cloth is becoming stronger than its surface suggests, though it is at the surface that the conflicts arise. Chile offers all the good will it possesses in the common effort to build something which will transcend our differences.
148.	Although the Organization founded in San Francisco during the war still has not completely fulfilled the hopes which were placed in it, its existence has made possible the inclusion of many countries whose behaviour, thankless though it may appear, promises future strength.
149.	We are witnessing the greatest evolution that mankind has ever experienced, and it is taking place in an incredibly short period. That the atmosphere in which it is occurring should be a strange and sometimes troubled one is understandable. It would indeed be odd if it happened without upheavals, and it would perhaps be even more dangerous if the atmosphere were one of hypocritical silence in which evil flourished with no time or opportunity to analyse it.

===== Session 15 - 1960 =====
The delegation of Chile associates itself with all the delegations which have congratulated Mr. Boland on the distinction conferred upon him by his election as President of our fifteenth session of the General Assembly, His election is a well-deserved tribute to the personal qualities which he has displayed during his long experience as a diplomat and in the United Nations. That Ireland, the country which he represents, shares in his distinction is a source of satisfaction to us, since we maintain friendly relations with that country based on long-standing historical ties dating from the time of our political emancipation. His election to such a distinguished office ensures a very high level in the conduct of our debates and justifies the hope that this will be a successful session.
55.	First of all I should like to express once again to all nations of the world the sincere gratitude of the people and Government of Chile for the effective and timely assistance we were given after the catastrophe of May 1960 which devastated a large part of our country. The human solidarity so unselfishly and generously expressed at the time of the disaster moved us profoundly and we shall never forget such eloquent demonstrations of friendship. It was the greatest encouragement to us to face our misfortune with fortitude and it now inspires us to hope that it will prove capable of overcoming all the difficulties existing between the brother nations of the world.
56.	As soon as the immediate and urgent relief measures for the victims of the disaster had been applied, with all the economic and administrative resources at our disposal, the Government of Chile drew up a vast rehabilitation programme to mobilize the national effort. International and private institutions, as well as the technical government agencies, collaborated in the preparation of the programme, which anticipated the action of the United Nations and the Organization of American States. We acknowledge with gratitude that both the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA) and the Economic and Social Council gave us wholehearted support, thus fulfilling in respect of our country the objectives and purposes of the United Nations as laid down in Articles 55 and 62 of the Charter.
57.	The Government of the United States, too, has decided to grant Chile financial assistance amounting to $100 million for the work of reconstruction we have undertaken. I am pleased once again to express our profound and sincere gratitude for this assistance. I should like to add that Chile hopes to prove worthy of your assistance and understanding and to complete as rapidly as possible the vast task it has set itself by combining the work of reconstruction with its national economic development plans, the only means whereby it will be able to recover completely.
58.	We extend our brotherly greetings and the most cordial welcome to the new States which have just been admitted to the United Nations. Chile appreciates to the full the significance of this formal recognition of their political independence, which constitutes a truly historical event. Although the emancipation process is not yet complete in Africa, we hope that before long other States will follow their example and will also be able to join the United Nations, thus enabling us to reach our common end, which is universality.
59.	In all fairness we should recognize the part played by the great Powers in making this auspicious event possible and should also bear in mind the unremitting efforts made by the United Nations, through all its organs. The memoranda submitted to the General Assembly by the Secretary-General, his many reports and the indefatigable energy displayed by the United Nations technical organs all bear the stamp of an unimpeachable determination to put an end to the colonial domination to which a great part of the vast African continent has been subjected.
60.	The struggle of the countries of Latin America for independence was quite different. In spite of the genius of its leaders and the will of its peoples it was barely possible to achieve any unity of action in that great undertaking. A century and a half ago transport and communications did not permit the easy everyday contacts available to the people of today, nor was there the solidarity of world effort which is now evident.
61.	Nevertheless the problems which the new States will have to face are not so very different from those engaging the attention of the Latin American countries. The similarity of our problems and difficulties should make it clear to them that they may count on our understanding and our deep respect.
62.	Accession to independence does not, however, put an end to the aspirations of peoples, who have to reach the stage of economic and social progress necessary for the full enjoyment of their sovereignty. Self-determination entails for them, as members of the international community, not only the right to participate in the efforts of that community but also the obligations incumbent on Member States.
63.	We are convinced that the newly independent States will realize the necessity, from every point of view, of international co-operation and of strengthening and supporting the structure of the United Nations.
64.	The unhappy crisis which the Congo is experiencing arose during the first days of its independent life. In facing the realities of the situation it appealed for help to the United Nations, which promptly responded by undertaking an operation of vast dimensions, the greatest it has been called upon to carry out in the fifteen years of its existence. Unfortunately, the initial confusion which still prevails in the Republic, the absence of clearly defined authority and the political influences at work to introduce the cold war into the Congo question gave rise to violent incidents which engaged the constant attention of the Security Council. When an attempt was made to call into question the impartiality with which the United Nations force acted and even to put the blame directly on the Secretary-General himself, such charges were invalidated by the support given to the Secretary-General by the Security Council. Although the veto prevented the adoption of the relevant resolution in the Security Council, the General Assembly, in its emergency special session, maintained the same position without a single opposing vote by its resolution 1474 (ES-IV).
65.	We are happy to state that in contributing to the adoption of the resolution in the General Assembly my delegation wished to express the support and respect which Mr. Hammarskjold deserves for his patient, strenuous, resolute and sustained efforts to interpret faithfully the principles and decisions of the United Nations, which has made it possible for the United Nations to refrain from taking sides in the internal strife in the Congo.
66.	Although the Congolese crisis is not yet over we are satisfied that much bloodshed has been avoided and there is every prospect of normal conditions being restored in the new State, all of which will enhance the prestige and influence of the United Nations and its most notable organs and representatives.
67.	International tension, which last year decreased encouragingly as a result of the visits exchanged by Chiefs of State and prominent world statesmen and the unanimous resolutions adopted by the General Assembly at its fourteenth session on disarmament [1378 (XIV)] and on the suspension of nuclear tests [1402 (XIV)] began to mount again as a result of the failure of the Conference of the Heads of the Four Powers in Paris in May 1960. There were further unfortunate episodes, regarding which the Security Council had to take decisions, and more recently the Congo crisis to which I have just referred. Following on such episodes we saw the sudden suspension of the work of the Ten Nation Disarmament Committee in Geneva, the stagnation of the Conference on the discontinuance of Nuclear Weapons Tests and the slow and difficult progress of the talks on that subject.
68.	This is the sombre and unpromising background against which the present session of the General Assembly has begun its work, with attention focused upon it as never before by the attendance of many Chiefs of State, Heads of Governments, prominent Foreign Ministers and distinguished world statesmen.
69.	Their presence and the views we have heard them express are clear indications of the universal confidence placed in the United Nations, which is recognized by all to be the highest and most appropriate forum for discussing, in an atmosphere of democratic equality, the most important and decisive questions on which the hopes and fears of all peoples of the world are concentrated.
70.	On this solemn occasion Chile wishes to reaffirm its unshakable loyalty to the principles of the San Francisco Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, since the respect and observance of those principles, to which we all have subscribed, must, with the active collaboration of Member States, lead to a better future for mankind.
71.	In the light of our common aim of maintaining peace and security in the world, the question of disarmament clearly takes priority.
72.	The world is not only discouraged by the ill-feeling that prevails but deeply disturbed by the fearful and threatening spectre of tragic events presaged by the tremendous power of increasingly destructive atomic weapons. Man is even driven to doubt his own intelligence, in spite of the immense scientific progress, exceeding his wildest dreams, which permits him to penetrate outer space and the planets with satellites and instruments to collect observations on the earth, moon, and stellar space.
73.	Lack of understanding must not be accepted as the normal pattern of coexistence. To reap the disastrous results of the period of instability and permanent insecurity in which we live it is not necessary to reach the point of actual conflagration.
74.	Hence, although disarmament depends largely on the great Powers, all countries, whether large, medium-sized or small, are equally concerned in preventing not only the final disaster but the continuance of the alarming armaments race.
75.	We must, if we are co be sincere, point out the difficult and complex nature of our task which, although not an impossible one, requires patience, perseverance and above all good faith. Let us bear in mind that hasty decisions are seldom exempt from error. The Emperor Augustus used to repeat the maxim "festina lente". or "make haste slowly". Let us be content with modest achievements, seeking, not high-sounding phrases, but the effectiveness of the less spectacular but useful agreements which allow of further progress. Such might be our recommendation that the interrupted talks should be resumed between the great political leaders of the strongest peoples in the world. Something to that effect was decided upon last August by our Disarmament Commission. Let us take one step further and continue to seek a solution of this undoubtedly difficult problem.
76.	Let us declare that peaceful coexistence cannot be reconciled with invective and recriminations. Let us reject the dilemmas which impassioned orators would impose upon us, as also the reduction of many- sided problems to simplified formulae, useful for propaganda purposes but inadequate for an effective solution of the problem.
77.	Let us not merely talk about coexistence, let us practise it. It would perhaps be helpful to abandon the unsuitable terminology still being used by those who have taken their stand in opposing ideological camps. That recommendation was put forward during the July session of the Economic and Social Council in Geneva by Mr. Luns, the Netherlands Minister for Foreign Affairs, and was seconded by the Chilean delegation. We are happy to note that Mr. Macmillan, the distinguished Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, has reached the same conclusion [877th meeting].
78.	There is one point on which we are all agreed, which might be summed up by saying that material disarmament must be preceded by a kind of moral disarmament, which would reflect our sincere desire for peace, the supreme ideal of human society and the corner-stone of the San Francisco Charter.
79.	It has been recalled in this debate that many aspects of the work achieved in that direction by the League of Nations and later by the United Nations have received unanimous support. We should put those points into practice at once, without waiting for any broader identity of views,
80.	During the course of this fifteenth session of the Assembly we have heard opinions which give some grounds for hope. If the United Nations is the supreme forum for negotiation, let us bring to it all the disagreements which divide peoples, in the certainty that they will here find the most just and fitting settlement,
81.	Let us encourage every effort to bring the blessings of final peace to the peoples of the East, the Middle East and Europe and to put an end to the conflicts in Africa, for it is our joint efforts which, in the end, will produce the answer for which the world is waiting, the auspicious message which will bring to all peoples the assurance that they will be able to live in freedom from the threat of war and to work resolutely, inconstantly improving conditions, to prepare a better tomorrow for their children and for the generations to come.
82.	Chile is prepared to join in any decision based on those considerations. It has demonstrated that by its sincere and exemplary active co-operation in the work of the United Nations. Further proof is to be found in the efforts of President Alessandri to obtain a limitation of armaments in Latin America, Last year the Secretariat circulated to all delegations the text of his proposal, which is the best proof of the peaceful trend of our foreign policy. It is pointed out in the proposal that the consequences of the armaments race bear more heavily on the weak countries, like Chile, which are forced, against their will, to spend huge sums of money on acquiring armaments when that money could be used to better effect in meeting their urgent and immediate needs. In substance, the aim is to release considerable financial resources in many countries, which would increase the funds devoted to economic and social development in Latin America.
83.	Although the initiative of Mr. Alessandri, the President of Chile, received enthusiastic support, nothing positive has come of it so far. It was decided, at the seventh meeting of Consultation of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of OEA, held at San Jose, Costa Rica, to transmit the proposal to OEA with the recommendation "... that it continue to consider with the greatest interest and urgency the necessary measures for the convocation, as soon as possible, of a specialized conference on the subject". I appeal to the delegations of our sister Republics in the continent to try to obtain the support of their respective Governments for this idea, which would undoubtedly bring very great advantages.
84.	I am pleased to add that the Government of Chile, showing once again its scrupulous respect for the obligations laid down in Article 33 of the Charter and for the provisions of various bilateral or collective treaties which are in force under our regional system, has concluded with the Argentine Republic an agreement to submit its border problems with that sister nation to legal arbitration for a peaceful settlement.
85.	We wish to reaffirm our confidence in the effectiveness of regional systems for the maintenance of international peace and security, as provided for in Article 52 of the Charter. Such regional agencies act in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations. The Organization of American States (OEA) carries out that important task in America.
86.	Numerous Pan-American conferences have worked out a comprehensive system of agreements and treaties for mutual defence and for the maintenance of peace in our continent. The Meetings of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs called by OAS have produced noteworthy results such as the Declarations of Santiago, Chile in 1959 and of San José, Costa Rica in 1960.
87.	Voicing the general aspiration of the American peoples to live in peace, under the protection of democratic institutions and free from any intervention or totalitarian influence, the twenty-one Foreign Ministers of the American Republics solemnly signed the Declaration of Santiago, Chile, which was approved at the Fifth Meeting of Consultation of Foreign Ministers. In it, they stated the principles and attributes of the American democratic system, declaring that it consisted substantially in submission to the rule of law, with separation of powers; the choosing of Governments by free elections; respect for fundamental human rights and the maintenance of a system of freedom for the individual and of social justice; and the safeguarding of freedom of information and expression.
88.	It is a great honour for my country that that Declaration was agreed upon and signed there, where each and every one of such principles is upheld, having been incorporated long ago in its political constitution and its fundamental laws.
89.	The Declaration of San Jose, with the object of re-establishing solidarity in the hemisphere, reasserts principles which are common to the American States, such as non-intervention in the internal or external affairs of another State and the incompatibility of democracy with any form of totalitarianism, and recalls that all controversies between members of the Organization should be resolved by the measures that are contemplated in the inter-American system
90.	The General Assembly will have to consider the question of an increase in the membership of the Security Council and of the Economic and Social Council. The extraordinary increase in the membership of the United Nations makes a decision on the matter imperative.
91.	My delegation does not wish to go into details, for it has always recognized the need for such an increase in order to ensure adequate representation on the terms envisaged in the Charter. Moreover, such an increase will enhance the effectiveness of the Organization.
92.	In that connexion, I must express the surprise with which we heard the suggestion that the office of Secretary-General should be replaced by a joint body.
93.	My country wants to see absolute equality tween all Members of the United Nations, The existence of the power of veto in the Security Council nullifies such equality, hinders the immediate implementation of its decisions which the importance and consequence of the matters in question usually require, and perpetuates the situation which obtained at the end of the Second World War.
94.	If the office of Secretary-General were exercised by more than one person, we should lose the single-minded judgement which is essential in any executive body and the discharge of that office would be so stultified that it would take a long time for agreements and decisions to be implemented. Basically, the idea appears to be an attempt to extend the right of veto, in our view inadmissible.
95.	Consequently we declare our opposition to any attempt tending to weaken, rather than strengthen, the effectiveness of the United Nations and of its executive bodies.
96.	We have already pointed out in previous years that political peace and economic and social progress go hand in hand; hence the importance which we attribute to the items on our agenda relating to "economic development of under-developed countries" and "programmes of technical assistance" in every form.
97.	The peoples will not tolerate the continued existence of different levels of living in the different regions of the world. It is urgently necessary to reduce the economic and social imbalance, which is the most notorious cause of unrest and disturbances, and it is our duty to promote the inseparable unity of peace and prosperity.
98.	The industrial nations have already realized that they cannot grow in isolation and that their own prosperity is linked to the development and progress of other nations.
99.	We must encourage permanent economic cooperation between all countries; while the developing countries must strive for their own growth, the outcome does not depend on them alone.
100.	The question of technical assistance is becoming increasingly important, for it constitutes the effective means of guiding the production and the progress of the developing countries in a rational and scientific way. My country is grateful for, and appreciates the benefits which it is deriving from such activities including the rehabilitation plans prepared after the earthquake, to which I referred at the beginning of this speech. We must emphasize, however, that such assistance not only should be increased but should be provided without prejudice to those countries which need it as much as, or more than, others.
101.	The United Nations has been devoting its attention, more and more earnestly to the question of underdevelopment. Thanks to our efforts and the efforts of the other Latin American countries and the African-Asian countries, the Economic and Social Council has recently established a standing Committee for Industrial Development, which we trust will be able to give effective assistance in dealing with the problem and its solutions.
102.	Not only must we defend the permanent sovereignty of States over their natural resources and find adequate means to protect the price of basic produces in relation to the price of manufactured products; we must also maintain in the international market the stable price, free of fluctuations, of the raw materials and products of the developing countries, to prevent the strangulation of their economies. At the same time, we must encourage diversification of economic activity in those countries which are dependent on a single product.
103.	Since the growth of the under-developed countries requires the co-operation of the more developed countries, the flow of capital needed to make such development possible must be increased.
104.	Whatever plan is drawn up to that end must take into account the vital need both for State loans on a very large scale and for greater investment of private capital, which will make it possible to promote social progress and to raise the level of living of the peoples.
105.	It is obvious that the contribution of the United Nations in that respect cannot attain the volume required by the immensity of a problem which affects most countries of the world. The international organs already established are clearly insufficient and while they perform the part of the work allotted to them they should be supplemented by the establishment of a capital development fund, which we have repeatedly advocated. We especially welcome the beginning of operations by the Inter-American Development Bank and we pay a grateful tribute to what is being achieved by the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other existing credit institutions.
106.	The international market must welcome goods from the weak countries, in order to avoid the paradox of encouraging their production without improving their position. We cannot but feel concerned over recent agreements, such as the European Economic Community, which should not close the door to goods from other areas, such as Latin America, which until now have been welcomed in Europe.
107.	Operation Pan America, which was conceived by Juscelino Kubitschek, the President of Brazil, started a co-operative effort in Latin America, which has been supplemented by the work of the Special Committee to Study the Formulation of New Measures for Economic Co-operation (Committee of Twenty-one). The Act of Bogotá approved in the third meeting of this Committee, on 12 September 1960, includes in its great scope President Eisenhower’s generous plan, endorsed by the United States Congress, to establish a special fund for social development for Latin America. It includes also a number of measures, culminating in those concerned with economic development and multilateral co-operation for social and economic progress. These are positive and encouraging advances, which we welcome.
108.	The Montevideo agreements, prompted by ECLA, have the same objective. A free-trade zone has been established by treaty and there is now a project to establish a regional market in Latin America.
109.	Since all those measures are designed, not to convert us into a self-sufficient bloc cut off from the world market, but to facilitate trade in the region, our peoples may be expected to increase their imports from other regions, thus co-operating actively in world economic expansion.
110.	In the social field, in spite of its limitations as a country struggling resolutely against economic difficulties, aggravated by the earthquakes and tidal waves, Chile is happy to present the picture of a dignified and free life under an administration and institutions founded exclusively on law and popular consent.
111.	Relations between capital and labour are developing harmoniously within the framework of advanced and progressive legislation. Education receives preferential attention from the State. Housing needs are being vigorously dealt with and more and more dwellings are being brought within the reach of the people. Our laws protect human rights, human dignity and freedom in all its aspects, especially freedom of information. The administration of justice is a separate power, which performs its functions in an exemplary manner and deserves the greatest respect.
112.	We are therefore particularly concerned that this Assembly should hasten the adoption of the pending draft Covenants on Human Rights, the purpose of which is to ensure that those rights are properly respected throughout the world. Within the American regional system, as in the European system, an Inter-American Commission on Human Rights has already been established and a convention on those rights and another convention on the effective exercise of representative democracy are being studied and will be Submitted to the eleventh Inter-American Conference, which is to be held at Quito early in 1961.
113.	It gives us pleasure to recall the co-operation our delegation gave in the drafts on that subject which appear on our agenda and we urge delegations of other countries to join in approving the Declaration on Freedom of Information, which has already been drafted by the Economic and Social Council, where we contributed to its adoption.
114.	I take the liberty of referring to item 57 of our agenda, relating to the construction of the United Nations building at Santiago, Chile.
115.	As will be remembered, in 1955 the Government of Chile offered to transfer to the United Nations, free of charge, a site in the Parque Vitacura, near the capital, I should like to mention the practical steps which have been taken to implement that offer.
116.	A recent decree approved the agreement between the Government of Chile and the United Nations setting out the financial obligations assumed by our Government to supply the property with all necessary public services.
117.	Another decree, duly set down in legal form, gave the site in question to the United Nations.
118.	I venture to express the hope that the General Assembly will approve the documents which will complete the free transfer of the site on which will rise, the future United Nations building at Santiago.
119.	We understand the genuine feelings with which every sovereign State strives to make its own point of view prevail and triumph."
120.	We venture to suggest that we should not allow the action that we are to carry out to be obscured by arrogance. Without trying to make political converts, let us recognize the measure of reason which inspires the opinions of others, as well as our own opinions. As from the flow of the river and from the refraction of the ray of light, let us be able to separate from the fluctuating truth its transitory and relative value.
121.	Our concern in meeting here is the well-being of our fellow-men. However difficult the solutions may appear, however distant they may seem to us at a given moment, let us not be discouraged in the efforts which we must devote to them.
122.	The task of doing good has neither beginning nor end; it is like mythology, which translates nature as observed by man. It is born with man, and with him, through him, and for him, it endures.
123.	The United Nations was established to enable mankind to enjoy in peace the benefits of freedom, justice, family, health, education, work-in short, happiness. Let us uphold the United Nations, let us increase its effectiveness and its prestige, hoping that one day it will be possible to say, as did Leibnitz, that everything is for the best in the best of all possible worlds.


===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
﻿Mr. President, may I present Chile's congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly for this session.
38.	We also congratulate Sierra Leone on its admission to the United Nations, which we supported both by word and vote in the Security Council.
39.	The circumstances in which the sixteenth session of the General Assembly is meeting are grave. Grief and anxiety permeate and trouble our debates.
40.	The Chilean delegation wishes to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General whose tragic demise has deprived the world community of a most active and effective defender of peace and upholder of man's progress. In applying his intelligence, his political ability and his resolute will in the service of mankind's higher interest and in giving up his life for that cause, Dag Hammarskjold exemplified the kind of international civil servant that is envisaged in the United Nations Charter.
41.	Sorrow is not, however, the only weight pressing upon us here today. The hour is also one of grave
anxiety, Mankind is threatened by the greatest danger it has aver affronted in the whole of history: the danger of total destruction. This compels us to speak our thoughts with the bluntness the circumstances demand and with the candour that has always marked my country's international policy.
42.	Chile, as a founding Member of the United Nations, has steadfastly supported the cause of peace, both within and outside the Organization. This support has been loyal and true, though limited because Chile is a small country far removed from the main centres of international friction and also because we trusted that the great world Powers would fulfil their obligations under the San Francisco Charter, which conferred upon them special privileges and special responsibilities for the maintenance of peace and security.
43.	Despite the political and ideological differences that emerged at the end-of the Second World War, we continued to be buoyed up by the hope that peace would be maintained and that an era of harmonious relations would eventually be ushered in whereby man's progress would be assured. These objectives have not been realized. The world we are living in is torn by dissension; acts of war are common talk, and intimidation has seemingly become the norm in international relations, bringing back to mind the tragic years preceding the last world conflagration.
44.	Recriminations have given way to threats, and now the stage has been reached of military displays and shows of strength that can at any moment bring on a generalized conflict. Worse still, just as though panic were meant to be used as a psychological weapon, we witnessed a few weeks ago the ending of the atom moratorium that had been agreed between the great Powers only by dint of superhuman effort. Our planet has been shaken by the exploding of bombs of an inconceivable power of destruction, and the disastrous effects of the resulting radio-activity have spread to encompass peaceful areas. Side by side with the conquest of space through technical progress that, put to good use, might contribute to the general well-being, man is seemingly at the same time and by the same means carving out his own destruction.
45.	In the face of such acts, threatening not peace alone but man's survival, Chile, as a small country, is bound to take a stand different to the one it has hitherto maintained. We cannot go on putting our trust in the great Powers. We are in duty bound to Safeguard the fate of our own countries; it is our duty to take timely and effective action, since we know but too well that a conflagration these days cannot be limited to given countries or predetermined areas. Consequently, every nation and every Government must make the utmost effort to avert a general catastrophe. In this regard, Chile, as a Member of the United Nations, has a responsibility which it neither can nor will evade.
46.	This rule of conduct — in essence, active pacifism  — must govern our acts at this session of the General Assembly.
47.	Chile is convinced, from its own experience and on the strength fit a tradition it has steadfastly upheld, that a way of solving any international problem can be found through the means enshrined in the United Nations Charter, No controversy, however intractable, can be beyond the bounds of a peaceful settlement. No problem can fail of a solution, provided all sides have the honest will to tackle it realistically in accord with the rules of law. An essential prerequisite, however,
|§that negotiations should take place in an atmosphere free of threats and that there should be no resort to force to compel one side to give in.
48.	It is also essential that any solution, to be lasting must respect international morality and the purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter, particularly the principle of self-determination. For we firmly believe that representative democracy is the best system of internal government; we likewise hold that the fate of peoples cannot be determined without consultation of their sovereign will. This is the basic tenet of self-determination that must be applied in •every area of the world, without exception, and notably in the case of Germany.
49.	Accordingly, Chile's support will not be lacking for any proposal made at this session with the object of restoring peaceful international relations.
50.	We shall likewise support any proposal aimed at banning nuclear tests and restoring the principle that atomic science must be used exclusively for peaceful purposes with a view to helping resolve the problems besetting mankind, rather than bringing about its destruction.
51.	Every effort must also be made to put an end as goon as possible to the preparations for war and the increase in armaments. I have been instructed by the President of Chile — who has been pressing strongly for a reduction of military expenditure in Latin America in order that large sums may be freed for purposes of economic development — to support any move designed to promote general and controlled disarmament.
52.	This serious question, which has been under discussion in United Nations meetings for years past, has far-reaching consequences for every country, whether large, medium-sized or small. For expenditure on armaments inevitably leads to international incidents, and we well know that the astronomical sums now being expended on means of destruction would, if devoted to combating hunger, poverty, ignorance and disease, contribute to universal peace. It is the duty of every country, we believe, to join in a concerted effort, within a body that should be created forthwith, to find ways and means for speedily eliminating these problems. That is why we, in common with other delegations, were favourably disposed last year towards a Canadian proposal to initiate disarmament negotiations in which countries that do not possess nuclear weapons, that is to say, small and medium-sized countries, would participate. They could, we are convinced, make a valuable and effective contribution towards attainment of the objectives our peoples are calling out for.
53.	Causes of international friction do not, however, exist solely among the great Powers, We have also Witnessed _ in other parts of the world, in vast continents, the emergence of problems caused by the fact that there are still peoples who have not yet achieved full political or economic independence. These problems jeopardize all the efforts that are being made on behalf of peace.
54.	As a country which, a century and a half ago, attained an independent life after a long and cruel struggle to gain Its sovereignty, Chile takes a firm and resolute stand in support of peoples that are still subject to colonialism in some form or another and shares in their aspirations to be free. It believes that the example given by the American countries in maintaining unbreakable ties of brotherhood with the Powers that formerly ruled over them is worthy of emulation. This course has yielded fruitful results, not only in our own hemisphere but also in other continents where countries which yesterday were engaged in colonial wars are today united by close ties of friendship.
55.	This is clear evidence that we need have no fears regarding the liberation of peoples, nor qualms in face of the difficulties which the newly independent countries may encounter. In judging what is happening in Africa and Asia, we must always bear in mind the problems that beset Latin America in the years following the wars of independence and the way that which they came to be resolved.
56.	These guiding principles of my own country are, I am sure, common to the nations of Latin America and are largely shared by Governments in other continents that are fundamentally concerned to ensure the maintenance of peace and security and to eliminate the causes of international friction. Thus it was that a large group of countries from every part of the world recently met at Belgrade for the purpose of exchanging views and seeking formulae for peaceful coexistence.
57.	Although it does not fall to my Government to analyse the arguments put forward at that conference, I may say that it followed the discussions at Belgrade with the greatest interest and is of opinion that the conclusions which were reached offer much that is useful and profitable for the achievement of our common goal of banishing the spectre of war and building again a world capable of peaceful survival in justice and freedom.
58.	The principle of respect for fundamental human rights, without any distinction as to race, sex, language or religion, is given a prominent place in the United Nations Charter and is defined there as an essential factor for the maintenance of international peace and security. This relationship is affirmed in the very Preamble to the Charter, is reiterated in Article 1 which defines the purposes and principles of the Organization, and is reaffirmed in Article 55 which constitutes the key division governing the entire chapter on economic, social and cultural co-operation. The San Francisco legislators were fully aware that systematic violation of the individual's rights and man's implacable persecution of man on no other ground but that of belonging to a certain ethnic group are not only heinously criminal acts in themselves but were contributing causes of the Second World War. Peace will always be in danger and peaceful relations among the nations always threatened unless the world is able once and for all to root out every notion of racial superiority, of privileged class or group and of the exploitation of one people or one human being by another. It is thus the view of the Chilean Government that compliance with our obligation under the Charter to ensure full respect for the basic human rights, without discrimination of any kind is just as urgent as the adoption of measures to abolish the armaments race and suppress nuclear weapons.
59.	The Chilean delegation will therefore support speedy adoption of the Covenant on Human Rights5 including economic and social rights, which have now been under discussion for more than twelve years„ It will also speak in favour of and vote for any resolution aimed at preventing discrimination and strengthening the action of bodies established for that purpose, and will endorse all the constructive measures in conformity with the Charter that are designed to eliminate the
racial discrimination that, has been a main concern of the General Assembly since its first session.
60.	With respect to Latin American problems, I take this opportunity to state once again that Chile is a member of a regional system which, while not a military alliance, provides for solidarity in the face of any aggression against an American country. We have pledged ourselves to take joint action to repel such aggression and to determine, through the lawful method of consultation, what course is the most appropriate in the event of America's peace and security being threatened.
61.	Furthermore, in relation to systems which seek to predominate by violence and deny the spiritual values inherent in the personality of the individual, our stand is squarely taken in support of the principles of freedom and justice. This is the logical consequence of our faith in representative democracy, steadily enhanced by free periodic elections, as the best system of government and the only one capable of securing to man the happiness to which he aspires.
62.	We also have faith in the ability of this system of representative democracy to provide prompt and adequate solutions for all problems — economic, social or cultural — affecting the Latin American nations.
63.	Our approach to questions of specific interest to the American hemisphere is characterized by the same spirit of peace and harmony as our approach to the international situation on the world level. We are sure that all these questions can be solved by the peaceful means set forth in the Charter of our regional Organization. In order, however, to accomplish this, we must courageously apply the methods laid down in that Charter and must respect all the principles which have been solemnly agreed upon. Only in this way can we restore the solidarity which today is seriously shaken.
64.	Our mutual relations must be based on the full compliance with the principle of non-intervention in the internal or external affairs of States. They must be based on scrupulous respect for the self-determination of peoples, on recognition of the right of each State to develop its cultural, political and economic life freely and spontaneously, provided only that it respects the rights of the human person and the principles of universal morality.
65.	I should also like on this occasion to say how essential it Is for the restoration of continental solidarity that all the American Republics should base their political organization on the effective exercise of representative democracy and by so doing honour the commitments they have formally and repeatedly entered into. This obligation should be fulfilled with all due respect for the domestic sovereignty of States and without the use of international measures of a coercive nature,
66.	The world has been astonished by the truly prodigious scientific and technical progress which mankind has made in the last few decades. In this period mankind has discovered and put to work a source of energy thousands of times more powerful than those previously known, has begun the conquest of outer space and has made surprising improvements in communications and in agricultural and industrial production.
Although these advances have substantially raised levels of living  in industrial countries, which contain about 500 million of the earth's inhabitants, they
have not yet brought about any appreciable change in the living conditions of the greater part of mankind who live in the developing regions. In some twenty countries the length of human life has increased from thirty-five to seventy years in this century, and the per caput income ranges from $1500 and $3,500 a year; yet in the rest of the world — which includes the nations of Asia, Africa and Latin America, with few exceptions — the life expectancy is less than forty years, and the average annual per caput income la less than $300.
68.	The world's food production — taken as a whole — is growing more slowly than its population, and this growth is so unbalanced that whereas in North America, Australia, New Zealand and Europe the per caput food production has increased bjr 20 to 40 per cent since 1939, in the other continents it is lower than it was before the Second World War.
69.	The "population explosion" which has taken place iri the under-developed world has coincided with a small increase in food, whereas the food surpluses of certain industrial countries are growing. This illustrates with dramatic eloquence the degree of responsibility which falls to the United Nations and the specialized agencies, which under the Charter are made responsible for directing international cooperation in order to ensure and promote "higher standards of living t full employment, and conditions of economic and social progress and development" (Article 55 a of the Charter].
70.	Only a few weeks ago the American countries adopted the Charter of Punta del Este, which gave concrete expression to the "Alliance for Progress" initiated by the President of the United States of America, Mr. Kennedy. In this instrument the Governments of the contracting countries laid down specific objectives of economic development and social progress for the next ten years, and undertook to unite their resources and forces to achieve those purposes and to initiate the land, tax, educational and health reforms which are indispensable, if these aspirations are to be converted into fact and, above all, if the advantages of this great effort are to be equitably distributed among all the people and are to reach the common man, particularly in the most needy sector. The United States, for its part, undertook substantially to increase its financial and technical co-operation in the preparation and execution of the development programmes.
71.	The prospect which has thus opened before Latin America promises well for the solution of the problems which so grievously beset it. This will require much effort and sacrifice by our Governments and peoples. As far as Chile is concerned, I can assure you that its President, Mr. Jorge Alessandri — who, being moved by a deep sense of social justice, anticipated these agreements by working out plans for national economic development — will continue with the greatest energy the work already begun in order to satisfy the aspirations for progress of my people and my country.
72.	This action, which is similar to what has been undertaken in other regions , does not cause us to overlook either the economic interdependence of all parts of the world or the common destiny of all peoples and all human beings. We still think — as Chile has said so many times in the United Nations — that the survival of hunger, poverty and need anywhere in the world endangers the prosperity of the rest, and even compromises world peace.
73.	We are still opposed to the idea of economic self-sufficiency, either national or regional, and advocate a balanced, harmonious and co-ordinated economic development of all geographical areas and an increase in trade between all nations. This is why we appeal to all peoples represented here to initiate a vigorous policy that will strengthen the action of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, that will increase commercial intercourse and cause the terms of trade to become favourable to the under-developed nations, and that will intensify the technical co-operation and increase the financial resources needed to put the plans for economic and social development into effect and, in general, to strengthen the activities of organizations engaged in promoting better living conditions for all the people of the earth.
74.	That is why Chile will advocate a policy consistent with this course of action at this session of the Assembly and at the forthcoming Conferences of FAO and UNESCO.
75.	The death of Mr. Hammarskjold adds a new and important factor to the many others which have brought about a situation of international crisis, the extreme gravity of which has filled all peoples with anxiety. We accordingly consider that one of the General Assembly's most urgent and pressing tasks must be to restore the working of the Organization to normal as quickly as possible by electing a new Secretary-General who can fully discharge his duties as the highest instrument of collective action for peace and universal co-operation, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter.
76.	To subordinate the fulfilment of this duty, which arises from an imperative mandate of the Charter, to the reform of the Charter is an open violation of that mandate and a flagrant abandonment of the obligations which all Member States freely accepted on signing the Charter and entering the Organization.
77.	Chile does not oppose the discussion of amendments to the Charter at the proper time, but it insists on the inescapable need to comply with its provisions completely and on every occasion while they remain in force, especially with regard to such absolutely fundamental provisions as those relating to the establishment and working of the principal organs of the United Nations.
78.	I must, however, make it clear that Chile will oppose any reform which involves weakening or diluting the responsibility of the Secretary-General as defined in the Charter. We disagree with the proposal that the responsibilities now held by the Secretary-General should be divided among three persons, coming from threi6 so-called political and ideological blocs. Needless to say, we consider such a division to be arbitrary, and we think that it is dangerous to institutionalize it in a world like that of today which is essentially dynamic.
79.	We agree with those who maintain that tripartite control of the Secretariat would become unworkable and would paralyse the Organization, because there can be no doubt that what is essentially the executive organ of the United Nations must, in order to ensure that the decisions of the Security Council and the General Assembly are complied with, act with a determinations vigour and speed which cannot be reconciled with a collective form of leadership, especially if this is
exercised by persons whose standards and views are contradictory. A collective form of leadership would inevitably lead its constituent members to become mere spokesmen for the sector? they represent, and the interests of the whole would be deprived of the protection provided for in the Charter. The weaker countries — which make up the immense majority of those represented here — need this protection, because their survival as sovereign nations, their freedom and the material and spiritual advancement of their citizens depend to a great extent on the maintenance of world peace according to the principles of the Charter. In these times of such great danger to peace when the balance between the military and economic power of a few nations and that of the rest of the world is so lopsided, we cannot afford to give up any of the gains which protect us against the abuse of force and of arbitrary power and which ensure the existence of an international legal order based on the principles I have just mentioned.	
80.	In this world in convulsion, we must keep alive any spark of hope. This why the sixteenth session of the General Assembly opens under the weight of a tremendous responsibility — that of restoring tranquillity to the common man who lives his life in the anonymity of the great masses, of rescuing him from the tortures of constant care and anxiety and of inspiring him with confidence in the future.
81.	When I see in this Assembly the different faces of so many peoples and races, I feel that the United Nations has been the means of revealing to us the vision of a single face, a face of many forms but at the same time the single face of mankind which has always longed for a better world from which hunger, ignorance, injustice and fear have been banished.
82.	Being fully confident that the deliberations and decisions of this Assembly will be effective and fruitful, I offer my country's resolute co-operation. Chile is a nation which has risen above the periodic turbulence of the forces of the earth, Other forces, no less dangerous, threaten mankind. But, although the fury of nature is beyond the control of man, the forces released by his intelligence can and must be mastered through understanding and co-operation between peoples, which are the only means of overcoming every threat and laying the foundations of a stable and lasting peace. It is the duty of the United Nations to contribute to this great enterprise, because the United Nations is supported by the faith and the inexhaustible energies of the people.


 




===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
Mr. President, on behalf of the delegation of Chile I have pleasure in offering you our sincere congratulations on the wise choice made by the General Assembly in electing you to be its President. We are sure that your experience as a lawyer, your familiarity with international problems and your acknowledged qualities of equanimity and judgement will make a vital contribution to the success of our work.
2.	I should like also to express our gratitude to U Thant, the Secretary-General, for the services he has rendered to the United Nations and to mankind during the short period he has been in office. Following the example of his illustrious predecessor, Dag Hammarskjold, whose spirit and personality will always be felt here, U Thant has taken up the arduous tasks of his office with vigour and efficiency. My delegation hopes that this General Assembly will appoint him to the office which he now holds, because his character is an assurance for us all and because we should give him the opportunity to extend and strengthen the work in which he has made such a brilliant beginning.
3.	Chile is once again attending this universal meeting to which the States Members of the United Nations come year after year to appraise the international situation, express their desires and explain their views on the general problems of the world.
4.	We believe that this confrontation of ideas is useful if it is conducted with calm, wisdom, realism and, above all, sincerity. We must be true not only to the representatives of the other countries making up the international community, which have subscribed to the purposes of our Organization and have placed their faith in its ability to maintain peace and security, but also to the people whom we are representing here. We cannot deceive them with false optimism, we should not conceal from them the harsh realities and we have no right to give them the illusion of security which we know, in our heart of hearts, is not warranted by the present situation.
5.	We know, and the people whom we represent here should know too, that peace is seriously threatened by the most destructive of wars, the magnitude and consequences of which cannot even be conceived of by the human imagination. It is no longer specific countries or specific continents which are on the verge of a truly apocalyptic end; it is all mankind which is in danger of destruction because of the power of devastation which modern weapons have attained,
6.	In the face of such a threat, all leaders have inescapable duties. A tremendous responsibility lies with the leaders of the great Powers, which have created forces so deadly that they may get beyond their control or cease to answer to their will. We who represent small and medium-sized nations also have an inescapable duty. This duty is not merely to wait for others to work out solutions, but it should find expression in actual ideas, which may even come to be enforced by the United Nations or at least to exert moral pressure on the great Powers.
7.	We have not the right to remain silent in the face of the dangers which are lying in wait for us all owing to the state of international instability. Because we all suffer from constant anxiety, we must use our moral force — the only force we possess — our vehemence and our faith to promote international co-operation and coexistence among nations, to exercise, by virtue of the legal equality of States, all our rights as Members of the United Nations and to influence its decisions.
8.	If we were to act otherwise, for the sake of convenience or through fear, we should be leaving the destiny of mankind to the mercy of those who rely on force and helping to push the world to the brink of a catastrophe. At the same time, through criminal neglect, we would have helped to prevent the United Nations from intervening in time to prevent the differences between the great Powers from degenerating into a tragic conflict which would destroy all nations, large and small.
9.	This attitude will determine our position during this session of the General Assembly in matters of vital importance, such as the problem of disarmament or of nuclear weapons tests.
10.	We are discouraged by the failure of efforts to achieve agreement on disarmament, a matter which has undoubtedly been complicated by the mistrust between the principal protagonists in the historical drama which we are witnessing. We believe, however, that the small and medium-sized countries can help both to dispel such mistrust and to create, on rational bases, a peace-keeping machinery which will function effectively. We are well aware that this is an extremely complex question and that the technical implementation of the plans prepared is by no means easy. In this connexion, it is my duty to mention the co-operation of the eight nations not directly concerned which this year, for the first time, became members of the Disarmament Committee; they included two Latin American States — Brazil and Mexico — which expressed our continent's desire for peace with great assiduity and skill.
11.	At this its seventeenth session, the General Assembly must do everything in its power to bring about a truce in the cold war and to expedite the negotiations on general disarmament which, to be effective, must be subject to control accepted by common agreement. I offer the loyal and unprejudiced cooperation of the Chilean delegation in the attainment of these objectives.
12.	It would be an over-simplification to describe disarmament as an isolated problem or one that has no connexion with the causes of international friction. Nobody now dares to consider war legitimate. Everybody knows that in the event of a conflict with nuclear weapons the victors would be vanquished just as much as the losers themselves, which was not the case in other periods of history. It is a fact, however, that the spirit of conciliation is waning in the face of the accumulation of weapons of war, which have been developed to such an extent that there is always the fear that a human or mechanical defect may provoke a world-wide conflict.
13.	We are told that nuclear testing is bound up with the cold war and the arms race. The aim of nuclear tests is apparently both to strengthen the offensive capacity of the great Powers and to provide a mutual deterrent. For the rest of the world such arguments have no moral, political or strategic justification. The rest of the world is horrified by them. Apart from the contamination and other dangers inherent in such tests, they increase tension in international relations and kill hopes of disarmament. Not even the scientists and experts are at present able to assess the harmful effects of nuclear tests on climatic variations, on agricultural production and on human beings themselves.
14.	We therefore firmly support the suspension of nuclear weapons tests and the conclusion of a treaty on the subject, or at least an agreement on a moratorium which will reassure the anxious world.
15.	The poisoned atmosphere of international relations, the arms race and the resumption of nuclear tests are, unfortunately, signs of the renewal of the cold war. And the most alarming issue in the cold war is the Berlin problem. Although this question is not on the agenda of this session — among so many other matters of very dubious importance — how can we avoid referring to one of the most malignant tumours of the present day?
16.	The Berlin problem affects not only the great Powers. To this city is turned the anxious gaze of the peoples who fear that one incident, one rash action, may strike the first note of a dramatic symphony. In this unfortunate city, a great danger is being fostered, apparently consciously — the danger that the Powers responsible may lose control of the situation.
17.	In addition to voicing our protest about the Berlin wall, a hateful symbol of the oppression and subjugation of human freedom, we reaffirm our conviction that the only solution of the problem lies in the consultation of the free wishes of the German people. There is no reason why the principle of self-determination should not be applied to this people.
18.	There is no valid reason to prevent a peaceful and speedy solution being found to the Berlin question. In the course of this year we saw how it was possible, through good will, hard work and patient negotiation, to reach agreement in the question of Laos, another cold war issue. Recently, too, we saw how the Governments of the Netherlands and Indonesia, to whose efforts and perseverance in search of peace we wish to pay a tribute, reached agreement on West New Guinea — a question which in previous years gave rise to lengthy debates in this Assembly and represented a threat to peace.
19.	Laos and New Guinea are two happy examples which we should bear in mind during the debates at this session, so that we may be inspired with optimism in the laborious search for peace.
20.	During the year which has passed since the last session of the General Assembly, new countries have gained political independence. It would be unjust not to quote, as a striking example of this heartening progress, the case of Algeria, which is now a sovereign State and in a few days will no doubt become a Member of our Organization. Through the courage and resolve of the Algerian people and their leaders, combined with the understanding and determination of France and its rulers, the process of independence has been brought to completion in extremely difficult circumstances. All this represents a step forward on the road to peace which does honour to the two nations concerned. Similarly, as an American country, Chile must express its satisfaction at the fact that, in our continent, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago have achieved their emancipation.
21.	Fortunately, the defenders of colonialism, as a theory at least, have left the field, thanks to the efforts of the United Nations and to the fact that all the peoples of the earth cherish a love of freedom which sooner or later triumphs over foreign oppression. It may take some years for the territories still under colonial domination to achieve full independence and join the international community as free and sovereign States, but no one can now hold back the march of history.
22.	One of the policies which Chile has followed most constantly and most actively in international affairs has been respect for the principle of self-determination. We have always given moral support to peoples seeking to advance beyond the stage of colonialism. We have nothing against the metropolitan Powers which administer such territories; on the contrary, we maintain ties of friendship and co-operation with them. But we in Chile, which was also once a colony, are convinced that sooner or later these peoples have to assume responsibility for their own destiny. Good sense demands that this irreversible historical process should take place without bloodshed, hatred or destruction. It is our hope, rather, that between the new State which emerges from the colonial territory and the metropolitan State there will be common interests and fruitful exchanges. For the problem is not simply the attainment of independence but also its consolidation; it is not merely a matter of the achievement of sovereignty, but also of a collective effort to raise the level of living of millions of people who have known no existence except one marked by exploitation and servility.
23.	Chile considers that the safeguarding of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the provision of guarantees for individuals against violence and the abuse of power are basic aims of our international Organization.
24.	We consider that human rights, whether political or civil, economic or social, are values which should be firmly embedded in the institutional practice of States.
25.	In San Francisco the United Nations was given the basic task of maintaining peace and strengthening international security. For reasons which are well known, in carrying out this task it has been faced with countless obstacles, upheavals and frustrations. At the same time, however, it has been exploring new paths for international co-operation in other spheres and the encouraging results achieved have opened up new and promising prospects for mankind. In few fields has this work been more innovatory and constructive or more vitally important, for the present generation but above all for future generations, than in that of human rights.
26.	By concentrating on the individual, wherever he may live, and by endeavouring to protect his rights, by seeking ways to give him a worthier, happier and freer life, thus making it possible for his personality to develop to the full, we are initiating a new epoch in international law which will bring about a true revolution in traditional concepts and the advent of a more just world in which there will be a genuine international community. My country fervently believes in this great mission and wishes to reaffirm its determination not to spare any effort in assisting the United Nations to carry it out to the end.
27.	That is why on this occasion we note with pleasure the progress made in this respect by the Commission on Human Rights and the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, the introduction of periodic reports, which have been submitted by seventy-six Governments, the establishment of national advisory committees on human rights, and similar developments. Nevertheless we cannot avoid mentioning the fact that although some fifteen years have passed since the drafting of the covenants on human rights was begun, it has not yet been possible to get over the last stages and put them into effect. We hope that at this session the Assembly will complete this task, a matter of fundamental importance if we are to bring about that universal respect for rights and freedoms for which we have legislated. We consider it essential that the covenants should recommend suitable supervisory and executory machinery, the only way of ensuring that they are actually put into effect.
28.	It is unthinkable that the United Nations should go on receiving thousands of complaints of violations of human rights which have to be kept in a file of sorrow and shame, but not acted upon, for lack of any suitable legal arrangements.
29.	It is not enough, however, to keep the peace, end the oppression of one people by another and ensure respect for human rights. Without economic and social development there cannot be lasting peace and tranquility.
30.	The social frustration which builds up among peoples made desperate by inadequate standards of living and welfare and by the lack of a better outlook for the future is reflected in a loss of faith in free and democratic institutions and a weakening of the State and becomes an incitement to ventures of the worst kind, which undermine the international situation. To draw attention to these inconsistencies and risks is easy. To regard them as unalterable features of man's destiny in this century is difficult and is something in which Chile, at least, can never concur.
31.	It is our conviction that the Latin American peoples are determined to defend their freedom as their own possession and not as an abstract value, inasmuch as the political system we have created enables them to break down the barriers of poverty and ignorance which block the path of progress.
32.	The Government of Chile is perfectly aware of the people's state of mind. It knows the underlying social dissatisfaction in countries which are still in the underdeveloped stage and the danger which a violent explosion of that dissatisfaction would represent for the political, social and economic structure which is the basis for our democratic system of government. It knows the dilemma which we face; either we bring about an immediate improvement in the economic and social situation of the great masses of the people or we shall see the disappearance, not just of the present economic and social order, but also of the political structure we consider fundamental.
33.	It is for this reason that Chile has undertaken to make profound changes in the basic sectors of its economic and social structure. We are embarking on a land reform programme intended not only to bring ownership of land within the reach of as many citizens as possible and to better the living conditions of the peasants, but to improve the methods of farming the land and to increase its productivity; the aim thus is that the agricultural land of Chile, apart from being distributed among a greater number of persons, should yield a greater amount of produce, through the introduction of increasingly modern techniques of working and farming. We are introducing a tax reform which will lead to a fairer distribution of the national income and of the tax burden. We are planning a tariff reform which will both stimulate and protect the national labour force while providing a permanent safeguard for the mass of consumers through competition and greater productivity. At the same time we are carrying out a well-thought-out general programme of long-term economic development.
34.	It is particularly pleasing for the Government of Chile to note that its plans are in accord, both in method and in purpose, with those of the Alliance for Progress approved in the Punta del Este Charter.
35. The same beliefs inspire both programmes and the first aim of both is to bring about an immediate improvement in the social, economic and cultural situation of the masses of the people, within the limits imposed by respect for the rights of the individual, which only a representative system of government can assure.
36.	In December 1961, the General Assembly adopted a resolution of far-reaching importance in which it designated the present decade as the United Nations Development Decade [resolution 1710 (XVI)]. This resolution, which recognized that the gap between the industrial and the economically backward countries was widening rather than narrowing, made a series of recommendations to Governments, to the Economic and Social Council and to the specialized agencies, which were intended to stimulate a much more rapid expansion of the economies of the developing countries.
37.	The Chilean delegation notes with pleasure the action taken by the Secretary-General, the Economic and Social Council and the specialized agencies in pursuance of this resolution or in conformity with it.
38.	Nevertheless, we believe a much greater effort of the imagination is needed, a more realistic view of present situation, a better understanding of the dangers threatening mankind, which is so sharply divided into a privileged minority and the great masses of the under-developed world. The United Nations Development Decade will have no real meaning if there is not a rapid and substantial increase in the technical and financial resources that are required to improve the work of the machinery for co-operation we have created in fifteen years of search and effort.
39.	We think that the United Nations, its specialized agencies and the Governments of Member States could make a valuable contribution by giving the fullest and firmest possible support to general long-term programmes of economic development providing for a co-ordinated attack in the main sectors of economic and social activity, such as various developing countries have drawn up or are drawing up. In our opinion, such programmes, if carefully prepared, are one of the most effective means of giving this important work an impetus leading to the achievement of ever more progressive and satisfactory objectives.
40.	It is well know that another matter of great concern to the developing countries which export a limited number of primary commodities has been the impact of unstable prices on their economies. We trust, therefore, that all the necessary efforts will be made in the various international organizations considering the problem to arrive at practical conclusions with regard to the stability of commodity prices and the establishment of effective machinery for giving financial compensation to primary-producer countries for the fiscal and other economic losses they have suffered for many years because of this unjust and irregular situation, which must be corrected without delay.
41.	If we really want to play a part in history and not just to be carried along on its tide like drifting vessels, we must enter upon a more active stage before it is too late. We must take steps to ensure that it is man's power of reason which governs the world and not caprice or lust for power.
42.	We are running the risk that we shall soon conquer the moon, which is a dead planet, without being able to conquer the earth, which is a live planet. To conquer the earth means to make it habitable and capable of providing education, a decent dwelling and sufficient food for the millions of men who at present lack basic essentials and for the millions who are appearing as a result of demographic explosions, which occur precisely in the poorest countries.
43.	Fabulous sums are being spent on experiments in space to improve communications between the continents, but no such efforts are being made to bring the benefits of radiotelephony, or even the telephone, to millions of people. Plans are being made to conquer distant planets, when we have not yet succeeded in discovering our own, for we seem to be ignorant of the backwardness, poverty and lack of culture that exist in vast areas of our own world. Unforeseeable and wonderful progress is being made in space flights, but here below sickness and hunger have not been overcome. These dismaying contradictions must be eliminated, so that we may give rapid and urgent attention to the task of removing the differences in the levels of living of the nations we represent.
44.	The creation of economic groups is perhaps the most striking characteristic of the present-day world economy. Nations bound together by geographical, political and economic ties have formed or are forming groups in which the participating countries tend to create common markets and to co-ordinate their economic policies.
45.	In my Government’s view, not only are these movements based on legitimate considerations, but they may come to profit the whole world, In order for this to be, however, the economic groups must not withdraw into themselves and form self-contained entities but must rather open outwards and contribute to increasing world trade.
46.	Also, it is of particular importance to the developing countries that no discriminatory practices should be adopted against them whereby they would be prevented from selling to the developed countries the products in which they have traditionally traded. For Latin- America, the loss of such markets would mean a further decline in its commercial capacity and a further decrease in the capital formation which it urgently needs for its economic and social development,
47.	Faced with this situation, the Latin American countries have promoted the establishment of the Latin American Free Trade Area as a means of achieving economic integration, which is a step along the road towards political integration, and are seeking to set up a Latin American Common Market which will take into account the need for universal co-operation which we have just mentioned and will be adapted to the reality that all countries and regions are interdependent. We trust that the bonds needed to safeguard the general interests of all peoples will soon be established between our Organization and those which have been set up in other continents. My Government, for its part, intends to spare no effort to achieve such an association as quickly and effectively as possible. That is the shortest road open to us to bring about the rapid industralization which our countries need in order to make possible for the masses of our peoples the standard of living to which they aspire.
48.	Instability and slow economic growth are characteristics common to nearly all Latin American economies and are due to an excessive dependence on foreign trade and to a low capital formation, a situation that is aggravated by what has now become a chronic deterioration in the terms of trade between our countries and the highly industrialized nations. We continue to see, in fact, that while the prices of our raw materials tend to decline, the prices of the capital goods and manufactured products which we must import are constantly rising. This problem is common to all underdeveloped areas of the world, as the Secretary-General has recognized in his report to the Assembly. We believe that the United Nations should give priority to the study of this phenomenon. We trust that the coming Conference on International Commodity Trade will arrive at results that may promise an equitable solution to this acute and, at the same time, vast problem.
49.	I would not wish to conclude my remarks on economic and social problems without referring to the Conference on the problems of economic development that was held at Cairo a few months ago. Chile attended this Conference as an observer, and I should like to say — in addition to emphasizing the remarkable contribution which the Asian and African peoples are making to the success of the common task of improving the levels of living — that at this session of the General Assembly we shall lend our support to the recommendation made at the Cairo meeting for the holding of a world economic conference in the near future. This idea is fully in keeping with those which inspired this Assembly when it proclaimed the United Nations Development Decade.
50.	Latin America's problems, far from finding a solution, have grown worse since the last General Assembly. There has been no improvement in the economic situation; political and social tensions have been increasing. We would be straying far from the truth and presenting an illusory and perhaps naive view of the present situation if we were to say today as we have said on previous occasions that our hemisphere is united and working together closely. It is sufficient to recall that diplomatic relations have been broken off or suspended between many Latin American States.
51.	We are particularly concerned, however, by the fact that the cold war has penetrated into our hemisphere, and that situations which formerly affected us only as members of the world community are today having decisive repercussions on inter-American relations and are even likely to endanger peace among the countries of America.
52.	Chile has profound faith, however, that the spirit of peace and the w ill of our peoples — unless despair paralyses our efforts — will facilitate the search for means to solve adequately the problems which have unfortunately arisen in our continent. Our conviction is strengthened by a full awareness of the vitality of our ties of brotherhood which, all during our history, have enabled us to overcome difficult circumstances together.
53.	On behalf of my Government, I should like to say once again that Chile is especially concerned with maintaining, particularly with the countries of America, the most cordial relations of friendship and cooperation. Our faith in Americanism inspires our whole national life. The principles of international law, respect for treaties and the legal tradition inherent in the inter-American system govern our conduct abroad. Because of the spirit which guides us, any temporary difficulty which may arise between Chile and another American country will never be so great that it cannot be resolved by peaceful means so long as those means are appropriate to the nature of the dispute, that is to say, juridical means for legal disputes and political means for political disputes.
54.	On the first of next January, Chile's term of membership in the Security Council will come to an end. We have the satisfaction of having actively contributed to the maintenance of peace. This has been our main objective. We have, in the Council, always acted with an independent mind and have zealously sought formulae for settlement which would be unanimously acceptable and satisfactory to the contending parties.
55.	We are, now as ever, firmly resolved to contribute to the strengthening of the United Nation, so that it may indeed be an instrument of peace, security and progress for the smaller and weaker countries. We cannot allow this Organization to become ineffective or powerless as was the League of Nations in its later years,
56.	We are here to delve into the deeper causes of international realities and to clear the world's atmosphere of harmful influences such as hatred and violence.
57.	The world does long, not for an armaments race, but for a race towards progress; not for the building of nuclear arms, but of dwellings, schools and hospitals. To prevent war with the threat of war is as dangerous as it is senseless.
58.	We hope that this General Assembly will boldly draw the necessary conclusions from the present international situation and the world's economic and social conditions. We are confident that the prestige and authority of the United Nations will increase and so facilitate a rapprochement between the great Powers.
59.	We will not receive peace as a free gift, but rather it will be the fruit of the day-by-day victory of the concerted efforts of reason and understanding.


===== Session 18 - 1963 =====
Mr. President: Allow me to congratulate you most warmly on your well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly. We are sure that your abilities and vast experience in United Nations affairs will help to ensure that our debates achieve fruitful results and are not wasted in pretty phrases and good intentions. It will be your lot, Mr. President, to direct a General Assembly which must respond, without vagueness or hesitation, to the grave exigencies of the present time.

112. We hope that, at this eighteenth session, the General Assembly will make a more decided effort than on previous occasions to assess the international situation, to point, forthrightly but dispassionately, to its positive and negative elements, and to arrive at conclusions which will strengthen the policy of the United Nations on behalf of peace and the development of nations. My delegation wishes to stress the need

for our labours to be inspired by a more active spirit, one more conducive to harmony, for there has been a rekindling in the minds of the peoples of that flame of hope which was almost extinguished by the cold war, the fear of thermo-nuclear annihilation, the piling-up of armaments and the harmful psychological factors of suspicion and provocation between nations.
113. The treaty on the suspension of nuclear tests has demonstrated to the world the value of negotiations pursued with sufficient patience and goodwill. We may still be capable of inventing machinery that will be able to solve our problems one after the other and establish conditions which will definitively relieve international tension. The step that has been taken is only the beginning of a vaster process which must culminate in reconciliation among the nations, disarmament and the conclusion of agreements which will prevent States plunging into war or living with weapons at the ready like warriors on guard.

114. If we do not take full advantage of this first opportunity which presents itself after years of anxiety, we shall slide back into confusion, discouragement and inertia.

115. World public opinion is weary of being constantly subjected to the pressure of terror. It is time to put an end to the long period of torture through which we have lived. The common man wishes to live tranquilly, in a stable international environment of understanding and tolerance. He does not want to open his newspaper each morning and read of nothing but dangers, obstacles, acts of violence or mutual accusations. No one will be convinced now by rhetoric about peace or the excited proclamation of ideals of justice and universal harmony, unless effective steps are taken to see that the fiendish perfecting of death-dealing instruments is replaced by the perfecting of machinery for international co-operation and assistance. The improvement of methods of mass destruction is not the best way of creating confidence among the peoples; nor is the accumulation by both sides of similar weapons of destruction the best means of ensuring the security of rival States, for in any future conflagration the victors would share the same ghastly fate as the vanquished. Has the time not come to call for common sense, in view of the saturation point that has been reached in weapons of war and the fatigue produced by continuing political hostility?

116. Here in this Assembly States governed by different political and economic systems sit side by side. We may prefer some of those systems and not agree with others, but this Organization was established in order to emphasize what can unite us and what can help us to create the common good, not to lay stress on what separates us. We are ready to promote dialogues and understanding between all countries. Chile has no wish to fan the flames or to encourage fatal disputes between States. The aim of our Organization is to establish rules of international law which will determine the obligations of States in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Charter. If we can rise above enmities and vested interests, we may be able to find a way out of our present vulnerable situation, while we map out a course that can free the future of mankind from the threats now casting their shadow over it.

117. The division of the world into powerful rival blocs, constant recriminations between States, the assertion that might is right, and of a world balance of power based on might, provocation, hatred, invective and propaganda, have poisoned this age of ours which was so promising. On the one hand we pride ourselves on the progress we have made and the fact that we have crossed the threshold of the atomic era; yet, on the other, we persist in keeping the world on the brink of the abyss. So absurd a paradox would be worthy of clinical study, if it did not pose a constant threat to mankind. We had already resigned ourselves to the belief that war and destruction were the only alternative, that it was merely a question of time, only the sudden flaring up of a dispute, or a miscalculation being needed to signal the apocalypse. We had already resigned ourselves to the principle of inevitability and fatality, as though mankind having gained power had lost the ability to influence the course of events. Man cannot be the plaything of events, he must be the master of his fate. It is not simply a question of the human species' instinct for self-preservation, but of ridding ourselves of this virtual moral dementia which renders ineffective the best efforts of our generation, alternately galvanized into action and cast into despair.

118. The Chilean delegation has listened with deep attention to the statements of the representatives of the two great Powers which have accumulated the greatest might in history and in our time exert the greatest influence on the destiny of mankind: the Soviet Union and the United States of America.

119. Any aggravation of their hostility towards each other might plunge the world into catastrophe. Any attempt by them at conciliation such as we are now witnessing, opens up prospects for the realization of vast undertakings of peaceful co-operation.

120. President Kennedy's statement outlined a vast plan marked by idealism, intelligence and boldness. In Mr. Gromyko's speech, we found positive elements, proposals and goodwill that must not be underestimated. Both were honest enough not to ignore the serious problems that have dragged on for so many years. Yet their statements were hopeful and have been welcomed as such by world opinion. Let us hope that the new spirit which could be discerned in the speeches of both statesmen will be translated into action, particularly with respect to the problems of disarmament and national development.

121. Chile is a small developing country, profoundly peace-loving, firmly resolved to maintain its democratic institutions, and determined to improve the standard of living of its people. We wish to fulfil our destiny as best we can, beset though we may be by the savagery of nature and difficulties of every kind. Like so many other countries that live in conditions similar to ours, we hope that we may be allowed to work in peace and aspire to a life offering greater opportunities. We cannot shut ourselves entirely off, however, or develop self-sufficiently. We realize that we are part of a world that is drawn closer together every day and that our future depends to a great extent on the future of other nations. We in Latin America are engaged in a process of economic and social, cultural, and political integration. We emerged from the colonial era to live through times of great difficulty. The awakening of the Latin American masses is now an irreversible process. It is as though a flood-gate had been opened. We do not want the cataract to waste itself in turmoil; we want the energy of our impatient masses to be directed into creative channels.

122. It is our firm belief that the small countries will have to play a more effective and important part in the United Nations. To do so we must mobilize all our moral force and work together increasingly. In particular we must make the great Powers realize their responsibility. Why are they called upon to play a leading part in the cause of peace and progress, not only on behalf of their own peoples but of all the peoples of the world?

123. Let us tell them, frankly and unambiguously, While the small, weak countries are still grappling with backwardness and poverty, the great Powers of our time have, by their own efforts it is true, attained unprecedented destructive power; they have obtained all the benefits of industrialization, science and technology; they have accumulated vast wealth, to which we have contributed; they have imposed their influence on world trade and reached a degree of well-being and prosperity which makes them truly privileged. One of the most outstanding characteristics of our time is the marked and increasing imbalance between rich countries and poor countries. One third of mankind lives in comfort while the other two thirds must struggle merely to survive.

124. This disequilibrium is aggravated by the armaments race on which are spent increasingly enormous sums which could, if a spirit of universal brotherhood really were to prevail, in a few years banish the spectre of hunger and want from the under-developed countries.

125. The superiority of the great Powers, whose advancement we admire, has been distorted into the threat of their self-destruction, and also into lack of effective co-operation to raise the level of living in the many under-privileged nations. Nevertheless, history will some day relate that the fate of the great Powers was closely linked with the advancement of the weaker countries. At this point in history, we small nations need the great; but the great also have need of the small. That simple truth does not yet seem to have become entirely clear.

126. In the face of a policy of narrow national interests, shaped by each nation's eagerness to safeguard its own security by accumulating arms, equipment and nuclear bombs, any solemn appeal for real peace sounds like the expression of a utopian dream. But the international community can hardly be expected to develop if the desire for peace is not expressed in definite action. It is therefore natural for a country like Chile to denounce the present disastrous division of the world, to reaffirm its pacifist views and its intention to take part in any international discussions, to participate in any effort at international conciliation, to promote negotiations on disarmament, and to halt ambitions towards domination and temptations to aggression.

127. Chile was one of the five signatories of the Declaration on the Denuclearization of Latin America [A/5415]; it was one of the first countries to sign the nuclear test ban treaty; and our President, Mr. Alessandri, some years ago made a fervent appeal for limitation of armaments to the Latin American countries. Chile's international policy is not an expression of the views of one group alone but of the whole nation, uncoloured by partisanship. The search for more effective methods for the maintenance of peace and the halting of the deadly arms race is of the deepest concern to the people and Government of Chile, and we shall continue to pursue it resolutely. Our own Intelligence shows us the complexity of the problem, but we are also convinced that we must take positive action to give full effect to the principles of the Charter.

128. The suspension, even if it is only a partial suspension, of nuclear tests will not only benefit the health of millions of human beings and preserve life on our planet in face of the terrible danger of radio-active contamination, but will also induce a feeling of relief in all men, because although each atomic test explosion was a success in so far as it increased destructive power, humanity saw in the terrible mushroom clouds rising to the heavens a portent of its possible future, a holocaust of civilization and of every form of life. Chile has always been against such man-made hells. Now, from this rostrum, we feel that we must express our concern that some States have refused or hesitated to sign the treaty. We must express our fear lest some Power, believing itself to be backward in thermo-nuclear techniques, should decide to carry out further tests. An agreement of this type is only valid if universal. Consequently we think this Assembly should make a friendly appeal to all nations to respond to the moral imperative arising from the treaty. Our delegation also declares that the partial suspension of nuclear tests should be followed first by total suspension, then by prohibition of all such tests, and finally by the destruction of nuclear missiles. Suspension means the possibility of beginning again. A problem of such transcendent importance calls for a radical solution.

129. The international order of our times requires a peace which is something more than a temporary and precarious truce. Peace must be a doctrine, a climate, a system, in which all nations of the world without exception shall renounce the instruments of war and devote themselves to achieving prosperity for all the inhabitants of the globe. Armed peace is a contradiction and a sham. In fact, it is treason to ourselves; but it is above all a crime against the future of millions of human victims of hunger, disease, oppression and misery. We must place the United Nations at the service of peace, and peace at the service of the nations, before we can attain any tangible objectives, which means better conditions of material and spiritual living. For this, peace must be a reality and not a figment. The inexorable pressure of the destitute masses of the world demands the establishment of a rational peace: that is to say, planned coexistence and co-operation between nations, using the inexhaustible means and resources with which modern civilization can transform a sick and bewildered world into a healthy and happy one.

130. To the man in the street, humanity presents this picture. The banquet of life is enjoyed by a few; millions and millions of human beings are looking on through the windows, hungry-eyed and scowling. The discontent of the many increases in proportion to the indifference of the few. Threats to peace are inherent in the multiplication of weapons and in political rivalries; but they also arise from the misery of the under-developed peoples.

131. In the dialectic of armed peace we are accustomed to fatalistic reasoning. "We cannot cooperate any further" we are told, "If we do not achieve disarmament; and we cannot achieve disarmament if we cannot secure adequate guarantees of our security". The small and weak countries must do all they can to break this vicious circle into which the world has fallen.

132. As in other years, but with greater zeal on account of the pass to which we have come, the General Assembly must give serious consideration to the economic and social conditions of the developing countries, which have recently grown much worse despite international aid.

133. The recent World Food Congress has revealed hair-raising pictures of poverty in many areas of the world, poverty growing worse through population growth. Why did we establish the United Nations? We did not certainly establish it for the academic unbosoming of our anxieties, but to provide the necessary equipment to enable us to distribute the benefits of progress equally.

134. Most of the developing countries live by exporting basic commodities whose value sometimes falls, whose prices fluctuate sharply, or which are difficult to sell owing to restrictions or lack of markets. Hence the importance which my Government attaches to the Conference on Trade and Development, in which we look forward to participating with enthusiasm. We sincerely hope it will produce definite results in the removal of obstacles to international trade, to the end that prices of raw materials may be stabilized and new and modern trade machinery set up, to the benefit both of the super-developed Powers and of the developing countries.

135. Chile, like other countries, has for long been working hard to ensure that its institutional and democratic progress keeps pace with an economic and social progress which will give the masses freedom, justice and dignity of citizenship, while at the same time satisfying their natural needs. Our effort is hard, because we have many limitations, and the speed with which we fulfil the just demands of our people does not depend altogether upon ourselves. We have achieved much, but many stages will have to be passed over before Chileans can obtain the benefits which will bring some relief into their daily life. We are putting into effect a ten-year development plan and carrying out basic reforms, but we must obtain financial assistance on a larger scale.
136. Mankind is faced with a dilemma which grows daily more pressing: either the level of living of the peoples in the under-developed regions must be raised by a broader and more effective system of international aid, or those famished and poverty-stricken peoples will sink for ever into moral frustration and despair. No one wants this to happen, and it should cause the deepest concern precisely to those in whose power it is to provide more assistance.

137. My delegation wishes to establish clearly that economic and social progress is not enough unless it is accompanied by enjoyment of the fundamental freedoms and by respect for human rights, both collectively among nations and personally among individuals. At the collective level, we should like to say here once again that we are strongly anti-colonialist. In accordance with our principle we have been actively working throughout this year on the committee on decolonization. The colonialist systems are in their death agonies, but unfortunately colonialism is not yet dead. All that we ask is that the passage from colonization to emancipation shall be achieved under the best possible conditions, without bloodshed, violence or destruction and with the co-operation of the administering Power. We also want to be sure that independence is no illusion; we do not want to see economic colonialism persisting under the cloak of political independence.

138. We have always been in favour of the self-determination of peoples, and we have with deep conviction defended also the principle of non-intervention. Relations among nations should be based on mutual respect, and each nation should support others in achieving full enjoyment of their sovereign rights, even if their political and social ideas differ. Any interference with one country by another country, either open or surreptitious, through authority, intimidation or infiltration, shakes the legal and political foundations of the international community, may lead to serious conflict, and may generate undying resentment in the nation whose sovereignty has been infringed.

139. In defending the right of peoples to self-determination, we are also defending equal rights for all human beings and seeking to remove the stigma of inferiority which, despite their political and social conquests, still clings to women. We must add that we fully accept the development which has taken place in the classic content of human rights. Or rather, we believe that the enjoyment of rights signifies that all men and women are free to express their opinions and their beliefs, to be members of associations, and to elect their representatives; but that at the same time it signifies that all men and women must enjoy equal opportunities to preserve their health, to be decently housed, and to bring up their children. We trust that the General Assembly will crown the work of many years by adopting the draft Covenants on Human Rights.

140. We are opposed to discrimination in all its forms, and we have enthusiastically participated in the preparation of the draft Declaration on the elimination of racial discrimination, which the Assembly will surely adopt. Discriminatory practices such as apartheid, or the perpetuation of privileges for racial minorities set over large majorities of indigenous inhabitants, are the legacy of old slave regimes, abuses of power and infringements of human dignity. They are also reasons why peoples remain under-developed, and they create danger-spots for international peace and security.

141. We shall energetically defend any measure or proposal designed to oblige States to promote freedom of worship, to put an end to religious persecution, and to secure respect for the right of every human being to hold a belief in conformity with the dictates of his inalienable conscience.

142. During the year we have witnessed new and marvellous evidence of man's inventive genius and his audacity in exploring outer space and in probing the atom and the living cell. Long and short-term scientific research has made it possible to ensure that man’s power over matter and over the world shall increase. But all this irradiating Promethean fire conquered by contemporary man has still to be applied not only to the control of matter but also to the conquest of spiritual and social good. Of what use are scientific advances, wonderful machines, new sources of power, technical perfection, if we find that we cannot free man from fear, oppression, hunger and injustice? Or what use to boast of the degree of civilization we have attained if we do not give well-being and happiness before all to the dispossessed, if we do not abolish castes and privileges, if we cannot prevent men from being turned into robots, if we are incapable of achieving stable peace and international co-operation in order to present succeeding generations with a more humane world?

143. In. reaffirming our faith in a better future, we are expressing our most absolute faith in the United Nations, now strengthened by the presence of so many new States. The United Nations must be the basic instrument of the dominion of reason and moral law over uncontrolled passion. We warmly congratulate Secretary-General U Thant on his faith and energy, and on his successes in the settlement of various international disputes.

144. Here at this rostrum the representatives of governments express their views on the present situation in the world. But we must not forget that in this hall our own voices are accompanied by the faint echo of our peoples, expressing mingled anxiety and hope. Millions and millions of human beings, whom we must not defraud and who need our help quickly, have their eyes upon us. This burdens us with a heavy responsibility, and it is our duty to make our debates harmonious and produce energetic and constructive resolutions. Would that we could lose sight of national frontiers and vested interests, and think only of the international community.' We shall only succeed if we are resolutely determined to take a great step forward and ensure that peace shall not be precarious but lasting and fruitful, and that a social justice which will bring prosperity and dignity to all our neighbours shall be established in this divided and troubled world.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
104. On behalf of Chile, I congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election, which denotes recognition of your ability, your intelligence, your impartiality and your faith in international peace and harmony. Your appointment does honour to you, to your country and to Africa, but, above all it does honour to the United Nations.
105.	This is the first opportunity that the new Government of Chile has had of outlining here some of the basic principles guiding its foreign policy, particularly with respect to the United Nations.
106.	The presidential elections held in my country last September were conducted in the freedom, hone sty and order characteristic of Chilean civic traditions. In a century and a half of independent life Chile has not tolerated dictatorships, nor, fortunately, has it experienced totalitarianism or racialism. Its political democracy has been and is exemplary. Nevertheless, profound social tensions are now calling for urgent and radical changes in national structures. This is why last September's Chilean elections were an event of historic consequence for my country: the change of a system of life, of a socio-economic system, of a scale of values governing human relationships. In this change the people honestly and consciously, and with the backing of important political parties and independent forces, chose a programme of Christian democracy; a revolution, in other words, capable of removing the old structures of society but carried out without despotism, without violence, without submission to foreign orders, and with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
107.	A process of profound changes has just begun in Chile, prompted by a people demanding the realization of all the ideals formed in the hundred years of our country's life. There were stages of juridicial organization, political progress and industrial development. It is possible to trace a whole chain of experiences and progress which will rightly show my country as being among the first to achieve authentic democracy. But everything accomplished is now culminating in the desires of a nation which seeks better opportunities to channel its creative energies and improve its individual and collective life. The nation is now living through a decisive event which can only be compared to that which, more than 150 years ago, put an end to our colonial dependence.
108.	At that time we achieved freedom and sovereignty. Now we are going to achieve true social justice, free from egoism and privilege, in order to make way for a genuine, united democracy which will make the best use of our physical and human resources and of the potential accumulated by contemporary civilization. This movement has been carried out in all freedom and legality, with respect for all ideas and all men, the opposing forces being given their normal opportunity to exercise criticism, so necessary in a society like that of Chile, which seeks democratic methods in solving its contradictions, strengthening the spirit of initiative and ensuring that everyone participates in the country's destiny. The ballot boxes, not subversion or hatred, have been the tools of our revolution. For the first time in the Americas, there are the beginnings of an attempt at social change based on the postulates of Christian democracy, an integral and indivisible idea born of the anxieties of so many peoples, valid in many places yet subject to national characteristics. We are well aware that, as Abraham Lincoln once said, "the dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew, and act anew".
109.	Our immediate practical goals are in line with the aspirations of ail developing countries: more schools, more opportunities for vocational and cultural training, more houses, more agricultural freeholders, more industrial production, more equitable taxation, more foreign trade, greater equality before the law. We have immense popular enthusiasm and a series of well-conceived plans to assist us in our task. We are aware of our difficulties and our limitations, but we know too that the faith and revolutionary will of a people resolutely turned towards the future can overcome the difficulties we shall encounter.
110.	The new Government of Chile realizes, however, that the life of the country and the success of the undertaking we are embarking upon are determined not only by the will of its inhabitants but also by events in international life. To immerse ourselves in the source whence flow the great currents which are shaping the physiognomy of our time means that we recognize both the need to preserve our national life through reciprocal assistance with other countries, and the duty to make our contribution to the common task for the advancement of mankind. At other periods of history, peoples could isolate themselves. Now they are all threads of a single fabric; great or small, they will share the same fate, be it the destruction of civilization or the increase and harvesting of its fruits for the benefit of all.
111.	Our foreign policy, while directed towards greater understanding and increased co-operation between all nations, will be independent and worthy. Chile is nobody's satellite; but neither is it a loose link in a world which demands co-ordination and understanding. We are prepared to transcend the classical moulds of indolent diplomacy in order to promote relations of friendship and co-operation with all countries, without ideological or political discriminations, without questioning their beliefs or the nature of their Governments. We have our own philosophy and our own place among the western nations, but we shall do everything in our power to clear the path leading to conciliation and understanding between nations, however opposed their interests may appear to be.
112.	We reaffirm our faith in the United Nations as the soundest means of ensuring peace, stability and the progress of nations through international Cooperation. The successes outweigh the failures in the balance-sheet of our Organization. Its disappearance would plunge the world into the flood of passions and unbridled interests. Its stagnation or enfeeblement would profoundly disturb those peoples which see in it their safeguard and their guarantee of progress.
113.	While it is not suggested that the United Nations should become a supranational governing body, it is necessary that Member States should accept a greater number of obligations with respect to it. Many of its resolutions are not carried out or have but a limited moral effect; nor have the obstacles to the better functioning of its conciliation and assistance machinery been totally eliminated.
114.	The new Government of Chile considers that the United Nations should become the centre of gravity of international life. For this, it is necessary to reinforce its authority and the action of its organs. We are prepared to give it our complete enthusiastic support in any endeavour to invigorate it and increase its efficiency. With this same idea of giving the United Nations greater power, we think that the time has come to determine more positively the action of the regional groupings mentioned in the Charter. The prevailing tendency to link people according to their geographical circumstances, their affinities and their development plans is spreading in various continents. It could not be otherwise, because a world like ours, which is held together by the demands and merits of a levelling civilization, must be, not a mosaic of distant and disparate nations, but an organic community in which nations, like needles round a magnet, seek those that are similar and complementary organizing themselves in multinational, continental or regional associations. Let us hope that the day is not far off when we shall shorten our debates here, listening to only one voice speaking on behalf of the countries composing one region.
115.	The notion of a regional grouping designed to practice interdependence as a means of promoting economic and social progress cannot be identified with that of a closed bloc, or continental or regional ascendancy or rivalry, in either politics or economics. For this reason, although their autonomy is recognized, regional groupings have to adjust their structures and actions to the noble principles of the Charter, which in recognizing their existence has also established their responsibility.
116.	The American continent has a regional organization older than the United Nations. In the course of many years, it has elaborated a politico-juridical system and a series of standards and procedures which have benefited stability and coexistence in this part of the world. Nevertheless, with the passing of the years and the eruption of uncontainable social and economic unrest among our peoples, it has become necessary to renovate the Organization of American States, to revise the principles and machinery which may have become obsolete, to try other methods so that the Organization may meet the desire of our masses for well-being and progress.
117.	We, the countries which live together within the Organization of American States, are in a very special situation, which we must examine clearly and honestly if we are to achieve higher forms of co-operation among ourselves. On one side there is the richest and strongest Power on earth, the United States; on the other side there is the group of Latin American countries weighed down by innumerable problems. On one side super-abundance, on the other want.
118.	Although the structure of the system is democratic and the equality in law of the States is respected, there is a natural imbalance which can only be corrected to the extent that more beneficial collaboration is established between the United Sates and Latin America as a whole. According to studies of the Economic Commission for Latin America;, this imbalance has meant that our continent, Latin America, is growing poorer every year, to the benefit of the industrialized centres: in the last nine years the Latin American countries have lost $10,000 million because of the low prices of their raw materials, while receiving only $8,000 million for the financing of their economic development. In other words, the deterioration in Latin America’s terms of trade amounted to $2,000 million in that period. Thus the gap separating the countries of Latin America from those of Europe and Anglo-Saxon America is widening every year and the imbalance between wealth and poverty is becoming more marked. We must attribute this fact to what a United Nations economist called the“cumulative factors”, those factors which simultaneously enrich the rich countries and impoverish the poor ones as a direct consequence of their economic relationship.
119.	That is why, when examining the "assistance" that the super-developed countries lend to others, to those which have contributed so enormously to their enrichment, I cannot refrain from recalling the lines of a satirical Spanish poet about the building of a hospital by a rich man called Juan de Robles: Robles, a man of charity, who loved to help the poor. Built for them this hospital... But first he made them poor.
120.	If the political system of the Organization of American States is to have real meaning and to be respected by our peoples, it is essential that the equality of the States in law should be accompanied by accelerated economic and social development. There can be no equality in law if there is economic dependence. Chile is endeavouring to perfect its sovereignty; to do so, however, it must free itself from the financial dependence imposed by its limited development.
121.	Fortunately, new "rays are being opened on this continent for a joint task which is to dispel old fears and suspicions, so that inter-American relations may reach a level satisfactory to all. Both the Government and the people of the United States have become convinced that Latin America must, without delay, be afforded greater assistance through better prepared plans. A result of this new arrangement, which goes beyond the simple idea of good neighbourliness, is the Alliance for Progress, which, with its initial faults overcome, must represent a prototype of collaboration adapted to the requirements of our peoples.
122.	We are seeking a suitable association with the United States, an association in which obligations and rights would be shared. We do not want to go on selling raw materials in order to import manufactured goods. We want to use our own raw materials for the development of our well-being. We are sure that new and solid ties of friendship will be established between the great nation of the north and the nations of the south and that it will become easier for Latin America to overcome its serious backwardness. This is a mandate which, from beyond the tomb, is still being sent to all us Americans of the North, South and Centre by that far-sighted statesman, that generous and revolutionary spirit who understood the needs of his time and his generation, that President who a year ago sacrificed his life to establish peace and coexistence between peoples and nations.
123.	At the historic crossroads at which America finds itself, it is Chile’s duty to show its profound desire to establish an authentic and dynamic community among the Latin American countries. We are prepared to show the world — and at all times — that we are both Chileans and Latin Americans; to do this, however, we must be more far-sighted in planning our existence as countries which were born together which are linked by common cultural traditions and which are now afflicted by the same problems. We do not want this affirmation of brotherhood to have a merely lyrical echo. We in Latin America are tired of wearisome rhetoric which has turned our brotherhood into a meaningless gesture.
124.	Latin American integration must span various aspects of our life, of which the economic aspect requires the greatest determination and the most urgent attention. The new Government of Chile is prepared to promote, together with the other Latin American countries, the formulae and standards necessary to accelerate the progress of integration. We shall discuss with Governments, at the highest political level, the means whereby we may achieve common planning and institutional machinery which will translate our collective will into co-ordinated action. It seems that there is already identity of views. All that is lacking for the establishment of joint undertakings is the political decision. This great impulse of interpenetration must be extended to other fields so as to embrace the efforts of the young, the proletariat, universities, technicians, artists, so that we may know each other better and cultivate the enormous potentialities of our young countries on a joint basis.
125.	An eloquent demonstration of the way in which the new Government of Chile will tackle the problem of Latin American integration is found in one of the articles of the draft constitutional reform which the President of the Republic submitted a week ago to the National Congress with a view to modernizing the machinery of the State and making it more dynamic. In his opinion, the progress of regional integration, the establishment of international trade and other bodies, often with supranational competence, requires that the State should be invested with powers enabling it to contribute to the constitution of such supranational institutions designed to promote and consolidate, in conditions of reciprocity, the integration of the Latin American nations.
126.	By virtue of the proposed constitutional reform, the State of Chile shows its intention of divesting itself of specific attributes inherent in its sovereignty in order to implant them gradually, but resolutely, in the supranational bodies necessary to channel and institutionalize the latent desire of the Latin American peoples to speak with a single voice in the family of nations. These peoples want to take advantage of the wise experience of the States of the old Europe which succeeded in wiping out national interests and establishing a common market, despite the fact that, as Jacques Maritian wrote, referring to a thousand years of war and hatred, they were separated by a wealth of tears.
127.	An essential prerequisite is that the disturbing circumstances which prevent us from drawing more closely together should disappear and that the process of our integration should be accomplished without exceptions. How can I at this point refrain from touching on a wound which is painful and distressing for the Latin American peoples? The new Government of Chile is greatly preoccupied with the case of Cuba, which for the past few years has been disturbing relations in the hemisphere and undermining our regional organization. The Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the American. Republics have met four times to consider the situation in the Caribbean. Precious energies have been wasted in an exhausting dispute but no satisfactory solution has been found. On the contrary, the problem is there facing us and it seems that the only result of so much labour was that a discussion which should have remained open was closed. We feel that to transform the case of Cuba into a blind alley or an insoluble dilemma can only lead to frustration and defeatism, which is unsuitable in young nations with a sense of the future.
128.	Our opinions differ greatly from those of the Cuban regime; we should, however, be misrepresenting the truth we owe to the international community if we were not to state that the Government of Chile disagrees with the sanctions applied against that country at the meetings of Foreign Ministers at Punta del Este and Washington. My Government is ready to collaborate in the search for formulae which will bring Cuba back to the inter-American family and it hopes that the Cuban Government will make an effort in the same direction. We are helped by the conviction that the case in question, which is dividing brother nations, can only be settled equitably and definitively if the principles of self-determination, non-intervention and respect for human rights* which are the bases of inter-American coexistence and of the very Charter of the United Nations, are always borne in mind in their entirety .
129.	This, however, is not the only problem worrying us. We are also disquieted by the continued existence of other trouble spots and situations threatening the peace of mind of the world community. Divided countries, the shameful Berlin wall, South-East Asia, the accumulation and spread of nuclear weapons, the maintenance of rival blocs, excessive military budgets, colonialist oppression, mockery of the self-determination of peoples, the trampling of human rights — all these are so many tentacles of the octopus which is still trying to strangle the world. It would be necessary to appraise each of these evils carefully in order to determine its degree of danger. The worst thing that could happen would be for humanity to become accustomed to living and playing with such risks as if they were misfortunes inherent in the age in which we live.
130.	In some cases the principle of self-determination needs to be applied more rigorously; in others, there should be more decisive intervention by the Security Council, or the conclusion of agreements between the Powers concerned, or more meaningful advances on the road to disarmament, or the elimination of mistrust and suspicion. It is the task of the United Nations to go ahead with its study and application of all possible ways of preventing threats to peace as if it were necessary to constitute a real science of therapeutics to allay the fears of humanity.
131.	We take comfort, however, from the fact that some positive factors, too, have appeared which offer the prospect of a better organization of world peace, particularly in regard to the atomic threat. They are minor but promising contributions: the substantial reductions in the production of fissionable material, the concrete proposals submitted to the Conference of the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament and the agreements concluded among the great Powers to undertake scientific and technological projects of universal benefit, as also the proposal to make Latin America a denuclearized zone — a proposal which Chile sponsored from the outset. We have no desire to manufacture, receive or acquire armaments of destruction and death. We wish to devote all our efforts to progress and to the struggle against inequality and poverty.
132.	We hope that the powerful opposing political and military blocs will begin to lose their rigidity and that later on the need for them will disappear as the indispensable dialogue between the Powers is intensified and contact and co-operation between them are increased. Further encouragement for peace was provided by the recent Cairo Conference, at which the non-aligned countries, seeing no need to create a third force, which would be as dangerous as the other two, or to take refuge in passive neutralism, reaffirmed, in more organic form, the principle of preventing any breach of the peace and of perseverance in efforts to achieve better relations among States.
133.	Nevertheless, amidst these favourable prospects, we were once again startled — by a clap of thunder: the nuclear explosion carried out by continental China. It is an auspicious sign when a nation struggling against the backwardness of centuries achieves the scientific advance implicit in the harnessing of atomic energy. An advance, indeed, but not a triumph, for it grieves us that such a great effort should not be directed towards liberation or wellbeing but reflects a stubborn and desperate ambition to achieve supremacy by becoming one of the conclave of countries which hold the atomic monopoly.
134.	In continental China we are now confronted with a problem of new dimensions. This nation, the most populous on earth, seems to be beyond the reach of moral law because it is outside the community of nations and has a free hand to act as it pleases, without being subject to the principles and commitments that restrict the individual action of other States.
135.	The Chinese nuclear explosion may tempt other ( countries already endowed with the scientific knowledge and technological resources to carry out similar experiments; in the belief that the balance of forces in the world has changed and that they might be left behind. Nuclear proliferation would lead us straight to disaster. While we are discussing peace here, a spectre is taking shape in the world which is capable not only of invalidating our exhortations but also of threatening the very existence of mankind.
136.	This General Assembly is called upon to consider a few matters connected with the recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development which was held at Geneva this year. It will also have to take concrete decisions in order to put some of the recommendations of that Conference into effect.
137.	Generally speaking, the developing countries cannot feel satisfied with the results of the Geneva Conference as compared with their aspirations and the urgency of their problems. The Conference did not produce any formal commitments on the part of the developed countries to take immediate steps to resolve such problems and the specific requests of the developing countries were, in general, unheeded or deferred.
138.	The Chilean Government wishes to point out, however, that, although the Conference did not produce adequate and specific commitments, it did officially initiate a process for gradually overcoming the difficulties in the foreign trade of the developing countries and there was clear, and in most cases unanimous, acceptance by the international community of the need to take steps to that end.
139.	It may therefore be considered that there is an undertaking of broad scope to which the developed countries are solemnly committed and which covers all the main objectives which the developing countries have been persistently pursuing. It is an undertaking to give our basic export products greater access to markets and at the same time to work towards the stabilization and improvement of commodity prices; to encourage diversification of trade by means of increased exports of manufactures and semi-manufactures; to systematize the characteristics of external financial aid; to improve the conditions of invisible trade; and in regard to many other objectives the developed countries recognized the need for collective action, accepted the broad lines of such action and undertook to work out practical rules of application. This multilateral undertaking, for the effective implementation of which we in the developing countries must be prepared to wage a constant struggle, is obviously a valuable achievement which puts us on the right road to the future.
140.	We are convinced that little by little the international community will find practical means of satisfying the legitimate aspirations of the developing countries. What we need for that, however, is a world body, endowed with an independent secretariat, to start functioning as soon as possible with the specific task of promoting definite solutions for the trade and development problems of the non-industrialized countries and with sufficient authority to take the necessary decisions to that end. Without such a body, the possibility of converting the general undertaking that emerged from the Geneva Conference into an effective set of lines of action will be much more remote. It is for that reason that the Chilean delegation considers it of crucial importance that the institutional machinery unanimously recommended by the Geneva Conference should be put into operation. It is through the action of the proposed world body that the process already initiated can and should go forward.
141.	We wish to reaffirm in the most forthright terms Chile's anti-colonialist position. We hope that swift action will hasten the process of total liberation of colonial peoples, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV). In the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, Chile has supported all constructive and harmonious efforts to strengthen the ability of the United Nations to help peoples to attain independence.
142.	At the same time we trust that the application of the principle of self-determination will not lead to deceptive solutions which, while appearing to be beneficial, may throw the peoples which attain independence headlong into anarchy and poverty. Final victory over colonialism will be consolidated only when liberation leads to the economic and social well-being of peoples hitherto held back under colonial rule and when they are free from foreign interference or intervention
143.	Without infringing any of the principles of resolution 1514 (XV), we consider that the United Nations should ensure that small territories with scanty populations and meagre resources are not abandoned to their fate and allowed to drift when they relinquish their colonial status. Again, independence should not be granted as a result of the application of self- determination to groups of settlers who are nationals of the colonial Powers, nor should it be proclaimed by racial minorities who wish to perpetuate their privileges by continued oppression of the majority of the people of the territory. Furthermore, artificial countries should not be created out of the dismemberment of other countries. Let us show our support and sympathy for all those peoples who are still under colonial rule and whose aspirations to freedom we fully share.
144.	It is discouraging to see that there are still places in the world where racial discrimination is practised, either in the usual ways or in the form of apartheid, a heinous doctrine that is contrary to all moral principles. Year after year from this rostrum we denounce such practices, which not only do physical and spiritual harm to millions of people but endanger world peace. We see minorities backed by force and defiant to the last, gambling with their fate as they sow the seeds of hatred and resentment and refusing to be convinced that the only reasonable solution is to grant all men equal rights and opportunities. Let us hope that, besides moral condemnation, this General Assembly will devise practical formulas which will bring relief to the victims of discrimination and a procedure to prevent the continued application of a racial policy repudiated by men of intelligence and culture.
145.	My Government attaches particular importance to the promotion of human rights in the world. According to our ideology, basic reforms of our economic and social system go hand in hand with a proper appreciation of the attributes of the human person. It is not possible to think of progress founded on the enslavement of individuals, or of ah abstract freedom resting on backwardness and poverty.
146.	In this connexion we must pay particular attention to the elimination of discrimination against women. This question is very topical for Chile, because the Government's programmes include the granting of greater rights and opportunities to women so that they may have a worthy part to play in association with men in raising the standards of the material and spiritual life of our nation. The women of my country, suffering privations and hardships, have given an example of sincerity, fervour and steadfastness and are firmly committed to the drive for national renewal in Chile. From this world rostrum and on behalf of my Government, I pay them a warm tribute of admiration.
147.	The United Nations is at present particularly concerned with the study of the principles of friendly relations and co-operation among States, a subject which is in line with the concept of peaceful coexistence. This is one of the most positive ideas to have emerged in recent times and it is intended to have political, moral and juridical value and to provide a rational basis for a stable and fruitful peace.
148.	It is no longer possible for countries to become dangerous rivals simply because they uphold different political, religious or ethical views. No one wishes for world-wide uniformity in the various aspects of social or cultural organization. Surely it is better for the human spirit that ideas and institutions should flourish with perpetual dynamism, provided that they do not seek expansion with aggressive intent or for political domination. In times like the present, fraught with danger, it is important for the future of mankind that countries should not find in differences of regime sufficient grounds for hostility or hatred, or for taking up entrenched positions or retreating into aloofness.
149.	Peaceful co-existence requires an active, not a passive, outlook. The countries which took part in the recent Cairo Conference were right when they affirmed that coexistence presupposed existence. There are countries which have a powerful and radiant existence. There are others which barely manage to exist and merely vegetate in the said gloom of underdevelopment. Coexistence will be effective when it becomes a collective driving force assisting every country to achieve progress and the full development of its personality.
150.	Peaceful coexistence rests on such principles as the sovereign equality of States, self-determination, non-interference in the internal or external affairs of States, respect for territorial integrity and political independence, and the pacific settlement of disputes. The codification of these principles would be very useful in preventing friction between countries. No one need be dismayed by the difficulty of arriving at a definition of these principles so that abstractions may be translated into legal terms of universal validity. We cannot allow ourselves to be frightened by the difficulties encountered thus far. On the contrary, it is our duty to establish a firm legal basis for peace.
151.	I should like now, to echo some of the words in the message that Eduardo Frei, the new President of Chile, addressed to the peoples of the world on the day that he took office, after a long but exemplary electoral struggle.
152.	On behalf of Chile, I have the honour this afternoon to greet the representatives of the sister nations of Latin America, which have no desire to live according to outworn legal and diplomatic formulas or to go on being the dwindling chorus of the great Powers. I am honoured to greet the representatives of the United States, a friendly nation with which we seek a genuine association in worthy equality and a genuine alliance enabling us to achieve progress in freedom. I am honoured to greet the representatives of the peoples of ancient Europe whose presence, images and ideas have impregnated our minds and which are now showing us the miracle of their spectacular recovery and their extraordinary rejuvenation after thousands of years of antagonism. I am honoured to greet the representatives of the peoples of Africa and Asia which, like us, are striving to ensure that justice, in whose name we have been fighting for the distribution of wealth in every country, shall prevail in international relations. I am honoured to greet this afternoon the representatives of the socialist countries, with which, despite the profound ideological differences separating us, we desire to live in peace and friendship. I am honoured to greet, on behalf of President Frei, all the representatives gathered here and I offer them the Chilean Government’s co-operation in the great work of justice and peace laid upon us by the Charter. The people of Chile look with hope to this General Assembly. We are sure that the soul of the United Nations is to be found in the peoples who trustingly await our decisions and our guidance. If we can make our voices echo them and if we are capable of representing the poverty and the aspirations of the common man in our countries, our words will carry greater weight and whatever we accomplish will be more effective. May God enlighten our debates!

===== Session 20 - 1965 =====
68. On behalf of the Government and people of Chile I wish to congratulate the President of this Assembly most warmly on his election. For many years we have admired his outstanding ability, his abundant talent and his devotion to the service of political ideals which we share and towards the realization of which he has opened up valuable paths. We appreciate his devotion to unity and peace.
69. A few days ago, during the visit of Mr. Guiseppe Saragat, the President of the Italian Republic, we had the honour of welcoming Mr. Fanfani in Chile, where he received the sincere and spontaneous homage of our people. His experience and his distinguished personality are a guarantee that our debates will be guided with efficiency and serenity.
70. I also welcome the new Members of our Organization, Singapore, the Gambia and the Maldive Islands, and wish them prosperity in their new life as independent nations.71. Participation in this international debate gives us an opportunity to proclaim our principles, to define our policy and to offer our co-operation. We speak for a democratic nation and for the Government of the Chilean people, who twice in the past year have expressed their determination to make a significant alteration in their living conditions and have blazed the revolutionary trail of change in freedom.
72. I address myself to the representatives of most of the world’s peoples, in the certainty that only here, in the United Nations, can world peace, the ultimate objective of my country's foreign policy, be strengthened. That is why all peoples look to this Organization with hope.
73. Man has achieved dominion over nature through the power of science, but it is not by science and power alone that he will advance towards fulfilment, for, as Dr. Albert Schweitzer said, man must attain that high degree of intelligence that will enable him to use his power over natural forces not for destruction, but only for construction.
74. The price of peace is justice, for there will be no peace in the world as long as poverty and wealth live side by side, as long as some countries possess nothing and others possess everything. If, as we hope, one day all the peoples of the world decide to live in peace, they will be able to do so only by willingly sharing common tasks and objectives inspired by the principles that govern the United Nations. We are convinced that peace, justice and freedom form an indissoluble whole. Peace will never be able to exist in this world without justice, nor will peace and justice without freedom.
75. In conformity with these principles, Chile declares its profound dedication to everything that means respect for and strengthening of human rights, because our generation, which has left behind the era of feudalism and racism, must overcome nationalism and aim resolutely at a world government under the rule of law, serving all men without distinction or exclusion. Chile declares its profound devotion to the principle of the self-determination of peoples. Chile declares its sincere repudiation of selfish nationalism, which prevents men from undertaking a common task. Finally, Chile declares that fee liberation of mankind from poverty, oppression and insecurity can be achieved only by means of the effective solidarity of all peoples.
76. We are sure that these principles are shared by all peoples, yet today we face a terrifying reality. Mankind witnesses repeated aggressive confrontations and sees with stupefaction that irresponsible leaders reject even coexistence, exposing their peoples to extermination as though they had the right to dispose of human life. For us, coexistence is not a concession but the recognition of the simple need to survive.
77. In speaking of peace, I cannot fail to refer to other dangers that threaten peace in the world today. At the sight of man killing man, and of resources being destroyed in Viet-Nam, I must recall and support the position of the United States, the United Kingdom, the non-aligned countries and the Secretary- General of the United. Nations which can be expressedin the words used by President Johnson when he said "We have said that we are prepared to negotiate anywhere and at any time", adding, "the people of South Viet-Nam must have the right to determine their own future in free elections in the South or throughout the whole of Viet-Nam". We are glad that this decision was so decisively reiterated by Mr. Goldberg a few days ago in this Assembly [1334th meeting]. This appeal should be heard and accepted.
78. Thanks to the efforts of the Secretary-General and the co-operation of many nations, it has been possible to bring the conflict between India and Pakistan under control and to prevent it from constituting a new threat to peace.
79. The United Nations also made a positive contribution to the cause of peace in the sad conflict in which the people of the Dominican Republic were involved in their struggle for freedom, a struggle which has fortunately found a political solution that will enable this brother nation to choose its own government. That was the solution advocated by Chile from the very beginning.
80. In speaking of peace, we cannot fail to mention expenditure on armaments. It is hard to depict madness, but it must be repeated in this Assembly that $120,000 million is wasted yearly on armaments production. A sum equivalent to the annual income of all the under-developed countries is spent on the production of instruments of destruction. When fifty million men dedicate their intelligence and abilities to activities related to defence, we can say with certainty that man is defenceless against hate and fear and that our era, which could have been the most promising, is the most perilous in human history.
81. We condemn particularly the threat to peace and to mankind caused by the production of atomic bombs and the possibility of trading in them. That is why we have advocated the denuclearization of Latin America; that is why we hope that not one additional atomic bomb will be produced and that no country which today is innocent of possessing nuclear weapons will come to possess them. Such instruments should not be bought of sold. In short, the possession, production, sale and use of nuclear weapons should be totally prohibited.
82. We heartily welcome the desire to limit the nuclear arms race expressed in this Assembly by the two great world Powers. We hope that their proposals will form the basis for a speedy agreement at this session. We hope that an effective disarmament process will be initiated, under United Nations control, and that we may thus attain the principal objective for which all peoples yearn. If all these resources were no longer used for military purposes but were devoted to building a world without poverty, this generation would have fulfilled its historical duty, because in advancing towards disarmament it would have progressed towards development; by attaining peace, it would achieve justice.
83. How intense this concern must be, how great the dangers if, for the first time in history, a man who is the very personification of peace and love for all mankind, His Holiness the Pope, is, with his presence, to lend a new dimension to this rostrum and provide the most valuable recognition of this Organization's peace-keeping mission!
84. He will come to an Assembly in which the equality of all members is a myth, not a fact, owing to the wide and ever-increasing differences in levels of living. Every year, more goods are available for those who have most, while for those who have little or nothing the possibility of acquiring goods decreases. We do not believe that a world of inequality can survive, for it would be a world without peace. That is why we stress the problem of under-development, for progress in the field of political independence has not been followed by economic and above all by social progress.
85. Today colonialism has become largely a thing of the past, but new and more subtle forms of neocolonialism persist. The under-developed economies still depend on international markets dominated by the industrialized countries; consequently, the nations of. Latin America, Africa and Asia have been losing ground in world trade. While the value of their exports, declines, the price of their imports is rising rapidly. In this situation, the developed countries, both those with market economies and those with centrally-planned economies, as consumers of raw materials and producers of manufactured goods, have enjoyed the best of both worlds, whereas the under-developed countries have had the worst of both worlds. We call this economic imperialism, and we could also call it exploitation.
86. It was here, in the United Nations, that this situation was revealed. The regional economic commissions, in their studies, showed what was happening in world trade. The turbulent United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which was worldwide in scope, gave the poor countries an opportunity to demonstrate the reality in which they live.
87. Today economic conditions are responsible for a new division of the world. Within this framework there has arisen in the United Nations a group of countries which, bound together by their common problems, jointly seek a way out of their condition as underdeveloped countries, handicapped by the present terms of world trade. The third world, the countries of Latin America, Africa and Asia, aligned by their common deprivation, have united to persuade the wealthy countries that true progress is common progress, that nothing can grow unless growth is common to all and that, as has been said, it is unfair and unnatural for one branch alone to absorb all the sap of the tree, growing on the death of all the other branches. Faced with the vehement expression of views by the under-developed countries, the Western countries cannot forget their responsibilities.
88. It was in the small society of freemen in Greece that Western civilization began. There an anti-individualist society created, with a collective soul and common values, the possibility of the development of individual genius. Through the total freedom of a human group, intelligence definitively overcame instinct.
89. It is for us, with two thousand years of additional historical experience, to make the world a place for the collective soul and for creative effort.
90. It was the Christian West that taught the world that solidarity is a way of life, that man is the ultimate purpose of all social, political and economic effort, that culture is man's creation and his right and that every man is responsible for all men. It is these basic values that have inspired Western civilization, but they have often been forgotten and colonialism and the exploitation of the coloured man by the white man have become facts of history.
91. Can the West forget the duty inherent in its moral concepts and the responsibilities deriving from its past behaviour? We hope it will not forget. We believe that a conscientious desire for co-operation with the developing countries has begun to emerge. The West now understands the tensions it helped to create, and is listening with growing interest and justified concern to the protests it has taught the developing countries to formulate.
92. Latin America is Western. With its 200 million inhabitants — they will be 500 million by the end of the century — who love freedom which, though sometimes suppressed, has always triumphed, it constitutes a force for renewal which can and must be a decisive contribution to the great task of achieving progress and peace in the world. For that reason Chile has strengthened its bonds with Europe.
93. Europe is today giving increasing demonstrations of solidarity with Latin America. We consider that this relationship enriches, articulates and complements Latin America's relations with the United States, for Europe brings its own creative genius, expressed in so many political, social and cultural values which we have in common. When we look at Europe and the United States, we do not forget that we belong to the world of the developing countries. The peoples who seek justice and peace may be sure that in Chile they will find a faithful and resolute exponent of the problems which affect Us equally.
94. The Government of the Chilean people, seeking fruitful contacts with all the nations of the world, has begun a direct approach to countries of Africa and Asia. It has also renewed its relations with the countries of the socialist world, whose accelerated progress may come to represent a factor of great importance for our development. We are convinced that ideological differences need not be obstacles to coexistence, enduring relations and co-operation with all countries which accept peaceful coexistence, respect the right of peoples to self-determination and abide by the principle of non-intervention.
95. For years it has been said that Latin America, would be an explosive continent. We believe that the revolution has already begun; as its problems affect a vast area of the world, we speak of them in this Assembly and they should be of concern to this Organization. The struggles to destroy the established order in Latin America are well known. The revolutionary process under way threatens an institutional establishment which has neither adjusted itself to the requirements of social development nor demonstrated economic efficiency.
96. There is undoubtedly agitation from outside, stirring up and organizing revolt, but the profound cause lies elsewhere and must be sought in the signs which we see today in Latin America. It is to be found in the political will of the peoples to be masters of their own destiny, to possess culture, to excercise their rights and to enjoy the benefits of civilization. It is to be found in recognition of the fact that the survival of political freedom is incompatible with the persistence of poverty.
97. Latin America has inherited from the West the spirit of rebellion, of rebellion which occurs when there is theoretical equality but great inequalities in practice, when the law ceases to be the instrument of justice and becomes the instrument of privilege, bringing about its own destruction. It is obvious that this rebellion is not only a desire for justice and progress. To a greater or lesser extent ideological factors, alien to our culture, intrude, tending to turn our region into a battlefield and endeavouring to pervert the just expression of our people's desire for change and to launch them into destructive violence.
98. Is this a sufficient reason to arrest the movement of the peoples who are struggling to advance towards freedom and to obtain political, social and economic rights which they see flourishing in other communities but which are denied to them? It is essential to understand and to discern this phenomenon if the advance of justice is not to be halted and if the abuse of privileges under cover of ideological pretexts is to be prevented.
99. The people of Latin America are wise and intelligent and have their own vision of their problems; when faced with real alternatives they know how to choose what suits them best if they are allowed to select freely. They know that guerrilla warfare and illegal violence do not lead to the establishment of justice, and to the extent that they acquire culture and opportunities they understand that only by their voluntary efforts can their poverty be overcome.
100. It is by having faith in the people, by guiding and organizing their advance towards the conquest of their own rights and the exercise of their responsibilities that we shall be able to face the facts of the present-day world. We consider that, for this historic process to be carried out to the best advantage, all Latin American nations must be united in their determination to achieve integration, which will make it possible to bring about an accelerated, and therefore peaceful, development. It is encouraging to note here the complete agreement on this subject already shown in the statements of the Foreign Minister of Brazil [1334th meeting], Uruguay [1335th meeting] and Argentina [1337th meeting]. By this means Latin America must strengthen its cultural identity and work towards a unity which, while respecting the autonomy of the individual communities, will enable it to take its place in the hemisphere and the world with its own personality and objectives.
101. Chile considers that, in order to carry out structural reforms and achieve integration, a close association with the United States on terms of dignity, respect, confidence and mutual understanding is essential. This association is not based only on geography, which obviously is a determining factor in political and economic realities; it has been nourished by a continuous process of juridical development that has given form to a regional system, the oldest and largest in the world. Furthermore, there is an essential solidarity between Latin America and the United States founded on a common acceptance of the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights.
102. But this solidarity, which already has political expression, must be supplemented by its full realization in the social and economic fields. This we think, was the essential spirit of the Alliance for Progress. This spirit must be imbued with new life so that it may respond to the requirements of the present time, and the instruments of the Alliance must be perfected so that they may be equal to the difficult role which the peoples expect of it.
103. We consider that only a positive, united, urgent and bold effort can give our peoples progress in freedom. For all these reasons we do not favour the creation of supranational military forces. They would undoubtedly create dangers for the independence and self-determination of our peoples and might generate mistrust among the nations of the continent, encourage an arms race, arouse appetites and, in the last analysis, threaten to destroy the process of unification. There has already been one Holy Alliance, which tried to hold back the course of justice in an attempt to preserve a dying order. We are convinced that any other Holy Alliance would be equally ill-fated.
104. There are various other reasons why my Government cannot accept regional military forces. Among them, I wish to stress one in particular, namely that peace is indivisible and that when peace is endangered in one nation of the world it is threatened throughout the world. Peace is the concern of all nations, and in the international community it is the concern of the United Nations, the only world-wide organization in a world of division.
1Q5. The United Nations has its legal and institutional machinery for strengthening peace in the world. Let us perfect this machinery, let us give it the moral force which our firm support would provide, let us create whatever instruments it lacks; but let us not parcel out a task which belongs to all men and not only to those who live in a certain region or subscribe to a certain common ideology.
106. The Organization of American States is an organization with the United Nations and, as such, is not called upon to establish military forces. It must accept among its members all the countries of the region, whatever their governmental, economic or social systems may be, provided always they respect the basic principles of non-intervention and the protection and support of human rights.
107. Non-intervention is a fundamental duty of all peoples. It is a bulwark of the inter-American system. This principle, whose violation has always been denounced by Chile, is an obligation on all States, large and small, for it is a basic moral law of the international order. In the Americas, moreover, it is determined by treaty and must be respected. To concede to any State the right to intervene in the life of another, on any pretext whatsoever, or to claim that right for ourselves, would lead us into an untenable position.
108. We consider that in the political field the essential factor of hemispheric unity lies in the effective practice of and vigilant concern for human political, social and economic rights. The most important of these rights is that whereby a people can choose its own government and maintain it against any designs that run counter to its free and democratic expression.
109. I should like to quote from one who has helped to inspire our conception of the world, Jacques Maritain, and say: "It is to new problems and new changes to come that the creative energy of history has shifted.... And it is the job of human free will to prepare and bring about these events in the right direction and under an inspiration really worthy of man. "
110. Chile has shouldered this task and begun its revolution in freedom. We have laid down an uncompromising programme of government that consists in incorporating the people into the exercise of political power and into our culture, so that the development of our economy may have e. social objective and the fruits of our collective effort may benefit the great majority. This is the mandate which the Chilean people has on two occasions given to its new Government.
111. We are a peace-loving people and we need peace in order to carry forward the great efforts which we are making in our domestic affairs to transform the basic structure of our political, economic and social institutions so that our people may enjoy justice in freedom. In this effort we are counting above all on the self-sacrifice and support willingly given by the majority of the Chilean people.
112. Our revolution cannot cause anyone disquiet; it represents a danger to no one save those who would try to halt our progress because they seek to defend indefensible privileges, or those who would seek to install in our country any régime or system that would threaten our freedom.
113. There are many who are looking for failure on our part because they fear freedom. This fear of freedom implies a fear of reform and a fear of the people too. Short-term solutions that sacrifice freedom are solutions with no future. Appearances in a rotten order are paid for very dearly. Only a new order based on justice and efficiency will defend and strengthen democracy. Because of this, they seek, from within or from without, to misrepresent us by accusing our revolution of being either a hew disguise for reaction and imperialism or else an instrument of totalitarianism, both of which are incompatible with our ideology avid our democratic tradition, which has never been interrupted in the 155 years of our independence.
114. As is natural, we want to be successful in our struggle, not only in order to make our people happy but also in order to demonstrate to other peoples with problems like our own that it is possible to organize the will for change and to carry out, in freedom, a revolution in which the fundamental values of Christian civilization, namely the dignity and essential rights of the human person are preserved.
115. We consider it necessary that there should be a substantial increase in our efforts at home towards development; that will require changes in the very foundations of the existing legal and economic order, so that the entire community may participate in it and enjoy its fruits, for there is no economic development without social development. These efforts, however, will not yield their maximum results without adequate and timely financial and technical cooperation from outside.
116. It is possible that, under a dictorial régime, internal efforts alone might suffice, without external aid. But we are interested not only in economic development but basically in its political and social results. The price we may pay for development will not be the sacrifice of human rights and the abandonment of democracy.
117. New formulas are necessary in international co-operation, formulas that will offer a genuine possibility of halting the gradual deterioration in the balance-of-payments position of the under-developed countries and that will not entail the tragic necessity of getting into debt in order to pay off past debts.
118. In order to proceed with our domestic effort, we have initiated an accelerated programme of agrarian reform; we have changed the traditional tax system, in which privileges abounded, so that those who possess the most shall be these who contribute the most to the common effort. We have initiated constitutional reform so that every Chilean, without limitation, can elect his representatives and delegate authority, so that the people may be consulted directly when political conditions so require, and so that the right to own property may function as it should in a society in which that right has been enjoyed by only a few. We have started a mass educational campaign for the whole Chilean people, the results of which, as UNESCO has pointed out, are already an example even for the most advanced countries in the world. We are providing decent housing for all Chileans.
119. In what we have been doing in these ten months of government, in the profound changes we have been making, the creation of conditions for converting Chile into a humane and just society, modern in its achievements, free and peaceful in its customs, Chile has received invaluable co-operation from other countries. In that noble spirit of co-operation which inspired the Alliance for Progress, we have been understood and are being given unfailing help in carrying out the reforms which four years ago the Latin American countries undertook to introduce. We have acted with determination, because the diagnosis and forecasts had already been made.
120. The stage through which Latin America is passing today is not one of marking time; it is a time for bringing about the necessary changes in all rapidity. We are convinced that in order to do this it is necessary to hasten the union of the peoples of the continent in an alliance against the old order, an alliance to promote and establish social change. To this end, we must bring the Alliance for Progress up to date and give it new life, and ensure that henceforth development and economic progress will be the real concern of inter-American multilateral policy, so that democracy can be established on a firm basis. We wish to see a creative process established through which effective work will be done for the well-being of the American man, who is weary of so much wretchedness.
121. In outlining the international policy of the Chilean Government before this Assembly, all I wanted to do was to reflect our conviction that, as Teilhard de Chardin said, "The outcome of the world, the gates of the future, the entry into the superhuman — these are not thrown open to a few of the privileged nor to one chosen people to the exclusion of all others. They will open to an advance of all together, in a direction in which all together can join and find completion in a spiritual renovation of the earth".


===== Session 21 - 1966 =====
25.     Before coming to the substance of my statement, I wish to congratulate you most sincerely, Mr. President, upon your election. I must also express my pleasure that Guyana, an integral part of the Latin American continent, has become a Member of the United Nations, and say how extremely happy we are to see a community living in our region acquire its complete political independence. We hope to establish most cordial and fruitful relations with this new State.

26.    The present session of the General Assembly has opened in the most sombre circumstances. A few weeks ago, the United States Secretary of Defence said that this planet was becoming a most
dangerous place in which to live, not only on account of the possible nuclear holocaust but also because of the large number of de facto conflicts and because the tendency towards such conflicts was growing instead of diminishing.

27.    Those were the words of a man who bears a great responsibility in relation to decisions that may mean peace or war. They reveal the gravity of the problem that is today the main source of anxiety to the nations of the earth, a problem which the spiritual leaders of mankind are making unremitting efforts to solve.

28.    Peace is jeopardized in so many places and for so many reasons. It is jeopardized by the insistence on nuclear testing and by the irresponsible technical development of nuclear weapons. It has already been breached in Viet-Nam, where men from all over the world are dying and a whole people is suffering a slow agony, in a war that tugs at the very roots of human conscience. Peace has been breached, for the victims of dictatorships and violent political systems can be counted in their thousands. There is no peace because millions of human beings suffer from hunger, disease and ignorance and millions live in insecurity and have no choice but to do so.

29.    All this is known to every one of you. It has been stated by eminent persons and by the representatives of great Powers. I am making no attempt to be original; what I wish to do is to tell you frankly and sincerely what we think of the situation and of the ways in which it might be remedied.

30.    The history of mankind has been, to a considerable extent, the history of the irresponsible exercise of power, and high-sounding words were used in an attempt to justify the immoral and barbarous instinct for domination. Of all these high-sounding words two still survive: "race" and "nation". They continue to be used as a cloak or justification for the most culpable acts against what, in the last analysis, is the only important thing: the individual human being. Millions of valuable lives were given in order to destroy Nazism, yet racism is still being used to justify the monstrous and immoral aberration of apartheid and it has broken out again in ah its virulence in communist China where it is used to stir men up against their fellow countrymen and against the peoples of other lands.

31.    In the past, race and religion were invoked as a pretext for "civilizing" Africa and Asia and, under the cloak of spreading Christianity — whose very essence is love — colonialism and exploitation were introduced surreptitiously and by force of arms.

32.    Today, the concept of "the nation" as having absolute dominion places the lust for power above moral law and above human rights. It is cited as justification for war, the arms race, the necessity for atomic testing, the economic or ideological domination of countries which are small or poor, the deprivation of human rights — in short, for injustice both national and international.

33.    But there is another kind of history, the new history first chronicled in the United Nations. It is the history of those nations which neither dominate nor seek to dominate; they seek to base their hopes for prosperity and development on solidarity among men living together in free communities. These nations are in the majority. Many of them are continuously becoming poorer, and, paradoxically, their strength in relation to the minority is continuously diminishing; but for that very reason their voices daily acquire more dignity, sincerity and moral worth.

34.    Fortunately we are all equal in this place; we sit in alphabetical order and we can say what we think. But little heed is paid to our views when the individual interests of the great Powers are at stake; and so the problems of war and peace and of the just distribution of the fruits of progress, the right to choose one's beliefs, one's ideology and one's way of life are not considered suitable for decision in a democratic way.

35.    Perhaps it is to give us a means of escaping from this harsh fact that we are being asked during the present session of the General Assembly to study the peaceful uses of outer space and the exploration and conquest of the moon and other celestial bodies.

36.    Oppressed by so many threats and by our own problems, we of the small nations and the poor peoples have very little to say about such subjects, except to shudder at the extent of the power displayed by the great in their space rivalry. In short, in the case of these and many other problems, what we say is not heeded; when it is heeded it is soon forgotten; and what is remembered is not applied by those with the capacity and obligation to do so.

37.    The concentration of technological progress and financial resources in a few countries and colonialism, both past and present, provide an explanation of the situation which we have just described. And yet, we have the right to ask ourselves: can it really be, in a world where peace, freedom and justice are values predicated by all, that technology, economic wealth and the incubus of colonialism should count for more and have greater force than moral law, which demands that it be recognized as a sacred and immutable principle in international relations that political communities, because of their inherent dignity, are equal to one another?

38.    I come from a small country of 9 million inhabitants. Chile does not attack anyone and has no wish to arm itself to do so. Its ambition is to live in peace and friendly co-operation with all peoples regardless of their regime or system of government. Chile is carrying out a revolution among its people so that justice, freedom, truth and peace may reign in our community.

39.    The attainment of the objectives of this revolution is in jeopardy because, throughout the world, justice, freedom, truth and peace are themselves in jeopardy, because no country, least of all a small country, can build its future in a universe of violence, and because efforts are being made to transform our countries into battlefields for ideologies which prevail elsewhere and have no relevance to our circumstances. In short, our revolution is in jeopardy because the very meaning of the word "revolution" has been distorted. Revolution may be defined as direct action to give effect to a resolute will for change in the interests of the people; but, If while we talk about introducing changes for the better in the process of human development, and, at the same time, thousands of millions are being spent on armaments which in turn sow mistrust by constantly upsetting the balance between neighbouring countries, if oligarchies of various flavours are supported and hatred and violence fomented among other peoples, then we are magnifying still further a contradiction which in the end will destroy all possibility of living in peace.

40.    Poverty, when it is born of injustice and of inconsistency between the principles preached and actual practice, is not only more frustrating, it is also more explosive. We live in a world where more than 1,200 million human beings are completely illiterate and some 400 million families lack decent housing. Yet, at the same time, $150,000 million are spent annually on armaments and more than 100 million skilled men are employed in manufacturing weapons and in preparing for war. These are facts which we cannot alter: responsibility for doing so lies with the four or five countries which in fact hold the power of decision in the world.

41.    Representatives of nations, numbering many millions of people, may agree with what I have said, but, although we all maintain that we are ready to abandon the armaments race, any progress in that direction, if progress there is, will be slow and cautious. In the countries of all the great Powers voices will be raised by those who place prestige, power or profits before everything else.

42.    The Treaty of Moscow, which we signed, forbids nuclear tests which could endanger life on this planet. The parties have acted in accordance with their obligations under this Treaty. But they did not undertake not to use atomic bombs against each other or against third parties, or to stop manufacturing or stockpiling these bombs. This is the crux of the problem, since, so long as some countries have this power, the experts say that it will only be a matter of three years and $30 million before many other countries have atomic bombs.

43.    This race cannot be halted unless armaments of this type are destroyed. Without a universal law, it will be very difficult if not impossible to prevent nations from invoking the right to possess this weapon in defence of their own integrity and independence, when others are stockpiling it and holding it ready for use. That is why nations have been announcing their entry into the "club" of those possessing this destructive power with violent atomic tests, all of which endanger our peoples.

44.    So we shall have to wait for some time before moral indignation is translated into a general agreement to prohibit the manufacture, possession and use of nuclear weapons.

45.    Moreover, everything seems to confirm the assumption that mainland China, in the Messianic spirit characteristic of isolated countries, will continue to arm its people, both materially and psychologically.

46.    Unfortunately, some time will elapse before there is again a united Germany, born of self- determination and occupying its rightful place in this Organization.

47.    Reasons — some of them very Cogent — can always be given for not finding a solution for these problems. It is a race against time, yet progress will be deliberately slow and cautious so that minor interests may be satisfied, petty susceptibilities left unwounded and the impression given that the urgent problems are those of an individual Power, never those of mankind as a whole.

48.    We all know — though apparently some have forgotten — that what decides the destiny of the world nowadays Is not the competition between the capitalist and the socialist productive systems, for they will both arrive at the same end without a struggle. What does decide the destiny of the world is the contest between the forces of complacency and material wellbeing and the forces of extreme want, which can see no way out except rebellion. For this reason world peace is in danger wherever the majority are losing hope.

49.    The destiny of the world depends on the contest between neo-colonialist concepts in international relations, which survive through sheer inertia, and the determination of the developing nations to rise above the present structures of world economy and achieve progress within their own cultural traditions. Powerful nations are not prepared to sacrifice their privileged position in the system of international trade, which they themselves organized. Nor are they prepared to permit any major changes in international financial systems. That attitude is common to all countries which profit from the present situation, irrespective of ideology.

50.    Spurred on by this process, countries that until a short time ago were colonies now want to colonize other nations, either in fact or by introducing their ideas. Like the colonialists of the past, they are not prepared to accept the law and negotiation at the conference table as the foundation of success. This Messianic approach arises from their frustration; the totalitarian identification of national ideals with a single man results from the effort to retrieve a lost cultural identity, while building up a scale of values on an arbitrary basis.

51.    The irresponsible use of their strength by some great Powers has had ready Imitators. People who oppose the application of me principle of self- determination, despise negotiation and believe only to achieving a settlement by force of arms, are doing exactly what the colonialists did during the past 150 years. Colonialism was a gift to mankind from the Western world, whose nations exploited the wealth of overseas territories in order to secure their own advancement.

52.    The next thing will be trade in nuclear weapons. Who is to prevent it? Is not the expansion of the scale of operations the driving force in business? If the arms trade is based on self-interest and profit
and not on the moral law, why should it not be possible in the future, after some indecision, for atomic weapons also to become an article of trade in a market which is kept in existence by terror, jealousy and, of course, the desire for vast profits? We can see the possibility of this happening and we can see the danger involved. That is why it is urgently necessary to reach agreement on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, and we consider this to be the most important of the steps that can be taken immediately in connexion with general disarmament.

53.    Despite the circumstances in which we live, I wish once again to reaffirm our faith in the United Nations as the most reliable instrument for international co-operation. In a world characterized by political disorganization and by anarchy in international affairs, this Organization is mankind's only hope of an international community based on peace and progress.

54.    Perhaps all that I shall have achieved in addressing this Assembly will have been to bear witness — too ingenuously maybe — to my faith in peace. In doing so, I confess I have in mind Goethe's dictum that man dreams only that he may not cease to see.

55.    If we can make the United Nations stronger by causing it to assume greater obligations, then we shall succeed in transforming the uneasy truce of the present day into the permanent peace which so many of us hope for. If we invest the Organization with indisputable moral authority and make it the authentic spokesman for the conscience of mankind, we shall be able to resist the irresponsible exercise of power which endangers world peace. Lamennais said that, where there are strong and weak, rich and poor, liberty enslaves and only the law can give freedom, and those words have never been truer than now in international affairs.

56.    A few weeks ago, we in Chile had the high honour of receiving a visit from the Secretary-General of the United Nations, U Thant, who came to inaugurate the new building of the Economic Commission for Latin America.

57.    On that occasion the Chilean Government took advantage of the opportunity offered by this personal contact with U Thant to assure him that it was entirely in favour of his continuing to hold the office of Secretary-General of the United Nations; considering as it did that he had succeeded in conferring on his office its present prestige and importance and that he had acted with consistent intelligence, decision and resolution. This assurance was spontaneously supported by the Chilean people, who gave the Secretary-General an enthusiastic welcome in the streets as he passed by.

58.    Support for U Thant personally is unanimous. What we wish to stress is our full endorsement of his ideas about the international community and the specific proposals he has made for solving its immediate problems, with particular regard to two aspects: first, the recognition of the need to establish justice in the system of economic relations between nations, not only as a prerequisite for development, but also as an essential condition for peace. The creation of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development was a substantial step forward in this direction, since it has given us a high-grade instrument for world-wide negotiations. In this connexion that eminent Latin American, Dr. Radi Prebisch, stands out for the tireless efficiency with which he has organized and directed this valuable instrument. The second aspect is his attitude towards the problem of South East Asia, which is the sore tooth of the contemporary world and which, with the entry of mainland China on to the world's stage, represents the greatest challenge to our generation. The fate, the very survival, of our civilization depends on how we deal with this problem. We are aware that the Secretary-General knows and feels these problems as his own. His proposals and his personal intervention in these problems should be fully supported by the great Powers and by all the Members of the United Nations.

59.    For this reason, we express the earnest hope that the reasons which prompted his decision not to accept re-election will be overcome. For this same reason, we wish to express our agreement with the main line of action he has taken on these problems on various occasions.

60.    We fully agree with the Secretary-General's statement at his admirable lecture at the University of Chile, that;

"The future of the United Nations, therefore, rests to a considerable degree with the small nations — with their sense of responsibility, their independence and objectivity, their dedication to the principles of the Charter and, above all, their collective determination to help attenuate and bring an end to the dangerous tensions which have affected international relations so adversely during the last twenty years."

61.    We also agree with the Secretary-General when he said:
"Let me reiterate, therefore, that we must work towards a new world order in which aggressive nationalism or expansionism are banished, as a means of promoting or protecting national interests, where extremism is no longer necessary to support a different point of view, and where diversity can be preserved without resort to prejudice and hatred."

62.    Lastly, we are in agreement with the Secretary- General's statement that:

"The greatest obstacle to the realization of the principles of the Charter is the inescapable fact that power politics still operate, both overtly and covertly, in international relations. The concept of power politics, whether as the Instrument of nationalism or of ideological extremism, is the natural enemy of international order as envisaged in the Charter. It is also an expensive, and potentially disastrous, anachronism. Patriotism, national pride or ideological convictions can and must take new and more creative forms than the old concepts of political domination or material power. This is a challenge to statesmanship and political genius in all regions of the world. The basic
ideas and machinery are all there — they await the national policies and actions which will put life and strength into them."

63.    What are the conditions which will make it possible to strengthen the United Nations? In our opinion, the first and most fundamental is to consolidate it as a base for the construction of a sound and democratic political organization. This is not the case at present. Moreover, it can be said that we smaller countries are to blame for this. During many sessions of the Assembly, the Council and other activities of the United Nations, we have concentrated our efforts on obtaining machinery for economic aid, on establishing new principles of international trade or on analysing the conditions of the world economy. We have carried out important work in these fields, but we must recognize that its slow progress as compared with what was predicted, depends on political decisions which will have to be adopted by this Organization. The United Nations was conceived as an essentially political institution, and the activity of small countries within it should be aimed at achieving effective political equality and rights in all its Councils, Assemblies and Commissions.

64.    We resolutely support the Secretary-General's view that it is the duty of the Organization not only to preserve peace but also to create it. In the process of creating peace, the problem of development seems to us to have first priority. This Organization has devoted much study to it, has set up many Commissions and has given it a forum of great potential value in the Trade and Development Board, So far there have been no agreements but we must recognize that there has been some progress. It is now possible to establish what the developing nations need, in certain decisive sectors at least. What is lacking? Only a decision by the industrialized nations to state how willing they are to meet the development needs of the Third World.

65.    What is lacking is a political decision. Here the five or six most powerful nations should come together, leaving aside their particular ideologies, to study and decide upon their participation in changing the process of the developing world. That world already shows distinctive features. There is a real awareness of its problems and the decision to carry out the domestic efforts required; it is a world that is leaving behind its religious differences in so far as they constitute a dividing factor; it is a world which is becoming racially integrated and which is prompted by the urgent necessity to achieve higher technical and cultural levels.

66.    Our insistence on the economic work of the United Nations should not cause us to forget that the foundation of equality of opportunity is true, genuine, real political equality. This is true both on the national and the international plane.

67.    In our country, we are carrying out a revolution the essential basis of which is the transfer of political power from the small oligarchies to the large popular masses. This transfer is the only solid foundation for economic change. The participation of the people in wealth and in the benefits of culture will be definitive only in so far as the people are able to participate freely and democratically in power and in the making of political decisions.

68.    In our view, the problem on the international level expresses itself in similar terms. In so far as the United Nations constitutes a genuine political community and all nations participate in its decisions, we shall build solid foundations for the equality and the participation of all mankind in economic, social and political activities.

69.    We believe that that is the road that the new history must take, and we must follow it resolutely. As His Holiness Pope Paul VI said here a year ago:

"... it is easy to affirm that it is towards that new history, a peaceful, a truly and fully human history, as promised by God to men of goodwill, that we must resolutely set out. The roads are already well marked out for you; the first is that of disarmament." [1347th meeting, para. 36.]

70.    We all know that the problem of disarmament transcends the problem of stockpiling armaments and that its solution requires an over-all picture of the United Nations.

71.    In the first place, we are convinced that the problem of peace-keeping operations should be dealt with immediately, quite apart from disarmament negotiations. Aggression and the arms race are consequences of international political disorganization. The establishment and strengthening of peacekeeping machinery is the best guarantee that power will never again be wrongly used and will demonstrate the willingness of all countries to reduce their own armed forces.

72.    In our opinion, all countries are under an obligation towards the United Nations and world peace to place at the disposal of this Organization the material and human resources necessary to ensure the effective protection of the principles of the Charter.

73.    We are convinced that we, the small nations, can make an important contribution to the cause of the United Nations and of peace. We represent a large part of the world's population and we have no material interests involved. At the last session of the Assembly, we gave proof of what we are capable of doing when working together, by obtaining almost unanimous approval for a resolution on nonintervention. We hope that, on this occasion and in the future, we may continue to work together constructively, sharing a common inspiration and a common goal.

74.    Chile is prepared to make its contribution, within the limits of its capacities, to the creation of a world peace force, since peace is the responsibility of all peoples. Peace is indivisible. If it is endangered in one region, the whole world is threatened. For that reason we accept the necessity of establishing a peace force, solely under the control of the United Nations.

75.    In this Assembly, which opened in a gloomy atmosphere, we have listened to proposals for seeking a definite solution to the war in Viet-Nam. So serious is the situation that the replies to these proposals cannot be evasive or simply qualified statements of intentions.

76.    Closely linked with this is the principle of the universality of the United Nations, which conditions its real ability to act in areas crucial for world peace and which can affect its own survival. The road is certainly not an easy one, but we are convinced that merely negative attitudes will only increase tension in a world that cannot live in peace if attempts are made to divide it ideologically.

77.    We shall not find security in ideological or geographical isolation. We can achieve it if we recognize the essential equality of all men, their right to culture, welfare and modern technology and their duty to submit to a world authority serving the masses of mankind.

78.    But a beginning should be made by action in this direction. The best proof of goodwill on the part of the great Powers and of a real intention to disarm would be to initiate a rapid process of arms reduction and to devote a considerable part of the resources released to increasing aid to the developing countries.

79.    The approximate figures show that the total expenditure of the industrialized countries for destructive purposes amounts to over $120,000 million. These same countries grant only $11,000 million, mainly on a reimbursable basis, to eliminate want in the developing countries. About 10 per cent! This is a most tangible proof that the developed world still believes that security can be built on arms and not on justice, a false and foolish belief.

80.    The developing countries also have their responsibility for the reduction of armaments. To commit a large proportion of their revenue to the acquisition of increasingly costly war materials must certainly weaken their development efforts and means entering into a senseless rivalry that can only aggravate the major problems of the world.

81.    Let us all meditate on the enormous responsibilities of a world in which, merely by refraining from producing weapons of mass destruction, we could put into effect eight or nine Marshall Plans every year. The great Powers should use their strength, and the responsibility which it gives them to promote regional agreements on the limitation of armaments, in Latin America for instance, and use their efforts for disarmament by devoting the resources so released to development aid.

82.    We earnestly hope that Latin America will soon become a nuclear-free zone. Chile undertakes without reservations to work towards this end and acknowledges the action taken by the nuclear Powers which has enabled some progress to be made in that direction. We hope that we shall soon be able to sign a treaty banishing this peril from our continent.

83.    The denuclearization of Latin America will make it possible to denuclearize a large area of the Pacific, an area into which the national interests of other countries of the region extend, including those of Japan, the only country to suffer the cruel experience of nuclear weapons. Thus, a universal declaration of a nuclear-free zone, covering Latin America and the Pacific, would be a contribution to non-proliferation and to the denuclearization of the world, and an example of positive action for peace.

84.    I make a fervent appeal for the co-operation of all countries to prevent the involvement of Latin America in the nuclear race. I do so because we have faith in that continent, which has other tasks to fulfil. We have faith in its possibilities of becoming a home for man, where neither hatred, nor lust for power, nor the instruments of violence will prevail. We trust we shall make progress in that direction through the united efforts of the sister nations of the continent and the loyal and effective co-operation of the large nations. We are pledged to make a co-operative effort within our hemisphere proportionate to our vast human and geographic resources and with true participation on the part of all the peoples concerned in the decisions to be made and the benefits to be derived. We seek an alliance for the harmonious economic, social and cultural development of the continent, not a closed alliance but one open to the participation of all the world and especially of Europe, in order that the true ideals of justice and freedom may become a reality in Latin America.

85.    We have faith in Latin America because it has been a continent in which prominence has been given not to the individual but to the race, in which men originating from all parts of the world have united in the face of adversity, in which there is discrimination of colour and shape with regard to the arts and landscapes, but never with regard to human beings.

86.    There is a growing movement in Latin America to rise above the concept of an archaic nationalism through the integration of our peoples. We are creating conditions such that the frontiers will serve not to isolate us, but to create neighbourhood units which will enrich economic, cultural and political unity in the variety of communities wishing to live in peace and liberty among themselves and with the rest of the world.

87.    A month ago, five Latin American Governments, meeting at Bogota, offered for the consideration of the other nations of the continent a set of concrete ideas for speeding the process of our unification, which they considered to be essential to the development of our peoples.

88.    On that occasion, the President of Chile said:

"Divided peoples, instead of growing, diminish; they are no longer the creators of history, but rather pawns designed to carry out decisions adopted by others without their presence or their consent. Why are we meeting? We are meeting to create the wide markets necessary to give our economic development the impetus and circumstances required by human activity in this century and at this moment.

"Why are we meeting? We are meeting because we want to see the emergence within our nations of a creative common effort in the sphere of knowledge, which today more than ever before is
the great human adventure. But if this adventure is to be possible, it requires — as the poet said — that we should put our shoulders to the wheel to repel the forces of darkness."

89.    This noble enterprise, destined to serve the cause of the liberty and dignity of the American, requires that there should be peace in the world. That peace we must build here and now.


===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
11. I have great pleasure in congratulating the President on his election to preside over this twenty-second regular session of the General Assembly. I feel it is a step in the right direction that these debates should be conducted by a member of a socialist country; it highlights the fact that the Organization embraces all ideologies and political systems and is serving peace and international co-operation in the widest sense.
12. It is also a pleasant duty for me to express the Chilean delegation’s appreciation of Mr. Pazhwak of Afghanistan who worked so indefatigably and so patiently in the cause of peace as President of the last regular session and of the two special sessions held this year.
13. This new regular session of the General Assembly opens in a difficult atmosphere. Two special sessions have been held this year to deal with matters of vital importance for international peace. In none of the three items discussed during those sessions was any progress made; delegations which made valiant efforts to achieve practical results were left with a mere vague feeling of confusion and disappointment.
14. The question of South West Africa was discussed at the fifth special session, on the basis of a report from the Ad Hoc Committee for South West Africa recommending direct administration of the Territory by the United Nations. The recommendation was approved but it is obvious that it will be ineffective because, for different reasons, all the permanent members of the Security Council abstained. Thus at a time when by an overwhelming majority the International community had withdrawn its confidence from the former mandatory Power, South Africa, this occurred to strengthen the position of the latter and encourage it to continue for many years its mockery of the United Nations.
15. At the same special session the General Assembly examined a report of the Special Committee on Peace-keeping Operations, a vitally important topic if the Organization is to be provided with the means of intervening effectively in conflicts calculated to endanger international peace and security. Despite all attempts to reach at any rate a minimum agreement, nothing concrete was achieved. The report was approved and the Committee was requested to continue its examination of the problem, bearing in mind the proposals submitted by Ireland and Canada, which Chile co-sponsored. Let us be honest: those proposals were thus politely buried.
16. In consequence of all this, the great Powers have regained their former absolute control over questions relating to the maintenance of international peace and security, and the General Assembly has been denied its erstwhile ability to act in this matter. This same General Assembly whose authority in matters of peace has been undermined was convened in special emergency session to deal with the Middle East question, now aggravated by the recent conflict.
17. Latin America made a serious attempt to secure peace. In line with the principles involved, which we fully support, Chile considers that there is room for a further approach which could bring about an effective formula for a stable and definitive solution to the Middle East problem.
18. There are at present very few problems as serious as the Viet-Nam conflict. There is no denying that its presence hover over these debates, and in the last few years we have all expressed our opinions on the matter. Today we once more express our distress at finding the struggle still going on with no end in sight. One wonders whether a process of moral corruption is not taking place when mankind grows accustomed to the daily sight, year in, year out, in the press and on television, of battles, bombings and death as if they were scenes from history having no connexion with morality, law, or life as we know it.
19. It is indeed a cruel paradox that, faced with the most serious problem threatening world peace, the United Nations has been unable to play any significant role. The question is not even on the General Assembly’s agenda, A political, not a military solution is what is needed in this war, and it must necessarily take account of the principles in whose name this political Assembly is meeting; I refer mainly to the principles of non-intervention and self-determination.
20. We have followed the Secretary-General’s personal intervention with sympathetic Interest; but its results have highlighted the utter inability of the Organization, as such, to assume responsibility for this problem. There is no doubt that one of the causes of this situation lies in the fact that the United Nations still falls short of universality and that many important actors in the drama are absent, vacillating between a Messianic role and chaos, isolated and menacing.
21. As a last confirmation of this picture, I would draw attention to the stagnation at Geneva in the task of interpreting the principles of the Charter, It is paradoxical that twenty years ago the world experienced a feeling of relief at seeing general agreement reached on fundamental rules and principles, and yet today there is no real agreement on the meaning of those rules and principles.
22. It would not be fair, however, to blame the United Nations for the failures and frustrations to which we have drawn attention. They are due not so much to what goes on within the Organization as to the policy of power that is developing outside it. Side by side with the United Nations a system of blocs has been built up which divides the world into two centres, each of which has strengthened its defences with political, ideological and military instruments. The vertical separation of the two was prejudicial to a large number of small States, while the introduction of political, ideological or economic alternatives, such as those expressed by the so-called non-aligned countries or third world, did not substantially change this polarization on a world scale. This has seriously affected the work of the United Nations. The Organization has, however, helped to prevent these two blocs attacking each other.
23. In the last few years this cold war has decreased in intensity. Economic, technological and military development has brought about relationships of common interests and balance among the great Powers which have robbed the previous ideological differences of their meaning. The more rapid rate of development attained by the countries that do not belong to the blocs, as also their political self-government, have been a strong inducement in that process.
24. This has given rise to ways of thinking and to forces which, realizing the danger of division, build bridges in the matter of thought, ideologies, religion and economic development, creating such fruitful relations that today we are witnessing increasing co-operation among nations that ten years ago seemed to be hostile and aggressive. And thus it would seem, to our great joy, that peace among the great Powers has been preserved.
25. At this point I must mention the armaments problem. Up to a few decades ago armaments represented only a fraction of a country's activities and were simply the power it kept in reserve for any military emergency. Today the production of armaments absorbs such a large share of the resources available for scientific and technological research that it prejudices and distorts all the economic activity of the great nations and, by a strange paradox, it mobilizes the greatest effort in the use of natural resources and of intelligence that mankind has ever made throughout history. It is tragic to realize that while Pope Paul VI, the highest moral authority in the world, has said that "development is the new name for peace", the production of armaments has today become the greatest expression of development.
26. A few weeks ago, the two greatest Powers, showing a promising ability to co-ordinate their policies, submitted a joint draft treaty oil the nonproliferation of nuclear weapons. The world cannot but welcome this effort to decrease the possibilities of nuclear destruction.
27. Nevertheless, I must refer here to a fact that is precisely in line with the phenomenon already described of the horizontal separation of the great Powers, above, and the rest of the world seeking development, below, that has replaced the vertical division brought about by the cold war. In fact, the Powers in question, by proposing by themselves alone the solution of a problem that is of such serious consequence to the small countries, have shown clearly the vast abyss existing between the power of decision and the influence of some as compared with the power and influence of others.
28. In the picture I have drawn, it is imperative that real progress should be made in the conversations of the great nuclear Powers on the practical means for their own disarmament, since the renunciation by the small States of any attempt to develop their own nuclear weapons will be of no avail unless it is accompanied by the nuclear disarmament of all States without exception. Yet we see no progress being made in that direction.
29. The rapid development of countries like my own, or indeed the majority of the international community, makes it necessary for all possible national and international resources to be available for that purpose. Consequently, our concern for non-proliferation cannot make us overlook the importance of the measures of conventional disarmament, which is closely connected with the releasing of resources for economic development.
30. At the Meeting of American Chiefs of State held at Punte del Este in April 1967, the subject of the limitation of expenditure on armaments was expressly considered in connexion with the discussion of ways and means of overcoming the present economic situation in Latin America. At that same Meeting the Chilean delegation put forward the idea of abandoning certain types of military devices, within that framework.
31. My delegation considers it essential that a study should be made of the security needs of the countries of Latin America as a whole, their legal and political obligations and their internal constitutional and institutional requirements. For this reason we urge that this point should be given consideration and that a specialized preparatory meeting, exclusively Latin American, should be convened, with general approval, to consider these problems one by one, keeping in view solely the interests of the Latin American region.
32. In this way Chile shows that its essentially pacifist policy, based on absolute non-intervention, does not in any way call for armaments that affect the security of other countries of the region, and far less for the acquisition of arms or military devices that impede the harmonious economic and integrated development of the region.
33. Unless a certain measure of peace prevails among the great countries, the perils of war increase in this human frontier zone, where the break occurs between well-being and poverty, between development and the lack of science and technology, a frontier which coincides with the periphery where the historically white man meets men of another colour. It is here, in this frontier, that tensions build up.
34. I am not trying to condemn some nations in order to extol others, but simply to show the existence of a concealed racism that operates in increasingly manifold and complex imperialist forms.
35. Among the developed countries that tend to unite their efforts in defence of their interests, ideologies and nationalism lose their virulence. It is the peoples that are farther beyond the frontier of well-being that are a prey to extremism, nationalism and even international political terrorism,
36. Wars — at present local wars — break out in this periphery. Terrorism is let loose among the peoples which have been colonized and which suffer social injustice. It is here that we find the great perils and problems that the United Nations will have to tackle if we wish to fulfil its purposes.
37. This violation of human rights on a world-wide scale is due to an underlying racism that is foreign to us Latin Americans. The historic importance of Latin America is that of constituting a human manifestation in which all races have had and still have equal opportunities of integration in our national communities. We do not, however, claim to be a symbol, but we do believe that we are a synthesis.

38.The International community, aware of the dangers and the injustice that the horizontal division of the world between satisfied peoples, on the one hand, and deprived peoples on the other, entailed, proclaimed the decade of the 1960s as the Development Decade. Four fifths of that period have already passed and none of the targets for economic growth set at that time have been reached; indeed, today, It is frankly admitted that this aspiration has been a failure. There is no appreciable improvement in the Indices of the levels of living of the developing nations and the transfer of technology and financial resources which was essential for the achievement of those targets has not come about. The terms on which international trade is developing are still conspiring against more rapid development and we are in the midst of a world food crisis which is due to the inability of the developing world to increase its agricultural production to keep pace with its population explosion. What, then, is strange in the fact that it is precisely in this periphery that wars, conflicts, violence and tension originate that imperil international peace? We cannot think about preserving peace and security if we are not able boldly to transform the problem of under-development in order to ensure a decent life for every human being.
39. National efforts are, and must be, the basis; they cannot be replaced, but only supplemented, by International co-operation. Thus development will be achieved with the national characteristics and genius of each nation and for its own benefit, without, however, any disregard of the general interests of mankind which are consistent with it.
40. In the interdependent world of today, international collaboration has become a necessity, because the sphere of action of each country is becoming more and more limited. The structure of world trade is, however, making the efforts of the developing countries fruitless. With all the means at our disposal, and particularly through UNCTAD, we are seeking a drastic change in that structure. Until that comes about, and as a means of arriving at a system of equitable world trade and reciprocal benefits, we think that the developing world should increase its economic and commercial relations within its own frontiers, whether within each region or among the various regions.
41. An example of how developing countries can co-operate with each other through political decisions Is provided by the agreement reached by four of the largest copper producers of the world, the Congo, Peru, Zambia and Chile, working out concerted action to increase their negotiating capacity in the trade and use of this basic metal and designed to make the interest of the producing countries coincide with those of the consumers.
42. In our opinion, however, the most complete demonstration of this policy of increase and of economic and trade complementarity among developing countries lies in economic integration of regions or sub-regions. In Latin America we have chosen this path of integration in order to make the utmost use of our countless natural resources and our great human potential, to produce massive quantities of capital goods and to introduce technologies and industries of high technology that can only survive with ample markets within a vast economic region.
43. The Meeting of American Chiefs of State, held at Punta del Este in April 1967, gave a political definition, at the highest level, to the need to create a common market grouping 240 million Latin Americans. This act is not only of great significance for the development of Latin America; it will very soon be of significance for the whole world, that cannot disregard the potentially richer continent, in which the population is increasing more rapidly. Within this context, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela, and recently Bolivia, have agreed to accelerate their integration in order to form a single economic region during the forthcoming decade.
44. These integration processes require financial and technical assistance from outside. That is what happened in the case of the European integration, which has been of great benefit to the people of that continent. We, for our part, are seeking integration as a way of establishing our own development on autonomous bases with regard to decisions and in order to obtain the benefits of progress. For this reason, external co-operation, which is necessary, can be neither exclusive nor excluding.

45. It can be asserted that the diagnosis of the economic and social situation of the developing world has been completed. It has also been possible to start laying down the broad lines of an International policy designed to change the present state of affairs. In the Trade and Development Board, which completed its session at Geneva a few days ago, there was a clear consensus on some of the central points of this policy, which might give rise to constructive and fruitful negotiation.
46. We feel that among those points none is so worthy of mention as that of the transfer of modern technology to the developing world. The technological revolution is leaving the developing world — which harbours two thirds of the human race — behind in the matter of scientific and technical progress, for the gap which is increasing daily between the economic power of the two sectors of the world is obviously the result of the technological imbalance. Let us therefore not hesitate to say that it is of the utmost urgency that the process of transferring that technology should be speeded up, by the granting of patents on favourable terms or by the granting of facilities for the local improvement of applied, and in some cases also basic, research.
47. Next in order of importance is the transfer of financial resources to the developing world, which has manifestly weakened. It is therefore clear that the second session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which is to be held at New Delhi from 1 February to 25 March 1968, will have to take up that question in no uncertain fashion and establish the machinery and the methods for increasing the earnings in foreign currency of the developing countries, basically though their exports of primary commodities and manufactures and through financial assistance that will be able to help in the mobilization of domestic resources and in the better utilization of a labour force which at present is for the most part wasted.

48. I wish to point out how important it is that the New Delhi Conference should draw up a global development strategy in which internal, regional, sub-regional and international efforts will all have their place and will be brought into harmony. Some preliminary meetings are to be held shortly, one in Paris and another at Algiers. We hope that the industrial countries will emphasize the spirit of understanding that began to appear at Geneva. We are also confident that the Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77 at Algiers will reflect the same sense of realism and of positive construction that characterized the conduct of the Group on that occasion, and we are sure that the countries with a socialist economy will have fixed the broad lines of their position before the New Delhi Conference and are preparing to collaborate in the common task. We are under an obligation to change the structure of international trade and economy, because it is that structure that is today working most actively against peace.
49. We recognize the coexistence in the world of different types of ideologies and of political, economic and social systems as an incontrovertible fact. Such pluralism in the world, within the principles of the Charter, is not and cannot be an obstacle to peace; on the contrary, it is part of the process of man's maturing and, with the risks inherent in any creation, it enriches the process of construction of a varied human race which is forever improving. We see no reason why this plurality should not also prevail in Latin America, where there are different experiences and ideological forms that reflect various ways of conceiving coexistence within national communities. This must be recognized and respected.
50. Latin America was born under the sign of freedom for ideas and for races and of liberation from injustice. We should like the fundamental worth of the human person always to be protected in America, but we have not yet achieved that goal, mainly because the very conditions of its economic development have affected the realities of power and of law and have impeded free and healthy expression by the people. But although this is not yet possible despite the fact that the vigilant conscience of the people is working seriously in that direction, there is one principle that is essential: it is the principle of non-intervention.
51. Our concept of ideological, political and economic plurality, and at the same time the process of integration, obliges us to keep this principle of non-intervention, which is a historic basis of our country's international policy, in full operation.
52. In recent times this principle has been systematically violated in Latin America, seriously affecting Latin American nations again and again. These facts, which we have recently denounced at the meeting of our regional body, violate the explicit terms of resolution 2131 (XX), which was unanimously adopted at the twentieth session of the General Assembly, and operative paragraph 2 of which states that "No State shall organize, assist, foment, finance, incite or tolerate subversive, terrorist or armed activities directed towards the violent overthrow of the régime of another State, or interfere in civil strife in another State".

53. Any violation of this principle should be brought to the notice of the United Nations, because it corrupts international life, generates opposing attitudes that also tend to violate that same principle and creates dangers for the small nations which the International community should prevent. It also gives rise to tense situations into which the great Powers are dragged, thus endangering world peace.
54. My country was not acting out of expediency when it supported that statement condemning intervention, nor shall we agree to any weakening or alteration of its terms. Those principles serve to defend us from others, but they also serve to make us use control with regard to others.
55. Fortunately the contemporary world, on which science and technology are leaving their mark, has another characteristic, which is the understanding by the masses of their right to participate in the benefits of civilization. It is no longer possible, either at the world level or within each State or in smaller communities, for privileged groups to exist whose power and wealth are often based on the subjection and poverty of vast sectors of population. The demands of justice and solidarity should bring about the rapid and radical change that all social structures require. To bring about this change in freedom, with full respect for the entire human person, is the great common task before us all. Chile's domestic life is guided by those same principles of respect for human rights, plurality and economic and social development that it advocates for international coexistence.
56. The Chilean people have decided, by democratic processes, to carry out far-reaching social and economic reforms within the broadest political freedom. It is no easy task to eliminate the causes of internal dissension in each country, as we are doing in ours. There are the international factors that I have mentioned to contend with, as also the extremists with opposing views, who, when they feel that their interests are harmed or their intention to use violence is frustrated, try in vain, by all internal and external means, to weaken the will of the people.
57. In Chile we have already, in three years, obtained great results in the fields of education, health and housing: we have changed social and economic structures that were hampering and halting the increase in production; we are carrying out agrarian reform; and, above all, we have made our people participate in this gigantic effort, as the subject and the chief practitioner of the development policy.
58. We are confident that our domestic programme will be successful, for we are attaining the goals that we set ourselves; we are collaborating in a historical process of unity in Latin America, where, too, we see substantial progress and where violence must not be tolerated, But we also feel that everything that happens in the world concerns us, for, as I have said, the principles that Chile would like to see applied in international coexistence have their roots, as far as we are concerned, in the free and voluntary determination of our people.


===== Session 23 - 1968 =====
54. Mr. President, your election constitutes a just recognition of your qualities as a statesman of strong personality, firm principles and great diplomatic ability, qualities we have had the good fortune to appreciate during your international career in the service of Latin American unity and of our common principles. We Chileans feel honoured to have you presiding over this Assembly and we wish you every success in your delicate duties. 

55. When a Foreign Minister of a country like Chile makes a long journey to attend a General Assembly of the United Nations in the international situation prevailing today, there are many people in our countries who will ask themselves: Whose interests are served by these speeches and debates? If principles continue to be violated, if what was laid down at San Francisco is not applied, if a policy of force again prevails, trampling underfoot many oft-proclaimed rights, if there is no check to the arms race, if the United Nations Development Decade shows how wealth is increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few, why continue meeting and talking? It is difficult to find an answer that will satisfy people and enable them to retain their faith, if the major decisions which are meant to determine the conditions under which future generations on and beyond the earth will live are adopted for reasons of prestige or in defence of national interests and not in the light of the effect they will have on mankind. It is difficult to answer those questions if respect for reason becomes the inheritance of the weak.

56. Chile has pledged unlimited support to the United Nations in the task of building up international law and making it mandatory, because we consider it desirable that there should be an impartial authority able to enforce it. Chile believes that this is the forum of free men who, like us, are not backed up by power or by the will to dominate, but earnestly desire to live in a peaceful and co-operative world. Chile wishes to believe in this tribune in order to have the opportunity to put forward the claim to equal rights for all States, an objective which has not yet been achieved. But we are deeply concerned to note that instead of moving towards these goals, we are moving away from them; that the United Nations, which we could now call “our last hope", is becoming weaker.

57. If the Assembly has any value, it is because it allows the free expression of universal public opinion and enables the voice of a watchful world conscience to be heard, to which the big Powers and those who unlawfully use force must defer.

58. Today more than ever we need a strong and active United Nations. But recent experience shows that the proliferation of its activities, to which we have thoughtlessly contributed, has to a large extent served as a means for concealing non-compliance with the resolutions adopted and, above all, of concealing the vacuum left by the failure of those who have the power to change events to take political decisions. We thus get carried away by endless analyses and discussions on economic questions or problems such as outer space or the sea-bed, about which we can still talk and dream. But we are in fact left out of all vital political discussions.

59. It is because of this same paradox, which borders on irony, that this worldwide democratic Assembly, whose essential purpose should be the prevention of war, all wars, will discuss neither the situation in Viet-Nam, nor the events in Czechoslovakia, nor the Middle East, nor the horrible tragedy of Biafra.

60. These threats to world peace emerge as inevitable cycles, and the spiral of fear tends to paralyse the leaders of small nations. In this context, they seem to have been assigned the sad role of victims.

61. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, whose absence from this supposedly universal Organization we once again deplore, rightly stated a few days ago: “He who has power, particularly atomic power, does not necessarily have either morality or wisdom on his side".

62. Here we, the smaller countries of the world, are face to face with the great actors and authors of history, or rather I should say, we are under them. Our fate is gambled with and perhaps lost, without our consent and in a dangerously unjust fashion. The example is pernicious and contagious, both internationally and nationally.

63. We know that both agreements and disagreements between the great Powers and fluctuations in the temperature of the war are facts which we, the small countries, are forced to recognize as inevitable. Since they involve us all, we must tackle them vigorously, because from both a moral and a political standpoint they are matters of common concern and fall within the legitimate sphere of action of every country, without exception. This critical situation calls for a reorientation of the motives which led to the establishment of this world forum.

64. Two years ago in this very same Assembly we said:

“The history of mankind has been, to a considerable extent, the history of the irresponsible exercise of power, and high-sounding words were used in an attempt to justify the immoral and barbarous instinct for domination” [1424th meeting,para. 30].

The history of these high-sounding words is approaching its definitive crisis. At the present time no social, economic or ideological concept is capable of bringing about peace. Formulas such as “capitalism", “socialism", “free world", are either too ambiguous or are open to the interpretation imposed by certain leaders in particular circumstances in order to justify their own power situation.

65. An increasingly frustrated world realizes that this world Organization does not meet the fundamental needs of mankind. We believe in the legitimacy of the United Nations as a political organization. Chile feels absolute respect for all the legal, political and moral obligations that have been built into this system. We have proved this by our deeds.

66. We know very well that the Charier established for certain nations privileged positions which carry greater responsibilities. But the present realities of international life, and those which may be predicted from current events and from the attitudes of the privileged nations towards these, go far beyond the express understanding set forth in the Charter, in the resolutions and in the exercise by the United Nations organs of their powers. The events that are being precipitated with the participation or in the presence of the countries with the greatest privileges and the greatest responsibilities contradict these responsibilities and exceed these privileges. If the situation of the community of nations has changed so much over this period of time as to prevent them from properly fulfilling the obligations they have all undertaken in their several degrees, it is time to revise the Charter and the international legal and political system. Until this is done, the countries affected by present and threatened by future events can and must, in our opinion, set aside ideology and search practically and actively for essential points of agreement.

67. We believe that some countries belonging to geographical regions and political zones have been drawn apart by recent historical events but nevertheless have points of contact of which we are not yet fully aware. These are to some extent negative, since they consist in the simultaneous “NO!” which those countries utter or feel in response to the acts of those who in fact make decisions for the community of nations. But they also have an overriding positive meaning, in the growing capacity of those countries on the political outskirts to play, in their relations with the great Powers and each other, leading historic parts in which they can correct grandiose expressions and create facts along constructive lines.

68. We note with interest that, along with the present lawful groupings of States in all the organs of the United Nations, forces of political action are being generated by combination to defend vital principles of international coexistence and to press specific points of common interest. The use of flexible machinery and the absence of ideological intolerance would increase the effect of contacts between countries anxious to promote an international climate of peace and freedom from threat, so as to speed the development of their economies and societies.

69. If we became aware of those contacts and created simple and practical instruments, we could set up effective defences against the newer forms of imperialism and, what is more, create a political force capable of interpreting, representing and leading the great majority of mankind that no longer accepts the law of force but demands respect for justice and believes in the equality and dignity of man. Two or three fundamental principles could emerge in strength and unite separate continents, start a practical dialogue with decision-making centres, and lay the foundations of a new era that could redeem the present deplorable situation.

70. The United Nations was born as a political instrument, to prevent a repetition of the intolerable events of the decade from 1935 to 1945, which inflicted all the suffering of which mankind is capable.

71. The absolute destructiveness of the nuclear deterrent compelled the great Powers by its mere existence to replace political and military confrontation throughout the world with seemingly more peaceful and positive means in which the political motive was “development”. Economic acts then became the only means of preserving peace, which seemed to be threatened only by underdevelopment. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) was the great common forum that gave this situation legal sanction. In its context we could state that international problems multiplied precisely on that human frontier-gap between prosperity and poverty, between development and lack of science and technology. But the delusion that we should gain security through development has been rudely dispelled. Here we are, back at the Assembly, again involved in political problems and facing the stark fact that the most virulent political schemes, under the guise of possible war — the more cruel and unjust for being partial and limited to the stage chosen by the users of men — and under the guise of less probable peace dominate the interests of the great and the needs of the poor. 

72. We therefore seek the unity of those who love peace and do not wish to practice the politics of war or force. This quest demands the commitment not only of the governments but also of the world’s moral and intellectual forces and of the young, who express their discontent with the present but do not realize that the international scene is where their future is really at stake.

73. The background for our deliberations on economic matters is the failure of the United Nations Development Decade, the decade in which only the developed countries have prospered.

74. My Government feels that this General Assembly should conduct a serious and responsible analysis of the causes of the present crisis in international co-operation, in order to determine realistically just what we can expect from the second and much-needed United Nations Development Decade. There are several reasons why the first failed. Basically, there was strong intellectual resistance to the proposed measures, a lack of understanding by the prosperous countries, a lack of unity among the developing nations and a progressively inefficient international machinery.

75. Thus in the first place the concepts of planning, assimilation of technology, preference and others met when they were first proposed with heated opposition. Now they have been accepted; but a good part of the Decade was consumed by the process of making them acceptable. Only recently, in response to the demands of those of us who are determined to grow, has a complex institutional device been set up to deal with the whole problem of development. This led to the creation of UNCTAD, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the Advisory Committee on the Application of Science and Technology to Development, the UNCTAD/GATT International Trade Centre, and other agencies.

76. Secondly, the industrialized countries showed a deep incomprehension of the underlying causes determining development. The “affluent society” has never been able to grasp, or even witness, the drama of underdevelopment; and its leaders have faithfully reflected the led. There have been gestures, concessions acceptance of principles; but basic attitudes have not changed. The wealthy peoples remain deeply selfish, and New Delhi has given the latest and most painful proof of this fact.

77. The international institutions of economic, financial and cultural development must no longer be dominated by persons who apply standards quite incommensurable with the social conditions of the developing world. This is a subtler but no less harmful form of colonialism than the old one.

78. Thirdly, we must acknowledge that the developing countries have been singularly incapable of exerting any form of constant, intelligent or imaginative pressure on the developed countries. The reason is that the countries of the “third world” are shy of each other. The three continents treat each other with suspicion and mistrust. The circumstantial unity achieved on certain occasions has quickly vanished, and so the vocal pressure exerted on the developed countries has not been convincing. It is therefore
doubly necessary to seek and find the points of political contact among the developing countries, about which I have spoken earlier.

79. Fourthly, we feel that the international machinery has lost its speed and flexibility and hence much of its efficiency in dealing with development questions.

80. The technical complexity of the issues and political indecision have caused a bewildering increase in the number of meetings, and these meetings have confronted governments with a tremendous volume of documentation. For example, between 1960 and 1967 the number of meetings held by the United Nations increased by nearly 100 per cent, from 2,769 to 5,388, equal in 1967 to about 20 meetings every working day.

81. In this tremendous proliferation no account at all is taken of the lack by the developing countries of enough qualified personnel and money to send representatives all over the world to attend each of these meetings. We feel that this cannot go on. It is therefore the General Assembly’s duty to define the goals, content and measures of the action to be taken in the Second United Nations Development Decade, and above all to correct the errors that led to the failure of the First Decade in the four areas I have mentioned.

82. My Government feels that the final objective of the Second Decade should be to establish a new international economic structure, based on the principle of a fair specialization that will give every nation — large and small — an equal share of the fruits of progress in world economic development.

83. We feel that in technology it is necessary to destroy the myth that the developing countries are doomed by nature to promote only labour-intensive activities with a low rate of investment. A “technological leap” is possible, but we do not want a pure and simple transfer of technology; we want conditions under which we can assimilate technology which for us is an entirely different thing.

84. As a first step it would be necessary to channel towards the poorer countries part of the investment in research that the developed countries make in their own territory. This implies the creation in the developing world of a scientific infrastructure that could eventually help to create a technology in keeping with our own needs.

85. By the same token, the nature and function of international private capital must be redefined. As the development process advances, the contradiction between economic independence and foreign investment becomes more and more evident and acute. Machinery must be set up for internationalizing private capital so as to erase its political bias, name, nationality and influence, while at the same time preserving for the investor its essential quality — profitability. In this regard, the recent decisions of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development are encouraging.

86. But we must insist that there is, above all, a problem of attitude. The repeated failure of the schemes and models that people of the industrialized nations try to impose on the developing world, either in the economic or in the human life of our countries, proves that their attitudes must not continue to dominate the international agencies.

87. In monetary matters, the Bretton Woods Agreements of 1947 must be amended to meet the needs of the developing countries. They were devised chiefly for the reconstruction of Europe; their draftsmen did not foresee the phenomenon of development. This is the same problem, but in its most critical aspect.

88. In the realm of thought, another idea is important to the Government of Chile. That is, to make the principle of tariff privileges general. The principle has already been accepted; but we must go even further: we must ensure that the international juridical order shall always prescribe two standards: one for developed and another, more favourable, for developing countries. We all know that, when two nations differ considerably in economic power, equality before the law is simply legalized injustice. The principle of protecting the weak has long been a part of the internal juridical structure of most, if not all, countries. We must now transfer it to the law of international relations.

89. None of these measures, however, will have any meaning unless the international structure of political power is so changed that the developing peoples can really participate in decision-making and in the agencies. If the problem now facing all our countries is full community participation in decisions and in the fruits of progress, if our youth is rebelling because it demands participation in its own institutions, then international life, to be effective, must be based on majority participation. This calls for a political decision, a political foresight that the great Powers must urgently consider.

90. Chile’s international policy gives Latin America a fundamental priority. The Latin-American countries have for a long time been constructing, together with and in regard to the great Power of the continent, a body of principles, rules and practices aimed at reconciling the hitherto divergent interests of the hemisphere’s two great blocs. To that end they have for some time been organizing a specific system of measures for defending and defining purely Latin American interests; and some of these measures have already become law.

91. In this regard the Latin-American countries have some fundamental postulates which they cannot forget or evade in any circumstances and which they must in fact reaffirm constantly, both to other regions and to their own. I am speaking of principles that are universal but have originated in Latin America, where they are particularly valid and timely. So also, to give only two examples, are the principles of non-intervention and the right of asylum. But Latin America must now broaden its aims. I refer to our need, drawing on our common cultural experience in which human and social values coincide with our common demands for freedom and social justice, to build up those elements of political action that will enable us not only to defend our people’s interests but also to manifest them effectively to the rest of the world.

92. These interests are essentially identical. Only thus shall we be able, using the power given us by our population, our resources and our positive will, to participate in the decisions now made behind our backs. The impact of our participation can be decisive since, although we belong to the West because of our common experience of fundamental values, our inadequate development gives us a definite feeling of brotherhood with the East and with Africa.

93. We feel that a dynamic and creative system of coexistence has two essential needs. The first is to recognize the diversity of internal political solutions, subject always to true respect for human rights. The second is to eliminate the mutual distrust that has largely sterilized our action. It is necessary to overcome these suspicions in a united movement not only against traditional handicaps but also against increasingly serious common problems. The great Powers must, for their part, respect our independent search for our own forms of economic and political organization, and not impose schemes and solutions irrelevant to our true situation. Only thus would international political, economic and financial institutions work with an understanding of our realities and interests.

94. I must now turn to certain specific problems. Mankind has recently been shaken by events in Czechoslovakia. Zealously defending the principle of self-determination, of every country’s right to seek its own form of political and economic organization—the golden rule of international life — Chile deeply deplores the tragic situation of another poor nation which has had its sovereignty infringed by force. By a supreme paradox, in virtue of this very principle of non-intervention, this problem will not be debated here; but this situation cannot deprive us of the right to point out that a rule governing the matter is stated not only in the United Nations Charter.

95. In December 1965, only three years ago, some countries, including the Soviet Union, submitted to the Assembly for its consideration a formal and categorical definition and condemnation of any threat to free determination. Chile co-sponsored this draft resolution and helped to improve its wording. The General Assembly adopted it as resolution 2131(XX). It is well to remember that at that time we all agreed that -

"...armed intervention is synonymous with aggression and, as such, is contrary to the basic principles on which peaceful international co-operation between States should be built,” 

that -

“The strict observance of these obligations is an essential condition to ensure that nations live together in peace with one another, since the practice of any form of intervention not only violates the spirit and letter of the Charter of the United Nations but also leads to the creation of situations which threaten international peace and security”;

and that -

“Every State has an inalienable right to choose its political, economic, social and cultural systems, without interference in any form by another State.”

96. That was only a short time ago, and already the definitions written by our hands are being erased by our elbows. This is a sad lesson for the small countries who come here to build law and who trust that it will be respected, since that is our only guarantee. The explanations always given have not been convincing. We can only hope that the former situation will be restored and that those who wish to determine their own way of living — the most essential right of man — will be able to do so soon. If this does not happen, then everything said here will be meaningless and futile.

97. Not only are we entitled to speak of this matter, but we do so with the moral strength given us by our categorical condemnation some years ago of another violation of the same principle in America. Ignoring what some might call diplomatic discretion, we adjudge that act to be a violation because any breach of an essential principle, no matter where it may occur, affects us as free men.

98. We also vigorously opposed, both in our regional organization and here, the concept and the practical consequences of the so-called “ideological frontiers”. We now have the same attitude towards the resurrection of this concept. It is a serious step backward that we cannot pass over without a formal complaint, because application of this concept would bring about unlimited abuses.

99. We note with regret that the official peace talks being held in Paris between the United States and North Viet-Nam have not yet been fruitful. Their continuance indicates an interest in finding a solution to this cruel martyrdom, but at the same time proves that all the death and suffering is pointless, even strategically, because neither side’s position is changed. We hope that this will be the last year that we shall have to come to this Assembly without having seen this conflict resolved according to the free will and choice of the people of Viet-Nam. The persistence of this war has produced a moral fatigue throughout the world that will do more than any other factor to bring it shortly to an end.

100. Perhaps we are on the threshold of a new period of aggravation of international tensions. In recent times not only have existing conflicts continued and worsened, but new and discouraging situations have arisen. We see the great Powers, spurred by the latest developments in their powerful technology and the persistence of their old apprehensions, about to plunge into a race with new and more costly arms: multiple-headed nuclear rockets and anti-ballistic missile systems. At the same time, however, there are some encouraging developments, the best of which is perhaps the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which encourages international co-operation in the development of peaceful applications of atomic energy. This should take place under conditions that would enable each country to have an independent nuclear technology.

101. Every moment in history presents both grave threats and commensurate opportunities. If we all realize our responsibilities, if those who have the power to destroy themselves and strip the world bare desire to banish terror, poverty and ignorance, then never will mankind have stepped more quickly from the greatest danger of its history to its most formidable creative force. It will take this step only if we are faithful to truth and loyal to our agreements.



===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
114. Mr. President, in the absence of Miss Brooks, I should like
to pay my tribute to her; her election was an inspiring and
most auspicious event. Her long, intelligent and active
participation in the work of the United Nations, her loyalty
to it, her personal distinction and, above all, the fact that
she is a woman, will lend a family tone to this Assembly,
most appropriate for the celebration of the United Nations’
twenty-fifth anniversary. We applauded her speech, especially 
her profound and much-needed comments on youth.
We feel sure that she will direct our proceedings most
efficiently, following her request that we should concern
ourselves with life and not with death and that the
challenge is to do as much as possible for the future of life
in the universe.

115. We again express our sorrow at the premature death
of President Emilio Arenales, a valued friend and outstanding 
American statesman. We extend our condolences to the
delegation of Guatemala.

116. I have to thank you for the honour you have done to
my country by electing me as Vice-President of the General
Assembly. This is a high responsibility which we shall
discharge with the loyalty and devotion we have given
unreservedly to the United Nations for twenty-five years. I
should like to pay our respects to the Secretary-General,
U Thant, who has served the Organization with truly
exemplary devotion.

117. The Charter signed at San Francisco will be a quarter
of a century old next year. During those twenty-five years
there have been radical changes in the structure of
international relations. We have been awed spectators of the
most extraordinary scientific conquests of mankind and
also of some of the bloodiest wars. We have seen many
peoples formerly living in subjection under colonial systems
raised in strength and dignity to the full legitimate exercise
of their sovereignty. We have seen the developed countries
teach the pinnacle of economic well-being and productive
capacity, while the vast majority of mankind are struggling
with the frustrations of poverty. New forms of internal
organization have appeared and others have vanished.
Quarrels between some nations have brought the world to
the edge of the nuclear precipice.

118. However, the United Nations has prevented many
calamities and holds out great hopes. Many are the fields in
which its patient efforts have produced an awareness of
problems which were formerly at most the concern of
academic bodies. It has also, with greater or lesser success,
promoted solutions for some of the agonizing situations
with which the world has been faced during the last
twenty-five years. Nevertheless, there is a wide gulf between
the potential for action incorporated by the nations in the
Charter of San Francisco and the actual achievements,

119. Although the present generation has not undergone
the universal experience of man engaged in the large-scale
deliberate slaughter of his fellows, this has not meant peace.
We have had innumerable localized wars and violence is
spreading everywhere, in practically all countries.

120. That there is a close connexion between local wars
and the violence unleashed in so many parts of the world is
undeniable. But of all the conflicts, the war in Viet-Nam is
undoubtedly the one which through its senseless continuation 
is producing the greatest moral erosion and the most
profound and widespread damage to an entire system of
principles and values.

121. Today the world is threatened by the emergence of
irrational forms of violence. It is no longer a question of
violence stemming from the clash of interests between
social groups or between States, or rebellion against
imperialism, but of the glorification of violence, its intellectual 
justification, the advocacy of its moral legitimacy and
its large-scale dissemination by modern mass media. The
techniques of cruelty are part of the pattern of life today
which is poisoning the youth of the whole world, even of
the rich and prosperous nations. In nearly all parts of the
world and in varying degrees, a Viet-Nam type of war, in
the heroic image of a struggle between man and technology,
between the power of a natural ideal and that of modern
force, seems to be repeating itself. This image has led many
groups to magnify the potentialities of armed, violent
rebellion and to imitate methods that cannot be transferred
from one country to another, just as if violent action
against a free, democratic régime were the same thing as
guerrilla warfare against an aggressor or dictator.

122. It is true that the phenomenon of violence has very
deep cultural roots, marking a crisis in our civilization, and
that in Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Latin America and
the United States every act of violence has its roots and its
objectives; but it is likewise true that its existence is
conditioned by the overall situation of mankind.

123. Peace is indivisible; bellicose violence in one part of
the world leads to insurgence or violence in another. In a
world of rapid communications, frustrations, growing
inequalities and rationalization of obsessions, there is a
desire to participate in violence just as there is a desire to
participate in well-being, culture and fashion.

124. Warfare in Viet-Nam and the Middle East is intolerable 
not only because of the death and suffering it causes
bit also because of the moral and psychological degradation 
of mankind which it produces. This is a responsibility
devolving on all the Governments in this Assembly, but
especially on the great Powers, and, I might say, the
super-Powers which, by seeking security through power are
forgetting their responsibilities. They are thus creating
zones of influence in foreign countries which need to
develop the autonomy vital to human dignity.

125. It is in those countries that an attempt is being made
to impose a hard and fast distinction between good and
evil, even in economic affairs, whereas in many cases, a
closer approximation to the truth is to be found in the
wisdom of the East, which holds that there are always two
sides to every question, that light always goes hand in hand
with darkness and that morning follows night.

126. During the nineteenth century, Latin America was
visited by distinguished scholars like Humboldt and Darwin,
whose detailed and conscientious geographical, geological
and anthropological studies made a decisive contribution to
the formation of our own natural sciences. The dissemination 
of political ideas was left to the governing elites of our
countries. This earlier disinterested scientific research has
now disappeared. A century later, various philosophers and
social scientists, some — I might say many — of them Europeans, 
knowing nothing about our actual conditions conclude, 
after reflecting on the ethical aspects of the war in
Viet-Nam, world imperialism or the penetration of foreign
capital in their own countries, that their military service
should consist in preaching guerrilla warfare in Latin
America or, what is easier, helping to finance it.

127. Thus rebellion, whether warranted or not, against the
excesses of the industrial society is confused with the
growing pains afflicting developing societies and their
unquestionable need for constructive practical assistance.
Action on this problem is urgently needed, with each State
taking the appropriate political decisions because, even
though the United Nations is a forum for discussion
between States, we are committed to the protection of
human rights as the essential basis of the entire system.
Nothing is more harmful than to create, as was done in the
past with our folklore, images of nations providing fertile
ground for the adventurers: of the atomic age. The vast
majority of our population, with its social relationships, its
progress and poverty, cannot be the subject of experiments
by intellectuals who know little about our real situation. I
am certainly not upholding conservatism or the status quo
for my country, but I wish to draw attention to those
protagonists of violence who despise our progress and
essential transformation because of their own frustrations,
thus confusing revolutions of popular origin with the chaos
produced by arid theories. World public opinion and those
who always mould it — scientists, the clergy, writers and
politicians — must help in the present world-wide exchange
of views to present an accurate image of our countries, the
result of fruitful, progressive and unprejudiced collaboration.

128. It has not been possible to do anything to settle the
conflict in the Middle East, for which a realistic and
progressive solution should be found during this Assembly,
starting with an agreement to halt the piling up of
armaments which, by themselves, will destroy the economic
capacity of those countries.

129. In their search for assistance, representatives of the
region of Biafra came to Chile. My country is deeply moved
by this tragic problem, which vitally affects the implementation 
of the most fundamental of human rights. Justice
requires that an end be put to that tragedy and that an
equitable solution be found here and now.

130. As far as mainland China is concerned, we regret that
no progress has been made in the efforts to bring that
country into the world Organization. We consider that
realism and the interests of peace require its presence here,
alongside all the other Members, provided it adheres to the
principles set forth in the Charter of the United-Nations.

131. Unfortunately, the constructive proposals made by a
group of countries, including Chile, in past years do not
seem to have gained any ground. Although this is a difficult
problem, we believe that the issue must be faced if the
achievement of universality, which is of the essence of the
United Nations and indeed conditions its very survival, is
not to be held back.

132. The United Nations is undoubtedly passing through
on “effectiveness crisis”. With very few exceptions, like the
United Nations Development Programme, the international
machinery is moving at a slow and barely productive pace.
This is mainly the fault of Governments. Many of the
problems, of war and peace have not been brought to this
forum and, even when they have, no political decisions have
been taken. There are Governments which have not heeded
the United Nations and, what is worse, there are resolutions
which are being ignored, when they are not trampled
underfoot, by the very Governments which supported them.

133. However, in these circumstances, the international
civil servants also bear some responsibility. We must hope
that they will show great intellectual agility in dealing with
world problems, both political and economic. Their duties
do not allow them to indulge in the intellectual luxury of
considering themselves “international bureaucrats”, 
level-headed, circumspect, conservative, guardians of the status
quo. On the contrary, they must produce new ideas and
propose novel solutions going far beyond the traditional
orthodox approach. Governments need the co-operation of
independent men with imagination, audacity and creative ability.

134. This “effectiveness crisis” is clearly apparent in all
the fields in which the United Nations operates, but it is in
international co-operation for development that it is most
glaring. This Organization, through the tutelage exercised
by the Economic and Social Council in this area, has
allowed the differences — of all kinds — between rich and
poor countries to reach a degree of gravity never before
known by mankind. In recent years, and without finding a
solution, we have had evidence of the fact that development 
and under-development are no more than different,
complementary and mutually determined manifestations of
one and the same process of economic and social development.

135. World economic structures continue to be modelled
upon a system of imperialistic relations between the centre
and the periphery which does not necessarily have its origin
in a deliberate will to impose the political and economic
hegemony of one country over another, but is usually the
natural outcome of the existing rules governing economic
relations between nations — rules which the great centres of
power still consider sound and normal. As long as these
conditions prevail, the developing countries are inexorably
condemned to be mere spectators of the wealth of others,
completely excluded from the mainstream of history.

136. This situation leads us to the unavoidable conclusion
that the existence of a single international community, with
common ties and common aims of security and development, 
is a myth which is discernible here and on many
platforms where speeches are made by distinguished
persons who promise in grandiloquent language things we
know they are not prepared to put into practice. This
gigantic hoax conceals the true political fact that the
interests and objectives of developed countries are not the
same as those of developing countries and, on the contrary,
tend to conflict with them more and more. The “international 
community” as such does not exist; what do exist
are national interests with more or less strength, influence
and power. We have moved away from the arbitrary use of
power to a kind of joint stock company in which some
shareholders hold preference shares of such a kind that not
only do they control all the decisions but they also keep all
the profits. In this process, the relative importance of
developing countries within the world power structure has
been declining day by day, and at present it is markedly less
than it was twenty-five years ago.

137. The growing understanding between the chief protagonists 
of the cold war, a factor which has unquestionably
promoted peace, has made it less and less necessary to rely
on the understanding, support and votes of the developing
countries. But improved relations between the northern
countries has led to the southern countries being excluded
from the discussions. Politically, it is undoubtedly true that
we are no longer necessary for the national security of the
great Powers.

138. Furthermore, technology has changed the conditions
of dependence on the southern world in which the northern
world found itself in some sectors. Economic and commercial 
ties between the industrialized countries have
become ever closer and more complex, while the relative
share of the developing countries in the growth of world
economy has declined. Between 1953 and 1968 their share
in world trade fell from 27 per cent to approximately 18 per cent.

139. The failure of successive meetings to take economic
policy decisions is forcing the developing countries to
become self-reliant, to have less faith in the promises and
commitments of the developed countries and to seek in
their own strength and creative ability the foundations of a
more equitable and more efficient society.

140. For my part, I believe that there is a keen and clear
awareness of this phenomenon in Latin America today. A
profound, momentous and general attack on traditional
structures is taking place in our continent. The whole
ideological and institutional framework which sustained our
development for nearly 150 years, is being systematically
called in question, the speed with which this is being done
varying with the country concerned.

141. The way has been opened for investigation and
substitution. Nevertheless, one element emerges quite
clearly — a growing and justified continental nationalism,
which seeks to establish a Latin American personality with
its own criteria and values. We have temporized for too
long, trying to apply intellectual theories ill-suited to our
particular circumstances. We grew accustomed to being
influenced by doctrines developed in other continents and
we used our intelligence to answer questions which did not
concern us. In this way, we became victims of the most
serious form of dependence—psychological subordination
to foreign countries.

142. In a world which is becoming increasingly unified
through the development of technology, which brings
continents into contact with one another, puts goods into
circulation and links together man’s productive activities,
Latin America has remained divided.

143. Our continent has often been treated as a collection
of picturesque communities, each of them concentrating on
the easiest means of communication for exports, so that
their internal unity, their capacity to join together, were
destroyed and the centripetal force of their common origin
and culture lay dormant. But this situation has become
incompatible with the will of the peoples and the rational
process of national development. Hence, the advantages of
unity have been expressed in various ways. Areas of
economic interest are being identified; common political
concepts are being developed; progress is being made in the
integration of national groups and regions.

144. In this way the foundations of Latin American
nationalism are being laid, Material resources are being
recovered; a group of organizations representative of all
Latin America is actively engaged in carrying on joint
activities. By this means, an interrelated system is being
established, that is to say a Latin American system — a house
with many mansions, a nationalism comprising many nationalities.

145. Nevertheless, our efforts to find ways and means of
taking joint action with all the nations of the world, and
particularly with those with which we share the common
status of developing countries, are continuing. As a great
Latin American writer said:

“Our nationalism, if it is not a mental disease or
idolatry, should lead to a universal search. We must first
of all realize that our state of alienation is that of the
majority of countries. If we are to be true to ourselves,
we must advance not at the traditionally slow rate of
glaciers but at a pace consistent with the active mind of
man, So much the better if we have no prescriptions or
patent remedies for our ailments. We can at least think
and act soberly and with resolution.”

146. The real challenge which now faces us is how to
create in Latin America an environment worthy of man so
as to ensure his freedom, culture and security. That is why
we, need to think for ourselves and to take our own
decisions. The most recent and important manifestation of
this new nationalism was the meeting of the Special
Commission on Latin American Co-ordination in May of
this year. There for the first time the hopes and expectations 
of Latin America in the field of international
economic relations emerged clearly and with precision. A
document was drawn up and signed by the Ministers; it was
addressed to the President of the United States of America,
but, in fact, it has universal validity. In it we draw attention
to principles which must be respected and specific measures
which need to be taken in the sectors of trade, transport,
financing, investment and invisibles, technical co-operation,
and social, scientific and technological development. In that
document, called the Consensus of Viña del Mar, it was
agreed: first, that the emergence of a growing nationalism,
seeking to affirm the Latin American personality, with its
own concepts, values and organizational structures, must be
accepted as irreversible and legitimate.

147. Secondly, there must be a clear recognition of the
principles of equality of States; non-intervention in the
internal or external affairs of other States in any form
whatsoever which constitutes an attack on the personality
of the State and its political, economic and cultural
elements; respect for the validity of treaties; the sovereign
right of each country to dispose freely of its natural
resources; and of the fact that economic co-operation
cannot be subjected to political or military conditions.
Likewise, the principle that no State shall apply or promote
coercive measures of an economic or political nature to
weaken the sovereign will of another State in order to
obtain advantages of any kind from it but, on the contrary,
that every effort must be made to prevent the adoption of
policies, actions and measures which endanger the economic 
and social development of another State. These
principles, which already form part of the Latin American
Consensus, undoubtedly have universal validity.

148. Thirdly, co-operation in Latin American development 
cannot be made conditional upon our acceptance of a
given political, social or economic system.

149. Fourthly, private foreign investment must not be
considered as aid or computed as part of financial assistance
for development.

150. Fifthly, co-operation must meet the needs and
priorities specified by the countries concerned themselves.

151. These then, are the principles which, in our view,
should be followed in the next stage of international
co-operation for development and, in particular, in the
measures to be agreed upon as an integral part of the next
United Nations Development Decade.

152. Last year when I addressed this Assembly [1685th
meeting], I analyzed the factors which were responsible for
the failure of the First United Nations Development
Decade. As I said then, there was and there still is a strong
conceptual resistance to the principles and measures proposed, 
an enormous lack of understanding on the part of
the prosperous countries, a serious lack of unity and vision
on the part of the developing countries and a progressive
decline in the efficiency of the international machinery. I
do not wish to analyze these different points now, except
to confirm that, in reality, nothing has changed. On the
contrary, the UNCTAD meetings which ended in Geneva a
few days ago were a complete disaster. These were the
least rewarding of all the meetings held and demonstrated
the total absence among the great Powers of the political
will to go forward.

153. The Government of Chile has made known its views,
in the appropriate forum, about what the Second Development 
Decade should comprise, but I should now like to put
forward further considerations. In the first place, with
regard to the transfer of financial resources, the industrialized 
countries have not kept their publicly repeated
promises to transfer 1 per cent of their gross national
product. If that were done, the next decade could be called
the Development Decade. This should be recognized forth -
with because the strategy of the developing countries can
no longer treat with respect the diplomatic excuses, which
are always circumstantial, put forward to justify the
non-fulfilment of promises: balance-of-payments problems,
the gold crisis, devaluations, warlike acts, even disputes
between government departments of individual States.

154. And the worst feature is that while these excuses are
being made, the flow of financial resources in question is
reversed, to the great advantage of the rich countries. Of
course, the nationals of those countries are still convinced
that they and their Governments are making great sacrifices
to help the poor countries. But nothing is further from the
truth. All this would change if Governments had the
political will, because the resources exist, as the military
activities in progress show. Moreover, as a factor of their
own development, the industrialized countries continue to
believe that the best form of aid is the encouragement of
foreign investment and that our role should be to provide
guarantees and create a climate of confidence for those
investments.

155. This solution, which is the very epitome of nine-teenth 
century international capitalism, is not only deeply
rooted in the mentality of the Western Governments but is
also manifest — which is lamentable and, I would say,
unacceptable — in the thinking of the financial and economic
organs of the United Nations family, owing to the undue
influence on their decisions exerted by men trained
intellectually in an affluent world, who despise, or are
ignorant of, the political and social factors involved in the
actual phenomenon of development.

156. I feel it necessary to say quite frankly that the
solution to under-development based on the transfer of
huge amounts of private capital, under the conditions in
which that transfer has been taking place, is politically
intolerable and economically self-defeating, as Latin America’s 
present experience shows, and only helps to widen
the gap. Of course, there is no question of prohibiting the
flow of financial resources or of denying the value of
foreign investments as a factor in promoting the advance of
technology and managerial skills, but it is time to reject
that highly esteemed symbol of capitalist mythology which
serves only to increase dependence and to perpetuate subtle
but enduring forms of imperialism.

157. In expressing these views, the Government of Chile is
not motivated by an extremist ideology or a spirit of hatred
against anyone. They are the natural and logical outcome of
a process of political, social and technical maturing involving 
the active and growing participation of the whole
community in decision-making and in the actual benefits of
development.

158. Inherent in this process is the exercise of national
sovereignty over the State’s economic resources, whether
they be raw materials or the product of the people’s labour.
The right of a State to nationalize what it regards as basic
or essential resources is a sovereign, legitimate and inalienable 
right. It is this right which. Chile has exercised with
respect to our copper, which is the mainstay of our
economy, and we have done so with adequate compensation.

159. This is why new rules of the game for transfers of
funds must be sought, providing for human and, therefore,
political and technological progress, which is the very
essence of development. If technological advances necessitate 
constant change in the developed industrialized countries, 
the developing countries should not be asked to
ensure stability and a “climate of confidence” for foreign
investments, if their aim is to remain an enclave which
freezes development. The progress of a community necessarily 
involves changes, the purpose of which is to increase
the extent of national ownership and to take independent
decisions.

160. There are new ideas which must be studied. Reference 
has been made, inter alia, to nationalization which is
planned at the time of the initial investment and to the
provision of sufficient foreign exchange earnings to amortize 
the capital invested.

161. But the question of the flow of private capital is
important, since it is now the main channel for the transfer
of science and technology. The decade ahead of us will be
marked by scientific and technological advances. The laws
of outer space have already been tamed. But the decade of
the 1970s cannot be used to enable some countries — a very
few and increasingly fewer — to tame the majority of
mankind through control of science and technology.

162. I have mentioned the search for methods permitting
the transfer of knowledge through foreign investment on
terms more favourable than the present ones. But no
method will be able to correct the imbalance between
nations in this respect and prevent the abuse of power
which it will engender unless there are changes in the
principles and in the actual systems that regulate these
factors. Basically, science and technology cannot continue
to be private property.

163. If the effects and even the very concept of private
property are being examined and reviewed and in many
respects even eliminated in the interests of collective
security, health or welfare, the Roman concept of property
cannot continue to be applied to the practice, use and
enjoyment of the benefits of contemporary science. If
Roman law was a law of privilege, so is the existing law in
so far as it reserves for a favoured few the product of the
knowledge accumulated throughout the history of mankind.

164. It is no longer tolerable that private power and gain
should be the prime movers of development and should
determine the rules, subjects and beneficiaries of the
immense progress which is taking place, especially in the
realm of production, living standards and communications.
That a moral problem of the highest order is involved is
undeniable. Since in the case of outer space it has been
agreed to abandon the concept of private and national
property, because already people are speaking in terms of
human rights, the same concept should apply to the
sea-bed. The sea-bed and the ocean floor and the subsoil
thereof beyond the limits of national jurisdiction are the
common heritage of mankind, Therefore, in this context,
we maintain that no one should be able to acquire or claim
any right over them, or exploit their resources without the
consent of the international community; and it should be
the latter which determines, through machinery or an
institution to be established, the conditions under which
that exploitation will be carried out and the share which
the international community will have in the benefits
derived therefrom.

165. We are not in the United Nations to promote the
extension and consolidation of the power of any nation, or
of two or more nations; precisely the opposite is true. If
this Organization, which is first and foremost a political
one, is to serve any real purpose, it must create legal and
financial instruments to control the abuse of power by the
large nations and to enable all its Members to participate in
progress. That is why we should begin to think about
establishing an international institution to control science
and technology and put them at the service of mankind.

166. When we remember that fifty years ago — not
more — financial resources were entirely in private hands
while today, in contrast, there are international agencies
which distribute them, it is not Utopian to believe that
scientific and technical resources may also become common
property. These questions cannot continue to be governed
by laws and regulations dating back to the nineteenth
century, when science has already put two men on the
moon. This should be the challenge for the 1970s and the
greatest contribution of the United Nations to peace and
development. Until the nineteenth century research was
marked by freedom of thought and objectivity. Today
research is governed by military budgets and industrial
interests.

167. With the advent of the twenty-first century, man’s
accumulated knowledge should cease to be a commodity
offered for sale or, what is worse, for hire and should
become the common heritage of mankind. If we have the
courage to put science and technology unreservedly at the
service of mankind, scientists will have a horizon free of
moral impediments, youth will recover its confidence and
will no longer encounter obstacles to its efforts on behalf of
justice and human progress, and the United Nations will
prow in stature to meet the needs of the international
community.

===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
138.	Mr. President, on behalf of the delegation of Chile, I have the honor to offer you our warmest congratulations on your election to preside over the twenty-sixth regular session of the General Assembly. Your nomination is a tribute to your capacity and your experience. We cannot lose sight of the fact that in Bandung, in 1955,  basic principles were established for common action on the part of the countries of the third world.
139.	My delegation is also particularly happy to welcome the representatives of the three new States that have just been admitted to our Organization: Bahrain, Qatar and Bhutan. We are sure that we shall establish solid ties of friendship and co-operation with them.
140.	To U Thant I bring a very special greeting from the people and the Government of Chile. We should have preferred him to stay at the head of our Organization. His performance has been deeply imbued with heartfelt idealism but, at the same time, with very acute and wise understanding. He has advocated the peaceful settlement of disputes, international co-operation and the strengthening of the moral authority of the United Nations. His work has been exemplary, and we are most appreciative. We know that he will continue to co-operate in all the great undertakings that may spell a benefit for mankind as a whole.
141.	A political and electoral decision by the Chilean peoples, ratified by the National Congress in accordance with our Constitution, last year led to the establishment in our country of a new Government that has decided to begin the creation of a socialist society in Chile in keeping with our own national characteristics.
142.	The triumph obtained was the result not only of an electoral exercise but also of a crystallization of a long period of struggle and experience which tempered and organized the Chilean people, awakening its political awareness and teaching it to start through new roads an ambitious and important revolutionary undertaking. The strength and flexibility of the Chilean political institutions, reinforced by the loyalty of our armed forces to democracy, is enabling us, with the least possible social cost, to cross the bridge between the past and the future, although not without having to confront the stubborn and insistent resistance of the interests affected by the changes taking place within and outside the country.
143.	Therefore, I do not speak on behalf of a stagnant people, or one that is wanting in the great ideals of peace, justice and liberty which underlie the United Nations. I speak for a people that calls for respect and encouragement from the international community for its laborious efforts to obtain that justice within the framework of the law, in strengthening and widening fundamental freedoms and human rights.
144.	The domestic and foreign forces that oppose the social transformations we are carrying out constantly endeavor to distort our image to the world in order to alienate us from our friends and to make it difficult for us to obtain international and bilateral assistance, with the final aim of blocking our revolutionary task and trying to maintain a past that no longer has the support of our people nor any historical justification.
145.	That is why this appearance before the Assembly is not mere routine. We have a determined purpose, and that is to fit our policy within the framework of the United Nations, and thus contribute to the efforts of the Members of the international community represented here to achieve a stronger and effective peace, which is the imperative condition for the progress of the world's peoples. We are here also to encourage and assist the United Nations in the work being carried out by peoples, to convert foreign dependence, which immobilizes and deforms them, into a vast and authentic framework of international co-operation.
146.	Chile is now undertaking a policy aimed at nationalizing its natural resources which are in foreign hands, widening and extending our agrarian reform, and taking over control by the State of the essential economic activities of the country so as to allow us, in a rational and planned manner, to utilize our natural, human and financial resources for the common good. We are deeply convinced that these objectives are at one with the achievement by the United Nations of its own supreme goals.
147.	We value, support, and are endeavoring to contribute to a transformation of the humanistic principles of the United Nations into tangible reality. We recognize that this entity is the most valuable instrument thus far created to encourage international peace and justice and, thereby, to help man to reach a fuller and better future. These aspirations have met with great obstacles created by vested interests desirous of maintaining in nations, and in their mutual relations, the irrational, dependent and unjust structure which, unfortunately, still prevails in the world.
148.	The United Nations has now become an irreplaceable world forum; a network of agencies that are of undeniable advantage and a source of law. But it is still not the tool that we need in order to permit a solution to the problems linked to international peace: that is, the full strengthening of the sovereignty of States, respect for the principle of the self-determination of peoples, and the economic progress of the developing countries.
149.	The principles of the Charter of the United Nations are still valid and are consonant with the aspirations of peoples. But they must be translated into positive action in order to alleviate the lot of man and keep up with the revolutionary transformations taking place in our world.
150.	Chile fully shares the concerns and views expressed about these matters at Lusaka and at other conferences of non-aligned nations. We must point out that in the last 26 years economic and social development, impelled by the United Nations, has been fruitful in some cases, but sterile in others, Hundreds of millions of persons have been liberated from the colonial yoke; peoples have acquired a greater awareness of their needs and of their future. But we still live in a period of armed peace, and therefore a precarious peace. Moreover, the contrasts and distances between the wealthy countries and the dispossessed masses of mankind are increasing, while the basic principles of peaceful coexistence are violated as are those of respect for the political and economic sovereignty of States and unconditional co-operation without interference. The reactionary forces of imperialism, colonialism and neocolonialism have no compunction in putting down or pressuring peoples struggling for independence or desirous of consolidating it through economic emancipation.
151.	There is an indifference or perhaps an inability to face tragedies such as the flight to India of millions of East Pakistanis. Surely this is a problem worthy of special attention by this Assembly, as the President of Chile expressed in a letter addressed to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. There is a war of extermination in Indo-China; there is a constant threat of war in the Middle East; there are African peoples that are still the victims of colonial slavery or of brutal racial persecution; and in Latin America there is an increasing feeling of frustration and helplessness.
152.	Yet, despite these sombre aspects of the international picture, despite these limitations to the work of the United Nations, we still believe that we must in that work stress the formulation of important principles of international law which respond to the voiced aspirations of the great majority of peoples and which help to create s new and more just world order.
153.	Among such principles I think it most timely to recall those that have established the right of peoples not only to political independence, but also to economic sovereignty.
154.	It is obvious that the principle of the self- determination of peoples and its corollary, the termination of colonialism, have been greatly strengthened by resolutions of the General Assembly, particularly 1514 (XV), the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, a resolution which has now made unchallengeable the right to struggle for full political emancipation.
155.	In the same way, other fundamental resolutions, such as resolution 1803 (XVII), which proclaims the right of States freely to exploit their resources and natural wealth, as well as to exercise permanent sovereignty over them, and have therefore signified explicit recognition, on the part of the international community, of the right of peoples to economic independence.
156.	It is within the very context of these principles, so solemnly declared by the United Nations, that the Government of Chile, as a means of overcoming its economic dependence, lias undertaken a process of recovery for the country of those natural resources and wealth which are basic for the development of the national economy. Pursuant to that policy we have nationalized the great copper-mining industry, within the framework of respect for the principles of international law and our own traditional observance of the domestic legal order. That nationalization was born of an initiative taken by the Government of Popular Unity, which was unanimously approved by the National Congress, in which the opposition is in the majority,
157.	The Government of Chile is convinced that the exercise of its sovereign right to recover for the country its natural resources-a right recognized by the United Nations -will be respected by the affected interests. We therefore hope '.at no new pressures or reprisals will be taken against us for that reason.
158.	I am happy to point out that in the recently issued Joint Declarations signed by our own President and the Presidents of Ecuador, Colombia and Peru on August, 31 August and 3 September respectively, in accordance with those principles, express mention was made of the repudiation by all our countries of any undue pressure to limit or condition the free exercise of the right to recover control over natural resources.
159.	The exercise of sovereignty over basic resources cannot be divorced from another very important question being discussed at the moment in this Organization. I speak of the law of the sea.
160.	For developing countries such as my own, utilization of the national resources of the maritime areas adjacent to their coasts is intended primarily to meet economic needs in order to ensure the welfare of the population.
161.	It was these measures which led an increasing number of Latin American States, including Chile, to proclaim our sovereignty and jurisdiction up to a distance of 200 marine miles in order to ensure the conservation and exploitation of those natural resources.
162.	Chile is convinced that the aims we seek are hindered if, in all the extension over which we exercise our jurisdiction, there is any restriction of the freedom of navigation or over-flight to which all planes and ships of
any flag have a perfect right. *
163.	Chile will continue to participate actively in the debate on the law of the sea in order to contribute to the establishment of norms and regulations which, while recognizing the just interests of other States particularly in the field of international communications, will guarantee the right of the coastal States to exercise their sovereignty over the natural resources of the marine areas adjacent to their coasts.
164.	The efficacy of the United Nations depends to a large extent on the degree of universality it is able to achieve, Universality means to throw open the doors of the
Organization to those countries that have so far been excluded, such as the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, the German Democratic Republic and the now divided States such as Viet-Nam and Korea; it also means to welcome the countries and territories that are still under colonial domination.
165.	Chile hopes that at this session we will redress the enormous historic error of having kept the People's Republic of China out of the world Organization. When we correct an unjust and anomalous situation, we will be breathing new life into the United Nations. We will, with the co-operation of China, be given a new impulse to all the undertakings leading to peace and welfare of all peoples. The recognition of the legitimate rights of the People's Republic of China must be stated clearly and unambiguously, without subterfuge. It is a question of recognizing it as the legitimate representative of all China with a just right to occupy a seat in the Security Council and in all other United Nations organs and conferences and to recognize that Taiwan is part of China and to bar any other representation.
166.	Guided by the principles of the Charter, which set forth the sovereignty of peoples and respect for international agreements freely arrived at, my country wishes to express its solidarity with the heroic people of Viet-Nam that have never yielded to the cruel sufferings of a war imposed on them by invading forces and that prefer to die rather than bend the knee and abdicate their freedom and dignity. We express our desire for an immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of foreign troops from Viet-Nam and support the seven-point proposal of the Provisional Government of Viet-Nam to solve this grave conflict,
167.	We also repudiate the invasion of the other peoples of Indo-China, such as Cambodia and Laos, and we support their aspirations to live in peace and to decide upon their own future without foreign intervention.
168.	For the same reasons of principle, with regard to the conflict in the Middle Bast, my Government is still convinced that resolution 242(1967) of the Security Council, accepted by the parties concerned, is the key to restore peace to that tormented region. We consider that the people of Palestine deserves not only humanitarian attention, but a recognition of its legitimate rights. In accordance with that resolution, we feel that the Israeli troops should withdraw from occupied territories, that any effort to annex such territories should be condemned, that all States of the zone, excluding none, have a perfect right to a recognition of their territorial integrity, their sovereignty and political independence, as well as to live in peace within secure and recognized boundaries. We trust that Ambassador Jarring's mission will be resumed and that the four great Powers will continue to seek the best way of ensuring application of resolution 242 (1967) and that both the Security Council and the General Assembly will again examine all possibilities of finding a just solution to the conflict in the Middle East which threatens international peace and security.
169.	My delegation is very happy at the very felicitous African initiative to co-operate in the search for a solution among the countries that are now in conflict and that may lead to a formula that will solve the question in a way the entire world desires,
170.	We wish to state our understanding of and solidarity with the African and Asian peoples that struggle for independence. This Organization that has contributed to the liquidation of colonialism must increase its efforts supporting the movements of national liberation and forcing the colonial Powers to fulfill the terms of the Charter. The people and Government of Chile trust that very soon the delegations of Angola, Mozambique, Guinea (Bissau) and of the peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia will take their seats in this hall, but in the meantime those territories and peoples are being martyrized in their just struggle for independence, and in southern Africa there is being created an extremely dangerous colonialist and racist bloc, Once again Chile condemns the practices of apartheid and of racial discrimination, which are an insult to mankind.
171.	Reaffirming these points of views, we have very often expressed our support for the agreements arrived at during the Third Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Lusaka in September 1970. I am happy to state that China is now a full member of the group of non-aligned nations, where we will be able actively to co-operate in the achievement of true peaceful coexistence, avoiding a division of the world into blocs and endeavoring to ensure that all countries, great and small, will contribute to understanding and co-operation among peoples.
172.	The Government of Chile considers that at this new session of the General Assembly two subjects will be thoroughly and jointly discussed: the strengthening of international security and general and complete disarmament. We believe that this Assembly must implement the Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security, adopted last year [resolution 2734 (XXV)]. Furthermore, a Soviet Union suggestion was put forward for the holding of a world disarmament conference [A/8491], and my Government supports it whole-heartedly.
173.	The arms race is in direct proportion to international tension. One provokes the other. Despite agreements arrived at, we believe it is in the interest of the smaller and non-aligned nations that any initiative to slow down the arms race, be it nuclear or conventional, be welcomed. Chile is ready to co-operate in a task which we consider to be the most important of our day.
174.	Along this line of reasoning, we cannot but condemn the proliferation of nuclear weapon tests, particularly those carried out in the atmosphere over the Pacific Ocean, which have caused a number of justifiable complaints from the coastal States, For this reason, in the Organization of American States we supported the Colombian proposal to study an effective limitation of armaments in Latin America,
175.	This concern shown by our country to diminish international tension and bring us closer to a world system of security to replace the blocs we inherited from the cold-war period leads us enthusiastically to welcome the
Quadripartite Agreement on Berlin, signed in that city on 3 September 1971. These agreements help to solve the German problems on the strength of full recognition of the international personality both of the Federal Republic of Germany and of the German Democratic Republic. At the same time they open the way for the holding of a conference on European security to herald the dawn of a new era of peace and co-operation in that vital part of the world.
176.	Consistent with the political beliefs I have mentioned, in bilateral relations my Government has endeavored to strengthen, establish and maintain relations with all countries all over the world, regardless of their domestic regimes but on the basis of unconditional respect for self-determination and non-intervention. Following that line of conduct, we have re-established relations with Cuba and thus redressed a historic injustice. We have also established relations with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, Guyana, Nigeria, the People's Republic of Mongolia, the United Republic of Tanzania, the Arab Republic of Libya and Albania.
177.	The visit that I made to the socialist countries of Europe, heading a fruitful political and economic mission, and the welcome we offered in Chile to a number of high-level delegations from all regions of the world, including those of very old countries of Western Europe that have contributed so greatly to our progress, attest to this true opening up of Chile to a new and wider understanding of international relations.
178.	We have endeavored successfully to broaden our relations and ties with the sister Republics of Latin America. The recent visit of President Allende to Ecuador, Colombia and Peru, and the wide consensus reached with those countries, and set forth in constructive joint declarations, as well as the support and impetus which we have impressed on the Andean Subregional Integration Agreement within the framework of the Latin American Free Trade Association, also reflect this new orientation of our policy.
179.	I wish to state with great satisfaction that we have reached an agreement with the Argentine Republic to solve through arbitration, the pending border problems with that country at the Beagle Canal, This attests to the warm and friendly relations between our country and that great neighbor and is an example of a peaceful and legal solution to an international problem, which the Presidents of the two countries attempted to establish at their historic meeting in Salta.
180.	We have been, and are, ready to resume diplomatic relations with Bolivia unconditionally and thus to put an end to an unjustified state of affairs and allow an always necessary dialog to take place between two sister Republics.
181.	This entire policy bespeaks our vocation of fraternity and co-operation in Latin America, and that is why we are concerned about the unjust economic isolation to which the sister Republic of Cuba has been subjected. To continue that situation of discrimination against that country seems to us juridically and morally unacceptable and we shall do all in our power to do justice to that valiant people that, in different ways but still in keeping with its own desires, is, like Chile, pursuing the dream of creating a socialist society on American soil.
182.	My country is happy to note that we have normal relations with the United States of America. We believe that questions pending involving private American interests should not alter our traditional friendship with that great nation.
183.	At the last session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States [OAS] held in San Jose, Costa Rica, in April 1971, the Government of Chile expressed its views regarding the role which that organization has been playing in inter-American relations. We contended then that the OAS had been used to increase the relation of dependency between the United States and Latin America. We said that for an inter-American system to serve as a means of constructive dialog between the North and the South of the continent, the fictitious principles on which the OAS at present rests must be replaced by others more in keeping with reality that will recognize the objective divergence of interests of the United States and Latin America, as expressed in the concrete practice of international relations and as we have begun now to see them in the Special Committee for Latin American Coordination (CECIA) since the Consensus of Vina del Mar of May 1969.
184.	That practice has shown that the gap between the advanced capitalist countries and the developing nations of Asia, Africa and Latin America tends to increase; despite words, despite declarations and despite international agreements, what people see is a failure on the part of the traditional patterns for development, the repeated lack of fulfillment by the prosperous countries of their commitment to eradicate under-development, and the systematic refusal of the industrialized nations to adopt measures to redress the imbalance of international trade.
185.	To prove these statements, suffice it to recall what has been happening to the trade of the dependent nations whose participation shrinks constantly and is less equitable than ever on the world market: the result of the measures for financial assistance which have turned the nations of the third world into constant debtors, the uncontrolled exploitation of the natural resources and wealth of the countries which were purportedly being helped by investments by monopolies, the costly transfer of a minimum of technology and th?. abusive control of marine trade.
186.	'	The instruments and machinery regulating the monetary system of the world, as well as international trade, established at the end of the Second World War, despite their declared principles, have proved to be incapable of achieving a balanced development of the world economy and have hindered the economic growth of the backward regions. Today, when these systems turn out to be unfavorable to their proponents, they are abandoned unilaterally and upheavals are created that have negative effects on the developing countries.
187.	We must protest vigorously against this unjust situation for Which we are not responsible. Latin American
Governments shared this opinion unanimously at the session of CECLA held in September of this year, in Buenos Aires, where they stressed the damage which the recently adopted measures of the United States would do to Latin American economy and the economy of the developing nations in general. That position of Latin America was also expressed at the seventh session of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council where, unfortunately, no positive understanding was shown by the United States delegation. Lately we have seen that new formulae have been studied to reorganize the world monetary system. We hope that those formulae will not overlook the legitimate interests of the under-developed countries and will not further increase the vulnerability and dependence of their economies.
188.	The formulation of the bases for international trade relations must be discussed at the third session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development [UNCTAD]. The agreements of the developing countries to be arrived at by the Group of 77 when it meets in Lima in October must improve upon previous agreements and establish the background for the debates at the third session of UNCTAD, to be held in Santiago, Chile, in April 1972. In so doing, the dialog which was begun in New Delhi among the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America with the capitalist industrialized countries and the socialist countries will be resumed: It is to be hoped that by that time the outlines, for a general system of tariff preferences will be implemented as the European Economic Community and Japan are already doing and as the United Kingdom and the Nordic countries have promised to do very soon.
189.	As the host country we shall do all in our power not only to ensure the material success of the conference but also to contribute, in close co-operation with the other countries of the Group of 77, so that the aspiration to international justice will gain ground and set aside egotism and recalcitrance.
190.	To succeed, all undertakings in that direction must be met by a corresponding domestic effort on the part of each of the developing States to develop, increase, mobilize and make rational use of their natural and human resources. But in order to achieve that end, the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America must develop their own scientific and technological capacities, make profound changes in their social and economic structures. They will have to adjust the foreign components of the development process to the needs and priorities of national development. They will also have to channel the role played by foreign private capital in order to achieve those priorities, and they will have to encourage the preparation of regional and subregional plans for integration as well as increase their mutual co-operation.
191.	This struggle of the under-developed countries to impress an impulse on their economic development, to strengthen their political sovereignty and to achieve their social emancipation is supported by the workers of the whole world and by the progressive and advanced nations whose policy is not committed to the maintenance of the present unjust domestic and external structures.
192.	In its activities the United Nations must reflect the combination of all those forces, which doubtless are the most powerful in the world and thus make accessible to man and society the new and greater form of coexistence.
193.	The people and Government of Chile will stint no effort to succeed in the struggle, nor shall we be found wanting. This is proved by the fact that domestically we are trying to reconstruct our society along the lines of socialism, under the auspices of justice and freedom, and when we give our assistance to peace, detente, security and international co-operation.
194.	By our assistance we contribute to the creation of a future that we wish to be more just and free. Inexorably, that is the course of history, and we Chileans, consistent with our austere and hard-working tradition, will make all sacrifices to assume our full responsibility within a more active, creative and united international community.


===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
Mr. President, the delegation of Chile takes pleasure in congratulating this Assembly on its wisdom in electing you to preside over its deliberations. Your intelligence, tact and experience, which are necessary for such an important international post, have unanimously been recognized. Our pleasure is enhanced because there are strong ties of friendship and close co-operation between your country and my own.
115.	We wish respectfully and warmly to salute the Secretary-General, Mr. Waldheim. We should like to convey to him our gratitude for his praiseworthy efforts to revitalize the United Nations so that it may more actively engage in the search for solutions to the many serious and urgent problems facing mankind today.
116.	The Chilean delegation has considered with the greatest interest the Secretary-General's proposal for the inclusion on the agenda of this session of an item on terrorism [A/8791 and Add.l]. We have followed the debate on this subject with utmost attention. For reasons unconnected with the Secretary-General but having to do with the very nature of the phenomenon he has highlighted, the formulation of the item may be ambiguous and involve many contradictory issues, depending on the standpoint from which one approaches the problem. Hence the amendments that have been adopted and the need for a calm and exhaustive examination going to the very roots of the problem that each day assumes new and unforeseen dimensions.
117.	The people and Government of Chile have expressed their sincere grief for the innocent victims of blind terrorism motivated by desperation, hatred or madness. Chile, whose Government rejects terrorism, is bringing about intensive social and economic changes within the free functioning of democracy. Nevertheless, as is well known to world public opinion, we have had to defend ourselves against international plots and sabotage that have tried to bring to our country coups d'etat, chaos and civil war. Had such sinister plans been successful, there would have been worse consequences for our people than international terrorism on a large scale.
118.	We share the concern of many delegations that it might be possible, given the imprecision and vagueness of the term, to describe as terrorists the heroic fighters against colonial exploitation and shameful racism or those who legitimately rebel against oppression, injustice or poverty. Similarly, we should not like to see the adoption of measures against terrorism signifying an international coalition of reactionary forces against the progressive forces of mankind, nor should we like to see provisions hastily arrived at that would actually undermine the institution of the right of asylum, which has been upheld by Latin- American juridical traditions and has been an unchanging norm in the republican history of my own country.
119.	Many of the causes of terrorism would be eliminated if there were respect for the principles of the Charter and self-determination, if there were no violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and if a responsible approach were taken to the tragedy of the growing impoverishment of the developing countries which, instead of being given co-operation, are being pillaged, boycotted and driven to desperation. The delegation of Chile is ready to participate in the examination of this item whose complexity should not be used as an excuse for not examining it dispassionately in all its aspects.
120.	My Government believes that this session of the General Assembly is being held in favorable international circumstances, which augur well for a reduction of tension and the search for paths leading to real peace. Contacts and negotiations between great Powers, the beginning of dialogs which only a few months ago were difficult to imagine, and the emergence of a will to examine squarely the problems which constitute threats of hostility or confrontation have given birth to hopes which, we trust, will not fade or be disappointed.
121.	It is a fact that by means of bilateral diplomacy the great Powers have made praiseworthy efforts to reduce their rivalries, thus making less likely a nuclear catastrophe. There are new prospects for disarmament, and there has been a reduction in the degree to which the world is divided into blocs. There is an increase in the possibilities of peaceful and active coexistence. There is emerging what the Secretary-General calls a new "balance of caution", which should replace the balance of power based on mutual nuclear terror, suspicion, rivalry and the arms race.
122.	We welcome the rapprochement of the great capitalist Powers and the great socialist Powers. It would certainly yield positive results for humanity if the capitalist world would decide once and for all to put an end to the policy of the cold war and to realize that socialism is an irreversible historical fact which manifests itself in various forms in accordance with the special character of the country adopting it.
123.	We take great satisfaction in the fact that there has been a normalization of relations among all European States and that a system of security which strengthens the machinery of peace, channels the energies of those States towards scientific and technological progress and extends the benefits of such progress to the whole of mankind, and in particular to the countries which most need it, such as those of the third world, has been consolidated in that continent. But we are convinced that the thaw in international relations, if it is to be genuine and promising, cannot be something which exists only among the great Powers or in certain highly developed areas. Tension and threats to peace, the desperate situation of millions of human beings who are suffering from malnutrition, illiteracy, exploitation and imperialist penetration, violent or covert, often lead to tragedy in other parts of the world, specifically in Asia, Africa and Latin America, where we witness wars and coercion and where there are no signs of relief. That is where there is no perceptible relaxation of tension.
124.	Paradoxically, along with the improvement in international relations, the aggression in Viet-Nam continues, as does the conflict in the Middle East, the subjugation of peoples in Africa and the exercise of pressure by imperialism in Latin America. We recognize as a real and historical fact the existence of great Powers with sufficient might to bring the world to the brink of destruction or to guide it towards peace, security and progress. Those Powers bear a special responsibility towards the peoples of the third world, who have been kept outside the mainstream of the progress of civilization.
125.	If a great capitalist Power decides not only to avoid confrontation with other great Powers, but indeed decides to extend and increase its co-operation and trade with them while insisting on continuing its imperialist policy of exploitation and aggression vis-a-vis small nations which are jealous of their sovereignty, the relaxation of tension may be positive, but it can only come to full fruition if it is extended to all the peoples of the world.
126.	There is something else we should add. Bilateral diplomacy is of the utmost effectiveness, but the results attained would be more tangible and beneficial if they were consolidated through the collective system so patiently worked out by the United Nations on the basis of international law, which develops in accordance with the requirements of justice for the whole of humanity. Nevertheless, we must condemn here the attempts made to invalidate the collective system of the United Nations, to deny it the resources and the means for its organs to discharge their functions of assistance to developing countries or, in brief, to diminish the prestige of our Organization so that it cannot really and properly participate in the political, economic and social leadership of today's world, whose problems require fresh vision and new approaches.
127.	. My delegation cannot help referring to the tragedy of Viet-Nam. The Government and people of Chile reiterate their firm solidarity with the people of Viet-Nam, as well as with the peoples of Cambodia and Laos. We should like to express once again our condemnation of the bombings, the mining and the blockading of North VietNamese ports, the destruction of dikes and the so-called VietNamization of the war. An act of aggression is being committed against the people of Viet-Nam, which could be described as systematic and highly mechanized terrorism I repeat, systematic and highly mechanized terrorism which has produced innumerable innocent victims and has laid waste the entire country.
128.	The peace in Viet-Nam so longed for throughout the world, longed for indeed by vast sectors of the public of the United States, can be achieved only by the total withdrawal of United States troops, the acceptance of the proposals of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Viet-Nam, and the respect of the territorial integrity and self-determination of all the peoples of IndoChina.
129.	Certainly this General Assembly session, like so many others, will condemn colonialism, neo-colonialism, racism and apartheid. The colonialist and racist countries continue to enjoy the support of certain Powers, in spite of resolutions of the United Nations. On the other hand, the resistance and liberation movements, which are opposed by modern armies and arms, do not enjoy sufficient support. It is impossible for Africa to realize its true potential for progress, unity and security, if in the southernmost part of that continent a colonialist and racist bloc is allowed to consolidate, a bloc which, with the complicity of imperialism, is entrenching itself and disregarding the agreements of our Organization.
130.	Chile, as a member of the United Nations Council for Namibia, is following with great attention the contacts established between the Secretary-General and the Government of South Africa to clear the way for the final independence of the people of Namibia. However, we are surprised and disturbed at the fact that this Government, on the one hand, has welcomed the important initiative of the Secretary-General while, on the other hand, it pursues a policy of dividing the people of Namibia, persecuting its leaders and entrenching the evil system of apartheid, a crime against humanity which should of considered urgently in order to devise juridical instruments which would be binding on States.
131.	My Government categorically supports the peoples of Africa fighting for independence and considers that the United Nations should intensify its decolonization activities, primarily condemning the colonialism and racism of Pretoria and Salisbury.
132.	Still in the field of decolonization, as far as Latin America is concerned we consider it a memorable event of the utmost importance that the Special Committee on decolonization  should have decided in favor of "the inalienable right of the people of Puerto Rico to self-determination and independence in conformity with resolution 1514 (XV)" [see A/8723/Rev. 1, chap. I, para. 85].
133.	My Government regrets.that in the Middle East there has been no progress towards a just and stable peace. Indeed, a distressing sequence of events has occurred, including the massacres at Lod and Munich and the armed attacks in Lebanon and Syria. The occupation of Arab territories continues; the Jarring mission is paralyzed; and no real efforts are being made to gain respect for the lawful rights of the people of Palestine. We trust that this Assembly will reach more effective agreements in keeping with Security Council resolution 242 (1967). Our Organization should actively work to end one of the most distressing tragedies of our time and one of the most terrible threats to the peace of the world.
134.	Chile is undergoing intense economic and social changes designed to remove the outmoded and unjust structures of a society based on exploitation and to achieve socialism. This is a process designed to eliminate our dependence on imperialist monopolies and finances and in this way to bring about complete national independence. We do not conceal our difficulties and the desperation and hostility of reactionary forces which cannot reconcile themselves to the loss of their privileges.
135.	In two years the Government of Popular Unity in Chile has brought about substantial changes in the life of Chile. We have nationalized our basic resources, copper, iron and saltpeter. We have eliminated large estates. We have nationalized and democratized the system of credit by making our bank State-owned. We have made progress in the area of social ownership, and we have included in this system very important monopolistic businesses. We have provided new educational opportunities and we have extended protection to the mother and child. Above all, the working classes have assumed responsibility and enjoy participation at all levels of the State.
136.	Chile's experience, considered as one of the great social experiments in the world, is being acquired in respect for the constitutional and legal norms of our country, democratic pluralism and the free functioning of opposition forces. Much has been written and reported about the Chilean experiment, sometimes objectively but at other times obscurely and misleadingly. However, Chile is a country open to anyone who wants to understand the tremendous importance of the historic phase our people is passing through. We have nothing to hide, nor do we fear criticism. We simply want people to deal with us without mystification or falsehood.
137.	Our foreign policy, rooted in the facts of our national life, is entirely in harmony with the principles of the Charter and the resolutions of this Organization. We have often given evidence in these two years of the Popular Government of faithful compliance .with principles such as non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, respect for the self-determination of peoples, human rights and peaceful coexistence, which transcend political or economic doctrines or systems.
138.	Chile, which would appear to be cut off and remote because of its geographical position, has extended its network of international relations to all corners of the earth in the desire to establish bonds of friendship and cooperation with all peoples. Fundamentally, we proclaim that we belong to Latin America, and we are striving to achieve with all Latin American peoples not only profound friendship but genuine integration in various areas.
139.	Our feelings of belonging to Latin America have inspired us to do everything we can to bring about the integration of Latin America. We are ready to seek alternatives and new possibilities within the Latin American Free Trade Association. In this context, we attach particular importance to the strengthening of the Cartagena Agreement of 1969, in which, along with Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, we have succeeded in establishing a subregional plan of integration, and the progress we have already achieved is virtually irreversible. This is an example of integration which will surely have an impact on the entire region in keeping with our common destiny as Latin Americans.
140.	We are full members of the group of non-aligned countries. Our non-alignment is not directed against any great Power. It is simply against the division of the world into blocs or spheres of influence. We want to contribute to the establishment of peaceful co-operation in keeping with the principles and resolutions of the United Nations.
141.	With regard to progress towards a solution of the questions relating to the sea, my delegation considers that this session of the General Assembly should play a particularly positive role. The decisions which it should adopt with regard to the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, and the opportunity it will give to continue during this decisive phase the necessary political negotiations, encourages my Government to hope that the world Organization will demonstrate in this field its potential for resolving problems of interest to all States.
142.	Chile takes particular satisfaction in the progress achieved towards the formation of a political plan for a solution. My Government believes that the growing support for the concept of zones of maritime jurisdiction of up to 200 miles, with an economic content, contributes in large measure to this plan, which should take into account the aspirations for justice and development of all peoples. The recent announcements, to this effect, of the States of Latin America, Africa and Asia, strengthen the economic interest of the countries of the third world, an interest which should be fully safeguarded if we want to achieve a global international solution.
143.	My Government is concerned at the fact that the sea-bed and ocean floor beyond the limit of national jurisdiction which was solemnly declared in resolution 2749 (XXV) of the General Assembly, along with the resources of the zone, to be the common heritage of mankind may begin to be exploited, in contravention of this declaration and what was known as the moratorium resolution [resolution 2574 D (XXIV)]. 
144.	Chile has offered the facilities of its capital for the first session of the Conference, which it would like to be held in Santiago. I should like to express the thanks of my Government for the warm reception which this invitation received, in countries of all regions and systems, during the last session of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction. We are confident that this session of the Assembly will decide to accept the invitation. For Chile, a favourable decision would be a tremendous encouragement to its policy of negotiation and international co-operation, both in the Latin American sphere and on the world level.
145.	We support the initiative of the Government of the Soviet Union in proposing as an item for this session the "Non-use of force in international relations and permanent prohibition of the use of nuclear weapons" [A/8793]. We consider that an agreement on this subject, together with the convening of a World Disarmament Conference and the adoption of concrete measures to implement the Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security [resolution 2734 (XXV)], will be positive contributions to the cause of world peace.
146.	We oppose all nuclear tests, in whatever environment they are carried out. Chile witnessed with particular concern the continuation of the testing of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere, in the Pacific Ocean.
147.	The delegation of Chile has already had occasion to make substantive comments at the 1451st meeting of the Second Committee on the economic and social situation in the world and particularly on the external economic and financial relations of our country. Nevertheless, we consider it necessary to say, from this lofty rostrum, something about the principal aspects of our thinking with respect to these matters.
148.	It is clear that the new manifestations of a relaxation of political tension also involve positive prospects for trade and economic relations at the world level. Nevertheless, it would be a bad mistake if these hopeful prospects were to reduce the deep concern over the world's plight brought about by the tragic economic and social conditions in which a large proportion of mankind lives.
149.	We are witnessing events which are so dismaying to the third world that perhaps instinctively we tend to repose tremendous hopes in any positive sign offered to us. Our enthusiasm is great when there is some progress in the ruinous arms race, even though military expenditures continue to remain on the order of $200,000 million a year. We hear expressions of satisfaction at the steps taken to overcome the crisis threatening the world monetary system, although we are aware that this progress is very precarious and that it suffers from the fundamental shortcoming that in the formulation of the reform, which is under way, there is no part being played by the socialist countries of Eastern Europe and the People's Republic of China. It pointed out as an encouraging sign that in the last three years the per capita increase in production has reached a higher rate in the less developed countries than that recorded in the countries of the industrialized world, even though this fact clearly contradicts the projections of present trends, which show that there will be a continued increase, at an accelerated pace, of the widening gap between the standard of living of the third world and the standard enjoyed by the great capitalist, economic and financial Powers, which have already accumulated a disturbing proportion of the world's wealth.
150.	Without doubt, one of the great problems of our time and the most critical and serious one which should be at the very forefront of the minds of world leaders is that created by the unjust international division of labour and the unjust distribution of income and the technological gap. Various studies have shown that if present trends continue, within 25 years the developed countries will be enjoying an income of more than $8,000 per capita per annum, while the impoverished masses-who by that date will number more than 2,250 million persons—will be earning on the average less than $200 per capita annually, and 800 million people will have an income of less than $100 a year. This is a problem which affects individual lives as well as the peace of the entire world.
151.	The crisis of international economic co-operation is so acute that it would appear that some political leaders of the great Western Powers would prefer in fact to overlook the problem notwithstanding their many statements at meetings of international bodies.
152.	With regard to trade, some important countries show no sign whatsoever of keeping the undertakings formally made with regard to the application of a general system of preferences. In the area of international financing we do not see here either any compliance with the principle of transferring at least the equivalent of 1 per cent of the gross national product to the developing countries. And in important cases we even witness significant reductions in the indicators of transfer, particularly with regard to public financial co-operation. This is happening while conditions in which international financing is granted are becoming ever less favorable and hence are leading to an accelerated increase in the servicing of the external debt of the developing countries. These payments are at the present time exerting almost intolerable pressure on the balance of payments of many of our countries.
153.	Therefore my delegation considers that we should continue using and strengthening the instruments of international co-operation, particularly UNCTAD, whose third session we had the honor of playing host to in Santiago. In our view, this session, which was attended by more than 140 States, had the virtue of examining in depth the great problems of development and it proposed solutions which will be effective if the countries of the third world press for them in all international forums.
154.	It was gratifying to our delegation, after having submitted to the Second Committee the evaluation and program of action prepared by the member countries of the Special Committee on Latin American Co-ordination, to see that this evaluation and the statements made from this rostrum by the Foreign Ministers of Western European countries were very largely in agreement.
155.	However, within this overall framework, which is in itself disheartening, there are particular circumstances which make more acute the problems of the external economic and financial relations of the developing countries. Chile in the last two years has had consistently to, confront these circumstances and for this reason we want to lay special stress on them on this solemn occasion. I am referring to new threats to the development and sovereignty of peoples first constituted by foreign attempts at economic coercion, aided and abetted by multinational corporations which operate beyond anyone's control and exert pressure to produce political decisions in behalf of the greatest world capitalist Power and which, in their desire to exploit the developing countries, carry out all kinds of illicit actions whenever the developing countries decide to recover their natural resources or those sectors of their economic activity which are of fundamental importance for the well being of their peoples.
156.	The Government of Chile has carried out the nationalization of its principal resource, copper, with the unanimous support of the country, keeping strictly within the framework of our domestic legislation in accordance with the principles of international law emanating from resolutions adopted by the United Nations. Chile has acted in all its relations with external private interests in strict compliance with equitable and non-discriminatory juridical norms.
157.	Nevertheless we have been faced with brutal financial and economic pressure, pressure exerted by some of the corporations affected by the sovereign decisions of the people of Chile. In various international forums, particularly at the third session of UNCTAD and at the last session of the Economic and Social Council, we have denounced the actions of which we have been the victim. We have indicated that the International Telephone and Telegraph Company (ITT), even before President Allende came to power, initiated contacts with the Government of the United States and proposed various measures for intervention in our country, including the launching literally of a plan for a campaign of economic terror. This same international corporation, the ITT, subsequently, while rejecting a formal offer from the Chilean Government, which was known to the Government of the United States, to the effect that its investments in the telephone company of our country would be compensated in accordance with international standards, presented to high officials of the United States Government an action plan which involved the economic and financial strangulation of Chile and the overthrow of the Government democratically elected by the people of my country.
158.	Recently, another multinational corporation, the Kennecott Copper Corporation, after being engaged in litigation for about a year with the Chilean State before the competent tribunal and because this tribunal did not grant its claims, initiated a campaign designed to obstruct free trade in Chilean copper in various markets, by means of public threats against purchasers of our copper and pressure exerted on commodity markets and brokers trading in this metal.
159.	That was an attempt to prevent the people and Government of Chile from marketing its principal export product. Such actions violate the most elementary principles of international coexistence and, if not stopped immediately and responsibly by the Governments in question, will tend to create a climate incompatible with the kind of relations based on positive dialog which the Government of Chile wishes to maintain with the United States. Since over the past few days these reprehensible actions have been assuming even graver proportions, my Government reserves its right to raise these matters again in the General Assembly in the manner and at the time it deems appropriate.
160.	We believe that there is an increasing awareness of the many serious problems arising both internally and in the sphere of international relations because of the actions of those large international corporations. Consequently, as we pointed out in our statement in the Second Committee, we hope that the Secretary-General of the United Nations will shortly, or in any event before the end of this session, report to us on steps already taken by the study group set up by resolution 1721 (LIII) of the Economic and Social Council, adopted by consensus, to study the role of multinational corporations and their impact on the development process, and also their implications for international relations, and to submit recommendations for appropriate international action.
161.	The Government and people of Chile hope that the United Nations will soon set in train the appropriate measures to deal with the actions of the multinational businesses of which developing countries are the victims, and of which my country has been the principal victim without the international community having done anything so far to prevent such odious aggressive maneuvers. For its part my Government, in all international forums, will bring to the attention of the world, and will denounce, the attacks and subversive actions aimed at Chilean democracy perpetrated by those powerful imperialist interests.
162.	Last week the representative of Chile at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, stressed that international finance organizations should not be the instruments of the bilateral policy of any member country of those institutions. We mentioned there that it was a well-known fact that there existed differences between the views of my own country and those of the United States Government with regard to the process of nationalizing our basic resources. We added that, although this was a fact, it did not authorize the United States to exert its powerful influence in the World Bank to get that agency of the United Nations to join in what was being done to put financial pressure on Chile by suspending its loans to our country.
163.	Within the discouraging framework of international financing for developing countries, perhaps one of the few positive signs over the past few years has been the strengthening of multilateral approaches and the expansion of the operations of international financing agencies for development, such as the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the African Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Nevertheless, today the persistent efforts of many countries to strengthen the multilateral approach of those institutions are very likely to be thwarted by the actions of one Government which is bent on utilizing those agencies as instruments of its own bilateral international policy. It is unacceptable that people should try to justify a reduction in that Government's bilateral public aid to the developing countries by arguing that it is due to a desire to channel as high a proportion of resources as possible through multilateral organs, and at the same time should try to impose on each allocation of resources to those organizations restrictions and conditions which prejudice their independence and actually undermine their multilateral nature.
164.	Since the coming to power of the Government of President Salvador Allende, Chile has received no new loans from the World Bank or the Inter-American Development Bank, agencies which up to that point had been granting an annual amount of financing to Chile on the order of $100 million. Clearly, this was not due to technical considerations, but to the decision made public by the United States to prevent such bodies from extending financial support to our country as a result of the differences of view existing between Chile and the United States over the nationalization of our basic resources.
165.	For that reason we made the point at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank that if some Governments were not capable of understanding the need to preserve the multilateral nature of international financing bodies it would be necessary to study new ways and means for them to acquire their resources: through compulsory contributions established according to the level of the gross national product of each country, or some other, similar scheme, in order to prevent a situation in which we find in each of the laws for the allocation of resources certain restrictions and conditions which in the final analysis only negate the international nature of those very organizations. We believe that here the United Nations also has an important role to play- particularly the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council.
166.	If we consider that there was an abrupt suspension of the foreign aid which Chile had been receiving during the 1960s from both public and private sources in the United States, as well as from international agencies of which Chile is a full-fledged member with all rights implicit therein; and at the same time, if we analyze the actions taken against our country by large international consortia, we cannot fail to recognize that Chile has been the victim of real economic aggression, which although it is less tangible than physical aggression, is no less reprehensible.
167.	The balance of payments of Chile has been in a very difficult situation recently. This is due to the suspension of financing from certain external sources which have been traditionally available to Chile, and to a sharp drop in the price of copper and an increase in the imports which have been occasioned by great industrial activity and an increase in internal demand. Apart from this, another factor in our balance-of-payments position has been the increase in the international prices of products imported by Chile.
168.	In the face of this situation, our Government, in order to maintain the normal functioning of the economy and, at the same time, to ensure payments for the servicing of the external debt to all our creditors, in accordance with the actual resources and possibilities of the country, decided at the end of last year to proceed to a renegotiation of this debt. The servicing of the external debt represented in 1972 an amount higher than 30 per cent of the value of the country's imports.
169.	We should like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the Government of France for the important task that country has been carrying out as coordinator of the so-called Paris Club, through which last April a general agreement was reached to renegotiate the servicing of the debt for this year. Similarly, we are pleased to say that bilateral agreements have been reached with most of Chile's creditor countries, in accordance with the terms laid down in the general agreement of the Paris Club. At the same time, may we say that it is our desire to sign bilateral agreements as soon as possible with the other countries with whom we are at present negotiating. We hope, furthermore, that in the bilateral talks with our principal creditor country there will be no attempt to bring up issues which have nothing to do with the nature of those financial transactions, since this would only serve to hold up the settlement we all desire.
170.	As the beginning of a new spirit in international relations is now perceptible we believe that the United Nations should be considered to be on the threshold of a new period of history. It must therefore be made a more dynamic instrument capable of meeting die needs of today's world. My delegation would like to stress that a real threat hangs over our Organization: people are trying to destroy its power, to drown it in fictions and deprive it of the authority which it must have in order to speed up the liberation and progress of the peoples of the third world.
171.	No one can ignore the work done by the United Nations, but we should not underestimate the impatience and the skepticism of vast sectors of world public opinion over the passivity and ineffectiveness which the United Nations sometimes displays in its handling of the urgent and burning issues facing mankind.
172.	But since the United Nations is not a super-national organization, nor does it have any autonomous powers which it can assume outside the body of States which compose it, its full authority can only be brought to bear through the determination of all its Members to respect common obligations and to take collective action, by taking up within it the tragic problems afflicting mankind, by making its working methods more flexible, by increasing its financing capacities and by broadening its power and action.
173.	The United Nations has made progress with regard to the matter of universality, particularly with the inclusion of the People's Republic of China something which was so indispensable for our Organization but there still remain nations and peoples which should come into the United Nations as soon as possible. My delegation would like to mention particularly the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic. Both German States are indispensable components of a system of European security. Their scientific and technological achievement are extraordinary and their participation in the United Nations would be a powerful shot in the arm. We should also like to mention Bangladesh, divided States like Korea and VietNam, and peoples who possess a national identity, but have not succeeded in becoming nations or States due to their subjugation to the colonial yoke.
174. Thanks in large measure to the action of progressive farces, the United Nations has succeeded in containing many crises; it has contributed to the independence of many peoples; it has promoted juridical, economic and social progress. But now more than ever we have the duty of strengthening the United Nations until responsible international conduct becomes the norm, until selfish interests ire set aside, until neo-colonialism and imperialism are done away with, until, in a word, a new form of international law which is at once more just and more effective is enshrined.
175. The Government of Chile expresses its confidence that this session of the General Assembly will work in a spirit of understanding, with a firm and renewed will to reach agreements which will actually be carried out and make a genuine contribution to the struggle of peoples to enjoy full justice, peace and human dignity.


===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿111.	This is the first opportunity that the present Government of Chile has had to state from the highest world rostrum the background and the facts that led the armed forces and police to take control and establish a regime of national restoration and dignity. I shall deal at some length with this subject, although I am aware that one of the fundamental principles of the Charter is that the United Nations shall not intervene in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of States. That principle, which also governs bilateral relations among members of the international community is one to which I will refer more especially later.
112.	However, because of the events that have taken place in Chile, a campaign that is so false, so malevolent, so vicious, so well orchestrated has been launched, with the intention of distorting the facts and the intentions, that I felt it both fitting and proper to refer to those events, even though I firmly contend that no State, and no international organization, has the right to meddle in or judge what has taken place in my homeland.
113.	I understand that the events in Chile have not left world public opinion indifferent. Although many countries, in the most varied regions of the world, year after year for different reasons undergo changes in their political and social life, the case of Chile is a very special one, for two reasons.
114.	The first reason is that my country, after more than a century and a half of independence, has stood as an example of civic life and has never tolerated dictatorships, racism or totalitarism and that our eminently apolitical and professional armed forces have been an example to the world. We who wear the uniform are proud of that tradition.
115.	The second is that Chile, having agreed to the establishment by democratic means of a Government imbued with foreign doctrines, loyally collaborated in the search for a socialist direction compatible with our own national reality and our traditions of freedom, justice and dignity; so much so that, at the beginning of the socialist experiment, the political parties unanimously supported the Government, as in the nationalization of the copper industry, and likewise the armed forces, when called upon in moments of grave crisis, accepted upon their shoulders the burden of heavy responsibilities.
116.	But these generous, democratic and selfless attitudes proved futile, since they were able only briefly to contain, and not to stop, the disastrous course along which the Unidad Popular, in its eagerness to consolidate a tyrannical power, was forcing the country. Chile, alone, without the help or inspiration of any, its patience exhausted and drawing on the courage, drive and inner resources that are a feature of our people, was able to react and put an end to a totalitarian system that has subjugated so many countries of the world, before it was too late.
117.	I shall refer to what happened in my country three years ago. In September 1970 Chile was confronted with a procedure that was normal in our history of democracy: a presidential election was to be held. On 4 September the candidate representing the Unitad Popular won 36.2 per cent of the popular vote in a free, democratic election, precisely in keeping with the historic traditions of Chile.
118.	This triumph was a surprise and upset to the majority of the people, since the ideology professed by the winning candidate made many of my countrymen fear that the country might adopt a course very contrary to the tradition and history of Chile.
119.	Under the political Constitution of the State, the election had to be ratified by the National Congress, since none of the candidates had obtained an absolute majority of the popular vote. The political parties that had supported the Marxist candidate were a minority in the Chilean Congress; consequently, interpreting the national feeling, the majority political parties made the confirmation of the candidate who had obtained a relative majority conditional on solemn respect for the provisions of the Constitution, supplemented by a special Statute of Guarantees.
120.	From the very dawn of our independent life, Chile has been careful to preserve, both in reality and in our fundamental Constitution, the basic human rights of the individual and respect for the common good. In the case of the Unidad Popular candidate, the majority parties insisted that these guarantees must be more precisely confirmed, even in specific matters, through the supplementary Statute to which I referred earlier. As a result of this requirement on the part of the parliamentary majority, the National Congress unanimously, and with the favourable vote of the candidate himself, approved constitutional reforms intended primarily to reaffirm the independence of the armed forces and respect for their professional function. This stood in the way of the creation of military groups outside the Constitution and the law. The reforms would also reaffirm the freedom of the information media, the political rights of citizens and the gains achieved by the workers in organized labour and
ensure the participation of professionals, technicians, employees and workers in the process of economic development.
121.	It was only after the approval of this Statute of Constitutional Guarantees that the congressional majority, which, I repeat, had opposed the posture of the Unidad Popular candidate, agreed to confer upon him the presidency of Chile.
122.	The Chilean political system is based upon the absolute independence of the public authorities and upon their unlimited mutual respect. The President of the Republic, the National Congress and the courts of justice have rights and powers specifically defined in the political Constitution of the State, which also defines the way in which they shall relate to one another.
123.	Furthermore, there must be added the fundamental role played in the Chilean legal system by the Comptroller-General of the Republic, since his decisions and rulings determine the administrative process of the nation.
e
124.	In other words, when the legitimately elected President took over the highest office in Chile, he swore to respect the independence and authority of the other organs of the State. He committed himself to respect the legality of the Chilean State, the heritage of the people, which over the years has been moulded to reflect the basic consensus enabling them to live together. Any assault on legality is, therefore, not only a destruction of the cultural and moral heritage of the nation, but also a denial of any practical possibility of democratic life.
125.	In a veiled and surreptitious way at first, but quite openly later, the Government entirely ignored the basic principles that I have enunciated here and, what was even more serious, repeatedly violated the constitutional provisions that the National Congress had demanded as a guarantee after the elections of September 1970. The cynicism with which the Government was acting was amply demonstrated when the head of State later made known in a press interview that he had accepted the Statute of Constitutional Guarantees as a tactical necessity to assume power, and that what was most important at that moment was to take over the Government.
126.	Under the tolerant eyes of the Government, the. media of the free press were harassed and, instead of. implementation of the Agrarian Reform Law drawn up by the previous administration, a system of illegal takeovers were established. Authorities arbitrarily took over small, medium-sized and large industries; politicians, villagers, students and representatives of law and order were murdered with impunity. Labour leaders and union representatives who did not support the Government were persecuted and imprisoned, and an attempt was made to impose a totalitarian educational system on all Chilean children.
127.	I think a separate mention must be made of the Government's attitude towards armed groups of civilians. It not only permitted them, but openly encouraged them and thus illegally allowed the entry into the country
of foreign agitators and weapons. By 11 September this year, more than 13,000 known foreigners, most of them extremists, were known to be in the country in an illegal manner. Their sole mission was to set up a parallel army to oppose the regular armed forces. Representatives in the Assembly can well understand what that number of persons could mean to a country with 10 million inhabitants. But the conduct of those foreigners went even further. They took over management positions in the public administration, in illegally sequestered factories and in the direction of the national economy. We saw, with shame, how foreigners became part of Chilean delegations entrusted with the task of negotiating international agreements.
128.	To all this must be added the inability of the Government to draw up an economic plan that would meet our real national needs, and this failure led to a catastrophe from which Chile will not recover for many years. The economic experience of Marxism in our country, because of the damage it has done, will be difficult for my countrymen to forget.
129.	Let me cite a few figures to support what I am saying.
130.	According to the latest official statistics of the Government of the Unidad Popular, agricultural production dropped by 20 per cent last year, industrial production by 9 per cent, and mineral exports, the fundamental mainstay of our economy, by 28 per cent.
131.	In 1970, the total currency in circulation in Chile was 12,114 million escudos. At the end of this year, according to projections, the currency in circulation will be at least 23 times greater.
132.	In 1970, Chile's external debt was $2,630 million. By 31 December 1973, that debt will have reached $3,450 million. And, to make things worse, this increase in foreign indebtedness was due primarily to the import not of capital goods destined to increase production, but of food and other perishables which the Marxist economy had been unable to produce inside the country.
133.	In 1970, Chile's trade balance showed a surplus of $78 million. Thus far this year, it shows a deficit of $438 million; and to this must be added the fact that, under the management of the Unidad Popular Government, the country lost its entire reserves of foreign exchange, which in 1970 had reached $448 million.
134.	In 1972, the deficit in fiscal expenditure amounted to 40 per cent of the total budget. For this year, it is estimated that the deficit will surpass 50 'per cent of total public expenditure.
135.	All these economic facts caused the country to sustain the highest inflation rate in the world: 323 percent over the last 12 months.
136.	In March of this year, under the control of the armed forces, as required by law, normal parliamentary elections took place, although it was later discovered that the registers of voters had been very cleverly altered and tampered with.
137.	Nevertheless, those elections clearly and precisely confirmed the fact that the Government of the Unidad Popular could count on the support of only a minority in the country. The opposition parties obtained a large majority in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies.
138.	Even so, the Government refused to alter its line of conduct and, ignoring the will of the people, formed a bellicose Cabinet that intensified its assaults on the lawful structure of the State. This forced the other public institutions to assume a daily more energetic defence of institutionality in the country.
139.	The Government was careful to demonstrate apparent respect for the judicial branch for the benefit of the outside world. It is true that it took pains not to interfere visibly with the structure itself; but it drew upon all sorts of resources in order to undermine the hard-won prestige of the judiciary as the guardian of civic rights. It had no compunction about carrying out defamatory campaigns; its officers indulged in all sorts of disrespectful acts, and judgements were deprived of all meaning, being disregarded whenever it suited the partisan interests of the Government of the Unidad Popular. Moreover, the authority to grant pardons was abused in the most inconceivable manner and the courts were denied the use of police power to enforce their decisions.
140.	Time and again, the Supreme Court entered its protests, but the Government, far from changing its mistaken plan of action, pushed harder and harder, until the Court ultimately, in communication with the President of the Republic, felt obliged to denounce these events as conducive to "a crisis in the legal system about which this Court cannot keep silent". The abuse of the law became worse and worse until, last May, in a note to the head of State, the Supreme Court stated publicly something that was even more serious: namely, that the country was faced with "a peremptory and imminent breakdown of the legal system".
141.	And yet, the Government continued with its policies, and the head of State even tried to justify them by instigating a public polemic with the Supreme Court, which only succeeded in reinforcing the Court's original position.
142.	But the judiciary was not the only institution that had to try to defend the public interest and to point to the serious misdirection of the Government: the Office of the Comptroller-General of the Republic was also the object of increasingly inflammatory attacks and repeated slights. The Government abused the instrument of "mandatory decrees", thus implementing a ruling system bypassing Congress; and the President of the Republic even went so far as to ignore the opinion of the Comptroller-General when it came to the promulgation of a constitutional reform approved by the parliament, which the Executive proposed to enact only partially.
143.	After fighting hard to find a political way to protect the national interest, the parliament itself finally assumed a position comparable to that of the judicial branch and of the Comptroller-General of the Republic. Even the possibility of submitting the Government to a plebiscite had been rejected by the Unidad Popular, thus proving its lack of democratic support even more openly.
144.	On 22 August last, the Chamber of Deputies, which is the controlling branch of Congress, clearly and energetically denounced the Government's headlong path to destruction. By 81 votes to 47, the Chamber adopted a very important resolution, the main points of which I should like to quote.
145.	To begin with, the resolution pointed out that sovereignty is vested essentially in the nation, that the authorities can only exercise powers delegated by the nation, and that a Government, by assuming rights not conferred by the people, is liable to charges of sedition. The resolution went on to declare:
"It is a fact that the present Government of the Republic, since its inception, has been engaged in the conquest of total power with the obvious intention of subjecting all persons to the strictest State economic and political control in order thus to achieve the installation of a totalitarian system absolutely opposed to the representative democratic system established by the Constitution."
And, it added:
"To accomplish this objective, the Government has not violated the law and the Constitution in isolated instances; rather, these violations have become permanent policy, to the extreme of systematically ignoring and encroaching on the power of the other branches of government, continually violating the guarantees that the Constitution assures to every inhabitant of the Republic, and allowing and sheltering the creation of illegitimate parallel powers that constitute a grave danger for the nation, all of which has led to destruction of the basic elements of our institutions and of our government of law."
146.	The Chamber of Deputies also indicated that the Government had committed inter alia the following violations and abuses:
"It has usurped the principal function of Congress —  that is, to legislate — by adopting a series of highly important measures for the economic and social life of the nation, which are indubitably a matter of law, by mandatory decrees abusively issued or by simple administrative rulings based on legal loop-holes. It must be stressed that all this has been done with the deliberate and acknowledged purpose of changing the nation's structures, recognized by the law in force, by the sole will of the executive, with absolute disregard for the will of the legislative branch.
"It has continually mocked the functions of control of the National Congress by depriving of all real effect the congressional power to dismiss from office cabinet ministers who violate the Constitution or the law or who commit other crimes or abuses specified in the Constitution. And, what is most serious of all, it has done away with the high function of the Congress as the constituent power by refusing to promulgate the constitutional reform covering the three areas of the economy which was approved in strict accord with the rules established by the Constitution."
147.	The resolution of the Chamber of Deputies did not stop there. It went on to enumerate the Government's principal abuses of the fundamental guarantees and rights afforded by the Constitution and, furthermore, added:
"In this breakdown of the rule of law, the formation and development of armed groups under government protection is especially serious since, apart from being a danger to the security of individuals and their rights and to the internal peace of the nation, such groups are intended to confront the regular armed forces. It is also especially serious that the police force is kept from performing its most important functions in the face of criminal attacks perpetrated by violent groups supporting the Government. Because of their grave importance, notorious and public attempts to use the armed forces and the police force for partisan purposes cannot be passed over in silence; neither can attempts to break down their institutional hierarchy and politically infiltrate their ranks."
148.	For the benefit of the Executive, the Chamber of Deputies' resolution closed with a description of the serious breakdown of constitutional and legal order that confronted the Republic and the need immediately to rectify precisely defined situations and facts, the urgency of channelling the actions of the Government in a lawful direction and the need to ensure constitutional order in Chile.
149.	As I have already pointed out, there was a long and patient wait by the citizenry and the other branches of government, which were always ready to facilitate solutions to the situation. As I have mentioned, the armed forces also loyally and professionally collaborated with the Government. Their mission was stretched beyond the limits of their vocation, since a number of times they were required to assume responsibilities with serious political consequences. Thus, in October 1972, confronted by a tenacious civil strike and in order to calm public opinion and guarantee parliamentary elections scheduled for six months later, representatives of the Chilean army, navy and air force assumed cabinet posts. I myself acted as Minister of State at that time and bent every effort loyally and efficiently to fulfil the mission entrusted to me by the President of the Republic.
150.	We ministers who were members of the armed forces repeatedly tried to convince the head of State of the need to adopt measures that might change the course of the nation. We did achieve some revisions, but everything was erased once our mission of ensuring fair and honest elections had been accomplished and we left our cabinet posts.
151.	After the elections of March of this year, and in order to comply with our sacred duty to preserve the democratic system, we repeatedly tried to convince those in charge of the country of the extremely dangerous path they were following. We were answered with promises that were always broken and with assurances that bore absolutely no relation to reality. While astute campaigns were organized to prevent a possible civil war. surreptitiously professional agitators, weapons and other highly destructive elements continued to enter the country with the specific purpose of preparing for the bloody coup de grace to our democratic system. I shall not tax the patience of the Assembly by describing the entire background that proves this. The caches of weapons and explosives; clandestine hospitals and blood banks; plans for violence, assassination, sabotage; the division of the armed forces and the organizing of mercenaries and guerrillas — all showed us that the abyss towards which our country was heading was even deeper than we had discovered when we adopted the historic resolution of 11 September.
152.	It was not only the knowledge of those threatening plans that moved the armed forces and the police force in Chile to take the decision imposed upon them by their oath to protect the homeland.
153.	With the public demoralized by so much abuse and so many threats upon their lives, humiliated by so much illegal and discriminatory rationing, and ruined by a black market directed and organized by government supporters, a strike erupted in one of the great copper mines. It lasted 74 days, and was followed by a civilian uprising of vast proportions. The truckers' union, the professional associations, retailers, large groups of craftsmen, workers and labourers, still not intimidated by foreign slogans, joined to protest with the only weapon they still possessed: the paralysing of the country. And in that historic uprising of the civilian masses, noble and true to their traditions, the long-suffering Chilean women and large groups of young students were in the vanguard.
154.	The situation was becoming extremely dangerous and the Government, incapable of solving any problem and basically oriented towards the seizing of total power through violence, once again resorted to the patriotism of the armed forces and the police force of Chile. Once again those of us in uniform gave generous assistance by assuming cabinet posts. From the vantage-point of our high offices, we were very soon able to confirm the speed with which the country was heading towards total chaos. We noted the deep deterioration of national security. The irritating injustice of a regime that called itself "popular" while its leaders lived in ostentatious luxury, outraging the people who had to form long queues for food, was brought home to us. We could prove, too, the extremely dangerous level of foreign intervention in our affairs, as well as the way in which bands of actual criminals were preparing to administer the final blow to all those who were not already unconditionally enslaved.
155.	Crime increased from day to day. One high naval officer, aide-de-camp to the President, was the fatal victim of a nefarious attack; a young army officer was assassinated by a foreign extremist; military intelligence services uncovered criminal acts of subversion within the ranks of the Navy, instigated by important members of the regime, including the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, to which the President himself belonged.
156.	Our final effort to participate in the Cabinet of the deposed Government did not successfully prevent the avalanche of events. Civic protest did not cease; the danger of a confrontation between the majority of the unarmed citizens and the strong paramilitary cells organized by Unidad Popular, which had drawn up a plan to assassinate civilian and military authorities and thus assume power completely, made it imperative for the armed forces and the police force to carry out their fundamental obligation and save the integrity of our nation.
157., On 11 September we acted, guided only by the oath we took many years ago, to defend our country and combine our efforts to preserve Chile as a sovereign nation, prosperous and free. We acted in concord with the immense majority of our countrymen, who, in fear and desperation, saw how an ideology alien to our history was cleverly taking advantage of our legal structure in order to impose upon us a totalitarian regime. We acted as institutions, without the influence of any leader. The Government junta that currently presides over Chile, with the support of the nation, is made up of men who do not seek power and who lack personal ambition. They are one body, patriotically united, that has taken on the immense but inevitable responsibility of restoring our homeland.
158.	I must draw the attention of representatives to the resolution adopted by the full Supreme Court of Justice two days later, on 13 September, whereby the highest court of the Republic, recognizing the intention of the new Government to respect and implement the decisions of the judiciary without prior administrative review of their legality, ordered the nation's courts to continue their work, certain that the administrative authority would guarantee the normal discharge of its obligations.
159.	The present Government has sought and immediately received the patriotic co-operation of professional people, technicians, workers, employees, businessmen and craftsmen. The Government has emphasized that its basic purpose will be the implementation of effective social justice, which will never be achieved through deceit, easy promises, bribery or the criminal division of our people. Rather, it will be done through honest work, a common dedication and community of interest. The present Government is not the return to a recent or remote past. The workers have fought far too long and far too hard defending their legitimate rights for that. The armed forces are a part of this noble people and we shall never betray those who, like ourselves, have dedicated their efforts to returning Chile to the place history has reserved for it.
160.	We maintain our traditional respect for and hospitality to foreigners; but we shall be very careful to avoid a repetition of the reprehensible acts of foreign intervention that have caused the country so much suffering. With the assistance of everyone, we shall rebuild Chile.
161.	The armed forces and the police force have assumed the task of redirecting the country along the path of liberty and law. Once we have achieved our goal, we shall not hesitate to withdraw to our barracks and to our ships. The time it takes to return to normality will be as brief as possible and will depend to a large extent upon the efforts of all Chileans dedicated to that noble end.
162.	Now I should like to refer to the fundamental principles of the foreign policy of my Government.
163.	As I reaffirm Chile's total commitment to its legally contracted international obligations and respect for its treaty obligations, which are the basis of world order, peace and security, I wish to state also that my country's foreign policy will be based upon its loyalty to the purposes and goals of the United Nations and to each of the provisions of the Charter. We signed the Charter in San FranciscO and we have always co-operated not only with this institution itself but also with all the organizations directly or indirectly connected with it. You may rest assured that that traditional policy of Chile will not be altered in any way. In fact we shall emphasize, loyally and without excesses, our co-operation in the work undertaken by the United Nations. This Organization is the most effective instrument for the achievement of international peace and security, for the growth of friendly relations and for respect for the fundamental rights of States. We must all dedicate our political will to these endeavours and comply fully with the resolutions of the principal organs of the United Nations. We must act in good faith and recognize that progress in the organized international community is achieved mainly through compliance with the basic resolutions of the Organization, such as the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade [resolution 2626 (XXV)], the Declaration on the Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations [resolution 2625 (XXV)] and the conclusions and recommendations of the third session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. We reiterate our commitment to the principle of the universality of the United Nations and to the need to guarantee equal participation for all its Member States. The Organization should not be isolated from the mainstream of world events and, as the Secretary-General has said in the introduction to his report on the work of the Organization, it must be recognized that bilateral diplomacy and multilateral diplomacy are mutually complementary and that, therefore, it is necessary to explore all the paths that might possibly lead to peace.
164.	I take this opportunity to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Waldheim, on his strong leadership of the Organization. I should like to express our thanks for his constant concern for the problems of Chile and for the effective co-operation of the United Nations in our development plans. We have confidence in his ability to lead the Organization in new directions that will strengthen it as the main instrument for the achievement of international co-operation. We extend our best wishes for the success of his efforts towards peace in different parts of the world.
165.	Another guiding principle of our foreign policy will be, as always, the principle of non-intervention in the domestic or external affairs of other States. But as we solemnly promise to respect national sovereignty, and therefore its obvious corollary, the self-determination of peoples, so must I categorically declare that we shall never allow foreign intrusions in our internal affairs or in the conduct of our international policy.
166.	To comply with this fundamental principle, one of our first acts was to sever diplomatic and consular relations with the present Government of Cuba. We have been able to prove that over the last three years there has been constant interference by Cuban agents, some official and some unofficial, in our internal politics and even in our foreign policy. When the break came, 42 Cuban diplomatic officials were accredited to Chile — as opposed to six Chileans in Havana — of whom only two belonged to the foreign service. Last September, 987 Castro Cubans were discovered to be illegally in my country. In the course of the present year, from 1 January to 31 July, 633 people came to Chile from Havana on diplomatic or official business. They intervened in every political, economic and functional organ of the State and, above all, in the presidency of the Republic. Instructors and top leaders of the paramilitary groups were either Cuban or had been trained by Cubans.
167.	It has been fully proved that gun-running was systematically protected by the Government. For example, in March of last year, 13 cases were known to have arrived in Chile, flown in on a regular Cuban airline flight and intended for the purposes of the presidency of the Republic. Those cases did not go through customs, but were received directly by the Chief of the Chilean Political Police. When the Chamber of Deputies duly protested, the then authorities maintained that the cases contained "works of art sent as gifts by Prime Minister Fidel Castro". Now we have learned what those "works of art" were: 13 cases containing 472 side-arms and machine-guns, two sub-machine-guns and 40,000 cartridges.
168.	The weapons and ammunition thus far found in the hands of the misnamed "people's militia" are not the type used by the Chilean armed forces, and their numbers are really surprising. They included not only side-arms and sub-machine-guns, but also heavy machine-guns, rocket launchers, anti-tank guns, 106 mm. cannons, as well as large amounts of explosives. This arsenal, brought into Chile principally from Cuba through the surreptitious procedures I have described, was mainly manufactured in the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia. What has been thus far discovered is enough to equip an army of 20,000 men.
169.	I do not wish to go into details of this Cuban infiltration in Chilean internal affairs. But I should like to read out a hand-written letter from Prime Minister Fidel Castro to the President of Chile, dated 29 July 1973. In order better to understand its terms, I must recall that a short time before, in circumstances that are still mysterious, the aide-de-camp to the head of State, Commander Araya, had been assassinated. The reaction to that new political crime was so great in Chile that the head of State instituted a dialogue with the chief opposition party, the Christian Democrats. That dialogue turned out to be hopeless because the President's desire was obviously to gain time and not arrive at any concrete solution. At that moment, Cuban Minister Carlos Rafael Rodriguez and the Chief of the Secret Police, Manuel Pineiro, arrived in
Santiago, ostensibly to discuss the Algiers Conference of non-aligned countries. They carried with them the handwritten letter from Prime Minister Castro. I have a photostat of it in my hand and any representative who may wish to read it can ask for a copy from the Chilean delegation. I shall read out the contents of the letter; it is extremely important because of its implications. It reads as follows:
"Havana, 29 July 1973.
"Dear Salvador:
"Under the pretext of discussing with you questions concerning the meeting of non-aligned countries, Carlos and Pineiro are coming to see you. The real purpose is to discuss with you your situation and, as always, to offer you our willingness to co-operate in the face of the difficulties and dangers which hinder and threaten the process. Their stay will be very short, since they have many pending obligations here, and it is not without sacrifice to their work that we decided that the trip should be made.
"I see that you are now taken up in the delicate question of the dialogue with the Christian Democrats in a serious atmosphere created by the brutal assassination of your naval aide-de-camp and the new truck- owners' strike. I can therefore quite well imagine the great tension that exists and your desire to gain time, to improve the relationship of forces in case a battle breaks out and, if possible, to find a way to allow the revolutionary process to continue without civil strife, while protecting your historical responsibility for what might occur. These are laudable goals. But if the other side, whose real intentions we are not in a position to evaluate from here, should insist upon a treacherous and irresponsible policy that would exact an impossible price from Unidad Popular and the revolution, which is in itself quite likely, do not for one minute forget the formidable strength of the Chilean working classes and the strong support they have always offered you in your difficult moments. If you should call upon them because the revolution is in danger, they can paralyse those that threaten to overthrow the Government, preserve the loyalty of those who hesitate, impose their conditions and decide once for all, if necessary, the future of Chile. The enemy should know the working class is forewarned and ready for action. Their force and combativeness can tip the balance in the capital in your favour, even though other circumstances might be unfavourable.
"Your determination to defend the process strongly and honourably, even if it means risking your own life, will draw to your side all the forces able to fight and all the decent men and women in Chile. Your courage, your serenity and your daring in this historic moment for your country, and above all your strong resolve and heroic leadership, are the key to the situation.
"Let Carlos and Manuel know how your loyal Cuban friends can help you.
"Once again I send you the affection and unlimited confidence of the Cuban people.
"Fraternally, "Fidel CASTRO."
170.	Now I wonder — do we need any more barefaced proof of intervention in Chilean political life? Can there be any doubt regarding the origin of the political directives and the support for illegality?
171.	I do not need to take up any more time of the representatives here by describing the recent and absurd Cuban attempt to accuse Chile in the Security Council. It can only be explained as a futile and desperate attempt to cover up the seriousness of their intervention in the internal affairs of my country.
172.	Chile, in line with the tradition that it has always followed, reserves the right to turn to the appropriate international organizations if and when necessary.
173.	On the basis of the fact that we can maintain normal relations only with those countries which respect us, we also severed relations with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea — after we were able to prove that there had been intervention in our internal affairs and an involvement of that country's diplomatic representatives in the training of guerrillas.
174.	On the other hand, we wish to maintain diplomatic relations with all countries of the world, irrespective of their ideology or their political, social or economic systems. We believe that the diversity of governments has nothing whatever to do with relations among States. Ideological pluralism is and will be another element of our foreign policy. For these reasons we regret that certain Governments to which we had expressed Chile's desire to maintain relations on a normal basis have nevertheless decided to break off such relations with a curious uniformity and under the most varied and false pretences. We ask ourselves, what has happened to the principle of ideological pluralism, so often exalted by those Governments? In the future they will have to take the initiative of resuming diplomatic relations with Chile, since they have, again with surprising uniformity, stressed the fact that those ties are merely suspended. They will find no opposition on our part — so long as our future relations can be based upon mutual respect and non-intervention in internal and external affairs.
175.	We are particularly interested in strengthening our ties with the Latin American countries. United as we are by a common origin, we face a common destiny, and to achieve it we must work together.
176.	I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your well-deserved election. My country feels deep affection and respect for yours, and our history has always been closely linked to that of Ecuador. For many years we have learned to appreciate your intelligent, active work in international affairs. Today these qualifications and this experience guarantee the success of your difficult task as President of the twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
177.	Imbued by that Latin American spirit, we shall fully support all the regional and subregional integration procedures that involve Chile, such as the Latin American Free Trade Association and the Andean Subregional Integration Agreement. We also support and endorse the
Special Committee on Latin American Co-ordination as a basically Latin American Forum where our countries can analyse and adopt unified positions on matters of particular interest and concern to them.
178.	The Chilean Government wishes emphatically to repeat its support of the principle of permanent sovereignty over natural resources of the earth, the sea, the ocean floor and the subsoil thereof for the economic development and welfare of the peoples of the world.'
179.	We also press most firmly for the right of nations freely and independently to dispose of their own natural resources. We unreservedly support all the principles, agreements and resolutions adopted within the framework of the United Nations and within the sphere of the regional and subregional Latin American organizations on this important subject.
180.	We thoroughly support the efforts of the developing countries to gain approval for a charter of economic rights and duties of States that, once implemented, would establish the basic economic and social principles to govern the international community in these matters. This initiative of the President of Mexico has our wholehearted support.
181.	Within the dynamics that govern international economic relations, foreign investments must be in harmony with the goals and programmes established by the host Government and must also reflect the welfare of that Government and that country. Just as we do not accept imperialism, so with the same emphasis do we reject economic imperialism, whether it comes from States or from great transnational corporations.
182.	In the United Nations, Chile will fight against any form of colonialism or neo-colonialism. That policy was not, as some may have believed, an innovation by the Government of the Unidad Popular. It has been the traditional policy of my country for many years. It is the result of a deeply rooted feeling in our country's traditions.
183.	The economic independence of developing countries has been, is and always will be one of the fundamental goals of Chilean foreign policy.
184.	I wish to reiterate to representatives my Government's commitment to non-alignment, a position that reflects the aspirations of all countries which like Chile are fighting to obtain for their peoples true economic and political independence.
185.	Within the strange tangle of falsehoods that have been spread abroad as a result of the events of 11 September, reports have been circulated that Chile would return foreign refugees from political, racial or religious persecution to their countries of origin. From the very outset I assured the Secretary-General of the United Nations — and I do so again from this rostrum — that such refugees who are in Chile legally and have not been implicated in any crime are fully protected, and that any others who are expelled will not be returned to their countries of origin but will be allowed to choose their destination. After very pleasant discussions with the Regional Representative for Latin America of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees we have reached a general and entirely satisfactory agreement. We stated that we will accept his help when it comes to practical solutions that might affect refugees who have decided to seek Chilean hospitality.
186.	The international negotiations regarding the law of the sea have proceeded to their decisive phase. The current session of the General Assembly will have to decide on a date for the already planned second session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea.
187.	Chile was and continues to be a supporter of this international negotiation, to which we attach the greatest importance. The future of the seas and oceans that cover more than two thirds of the earth's surface is extremely important economically, politically and even militarily. New legal provisions are being established and progressively developed; internationally accepted rules are being updated to conform with the economic, technological and political realities of today.
e
188.	This new law should clearly cover economic development. It should set up an international regime for the sea-bed and ocean floor beyond the limits of national jurisdiction that would give adequate expression to the fact that they are the common heritage of mankind. In treaty form it will have to express the natural right of the coastal States to dispose of the resources of their adjacent seas, specifically of the 200-mile zones which have an essentially economic meaning — a theory which is being supported by a large majority of nations today.
189.	The statement of the representative of Chile has been lengthy and I must apologize for that. But I felt in duty bound to give a broad outline of the foreign policy of my Government and also to go into some detail regarding the events that took place in my country last month.
190.	I understand the interest that these events have aroused in the world, even in countries distant from my own, countries which are relatively unfamiliar with our idiosyncrasies, our traditions, and the vigour of our people. There is no doubt that the so-called "Chilean experiment" of setting a course towards socialism aroused the curiosity and even the sympathy of many who saw in the example of the so-called Unidad Popular, a path worthy of imitation or at least of assimilation. But it is one thing to assess a foreign experience from afar, seated in comfortable armchairs or in discussion around a well- served table, and it is quite another thing to experience it.
191.	Contrary to what the Chilean people themselves believed at first, it was not evolution or social progress that was taking place in Chile. There was simply a power machine being set up by which, through the use of legal loop-holes at first, and later through open and outright illegality, the country was being led to tyranny and consolidated totalitarianism.
192.	The Chilean people did not deserve to pay such a high "cost of revolution", as some came to call the loss of lives, suffering, discrimination, hunger and sectarianism brought about by the Unidad Popular. Worse still, my country, on the verge of financial and economic bankruptcy, plagued by misery and divided into irreconcilable camps, was on the point of falling into chaos and into actual dissolution of the nation. In a supreme effort, and after having exhausted every legal possibility, my country has been able to avoid the most cruel and brutal of civil wars and set its feet on the road to national reconstruction.
193.	None of this could escape the uncommitted foreigners who live in Chile, much less the diplomatic representatives of friendly nations who looked on impartially, but with anguish, while the country disintegrated. Politicians and ideologists outside the country may of course have another view. I remind them of the words of Bossuet: "The worst aberration of the mind consists of seeing things as one would like them to be and not as they are".
194.	Chile has now taken a different road. The new Government will not retreat one step from the victories won by the workers, or from its policy of absolute national independence. We will whole-heartedly defend the interests of Chile in the face of any kind of imperialism.
195.	But it is not easy to rebuild out of so much rubble and debris. Nevertheless, we trust fully in the aid of divine providence and we know that, thanks to the spirit of sacrifice and patriotism of every good Chilean, there will be no difficulty that cannot be overcome.
196.	The costly and painful experience we have suffered has left us something positive. We now know the lurking poison behind deceiving mirages. Suffering has brought the Chileans together, overcoming the selfishness of the powerful and the hate which the weakest had been led to feel. The country will not forget the lesson that has allowed it to recover self-confidence. Once again it has been proved that in the spirit of Chile there still flames the fire of those who created a free and independent nation, embodying in its history what Ercilla sang of our strong indigenous race: a nation never "mastered by foreign yoke".

===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
The delegation of Chile participates in this international forum with the sincere intention of helping to achieve effective co-operation between States and of. contributing to the solution of the humanitarian, social, cultural and economic problems that concern the United Nations.
166.... The purpose and goals of the Charter of San Francisco continue to be the purpose and goals of the foreign policy of Chile. We accordingly reaffirm our adherence to the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations [resolution 2625 (XXV), annex] and to the Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security [resolution 2734 (XXV)]. Chile believes that today more than ever we must respect the basic principles of international coexistence.
167.	Prohibition of the use or threat of force, prohibition of intervention of any kind in the internal affairs of any nation," respect for the rights of peoples to self-determination, as well as unlimited respect for international treaties, are some of the basic principles that inspire our participation in this Assembly's general debate, as well as in the study of the many subjects that will be considered by the Committees.
168.	We have attentively followed the efforts of the United Nations for the maintenance and restoration of world peace. The current negotiations in the Middle East, thanks to the intelligent role played by the Secretary-General as well as by the dynamic Secretary of State of the United States of America, clearly demonstrate that the United Nations is an effective instrument for the solution of international conflicts when the political will exists voluntarily to adhere to its standards. The disengagement agreements are an essential first step toward the achievement of a just and lasting peace in that part of the world.
169.	Recent events in Cyprus have caused my Government concern. This is not the proper moment to examine the causes, which sure already so well known to this international body. In our judgment, what matters is the survival of that United Nations Member State, which currently finds its integrity and independence so seriously threatened.
170.	We consider that this General Assembly should give maximum priority to the problem of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and obtain the cessation of tests, whether underground, at sea or in the atmosphere. The fact that a number of countries are now able to produce devices of this type, along with the temptation of some nations to become atomic Powers, might lead to a nuclear race that is as risky as it is absurd, and which could develop into a war so destructive as to affect the whole human race. The gradual proliferation of members of the nuclear club thus poses a grave danger for international peace and security.
171.	We believe that the best way to achieve these objectives would be to extend geographically denuclearized zones. In this regard, I should like to declare that the Government of Chile is completing the internal legal arrangements for the ratification of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America, which was signed at Tlatelolco. Within a very short time we shall deposit the relevant instrument of ratification.
172.	Some South American Governments have expressed the desire to reach a regional arms limitation agreement in order to allow for a more accelerated economic development of their countries. Chile has declared its outright support for this initiative and believes that, in general, offensive weapons should be especially limited, while those needed to fulfill the defensive aims of the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance should be maintained.
173.	Ever since the time of the League of Nations, Chile has supported the principle of the universality of international organizations. We consider that the ability of the United Nations to accomplish its basic goal -to secure a just and lasting peace in the world- depends upon the strict application of this principle. Thus we rejoice at the admission into our Organization of the States of Bangladesh, Grenada and Guinea- Bissau. We extend our warmest welcome to them and we feel certain that they 'will make a timely and active contribution to our deliberations. I should like to take this opportunity to reiterate Chile's support for resolution 1514 (XV) concerning the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples.
174.	The Republic of Honduras was recently the victim of a catastrophe bringing desolation and ruin to thousands of homes. My delegation wishes to reiterate to the Honduran delegation the warmest and most heartfelt feelings of the people and Government of Chile. At the same time, we should like to request the Secretary-General, whose dedication and skillful action merit our fullest support, to invite the relevant specialized agencies of the United Nations and other institutions to grant our sister nation their swiftest and most ample co-operation.
175.	The world economic situation is certainly not encouraging. The crisis the world faces probably has no parallel in history. Deep-seated problems exist which have been developing for a long time and which, far from being solved, tend, on the contrary, to become dangerously acute. I refer to rapid population growth, the food crisis, ecological destruction, the deterioration of the environment and the gradual extinction of non-renewable natural resources.
176.	We are going through what the experts call "international economic turbulence", most visibly and probably most dramatically manifested in the energy crisis. The old post-war order, characterized by the Bretton Woods Agreements and the traditional trade patterns associated with GATT, has demonstrated its total inefficiency in our time and, as repeatedly pointed out, has turned into a new international economic "disorder". Both institutions and mechanisms created nearly 30 years ago have demonstrated their inability to cope with the problems of today and have jeopardized the objectives of the International Development, Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade [resolution 2626 (XXV)]. At the same time, the industrialized nations have not given priority to financial co-operation for the benefit of developing countries, nor have they fully opened their markets to the exports of developing countries. Peace and economic prosperity together constitute the guiding principles of our Charter. Therefore it is regrettable and dangerous that the results achieved in the economic, financial and commercial sectors are not comparable with those achieved in the political and military areas.
177.	A number of recent new developments call for a re-examination of current economic policies. Industrialized countries have suddenly been faced with the fragility of the structure of their economic systems, while the developing countries have seen their negotiating potential unexpectedly raised. For the first time a certain symmetry of interests and benefits has emerged between those two groups of nations, which affords a unique opportunity for negotiating fair agreements.
178.	The foregoing impels me to insist that we urgently adopt specific measures that will accelerate multilateral trade negotiations on a preferential basis that will apply to tariff as well as non-tariff trade barriers. At the same time, it is necessary urgently to accelerate decisions for the reform of the international monetary system that would give the developing nations a much larger participation than that afforded them so far.
179.	Chile believes that Latin America has something to say and something to offer in all those areas. Our region can rely upon existing co-ordinating mechanisms, and these should be used fully. An example is the Special Committee on Latin American Co-ordination. This body expresses the genuine Latin American personality. Likewise, we have organizations such as the Latin American Free Trade Association and the Andean Subregional Integration Agreement (Andean Group) to the improvement of which Chile is fully committed.
180.	Latin America's efforts towards establishing a guaranteed international economic order are borne out by the draft Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States by Venezuela's valuable contribution to the Inter-American Development Bank, and by our countries' active participation in the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. The second session of this Conference, recently held at Caracas, should be viewed in terms of both the successful organization of the Conference by the host country and the effective and useful work undertaken. The Conference defined what could be called the basis of, or key to, international solutions, particularly the 200-mile economic zone and the formulation of the concept of the ocean floor beyond the limits of national jurisdiction being the common heritage of mankind.
181.	Chile, the first country in the world to proclaim, in 1947, a 200-mile marine zone, was joined by Ecuador and Peru in a later defense of this doctrine in some memorable diplomatic battles. While at that time we seemed isolated in our position, new we are gratified to note that we are supported by the great majority of nations. Conceived as an economic zone or patrimonial sea, that doctrine has become fundamental to an international solution. It is not. only a triumph for the developing countries; it is also an expression of the justice of the fundamental relationship existing between a country and the resources of its adjacent sea,
182.	One proof of Latin America's commitment to overcoming the most urgent problems of our time was the efficiency and dedication with which the representative of Ecuador, Mr. Leopoldo Benites, presided over the twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We wish to pay him our warmest tribute for the brilliant manner in which he discharged his lofty duties.
183.	The people of Chile recently celebrated with spontaneous joy the first anniversary of its liberation from the Soviet-oriented totalitarian regime that had tried to impose its dictatorship on the country and its people, and in multitudinous rallies held throughout the land the people reaffirmed its support for the present Government of national reconstruction.
184.	This year, with the enthusiastic support of all sectors, healthy economic foundations have been laid and are already yielding initial results. Central Bank reserves, which were only $3 million a year ago, now exceed $300 million. Exports between January and May of this year increased by more than 200 per cent over the same period in 1973. In spite of higher import prices, Chile's balance of trade has ceased to show a deficit, and now shows an appreciable, surplus. Agricultural production will increase significantly this year, since essential planting is 50 per cent greater this year than in 1973. This increase is a result especially of the fact that the Government has turned over rural land, which had been nationalized by the previous regime, to authentic peasant farmers. Particularly noteworthy has been the increase in copper production, total output being 46 per cent higher this year than last year.
185.	The recovery of our economy has created confidence abroad and made it possible for Chile to renegotiate its external debt within the framework of the "Paris Club", on mutually acceptable terms. The runaway inflation we were suffering is being controlled, and a program for the gradual reduction of the inflation rate is under way. In order to avoid dislocations, it is based on increased productivity and reduced government spending.
186.	Social development is and has been one of the Chilean Government's fundamental concerns. The difficult anti-inflationary campaign is being carried out as fairly as possible, with benefits accruing to the workers through long overdue substantial pay rises and social improvements. So, for the first Time in our country's history, the dilemma of the most helpless groups of people has been confronted squarely and in depth through a complete study of the factors involved and a program of action designed to. put into effect urgently needed solutions.
187.	Within this brief summary of my Government's efforts, special mention should be made of the children's nutrition program now being carried out in Chile with the full knowledge of UNICEF and other international organizations. We are confident that the success of our studies and accomplishments in this area will enable our country to co-operate usefully with other nations. We are pleased to offer them our experience for mutual benefit.
188.	The Chilean Government has passed a new law, the Foreign Investment Statute, which establishes rules to attract foreign capital but, at the same time, clearly protects our national interests. This foreign investment law has already produced a significant increase in the number of requests to expand current investments or to invest in new industries, and has attracted numerous national and private groups from abroad, which have all been anxious to co-operate in our development on fair, serious and well-defined terms.
189.	While laying the groundwork for the economic reconstruction and social development of the country, my Government has assigned top priority to the rehabilitation of the judiciary, which is a spiritual and moral legacy of the people of Chile and the very essence of their historical identity. Upon taking office, my Government acknowledged its patriotic obligation to revive the fundamental attributes of the Chilean character, and to restore justice, and the institutions that had been violated, destroyed or negated by the previous Government. It gives me great pleasure to be able to describe how the Government of Chile is fulfilling the promises made to the citizens of our country.
190.	The fully independent Judicial Branch administers justice without any interference whatever from the Government, which accords it the most absolute and total respect and prompt implementation of its sentences and resolutions. This situation is in contrast with the violent and defamatory attacks against the High Court which occurred under the preceding Government. At that time the judicial Branch's constitutional powers were disregarded and its sentences and judgments were not carried out, all of which conspired against the independence of the Judicial Branch. It is enough to point out that at the time there were more than 7,000 sentences handed down by the courts which were never carried out.
191.	The Comptroller General's Office, an autonomous institution responsible for confirming the legality of the acts carried out by the Executive Branch, fulfills its fiscal responsibilities with total autonomy and efficiency. It has been enlarged and strengthened in its attributes. The Comptroller Genera's observations and administrative notices are no longer scoffed at as they Were under the procedures that operated under the preceding administration.

192.	Also, in line with a legal tradition of more than 150 years of republican life, the Government of Chile a few days after assuming power named a Commission to draw up a new political Constitution. The Commission is made up of distinguished university professors with vast judicial experience and ample knowledge of public affairs. More than 70 distinguished professional experts co-operate with it, representing a varied spectrum of activities. The work of this important Commission is carried out in an atmosphere of complete freedom and along the lines of certain general principles proposed by the Commission itself and approved by the Government prior to publication and dissemination throughout the country.
193.	The new Constitution will encompass the basic principles that derive from our Chilean legal tradition and from the historic cultural identity of our homeland. It aims at the improvement of institutions to the fullest extent possible and in accord with universal experience and Chilean specific realities, and will institute a representative and democratic system, with authorities whose power will originate in the law and who will be elected by the people in free, pluralistic, secret and informed elections.
194.	The legal reorganization in Chile and the intense task of effecting legislative renovation which are currently under way are inspired and determined by the principles and values which the Government of Chile proclaimed and published last March. It would be rather lengthy to refer at this time to the declaration of principles. Suffice it to say that the declaration encompasses the highest human values and is consistent with the highest Western and Christian philosophy. In my country this document has been widely published and I can assure this Assembly that these are-the principles that inspire Government action, as well as the principles that are defended and guaranteed in Chile today.
195.	Some politicians or institutions, whether misinformed or in bad faith, have sustained a media campaign designed to create the impression that the Government of Chile upholds repressive measures and ignores both legal rules and human rights. For the most part, these attack* originate with individuals who see the flaw, in others but do not wish to recognize their own flaws.
1,96. The truth is that Chile is a country with borders open to any representatives of official international institutions and to private persons who wish to visit our countryside and cities in order freely to converse with our people and. understand the reality of a people that is marching with unity towards a better future.
197.	The International Committee of the Red Cross, ever since the advent of the current Government, has maintained a permanent delegation that has received ample authority to visit those who have been detained and tried and, from time to time, found guilty. This delegation periodically reports to its headquarters in Geneva as well as to the Government of Chile.
198.	The Office of the United Nations High Com-missioner for Refugees has conveyed to my Government its appreciation for the co-operation extended in the solution of problems deriving from the presence of over 14,000 foreigners who are in the country illegally. The majority were individuals who had been expelled from their home countries and who had gone to Chile to continue their subversive and terrorist activities.
199.	We have invited a commission of conciliation and investigation of the International Labor Organization so that it may observe how Chile is complying with its international obligations and how the law protects the social progress achieved by workers.
200.	Chile fully agreed to the granting of asylum in foreign diplomatic missions, although many of them exercised that right for the first time, with no claim to do so since the Governments concerned are not parties to the Conventions on the subject. Regardless of the fact that in many instances asylum was not warranted, the Chilean authorities agreed to grant all the requested safe-conducts. It gives me pleasure to announce that no refugee remains in asylum in foreign embassies. In view of the scope which some have tried to give to diplomatic asylum and which Chile de facto did not want to deny, my delegation assigns top priority to the discussion and approval of a universal convention on the subject.
201.	The Government of Chile authorized the Inter- American Commission on Human Rights to hold an extraordinary session in my country in order to study on the spot the status of such rights. We granted all the facilities that were requested. Have our detractors allowed international committees into their countries in order to carry out an in-depth investigation of human rights, permitting them to visit detention centers and to hold conversations unobstructedly and privately with detained persons?
202.	On 1 of September the Chief of State of Chile, General Augusto Pinochet, made the following statement:
"The Government wishes to announce that, in spite of serious legal or moral charges for which persons arrested under the state of siege and those facing trial have been held responsible, it is ready to authorize such persons to leave the country for good, should they so desire, with the sole exception of particularly grave cases.11
Subsequently, he called on other nations which have attacked us violently to act similarly under the super-vision of the'International Committee of the Red Cross. The Committee has offered the Government of Chile to undertake the necessary steps to implement this initiative, and we have given it full support in this noble task. We are drawing up the list of those persons who voluntarily wish to take advantage of this offer, and there is nothing to prevent them if they so wish it from leaving the country with their families.
203.	In brief, we can guarantee with deep conviction that today Chile is one of the countries where every person whether a national or a foreign resident has complete personal security and where human rights are fully respected.
204.	these past few days, efforts have been made to associate Chile with interventionist acts from abroad. My Government did not hesitate to denounce the impudent involvement in Chilean internal politics during the past administration by several Communist countries. Such acts were intended to unleash civil war in my country. Now, in accordance with the traditional attachment to independence which is characteristic of our policy, and the authentically Chilean roots of my Government, we firmly reject, irrespective of their aims and their place of origin, any acts of intervention that directly or indirectly entail foreign entanglement in the internal or external affairs of Chile.
205.	Social justice, solidarity and the participation of every Chilean in the common effort to reconstruct our motherland a demonstration of how we have overcome artificially engendered hatreds and an illustration of a new mechanism aiming at the efficient and prompt solution of the problems confronting the people of Chile. This is the path we have chosen. We have committed ourselves to this endeavor with austerity and sacrifice but also with dedication and faith in the future of our land.
206.	The Chilean delegation is present at this session of the Assembly with the intention of extending this very same spirit of co-operation and solidarity to the accomplishment of the tasks incumbent on the international community. In so doing, we trust that the over-all result will be the attainment of positive agreements worthy of the fundamental goals of the Organization.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====
243.	 Chile comes to this thirtieth session of the General Assembly inspired by the same spirit of cooperation which prompts all its acts in matters of international policy. Its greatest wish is to consolidate friendly relations with all States, subject only to the condition of non-interference in internal or external affairs and the maintenance of mutual respect and consideration. Its most heartfelt wish is to work for economic and social progress and for the establishment of conditions leading to international peace and security.
244.	Chile, one of the founding Members of the United Nations, and one which collaborated most actively in the preparation of the document in San Francisco that gave life to the Organization, now reaffirms its strong adherence to the principles and purposes of our Organization and to each provision of its Charter. Chile still sees in the Charter the main safeguard for the maintenance of peace and security in a disoriented world where, despite extraordinary technological advances, poverty, hunger and backwardness have become even more obvious, and in a world where, despite the statements made by the great Powers of their desire for peace, weapons capable of destroying all mankind in a few minutes are still being accumulated. This stage of great contradictions, as described by a great American statesman, makes an unprecedented opportunity and dangers without parallel.
245.	Under the mantle of an apparent detente, what has been called social imperialism continues to exploit the threat of nuclear war to obtain concessions from peace-loving Powers, and continues to give its support to subversive movements and terrorist violence, seeking to intimidate small or medium-sized nations.
246.	We are not, of course, opposed to the purposes of the so-called international detente, but we are extremely concerned by the fact that, in the shape it is taking, it may be no more than a narcotic, an anesthetic to conceal from the peoples the real situation in which we are living,
247.	No one should be astonished, therefore, when countries such as Chile zealously seek to give greater effectiveness to regional bodies and to renew their treaties of mutual assistance, as was done a short time ago in San Jose, Costa Rica, by the American States.
248.	We are also concerned by the growing politicization of the General Assembly, a body which was not created as a forum for ideological confrontations, but rather to serve as the highest instrument of international co-operation.
249.	In all sincerity I express my concern at this dangerous trend, which might even jeopardize the future of this Organization. Small but sovereign and proud countries, such as Chile, have placed all their trust and faith in the Organization. We must see to it that they are not disappointed. The responsibility lies with the Member States themselves, and I appeal to them to return to the world Organization the true role assigned to it by its principles and purposes and the machinery created to implement them.
250.	I shall now refer to some of the specific items on the agenda for this session and shall state, in general terms, Chile's position on them.
251.	My Government feels that the Middle East problem must be solved in accordance with the texts of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations. These texts, and especially resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), adopted by the Security Council, contain the three elements essential to the solution so ardently sought. First of all, it is essential that Israel withdraw its troops from the territories of the Arab countries it now occupies. After that, a just solution must be found, within the framework of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, for the plight of the Palestinian people, a solution recognizing that people's right to self-determination and national sovereignty in other words, its right to have a homeland once again. Finally, a solemn commitment must be undertaken to respect the territorial integrity and political independence of all the States in the region. Those elements influence each other and constitute a whole. If a just and lasting solution is to be reached, therefore, they must be taken as a whole. We admit that the timing of each element will not be easy to work out, but that is far from impossible.
252.	We therefore welcome the agreements recently reached concerning the disengagement of forces in the Sinai peninsula as a first step towards a final solution for all the States in the area of a problem that has threatened peace and security.
253.	My Government has been traditionally in favor of the universality of international organizations. In conformity with that attitude we vote in favor of the admission of ad new States Members that fulfill the requirements expressly set forth in Article 4 of the Charter.
254.	We extend a most cordial welcome to the three new States that have joined the Organization: Cape Verde, Mozambique, and Sao Tome and Principe. We sincerely wish them a peaceful political and economic development.
255.	The admission of three new States is truly a landmark in the decolonization policy of the United Nations. As a member of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, Chile is very pleased at the success of this policy, and we hereby renew our most enthusiastic support for it.
256.	We are, however, fully aware that there still exist, especially in the African continent, colonial situations that require a just solution. In that connexion we wish to express our solidarity with the position adopted by OAU with regard to these problems.
257.	In the spirit of brotherhood and peaceful coexistence that inspires its international policy, Chile invited, in early September this year, the countries of the Andean Group to conduct a joint study of the best way to achieve a limitation on military expenditure and to use the funds thus saved for the economic and social development of our peoples. The Santiago meeting, as a continuation of the one held in Lima, saw substantial progress in this field. The subjects to be studied in the immediate future were defined in greater detail and specific form was given to the ways and means of reaching general agreement on this important matter. There was a consensus that the other Latin American countries should be invited to participate in future meetings.
258.	During the conference held in Chile, my Government submitted to the other five participants a draft treaty for the strengthening of peace which, if accepted, would be open to signature by all the countries members of the Organization of American States.
259.	We took that initiative to consolidate in the Andean region an atmosphere of security and peace that would be conducive to an arms limitation agreement. The essentially new element of that draft treaty is that, on the basis of the various types of aggression described in the annex to resolution 3314 (XXIX), the obligation not to commit the acts listed in that resolution is given a solemn and contractual character.
260.	I have the firm hope that Latin America can make rapid progress on the road to arms limitation and that it will be in a position to set an example for the world in this field.
261.	On the same lines, my Government has given its full support to and has accepted resolution 3255 B (XXIX), adopted at the last session, concerning the prohibition of the use of incendiary weapons. It is, furthermore, a pleasure for me to announce that Chile will in due course ratify the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction [resolution 2826 (XXVI), annex].
262.	Chile is a party to the Antarctic Treaty and to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America. We are in favor of the establishment of other nuclear-weapon-free zones, and we welcome with special interest the initiative taken by Fiji and New Zealand in proposing the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the South Pacific [.s^e Al 10192, annex]. We have a vital interest in that ocean, on which my country has an extended coastline, and we maintain and wish to strengthen all our relations with the other countries with coastlines on that great sea.
263.	I am pleased to point out to this Assembly that in February last the Presidents of Bolivia and Chile decided, freely and spontaneously, to renew the diplomatic relations that had been interrupted 12 years ago. The exchange of ambassadors has made possible the establishment of a direct and active dialog for the purpose of analyzing the wishes of each country, including Bolivia's wish to obtain a sovereign outlet to the sea supplementing the free transit facilities it currently enjoys.
264.	The problems are complex. They require thorough study, in an atmosphere of great tranquility that will allow for the consideration of solutions that will be mutually desirable and will facilitate the economic development of both countries. We are confident that the good will prevailing within the Governments of Chile and Bolivia will enable us to achieve realistic and final agreements.
265.	The Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea has entered a decisive stage with the drawing up of an informal single negotiating text to serve as the basis for negotiations which should lead to the adoption, in 1976, of a treaty providing standards for all the uses of seas and oceans.
266.	The delegation of Chile a maritime country par excellence which has worked actively on this subject since its inception in the former sea-bed Committee, has untiringly striven to give fresh impetus to the international negotiations and, as a member of the bureau of the Conference, was in favor of the drafting of this basic document, which allows us the optimistic expectation of a happy outcome.
267.	The single text gives shape to two main legal concepts that constitute the two axes of the international solution: the exclusive economic zone of 200 miles and the international regime for the sea-bed as an expression of the concept of the common heritage of mankind.
268.	The support given by universal consensus to the concept of a jurisdictional zone of 200 miles with a primarily economic content is a matter of justified satisfaction for Chile, for we were the first country to proclaim, 28 years ago, this dimension for our oceanic jurisdiction.
269.	The economic zone will permit less advanced countries to develop their coastal fisheries for the benefit of their peoples; this is a project we have been able to complete successfully with Ecuador and Peru, the two countries with which we signed the South Pacific Agreement.
270.	The international regime for the sea-bed will permit economic exploitation of this new frontier of mankind for the benefit of all peoples, with special regard for the developing countries. It is evident that the basic document will need substantial improvements by means of negotiations which, I am certain, will be successful.
271.	I now wish to refer to the repeated and slanderous accusation of violation of human rights hurled against Chile in a number of international forums and in this very Organization. A campaign, organized with no regard to cost and without parallel in the means at its disposal and the variety of systems it utilizes, has tried to centre the world's attention on a specific country because of the sole fact that this country has defeated an ideology that purported to be "progressive" and which had taken the country to the edge of an abyss.
272.	Even though as declared by Pope Paul VI last year "No nation is today free of guilt where human rights are concerned", it is not my intention to dwell here on the cases and the information which day by day we read about concerning arrests, political trials, murders and the suppression of civil liberties in so many nations. But what I must say is that as long as international bodies lose sight of the universal character of human rights and seek to judge certain individual countries, while at the same time assuring others who commit the same offenses of impunity, they cannot expect their agreements to have true value or to be truly respected. Even less so when those who sponsor or enter into such agreements are Governments which long have maintained repressive regimes of tyranny in which all human rights are systematically trampled underfoot.
273.	Chile is still living under an emergency juridical regime that is not the result of our wishes or philosophy, but rather the sequel of the previous political regime, whose purpose was to impose a totalitarian doctrine on the country. It is the natural defense against terrorist action daily abetted and directed from abroad.
274.	The truth is that even in the most solidly established democracies, terrorism and extremist movements have introduced a new phenomenon against which conventional penal measures are ineffectual. In a world where there is no hesitation in kidnapping or murdering innocent victims, where attempts have been made to assassinate a great President outstanding for his kindness and rectitude, we hear, paradoxically, a louder clamor of concern for the lives of the criminals than for those of the victims.
275.	Society must defend itself from this cruel and bloody onslaught or perish. In the face of this dilemma, we see everywhere in the world, as the logical defense of society, the appearance of preventive and emergency legislation that to a certain extent restricts freedom and traditional legal guarantees.
276.	The emergency juridical regime is not a creation of the present Chilean Government; it results from the application of constitutional norms that have been in existence for many years. They do not allow arbitrary acts. Quite to the contrary, they give guarantees to she persons to whom they are applied for reasons of public safety. Even though the exercise of some rights is suspended, there is no denial or violation of human rights, an accusation which has been unjustly leveled at us and which I categorically reject. Courts of justice are working in completely normal condition and independent of the Executive; and the emergency regime is being progressively and steadily relaxed. These limitations on certain freedoms have been accepted by the overwhelming majority of the population, who see in these provisional measures the unavoidable steps to overcome the chaos and the lack of security in which they had lived until September of 1973.
277.	I must recall here that these kinds of restrictions are contemplated in international documents. Such is the case, for instance, of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights [resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex], ratified by Chile but not in force because many of the countries now slandering us have not given it their approval. Article 4, paragraph 1, of that text states:
"In time of public emergency which threatens the life of the nation and the existence of which is officially proclaimed, the States Parties to the present Covenant may take measures derogating from their obligations under the present Covenant to the extent strictly required by the exigencies of the situation, provided that such measures are not inconsistent with their other obligations under international law and do not involve discrimination solely on the ground of race, colour, sex, language, religion or social origin."
278.	In applying those emergency measures in a situation that had endangered the very life of the nation, Chile strictly followed this indispensable safeguard clause, without which the Covenant would never have been agreed upon.
279.	Fully aware that we had been able to avoid the abyss at the last moment, of having avoided in the nick of time a civil war that would have claimed hundreds of thousands of victims, of having adopted the most indispensable security measures to maintain peace in the country, the authorities opened their doors, without any restrictions whatsoever, to every international committee, journalist or politician who cared to visit us. I must confess that we were too naive. Our experience was that many of the pseudo- "observers" came to us with preconceived ideas and that the only purpose of their visits was to confirm their negative prejudices. In Chile they said one thing to us, and once they had left they said something entirely different.
280.	Nevertheless, in spite of that experience and because we are convinced that we have nothing to hide to such an extent that our frontiers remain open, with no visa requirements, to any tourist who wishes to visit us we accepted at the beginning of this year that an Ad Hoc Working Group of the Commission on Human Rights should come to Chile. Such a gesture has not been made by any of the Governments which vilify us, and is unprecedented in the history of the United Nations. The Chilean authorities, who from the beginning were ready to collaborate with the Group, were prepared to give it the necessary facilities for the discharge of its mission.
281.	However, in the discharge of the primary obligation of every Government to protect domestic peace, the Chilean Government felt, much to its regret, that it was essential to cancel the authorization for the Working Group's visit in the circumstances and in the manner that had been proposed. That decision, the decision of a sovereign State, was made for reasons given by my Government at the appropriate time, which I shall now try to summarize.
282.	In the first place, a number of bodies in the United Nations system had prejudged the matter to be studied during the visit, without awaiting its outcome. In spite of the fact that the visit was imminent, the International labor Conference and the World Conference of the International Women's Year hastened to condemn Chile for alleged violations of human rights, totally ignoring the work of the Commission on Human Rights and disregarding in advance the work to be done by its Working Group. Those facts led to the logical conclusion that a political treatment would be given to the Commission's report, based on the prejudgments that had inspired the condemnations I have referred to, with no regard to the report's contents.
283.	Secondly, on the eve of the arrival of the Working Group the authorities detected an intention in the country to receive it in an atmosphere of internal unrest. That movement, which was encouraged and directed by foreign broadcasting stations, was aimed at filling the embassies with pseudo-political refugees and promoting sabotage and attacks on persons. It was thus an attempt to give the Working Group a false image, totally unrelated to the true situation prevailing in the country.
284.	Thirdly, I must point out that the procedural terms of reference of the Working Group were not clearly established. There is nothing strange in that, for in the entire history of the United Nations, Chile was the first country which had accepted the idea of a visit by a Working Group to ascertain whether human rights were being respected in its territory. Other States accused of violations of those rights refused to receive similar missions.
285.	My Government feels that its action in welcoming the Inter-American Committee on Human Rights and a permanent committee of the International Red Cross, which enjoyed the greatest possible freedom of action, should be duly appreciated.
286.	These facts should lead us to ponder the need for the working groups of the Commission on Human Rights to be able to act in a manner different from that planned. On the one hand, a decision is necessary for the establishment of machinery of a universal character, permitting the study in situ of all allegations of violations of human rights throughout the world, without discrimination. On the other hand, the terms of reference of working groups sent to accused countries should be prepared and known in advance and for that purpose rules of procedure of general application should be prepared to direct their activities. Thus, when in future countries agree to such visits as in the exceptional case of Chile there will be guarantees and procedures established in advance for the due protection of their security and the adequate respect of their sovereignty.
287.	In that connexion, the suggestions made during the general debate by a number of delegations, particularly those made by the representative of Belgium [2361st meeting], could be taken into account.
288.	Furthermore, I cannot fail to mention our difficulty in understanding the attitude of some countries which, during the discussions that led to the International Covenants on Human Rights [resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex], refused to implement them and thus give them international effectiveness, or that of those countries which have not yet ratified them, and are now the very ones that accuse Chile of not fully implementing them.
289.	If I have referred to the emergency regime that my Government was compelled to establish, that does not mean that that regime will be permanent quite the contrary. It is being relaxed progressively and without interruption. What is more, the Government itself has sought this result through reforms of previous legislation and has granted to persons prosecuted by military tribunals a series of recourses that did not exist before September 1973, thus improving their legal situation, always protected by the rules of law. Today the same recourses granted by ordinary courts of justice can be requested and obtained. However, the Supreme Court still maintains its supervisory role over all the courts of justice in the land and exercises that right with full independence. Moreover, many prison sentences have been commuted into internal exile, and many persons who were detained by virtue of the state of siege have now been freed, among them prominent leaders of the previous Government. That is a matter of public record, since many of those persons spend their time abroad vociferating against Chile.
290.	Provided that peaceful conditions in the country are not affected, that terrorist and subversive activities are not encouraged by powerful broadcasting stations of Eastern Europe and the Caribbean and that the shipment of arms from abroad is stopped, we shall be able to bring the emergency regime to an end in accordance with the very best Chilean traditions.
291.	That should not be interpreted as a return to a specific type of juridical structure which is now in crisis. It is obvious that even the most stable and traditional democracies are actively seeking new constitutional forms that will allow societies to adapt to the needs of modern times, to the process of technology and to the great moral, economic and social problems that man himself has created. New forms for society are now being sought in all countries because the political, social and economic structures are not consistent with today's realities, nor are they capable of tackling the problems of today's society.
292.	We do not believe, for our part, that democracy, freedom and participation, which to us are fundamental concepts, are of necessity linked to a given juridical structure.
293.	It is not the very foundations of democracy which have proved to be inoperative, but the machinery which expresses them. Democracy should not be, as some claim, a synonym for weakness or demagogy. On the contrary, it needs a responsible authority capable of guiding the community to see to everyone's well-being and to ensure the fundamental spiritual unity of the people in keeping with human rights and with the essence of national tradition. Without that authority democracy loses its reason for existence.
294.	The Government of Chile has noted with great concern the consequences of the present international economic situation. The world economy has now embarked on a phase of remarkable instability. The new prices of oil have undoubtedly served to highlight the weaknesses of the system of economic relations among nations of the world. The present crisis affects international trade and monetary relations and it renders more acute the problem of the distribution of the world economic product.
295.	We share with satisfaction the consensus reflected in resolution 3362 (S-VII) which opens new paths and lays down standards for international economic development and co-operation in solving the above-mentioned problems, achieving greater world economic balance and improving the prospects for progress in developing countries.
Mr. Thorn (Luxembourg) resumed the Chair.
296.	The above-mentioned agreement reflects the new spirit which inspired the States Members of the United Nations to reach those goals which have been discussed for far too long. In this context, we associate ourselves with what was said by the Minister for External Affairs of Brazil [2355th meeting] on the desirability of negotiating, between developed and developing countries, a general agreement which will serve as a political and juridical pattern for concrete negotiations, correct distortions and fill the gaps left by existing agreements.
297.	It is essential, as envisaged in the resolution, to arrive at binding agreements to protect the real prices of the exports of raw materials from developing countries.
298.	Chile is one of the countries which have been most affected by the present crisis, owing both to the lack of fuel and to the extraordinary fall in the price of copper, which is its main export product. The effect both factors have had on us is the approximate equivalent of 50 per cent of the value of Chile's exports.
299.	We are aware that the solutions of an international character to which I have referred cannot be implemented as rapidly as circumstances require. That is why the internal efforts made by countries are of vital importance. That is why Chile is now implementing an economic and social policy which requires sacrifices from all sectors of the nation. Remarkable efforts have been made to contain the hyper-inflation which was unleashed in 1973, in which prices rose by 1,000 per cent. We have now been able to reduce it by one fourth of that figure.
300.	Our open-door policy as regards foreign trade, accompanied by an exceptional increase in non- traditional exports and an increase in the internal production of foods, has made it possible for us to handle the most difficult periods in the present crisis. In parallel, we attach great importance to the idea of establishing a collective security network to face the fluctuations in the balance of payments which result from diminished income from the sale of raw materials. This subject is now being studied by the central banks of the continent and their success can be ensured by the participation of the international economic community.
301.	During this year we have continued our efforts to strengthen the progress of regional integration by ratifying the Protocol which creates the Council of Foreign Ministers of the member nations of the Latin American Free Trade Association. At the same time, we are actively participating in the streamlining of the machinery of the subregional Andean Pact for the purpose of making it conform to the new requirements of the international economic situation.
302.	We have noted with attention the growing interest in arriving at international agreements on raw materials. Chile appreciates the great responsibility entailed by the possession of one of the greatest riches of the world copper mines. This reserve accounts for 22 per cent of the world total and the new prospects could bring it up to 30 per cent in the near future.
303.	The great importance which the export of Chilean copper has in world markets has prompted us to participate in agreements with other exporting countries, such as Peru, Zaire and Zambia, for the purpose of co-ordinating policies and seeking common solutions to the problems which beset us. We welcome with deep interest the ideas expressed by the United States Secretary of State, Mr. Kissinger, and by the President of France, Mr. Giscard d'Estaing, aimed at seeking a harmonious settlement in connexion with this commodity, which is of fundamental importance for the economic development of mankind. Therefore we state our wish to co-operate in the search for solutions which, while protecting the national heritage, will also be consistent with the general interest.
304.	Concerned over the world food crisis, we have made great efforts to increase our domestic productivity. As a result we have achieved as an average a growth of 20 per cent in our 14 major crops; this will make it possible for us to cut our food imports to half what they were in 1973,
305.	The President of the Republic of Chile, after two years in office, has singled out the essential points of his five-year plan of social action. It is the fundamental goal of social development, he has stated, to make effective equal opportunities for all the people, the only differences being those which stem from lesser or greater personal aptitude.
306.	My Government, in line with this concept and in full conformity with the preambular paragraphs of resolution 3362 (S-V1I), has set in motion a vast Program of social reform, improving educational as well as health prospects, dwellings, provisional standards and labor legislation. The growing number of workers' enterprises, the provisional reform, the law on compulsory training, the social status of the enterprise, a very modern law on co-operatives and a vast Program for minimum employment are some of the outstanding elements in this dynamic and effective social Program.
307.	In addition, an unparalleled effort in the supply of food has been made which makes it possible to distribute 1,400,000 breakfasts and luncheons daily to students. We have now set up an important social housing Program. We have set in motion an ambitious Program of supply and distribution which consists in establishing premises for the sale of products essential for the home in the poorer sectors of the population. We have also implemented a vast Program of education and care of young children, aimed at feeding and educating children from the most needy homes. I should refer in particular to the nutritional Program, the broadest carried out in Chile, which makes it possible to give milk to 95 per cent of Chilean children from low-income families. This pro-gramme has made it possible to reduce infant mortality to the lowest figure so far reached in my country.
308.	Chile can point with pride to a policy which, on the basis of the efforts of all its people, has enabled it to overcome the most serious crises in the last few decades. This effort, which in many forms is also being carried out by other nations, particularly the small ones, should be appreciated in its true scope by the international community.
309.	I should like to refer finally to a principle which since the San Francisco Conference has been considered as essential in our Organization non-interference in the internal or external affairs of States. I wish to speak about it because it is my conviction not only that that principle is not being applied but that intervention and failure to respect it become more manifest day by day on the part of certain States. This is not consistent with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. This in no way promotes "friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self- determination of peoples" one of the objectives contained in Article 1 of the Charter. Article 2, paragraph 7, which prohibits the United Nations from interfering "in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State", is completely disregarded.
310.	What is forbidden to the Organization is with even more reason forbidden to Member States. This was recognized in the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations [resolution 2625 (XXV), annex], after a lengthy and detailed debate.
311.	In the preamble of the Declaration it is stated that "the strict observance by States of the obligation not to intervene in the affairs of any other State is an essential condition to ensure that nations live together in peace with one another, since the practice of any form of intervention not only violates the spirit and the letter of the Charter, but also leads to the creation of situations which threaten international peace and security". In addition, the third principle defined direct or indirect acts of intervention in the internal or external affairs of States and qualified such acts as being "in violation of international law".
312.	The same principle expressly states:
"No State may use or encourage the use of economic, political or any other type of measures to coerce another State in order to obtain from it the subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights and to secure from it advantages of any kind. Also, no State shall organize, assist, foment, finance, incite or tolerate subversive, terrorist or armed activities directed towards the violent overthrow of the regime of another State, or interfere in civil strife in another State."
313.	1 should like to single out the following events, among many which have been taking place over the past two years and which are obvious acts of interference in the internal affairs of my country: insolent and arrogant declarations from governmental spokesmen who pronounce judgment on the internal problems of Chile and who instigate the overthrow of duly constituted authorities declarations which have been repeated even in this general debate; direct and public assistance by foreign Governments to the financing of armed subversive and terrorist activities in Chile; daily broadcasts from powerful foreign broadcasting stations intended to promote, support and instruct subversive movements whose purpose is to change by violent means the Chilean regime; utilization of economic pressure in order to have Chile subject the exercise of its sovereign rights to certain political conditions acts of interference which have taken place particularly during the renegotiation of my country's foreign debt; discrimination against Chile in trade and financial negotiations.
314.	This is how some Member States are complying with the Declaration which they undertook to respect. We are not astonished by this attitude on the part of those States which systematically utilize intervention as a means of imposing their own political ideology. We are astonished, however, when it comes from States which proclaim the principles of the United Nations as the guidelines for their international policy and which therefore should be the first to abide faithfully by them.
315.	The Government of Chile wishes, through me, to express clearly and sincerely its views on some of the items on the agenda of this session, on the future of the Organization and on problems which directly concern the country which I am honored to represent. This country, Chile, which has been serving the cause of peace and international collaboration in such an outstanding manner since its independence; this country, which participated actively from its creation in the former League of Nations and which contributed with enthusiasm and faith to the preparation of the Charter of the United Nations; this country which has been a sovereign State for 165 years is now the victim of attacks for the sole reason that it has recovered its traditions and its national characteristics.
316.	These attacks, far from making us fearful, are received with the courage that characterizes the Chilean people, a courage and pride which we inherited from the heroic Spanish conqueror and the indomitable courage of our Araucanian aborigine. Those who attack us today, those who attempt to interfere in our internal affairs, should at least know of our history and know that the Chilean has never been subjugated to a foreign Power, has never accepted unfair and discriminatory international treatment.
317.	In particular I should point out to the representatives of countries of the third world the grave danger to their full independence, often achieved after cruel struggles, represented by the reappearance in international relations of foreign interference in the internal affairs of States. I should also like to address myself to representatives of the developed Powers, large and medium-sized, to remind them that if they really wish to establish peace, security and international co-operation they should also follow closely, not in theory but in practice, the fundamental principles of international coexistence and, in particular, respect for the sovereignty of other States.
318.	At the same time that we express our pleasure at our wise choice in having elected Mr. Gaston Thorn to preside over our debates during this session of the General Assembly, thus paying tribute to his brilliant diplomatic tradition and his personal merits, acknowledged by all, and to his admirable country, may I also, on behalf of Chile, express the fervent wish that in our debates the fundamental purposes of the Charter of the United Nations may always be present.

===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
Chile's first words in this thirty-first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations are to congratulate Mr. Amerasinghe upon his election to the presidency of the General Assembly.
173.	We welcome the new Member of the United Nations, the Republic of Seychelles, a country with which Chile has just established diplomatic relations,
174.	Once again we express the hope that within this Organization, the appropriate machinery may be found to satisfy the just aspirations for peace, security, freedom and well-being which mankind demands with ever-increasing 
urgency. For a considerable time the eyes of the world will be on this General Assembly. The world is right in asking the Organization for an encouraging response that will make it possible to dispel tension or, at least, for indications that serious efforts are being made to find such a response. If the dialog we are initiating is to be positive, it requires, first of all, that we be true to ourselves and to the mandate conferred upon us by our peoples. It also requires respect for the personality, dignity, independence and ways of thinking of each Member State, without distinction either in deed or in thought for the greater or lesser ability they may have to influence world affairs.
175.	Criticism of the United Nations is frequently heard, and there are those who openly suggest to their Governments that they cut down on their participation or that they simply withdraw from it for the reasons I have just outlined. We share in the criticism but we flatly reject the idea that the remedy for the shortcomings of our Organization is to deprive it of the very co-operation it now needs more than ever. Chile has always rendered and will continue to render its fullest collaboration to the United Nations and to each and every one of its subsidiary bodies.
176.	Despite the injustice of so many words and resolutions, we have shown in the delicate and important matter of human rights that our intention to co-operate is sound and permanent. In this connexion, I wish to remind this audience that last year my Government took the initiative of proposing the establishment of the essential legal norms necessary for a sovereign country to co-operate with the investigative bodies of the United Nations. These norms must acknowledge, on the one hand, the terms of reference of the mandate of the international organizations, and on the other, the need to respect the inherent rights of the sovereign State. We are not prepared to see all the rights to which we are entitled as a free State Member of this Organization diminished or misjudged. We believe that when any country is treated in a discriminatory manner, its dignity and its intrinsic quality as a sovereign State are jeopardized since the principle of juridical equality of States is not being respected.
177.	Since the end of the Second World War, we have gone through, successively, periods of cold war and peaceful coexistence and, today, are going through what is known as a time of detente. Chile, like other nations, has had to develop its relationships with the international community under the aforementioned circumstances. We fully agree with those who acknowledge the success of detente in maintaining international peace by avoiding the use of nuclear force which would lead to collective suicide. Detente has made the threat of a world war very remote, but at the same time it has been noted that, in practice, one of the great Powers has not respected the essential principle of detente; on the contrary, this Power has used and intends to continue using the results of detente as a means of furthering its expansionist policies. With its habitual immorality, the Soviet Union does not hesitate to brand as enemies of peace all those who denounce its attitudes or try to curb its continued imperialistic and political expansionism and its aim of world domination. As Alexander
Solzhenitsyn said during a television interview in Great Britain:
"Detente is necessary but with hands open; proof must be given that the hands do not hold stones. But your associates, those with whom you pursue a policy of detente, do have stones in their hands, stones so heavy that they could kill you with a single blow. Detente then becomes self-delusion. It is as simple as that."
178.	We repeat from this podium that even though it is true that global confrontation has been rendered remote, such an absence of conflict is applicable only in connexion with the prevention of a world war. Soviet communism still practices expansionist aggression, aided by its ideological penetration, and seeks to gain geo-strategic positions everywhere in the world where good faith or the weakness of free countries have permitted or tolerated it. Even though Soviet penetration takes on a variety of forms to adapt itself to the different political and geographical situations, it does have one common characteristic everywhere: first of all, it uses any doctrine, opinion or attitude expressing the belief that the present Christian, western society is sinking into fatal or inexorable decadence. By every means available, it attacks religion, the family, free political systems and the virtues that have made possible the development of civilization. On the pretext of defending social justice and equality, it sets itself up as an alternative to an unfair and imperfect world. To achieve its purposes, it spares no effort to create, often successfully, a feeling that there is no danger, by dint of repeating that its intentions are honest. Thus, it strives to convince others that it will fully respect liberal democracies and the foundations of the nationality of the countries where it offers itself as an alternative.
179.	We have had very painful experience in that connexion, and Chile will never forget that Chilean communism, subservient to Soviet communism, disguised itself in democratic trappings and even went so far as to accept and promulgate an Act of constitutional guarantees-a commitment which its leaders subsequently publicly declared had been only a stratagem to enable them to come to power and which they never honored nor ever intended to honor.
180.	In its efforts to come to power in free countries, Soviet communism establishes as a fundamental principle the class struggle, and through it makes hate its most powerful weapon for its work inside the countries. It tries to prevent and undermine the prestige of any attempted action aimed at solidarity among the various sectors that constitute the national whole, so as to keep them from uniting and to prepare the stage for the later development of violence, subversion, terrorism and armed aggression. While countries strive to achieve a certain degree of stability so that they can tackle their own problems, Soviet communism continues to seek the internal disruption of nations by encouraging any and all extremist association.
181.	In his recent annual message to the country the President of the Republic of Chile, General Augusto Pinochet, stated that communism, in its efforts to control countries from within, uses two tactics simultaneously:
"On the one hand it infiltrates centers that are vital to free societies such as universities and intellectual circles, mass communication media, unions, trade unions, international organizations and even, as we have seen in Chile, church circles. On the other hand, it promotes disorder in all its forms: material disorder through street demonstrations; economic disorder with demagogic and inflationary pressures; social disorder, with permanent strikes; moral disorder by promoting the use of drugs, pornography and the destruction of the family; and spiritual disorder, with systematic class hatreds. Finally, in an aberrant synthesis, terrorism appears and becomes rife, a terrorism which seems to have returned civilized nations to more primitive times of human history."
182.	The final stage of the Soviet strategy is open intervention through the sending of weapons and even men for the purpose of attaining by force the success denied to the stages I described. We strongly denounce the failure of Soviet communism to abide by the principle of non-intervention; that failure is a threat to peace among nations and the major enemy of permanent and fruitful detente. This violation has become manifest, as we have pointed out, not only through open intervention but also and much more frequently by helping to create critical conditions as a result of support in the form of both ideology and arms given to terrorist and extremist groups. This contemporary form of intervention in the internal policy of most of the countries of the world must be cogently condemned by the international community.
183.	We state this because we continue to be the victims of the Soviet Union's intervention in our own national political life. Indeed, their radio broadcasting stations continue to broadcast daily and for many hours, on 45 different frequencies and in the Spanish language, programs intended to bring about internal subversion and the overthrow of the Chilean Government. If, to the intervention which we have just described and frequently denounced in the United Nations, we add the fact that we have found and continue to find thousands of arms manufactured in the Soviet Union in the hands of Chilean terrorist organizations, then we have the full picture of an obviously illegitimate and undeniable intervention. Solzhenitsyn in anguished words has said:
"My words of caution, the .words of caution of others, the very serious warnings addressed by Sakharov directly from the Soviet Union, all continue to go unheeded. Most of them fall on deaf ears, the ears of those who do not wish to hear them. I did once nurture the hope that life's experiences could be transmitted from one nation to another as from one person to another. I now begin to doubt this. Perhaps each of us is fated to live each experience by himself, if he is to understand."
184.	Chile feels duty-bound to denounce the rapid advance of violence and terrorism in many areas of the world. It is harrowing to see how terrorists continue to kidnap and kill, sometimes with complete impunity and even the plaudits of some sectors. It is even more dismaying to note, when the decision has been taken to punish their criminal acts, the emergence of pseudo-humanitarian associations and front organizations for Soviet communism, groups which never give a thought to the innocent victims of terrorism. Their action hampers the formulation of the criteria needed if this scourge is to be eradicated in our time. Abstract condemnations of terrorism and violence are generally accepted without difficulty; but the creation of legal mechanisms to prevent, sanction and uproot them is postponed, as are the mechanisms to help their thousands of victims. It would seem we are living in a time of paradoxes, when the attention of the majority is drawn to the rights of criminals, and oblivion, all too often and suspiciously, is the fate reserved for the irreparable damage to thousands of victims who get not so much as one word of consolation.
185.	We concur with other States Members of this Organization on the urgent need to create, during this session, adequate and timely systems aimed at preventing terrorism and violence, to punish those who are intellectually or materially responsible for their actions and to set up our exemplary system to discourage all future efforts in that area. Consequently, the Chilean delegation will co-sponsor a draft resolution to be submitted by the Federal Republic of Germany, calling for international action against the taking of hostages, a heinous and inhuman practice which we condemn, irrespective of the ends it may pursue.
186.	Chile, confronted with the political phenomena we have described, wishes to restate its firm intention to build a democracy in keeping with its historical tradition and the libertarian spirit of its people; but it wishes also to give the institutions it will create the legal means to ensure their protection and reinforcement. To those who impatiently ask when Chile will fully restore its traditional democratic patterns, we ask that they remember ancient and modern history. More than 23 centuries ago, Socrates observed that governmental systems ran in cycles: absolute monarchy or one-man rule is followed by oligarchy, or the rule by the few, which in turn opens the way for democracy or rule by the many; that, with the passage of time, can deteriorate and degenerate into demagogy or tyranny of the masses, which leads to chaos. If the nation can conserve its latent energy, an authoritarian government must necessarily emerge to reorganize the State, after which the cycle starts all over again. Is it not true that in modern history European nations have followed the pattern of the Socrates cycle? In the face of new threats and infiltrations, democracies must renew themselves to survive.
187.	In Chile, a stable republic was organized in 1831 and lasted 140 years, until in 1970 Marxist demagogy took over and in less than three years ruined the country. The present Government has restored order and the economy and is now enacting chapters of the new Constitution based on the purest democratic ideals, but including provisions which will act as built-in safeguards to avert any relapse into demagogic chaos. For this purpose it has included in the provisions of article 11 of the Act on Constitutional Rights and Duties the following:
"Any act committed by a person or group of persons for the purpose of disseminating doctrines which attack the family, which advocate violence or a conception of society based on class struggle, or which run counter to the legally established regime or the integrity or functioning of the law, is illegal and contrary to the institutional life of the Republic."
188.	The President of the Republic, when enacting the new constitutional laws on 11 September of this year, took special care to point out the meaning of this new international framework, for it is of special importance to the courts of justice which must interpret the law. He said:
"Chile gives itself the structure of a democracy with the participation of the community and endowed with the mechanisms to guarantee its protection and reinforcement. The constitutional ratification of these concepts simplifies the understanding of national security and development as elements that make up the common well-being and are, in the final analysis, subordinated to it."
Then, lest there be any doubt concerning the political structure we are building in Chile, the President added:
"The very existence of the State, as well as its development and growth within the framework of a humanistic philosophy rooted in Christianity, must always be understood as being at the service of each and every one of the human beings making up the nation."
To put an end once and for all to the equivocal interpretations that the word "nationalism" might lend itself to, and to prevent deviations absolutely alien to our traditions and culture, the President gave a solemn warning in his annual message on the state of the country, saying:
"As for those who, on the pretext of giving the Government their support, use the term "nationalism" to favor styles or doctrines of. an unmistakably Fascist stamp, they must know that this Government categorically rejects them and disowns them."
189.	The Government of Chile has given clear examples of its decidedly pacifist vocation in its relations with other countries and in its national affairs. In foreign relations, one of its main objectives is to strengthen its present links of close friendship with bordering countries, while at the same time endeavoring to create better economic and political ties with all Latin American countries with which we have strong and centuries-old moral, ideological, political and economic features in common.
190.	Clear evidence of the conciliatory and collaborative attitude of Chile is the resumption of diplomatic relations with Bolivia after a 12-year suspension, and the fact that we have initiated negotiations on mutually agreed and public bases with this sister nation, with a view to finding a permanent solution to the problem posed by Bolivia's wish to have a sovereign outlet to the Pacific Ocean.
191.	The Chilean Government offered its country as the venue for the sixth session, held last June, of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States, which is a regional organization of utmost importance to the hemisphere. It gives us special satisfaction to have seen that Assembly achieve positive results in important matters such as the general, not selective, analysis of respect for human rights in all the States in the hemisphere, and the acknowledgment of a priority which must be given to inter-American co-operation for development. That Assembly welcomed and analyzed the joint statement of the Governments of Panama and the United States of America concerning the future of the interoceanic canal; we are happy to see that progress has been made in this matter, for such a waterway is important to maritime traffic, especially for countries on the south-west coast of the American continent.
192.	We take special pleasure in stressing the very high level of sincerity and cordiality of the debates held at that session, and the very ample coverage given to them by all the communications media in Chile mainly, but also abroad. The opinion of distinguished representatives and statesmen of a number of Latin American countries, who had participated in the work of the Assembly I have spoken of, confirmed that the artificial image of my country created abroad in no way coincides with the realities of its internal affairs. May I stress here that the warm and sometimes massive welcome given by the Chilean people to such distinguished visitors without exception only confirms the deep ties of brotherhood existing between the peoples of the Americas.
193.	In domestic political matters, Chile's pacifist vocation is evidenced in the search for national reconciliation in its generous policy of giving freedom to detainees and the granting of pardons. All these policies are devoted to the final purpose of creating an atmosphere of harmony and national unity which will, for all time if possible, banish hate and violence from the country.
194.	In institutional matters, a committee of distinguished jurists and university professors from every democratic school of thought is drawing up, in absolute freedom, the bases for a new institutional framework. This work is now reflected in the drafting of the Constitutional Acts, The first one created the Council of State whose members are men representing all walks of Chilean life, including academics, workers and youth, This Council of State is headed by an ex-President of the Republic, Jorge Alessandri; this fact, and the personal prestige of the members, gives a moral backing to the act that goes well beyond the text that created it and is a genuine manifestation of national feeling. On 11 September of this year, Constitutional Acts 2, 3 and 4 were enacted. They all relate to the essential foundations of Chilean institutions, constitutional rights and duties and emergency powers. They are all the result of a thorough and detailed study that has taken account of existing legislation, international agreements, the Chilean experience and the opinions of our specialized sectors in their respective fields. Of the many provisions, which in a modern and forward-looking way guarantee respect for human rights and the foundations of our State, I wish to single out only the recognition, at the constitutional level, of equal rights for men and women; the official proclamation of the family as the nucleus of society; the acknowledgment of the legal existence and autonomy of intermediate bodies between the individual and the State in accordance with the principle of "subsidiariness".
195.	The Government of Chile understands that its first duty lies in the quest for a constant balance between economic development and social progress, for the former is no more than a means to obtain the latter. Consequently! this year it will budget approximately $1 billion worth of direct social expenditures. The President of the Republic has emphasized that plans for food, health, low-income housing, basic and pre-basic education are the main items towards which the redistribution of social assistance is directed, in conformity with the moral principle that the action of a State should defend the weakest and the neglected, and that this action is the most valuable work of national integration a government may undertake.
196.	The same humanitarian inspiration guiding Chile in its domestic problems presides over its view of the many problems of human beings in our time.
197.	The Soviet attitude at the world level, denounced by Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Sakharov, Andrei Amalrik and Lieutenant Viktor Belenko, makes it difficult for the bodies of the international community to concern themselves, devoting the necessary time, priorities and peace of mind, with the real and pressing problems of mankind such as food shortages, depletion of natural resources, the injustices in the international economic system, living conditions on our planet, the promise of the world's seas and so many others. These are the true problems besetting modem man and the challenges that must be met by an organized international community.
198.	We cannot fail to note this paralyzing and disorienting effect of Soviet communism, its lack of respect for the rights and duties enshrined in the Charter and, especially, its repeated violations of the principle of non-intervention in all continents, all of which have created a series of problems that prevent mankind from meeting its vital needs and have forced it to postpone the adoption of measures to solve these problems. The question of detente cannot be mentioned unless ideological detente is mentioned at the same time.
199.	As we said at the beginning of our address, the human being continues to seek, and expects from this General Assembly real progress towards peace, security, freedom and well-being. Chile here declares its unfailing commitment to fight for these objectives in its internal life and lend its co-operation to the work of our Organization for the same noble ideals.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿78.	  I am pleased to congratulate Mr. Lazar Mojsov on his election to preside over the thirty-second regular session of the General Assembly of our Organization. I am certain that the fulfilment of his duties will be characterized by the skill that has distinguished his diplomatic career.
79.	I should also like to convey to his distinguished predecessor, Mr. Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe, the Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka to the United Nations, and the President of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, our gratitude for having so wisely and so fairly guided the work of its last session.
80.	Chile extends a warm welcome to the new nations recently admitted to this world Organization in keeping with the spirit of universality which is both its inspiration and its raison d'etre.
81.	We trust that in the near future the spirit underlying international relations will be improved so as to make possible a more just coexistence among nations and we reaffirm our faith in this institution, which is the most serious effort ever made to ensure a life of peace and justice in this world.
82.	We deem it necessary once again to state in this international forum the fundamental principles guiding Chile's foreign policy and its unswerving devotion to them.
83.	Our Government has confirmed at the world level its support of the tenets underlying Christian Western culture and has stressed its respect for treaties and other international commitments legally entered into, as a basis for a World order of peace and security. It has also expressed its loyalty to the purposes and principles of this international
Organization, whose Charter is the basic legal instrument governing our foreign relations.
84.	As stated by the President of the Republic, the Chilean State is evolving towards a democracy whose essential characteristic will be a just equilibrium between rights and duties and between authority and responsibility.
85.	The process designed to lead to the new political and institutional regime has three stages: the present one of recovery, then that of transition and finally that of full normality. Once the second stage is completed, a democracy will have been fully established by Chileans, in accordance with their historical traditions and with the greatest possible enhancement of our national character in all its aspects. In that democracy the President and Congress will be elected by votes cast by the citizens. This planned evolution towards a normal situation must not be attributed to weakness on our part vis-à-vis those who pretend to dictate from abroad the path we must follow, for that is a decision taken exclusively in accordance with our national sovereignty.
86.	Our normalization process is inextricably linked to the achievement of the goals announced in the planning of the social and economic development of the country, a matter to which our Government is firmly committed.
87.	It is an undeniable and fully recognized fact that our economy is now on a solid basis, for it is predicated on a rational and consistent economic policy that has maintained its orientation during the entire period of the present Government's administration.
88.	The philosophic basis for this policy is the Government's feeling that mere economic growth cannot be a goal in itself, for it is useless for a country to accumulate wealth and increase its national product if such economic improvements do not better the material, spiritual and moral lot of its inhabitants.
89.	The sacrifices exacted by our economic recovery have been substantial, but it is worth pointing out that the progress made in the search for permanent solutions to our social and economic ills has also been substantial.
90.	During the-first six months of this year the process of recovery of our economy has been carried on at an accelerated pace, and it is with great satisfaction that we can now say that the outlook is frankly encouraging.
91.	At the end of the current year we hope to have achieved a yearly growth rate of 8 per cent in our gross national product. Inflation will be down to practically one third of what it was in 1976; real income will be increased by 25 per cent; and unemployment will be almost half of the 1976 figures.
92.	The skilful handling of our economic policy has earned Chile the respect of all international financial organizations, and the country can now look forward to a promising future.
93.	Those positive results were obtained with no sacrifice of the long-term objectives of the present economic and social policy, which calls for the allocation of resources to those industries that are capable of producing with comparatively greater efficiency, a decrease in the size of the public sector and, most especially, an ongoing concern for economic development and social justice.
94.	Because our basic belief is in the need for rapid economic development and real social progress, the work done directly by the Government stands out as a reflection of its profound concept of every individual as a being with a twofold spiritual and material dimension and as the reason for all the State's activities.
95.	Our interpretation of social development is part and parcel of the State's higher policy, which guides us in the pursuit of the objectives we have set for ourselves. We are fully aware that the social aspects are inseparable from the political aspects.
96.	Some measures already adopted or still being studied are worthy of special mention in speaking of our social policy: the Social Statute for Business Enterprises; social security reforms; the new Labour Code; the equalization of family allowances and an increase in expenditures for social purposes, which, from a total of 27 per cent of the national budget in 1973, have risen to 51.8 per cent of the current one.
97.	Our foreign policy has continued to stress the priority it accords to its relations of friendship and co-operation with America. The historical understanding which is the main feature of the close bonds between Chile and the region is now making progress in promoting the ideals of peace, justice and development
98.	This progress is encouraging and enables us to confirm our hope that Chile and all the other countries in the region will persevere in the path they have followed and that Latin America will shape a regional identity that will enable it to assert its own essential character in this hour of confusion for the free world and assume a more active role in the great problems of world policy. This is Chile's wish, and our country knows that it interprets the deepest feelings of people of the Americas, who wish to participate in a mature and realistic fashion in matters of universal scope.
99.	The Chilean Government has spared no effort to expedite the diplomatic negotiations aimed at providing the Republic of Bolivia with an outlet to the Pacific Ocean and an equally sovereign territory to join that shoreline to the Bolivian plateau.
100.	In this connexion we have maintained our offer, accepted basically in December 1975, the terms of which are well known to the international community, and we shall continue our efforts to find ways and means which will enable these negotiations to come to a successful conclusion.
101.	We have maintained a permanent dialogue with the Republic of Peru on the many aspects of our common interests. This has led to a fruitful understanding and is reflected in the high level achieved in our relations.
102.	With regard to our relations with Argentina, Chile reaffirms its permanent, unalterable support for measures aimed at the peaceful settlement of international disputes and reiterates its full adherence to the resolutions stemming from that machinery.
103.	In this context, our Government wishes to recall in this international forum the arbitration decision handed down by Her Britannic Majesty on 2 May 1977, which brought to an end our dispute with Argentina with respect to borders in the southern area of our countries-a dispute which had lasted far too long. Our country can now proudly display to world public opinion this example of the implementation of the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes between nations, and declares that it will fully respect the terms of that decision.
104.	My delegation is pleased to note that the Caribbean countries have brought to the American community rich and varied cultural and economic values which will certainly make a valuable contribution to the task of finding appropriate solutions to our common problems. Chile wishes to maintain with all those countries a fruitful and imaginative understanding, which, while acknowledging the identity of one and all, will still permit joint efforts and mutual assistance in our search for a common destiny.
105.	The President of Chile accepted the invitation en- tended to him by the Presidents of the United States and Panama and participated in the ceremony of the signing of the Panama Canal treaties held at the headquarters of the Organization of American States in Washington, D.C., on 7 September 1977. The same day, consistent with his previous stand, our President signed the Declaration of Washington, which expressed the satisfaction of the American States at the signature by the Presidents of the United States and Panama of the 1977 Panama Canal Treaty and the Treaty concerning the Permanent Neutrality and Operation of the Panama Canal.
106.	Like the other States on the western coast of the American continent, we are especially concerned about the security and efficient operation of, and the collection of fair tolls on, that waterway, for through it passes an important part of our trade with the United States and Europe.
107.	As to Belize, Chile is following closely the current negotiations between Guatemala and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. We hope that the distinguished negotiators will succeed in finding a mutually satisfactory formula reconciling the interests of the population with Guatemala's unquestionable rights in that area.
108.	Consistent with its peace-loving tradition and its permanent quest for the rule of law and consensus in international relations, Chile views with concern the existence of an abnormal situation in various areas.
109.	My Government hopes that the problems prevailing in the Korean peninsula will find a peaceful solution within a framework of peace, legality and consensus. An important step towards this objective would be the admission to this world Organization of both parties directly involved.
110.	The situation in the Middle East is of special concern to us. Not only is peace in the region threatened, but also, due to the position assumed by the great Powers, there is a threat to world peace. Should a new conflict break out in the area, it would be very difficult to contain.
111.	On previous occasions we have set forth our Government's views on this matter. In our view, it is essential that Israel withdraw its forces from the Arab territories it has been occupying since 1967, subject to the establishment of mutually acceptable boundaries. It is also necessary to recognize the right of all States in the region—and consequently of Israel—to live within secure and guaranteed boundaries. Moreover, the right of the Palestinian people to a homeland must also be recognized. Only on these conditions, which do not have an order of priority and must be accepted as parts of a whole, will it become possible to achieve the peace aspired to by all inhabitants of the region. That is why we view with concern the illegal, unilateral actions taking place in the occupied territories.
112.	We hope that the Peace Conference on the Middle East to be convened in Geneva will be fully successful. The Palestinian people must be legitimately represented there, since their interests will be the main subject of discussion.
113.	The Chilean Government has repeatedly expressed interest in a closer relationship with the African nations as a means of recognizing the numerous elements of identity existing between our peoples. Indeed, there are many reasons for our closeness to the countries of Africa: our common status as developing countries and producers of raw materials, the similarity of our essential ideological beliefs in such matters as self-determination, the equality of human beings, and finally freedom, in the sense of the term.
114.	Ever since African States gained independence, Chile has given them understanding and support in the various stages of the struggle to achieve their legitimate rights. Thus, when the Organization of African Unity was born at the beginning of the last decade, our country offered it our co-operation. The same can be said of the United Nations Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, in which Chile has participated actively and has made its contribution to the cause of freedom and justice.
115.	We hope that the difficult situation in Rhodesia will soon find a peaceful solution that will enable a gradual accession to majority rule without anarchy and without economic setbacks.
116.	Chile also declares its support for the people of Namibia in the just struggle for their legitimate right to rule their own Territory, within the framework of a peaceful and orderly transition to their assumption of power.
117.	We reiterate once again our firm rejection of all forms of racism or racial discrimination.
118.	The sixth session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea was concluded on 15 July. Remarkable progress was achieved in its important work since its session in Caracas in 1974, and in which my country has participated actively.
119.	We have noted with satisfaction the international community's acceptance of the principle of an economic zone of 200 nautical miles, which was proposed unilaterally by my country 30 years ago, and jointly with Peru and Ecuador some five years later in the well-known Santiago Decoration on the Maritime Zone of 18 August 1952.
120.	The signing of the Treaty on Antarctica in Washington, D.C. in 1959 may be mentioned as an example of positive achievement in matters of international cooperation. The signatory States declared Antarctica a peaceful and nuclear free zone, devoted entirely to scientific research. The provisions and the spirit of that treaty have enabled that continent so far to remain a privileged region in the world.
121.	Our country, whose sovereignty over the Antarctic between longitude 53° and 90° west is based on indisputable historical, legal and geographical rights, reaffirms its decision to continue its campaign to keep the Antarctic free from pollution and to prevent any change in its present condition and ecological systems.
122.	Since the last session of the General Assembly, a number of efforts have been made to introduce political considerations into the decision-making process of international and regional financial institutions. In no way can we accept any impairment of the objectives for which those institutions were created, lest we turn them into political forums, which would soon render them inoperative.
123.	The latest General Assembly of the OAS adopted a position in this matter when it declared that these bodies must act in accordance with their charters and with objective criteria. We firmly repeat at this time that statement by the OAS in the conviction that it is a contribution to international peace and development.
124.	The Government of Chile supports detente because it believes that it is a means of lessening international tension and because, to the extent that it is applied in good faith, it dispels the threat of world conflict.
125.	Nevertheless,- we feel that, for the process of detente to be valid, it should be extended to all nations. Only then will its ultimate aim, the maintenance of peace, become real and effective and correspond to the moral desire of mankind.
126.	Referring to human rights and terrorism, at the seventh regular session of the General Assembly of the OAS, held in Grenada from 14 to 22 June 1977, we expressed, together with other nations, our concern for human rights, which has merited the attention of America and States Members of this world Organization. In analysing the causes and circumstances which have led some countries to restrict certain human rights, we must realize that one of the main causes for such action is the planned and concerted subversive and terrorist activities at present devastating the lands and cities of the Americas.
127.	How deceptive it is to say that it is hunger and injustice that cause terrorism. The real truth is that it is neither the poor nor the working sectors who inspire and plot terrorist violence. This is to be found, financed by foreign money and weapons, among frustrated and resentful individuals who have wasted all their opportunities in life.
128.	In referring to subversive terrorism, we do not mean isolated or unrelated acts of violence, which have existed throughout history. The terrorism which is of concern to us is that which has the political and ideological aim of planned subversion of the democratic order throughout the world.
129.	Therefore, we believe that it is essential for competent international organizations, when studying the situation on human rights in a given country, to attempt to verify the extent to which international subversion and terrorism have caused restrictions of certain freedoms and rights. It is necessary to have courage to single out and tackle the causes, so that once and for all subversion, terrorism and repression may be eliminated.
130.	The concern necessitated by the equity and objectivity with which the bodies undertaking these studies must act must lead to judgements which will take that factor into account and to studies end measures conducive to the condemnation and eradication of subversive terrorist action as a direct and indirect factor of respect for human rights.
131.	The United Nations, which was created to bring peace and brotherhood to the world, cannot remain silent in this chaotic and generalized situation. To remain passive would be tantamount to accepting a role of complicity and would make many lose faith in the legal and ethical effectiveness of this world Organization.
132.	In the specific field of human rights, any investigation of alleged violations by a nation entails interference in its affairs and acquires features which make it very similar to a trial, for it becomes a matter of investigating facts that were assumed to have occurred on the sovereign territory of a given nation with a view to obtaining proofs for the purpose of evaluating those facts.
133.	It seems, therefore, that in the light of natural equity applied at the international level, the need for due process becomes clear. Due process means the intervention of a body which in its origin and action would be independent of political interests, would have come into being prior to the trial, would have universal competence and, at the same time, would have a pre-established procedure that would ensure the impartiality of the international inquiry, the certainty of the proof and a real possibility for the nation accused to defend itself.
134.	In the present state of our international juridical situation, only two achievements may be mentioned in the field of the requirements of justice: that which governs the European Community, and that contained in the Costa Rica Pact, which is now in the process of ratification.
135.	Within the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is substantive law which is not given adequate jurisdictional implementation, nor is it in keeping with the procedural requirements inherent in due process.
136.	All of those reasons led Chile to submit to the thirtieth session of the General Assembly a draft resolution proposing the study of ways and means within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms, so that the measures adopted in this field under the competence of this Organization should be universally applied and binding on all Member States, obviating conflicting competencies and giving the States investigated the appropriate guarantees under due process.
137.	In spite of showing genuine respect for human rights, the Chilean Government continues to be the victim of singular attack in this field in which no recognition has been shown of its commendable moderation exercised during the emergency.
138.	Certain political leaders have been devoting themselves from afar to judging Chile and to proposing actions detrimental to it. As far as my country is concerned, by tradition and its personality, it is strengthened by adversity, and now more than ever we look forward to the future with renewed faith and hope.
139.	There are other Western leaders who, differing ideologically with the present Chilean process, have nevertheless been able freely to visit my country and to see for themselves how false is the portrayal that some interested sectors are attempting to give with respect to Chile before international public opinion.
140.	We reiterate before this international forum our readiness to receive the representatives of all friendly countries to come and witness with their own eyes how Chile, through the efforts of its sons and daughters, strives in peace to achieve its national destiny.
141.	Chile accepts and recognizes international jurisdiction with respect to fundamental human rights, but, along with the best jurists, we affirm that with respect to their implementation and the individual interpretation by each people of the exercise of political, civil, economic and social rights, internal jurisdiction prevails. This individual competence not only derives from national sovereignty but is at the same time an elementary and logical consequence of the principle of self-determination of peoples. The rights of the human being, the rights of the national community and the rights of international society should all be concerted under the guidance of international law, inspired by natural law.
142.	This political interrelationship and respect has been and will be the prerequisite for the existence and survival of the best form of expression heretofore known to the international community, that is, the United Nations.




===== Session 33 - 1978 =====
﻿87.	Mr. President, I am pleased by the happy coincidence that in my first statement in this debate in my capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Chile the General Assembly should be presided over by one of the most distinguished members of the Latin-American community, Mr. Indalecio Lievano. Your outstanding merits, together with the dynamism and wisdom that marked your service as your country's chief, diplomatist for several years, make you worthy of a glowing and exceptional tribute. Your election further represents a demonstration of appreciation of Colombia, which has contributed so much towards peaceful coexistence and the furtherance of human rights in America.
88.	I take this opportunity to welcome to the international community Solomon Islands, with which we feel particularly linked by the Pacific Ocean. We feel certain that Solomon Islands will provide valuable co-operation in the cause of peace and will support the principles which prevail here.
89.	In this general debate, in which the chairman of each delegation expresses his views, his concern and his suggestions on the most important international events, I wish to express first the eager desire of all Chileans for peace, co-operation, broad-minded views and understanding.
90.	The desire for peace and justice is often discussed within an emotional and selfish environment. What we want is unity, but this requires great generosity, which is often absent from international relations.
91.	These feelings prompt me, on behalf of the Government and people of Chile, to pay public homage to the memory of His Holiness Pope John Paul I, who, despite his short pontificate, brought faith, love and hope to the world. At the very time of his death he was pleading for peace. His short but heartfelt plea was addressed to all of us in order that through dialogue we might come to understand each other. In one of his few official messages, addressed to the bishops of Chile and Argentina, he said:
"We wish to encourage all laudable and worthy initiatives designed to protect and spread peace and calling for the co-operation of all good, just, honest and righteous people."
92.	I hope that the Pontiffs inspiring words will guide us in our work in this General Assembly as well as in relations between Member States.
93.	This Assembly is meeting in a critical atmosphere which affects the actions of international organizations. Despite the enormous task performed by this Organization, we cannot ignore the fact that among our peoples there is frustration and scepticism with regard to the work carried out here. There is a gradual loss of faith in the United Nations. There is no relation between the seriousness of our performance and the receptiveness of public opinion.
94.	Year after year the world listens to these extended debates, hoping for an adequate response to the legitimate aspirations of the peoples. But we have not yet found the way to a happy future. Despite the work performed by this Organization, we must honestly admit that it has not always met the vital requirements of mankind. Nothing is achieved by making lengthy speeches containing whatever statements anyone wishes to make. That is a dialogue of the deaf.
95.	It is with deep concern that I must point out the danger involved in the progressive loss of faith felt by many people in the effectiveness of this Organization. The serious and positive task performed within the Organization is minimized by some nations' political and selfish use of it, which prevents the adoption of objective resolutions. These negative tendencies usually affect the weaker countries.
96.	We are facing a struggle between hegemonic blocs—to which we are opposed—whereby the fundamental principles that gave rise to this Organization are constantly endangered. This compels some less powerful nations to shelter under the protection of the great Powers. This situation endangers the historical and cultural values that give its particular life to each people and give expression to its legitimate identity as a sovereign State.
97.	It is therefore necessary to point out certain problems, such as the difficulty in making decisions, the ineffectiveness of some procedures, the politicization and absence of objectivity in examining situations affecting certain countries, the policy of blocs and the tendency to solve common problems outside the framework of the Organization, all of which are gravely eroding the prestige that the United Nations should preserve.
98.	It is also essential that this forum cease to be, for some, the trench from which the most brutal attack is launched against an opponent, and that instead it serve as an inspiring source of understanding and respect.
99.	We must think about this reality. It is our duty to overcome this through united action. Chile, which was one of the founders of this Organization, continues to put its faith and hope in the United Nations: its faith in the great principles and objectives that inspire the Organization, and its hope in the ability ultimately to build, through international co-operation, a world without fear, a world in which poverty, malnutrition and lack of culture will become things of the past, and solidarity will replace the threat or use of force.
100.	Chile believes in political, economic and social co-operation among the peoples, in the interdependence of nations, and in the absolute need for peace, justice and security to prevail within the framework of the dignity and mutual respect that nations deserve. To this end it is indispensable that in each circumstance and at all times the high principles of law enunciated in the Charter be applied.
101.	Therefore we reaffirm that our international policy is based on the obligation to settle disputes peacefully and not to use or threaten the use of force against the integrity or political independence of States or to intervene in any form, regardless of the motives, in their internal affairs. Those principles, together with respect for the self-determination of the peoples and strict compliance, in good faith, with obligations undertaken and with decisions of international organizations or courts of justice, are and will continue to be the basis of international relations.
102.	International law is designed to rule relations between States, as internal law rules relations among the citizens of a country. Violation of the law results in the obstruction of peace and gives rise to disruption and chaos. If we really aim at achieving a world in which tranquillity reigns we must apply all our skill and determination to ensure that the law retains all the majesty of its inestimable worth through full and unrestricted respect for it. Only in this way shall we be able to comply with the wise principles of this Organization.
103.	Due acknowledgement should be given to the fact that the United Nations has, throughout the 33 years of its existence, attempted to apply these same principles in order to establish peace and security, achieve economic co-operation and decolonization, and promote the progressive development of international law.
104.	Even though results have not been spectacular, anyone who examines in good faith the task performed will have to acknowledge its broad scope-especially the fact that it paved the way for progress from which the international conscience will allow no retrogression.
105.	I shall refer briefly to but a few of the international problems to be considered by the Assembly at this session.
106.	In the search for stable peace in the Middle East, despite the continued efforts of our Secretary-General-to whose efforts I wish to pay a tribute-the United Nations has not achieved the desired success, undoubtedly because of the special characteristics of the problem and because of the contingent interests of some of the great Powers. Fortunately, the desire for peace on the part of the peoples and Governments most affected by this conflict, as well as the mediation efforts of the President of the United States, enable us to envisage optimistically a possible solution. My Government earnestly hopes that the agreements reached will lead to a comprehensive settlement of the profound differences which have prevailed so far.
107.	We are also concerned over the tragedy afflicting the people of Lebanon. The United Nations should speed up its efforts to ensure that that country-the cradle of so ancient a civilization which had succeeded in preserving its unity through mutual tolerance-survives as a State, with full territorial sovereignty and political independence.
108.	We wish the African continent peace and prosperity. We believe that its problems should be solved by the
African countries themselves, through their regional organization and without any foreign intervention. They have their own identity and are eagerly and tenaciously engaged in building their future. A continent which is expected to play an even more important part within the international spectrum should not be-exposed to actions arising from outside the area, motivated by the unacceptable desire to take advantage of its problems. Therefore, we condemn foreign intervention in Africa or in any other part of the world.
109.	In the face of each conflict situation in connexion with that continent calling for a decision by this Organization Chile has maintained a consistent position, which I reaffirm here today. This has been especially true of our attitude in the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and in the United Nations Council for Namibia ever since their establishment.
110.	We assign overriding importance to that region of the world because we are convinced that, on the basis of mutual interests, we can forge solid links of understanding with the nations of Africa. We offer them our co-operation, which in certain specific cases is already effective, and at the same time we request their assistance.
111.	Nor are the nations of Asia and Oceania exempt from foreign intervention. Their enormous efforts to solve vital problems are being obstructed by the continued interference of forces which in no way help to satisfy the aspirations of those peoples.
112.	Indeed, America is no exception to this rule in international activities. We hope that the delicate problems peculiar to the region will be solved on the basis of respect for the law, the only source of peace in our continent.
113.	I would be less than candid if I failed to voice Chile's disappointment at the scant progress made towards disarmament. While this matter is a complex one and is closely related to security, achievements have been discouraging for those of us who regard armed peace essentially unstable. The accumulation of nuclear weapons or weapons of mass destruction constitutes a growing threat to peace.
114.	Today peace continues to be maintained by what is justly known as the "balance of terror". Should this balance be upset, mankind could be exterminated. Therefore there is no problem more urgent than that of finding the way to disarmament. Only when the arms race has ceased and the arsenals of nuclear arms and other weapons of mass destruction have been reduced will the world feel relief. Until then, the peoples will continue to witness with astonishment the squandering of vast resources which, if applied to goals of humanitarian co-operation, could put an end to the misery and hunger that affect millions of human beings.
115.	Some will say that small countries cannot do much when it comes to disarmament except lend, their moral support in the efforts exerted—or which should be exerted—by the great Powers. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that the arms race has not been limited to those
Powers; like gangrene, it has spread, and is now seen in countries at a medium or low stage of development.
116.	The lack of confidence in the ability of international machinery to prevent conflicts or settle them appropriately and expeditiously has induced many countries to embark upon an arms race which drains their economic resources. Hidden influences, attempting to create a climate of distrust, also prompt them towards an illogical and disproportionate arms build-up, and the merchants of death take advantage of this situation. To deny this would be to shut our eyes to a sad reality.
117.	Consequently the need arises for establishing mandatory procedures for the settlement of international disputes. It is the duty of the United Nations to provide them. Possibly these objectives could be achieved most appropriately through the use of regional organizations; the Charter envisages the necessary interdependence of those bodies and the world Organization.
118.	Among these regional systems, the oldest and, in its time, the most dynamic was the inter-American system. Thirty years ago, a covenant concerning the peaceful and mandatory settlement of disputes was signed in Bogota. Chile is a party to that covenant. We believe that its observance by all the countries of the system would provide the security our peoples desire. Pending the achievement of this objective, for which we should persevere, we shall have to sign bilateral agreements.
119.	Early in this century Chile and Argentina set an example to the world in this respect. Seventy-six years ago our countries signed a treaty on the limitation of naval armaments,  together with another on mandatory arbitration. The latter was in force for 70 years and made possible the settlement of important differences. Before it was denounced, a treaty on the judicial settlement of disputes1 4 was signed; it compels the parties to submit to the International Court of Justice all disputes, regardless of their nature, that might for any reason arise between them, and on which a settlement has not been reached, through direct negotiation.
120.	I wish to recall here the efforts made by the countries of our continent, in connexion with the limitation of weapons on the regional level. Chile, together with other American States, signed the Declaration of Ayacucho. On 22 June, on the occasion of the session of the General Assembly of the OAS held in Washington, D.C., it was agreed to expedite that initiative, and we most enthusiastically endorse that proposal.
121.	My country is especially interested in the development of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the task of which it is to prepare an international convention on that important matter. In this regard, credit must be given to the progress achieved by that Conference. Among its principal achievements is the acceptance of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone, a new international concept in the elaboration of which Chile participated actively from the start.
122. However, it is essential that existing difficulties in connexion with those negotiations be settled so that the Conference may complete its task in 1979, thus permitting the signing of a universal convention in 1980 in Caracas.
123. In this regard, we cannot conceal our concern at the preparation of unilateral legislation for the exploitation of the sea-bed beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, which constitutes the common heritage of mankind. The Government of Chile fully shares and decidedly endorses the recent statement of the Group of 77, which declares such actions null and void under international law and further points out the dangers which they could represent for the successful conclusion of those important negotiations.
124.	The Government of Chile is not concerned with political tensions only. The developing countries have continued to insist on the need for the creation of a new system governing international economic relations. The new international economic order, which we advocate, would allow the two-thirds of mankind representing that world to share in the fruitful results of technological advances.
125.	In the last 30 years the world has witnessed the most vigorous and extraordinary expansion of international trade. In view of this process the industrialized countries have constantly increased their share of world trade while the share of the developing countries, particularly in Latin America, in that trade has continually diminished.
126.	The systems governing the transfer of technology to developing nations and foreign investments require, likewise, a profound readjustment to adapt them to the level of interdependence reached in international economic relations.
127.	The Integrated Programme for Commodities, which should represent an example of collective equity in the treatment of an essential tool for development, is today an example of impatience and frustration.
128.	All these important aspects of international life will be considered at the fifth session of UNCTAD next year in Manila. At that session the degree of compliance with the main agreements reached in Nairobi in 1976 will be reviewed, unless real progress is made in the next few months. While expressing my desire for the success of the United Nations Negotiating Conference on a Common Fund under the Integrated Programme for Commodities,
which will resume on 14 November next, I offer my country's sincere co-operation in order that the meeting of UNCTAD in Manila may result in a positive contribution to the realization of the aspirations of the developing countries.
129.	These problems and many others have not been solved because of the lack of political will of the industrialized nations. The North-South dialogue, sponsored by the President of France, failed precisely because of the absence of that political will. Furthermore, some of those industrialized nations, under the pressure of internal unemployment, have reached the contradictory position of abandoning the free trade, which was the basis of their prosperity, in favour of the protectionism which caused their bankruptcy in the decade of the 1930s.
130.	This new and dangerous trend seriously and directly affects the developing countries. Because of their limited domestic markets their growth expectations are limited to the real possibilities for their raw materials and their manufactured products to have access to the markets of the industrialized countries.
131.	Protectionism is a threat to the progress of the developing world and a disturbing element as regards the political stability of the international community. It constitutes a form of unacceptable neo-interventionism. Time will prove that it also contains its own seeds of self-destruction.
132.	I now wish to refer to a matter to which my country has always attached the utmost importance. I am referring to human rights.
133.	I reaffirm today what we have been contending for years: the undoubted international jurisdiction and competence of the United Nations as regards human rights. That competence stems not only from the provisions of the Charter but also from the concept that the human being is superior to all intellectual creations and all legal structures and therefore the protection of his essential rights should be one of the major concerns of the international community.
134.	Nevertheless it is obvious that such international competence must be in harmony with the legitimate exercise of the internal sovereignty of States. That harmony between the two jurisdictions is difficult to achieve. However, I believe that the solution is. contained in the Charter of the United Nations itself when it states wisely and cautiously, that in matters of human rights, co-operation between the international organizations and the State involved should be sought.
135.	That concept of co-operation also implies that the matter of human rights should not be handled on the basis of political criteria used to make judgements, present or historical, on certain regimes,, but for the sole and highly significant purpose of improving the enjoyment of human rights in a particular State and in specific circumstances
134. Cooperation means, that between the competent organ of the United Nations, and the sovereign State there
must be a dialogue in conditions of equity and with respect for their respective competence, prerogatives and rights.
137.	Fully respecting this concept of co-operation, the Government of Chile readied an agreement with the Ad Hoc Working Group appointed by the Commission on Human Rights. That agreement did not affect the independence, competence or effectiveness of the Group, but rather ensured respect for the dignity and rights of the sovereign State. On that basis the Group visited my country and thus fully carried out its mandate.
138.	I believe that this co-operation by Chile establishes a valuable historical precedent. However, it is indispensable that such a precedent be used most carefully and objectively. Only in this way can other countries be prompted to accept, as Chile has, the visits of competent and credible commissions to their territories.
139.	The organs of the United Nations must therefore act with the highest motives and with great moderation and caution; above all, they must be above political motivations and strictly subject to the rules of procedure which the Organization has determined according to the principles of the Charter and those pertaining to natural equity. Only in this way can those organs fulfil their mandate, earn, the respect of the public opinion of the country visited, and establish between the Government and the international Organization the confidence which it indispensable if co-operation is to be reciprocal, respected and useful.
140.	Countries which do not share this position should be consistent in their attitude and not demand from others what they are not willing to accept-themselves. We should recall that there are important Powers which in 1948 did not even subscribe to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, alleging that that Declaration implied the possibility of interference in their internal affairs, an attitude which is still obstinately maintained.
141.	The precedent created by my country enables the United Nations to give effect to the concern of its founders with human rights. From now on it cannot be alleged that those principles are a dead letter, that theory is separated from reality, or that the international community is unable to find the means and procedures to ensure universal respect for those rights.
142.	The Government of Chile also expresses its concern for problems deriving from the international conduct of the great Powers. They have the greatest responsibility in the search for a lasting peace based on full respect for the principles of international law and the sovereignty of States. None the less, there are super-Powers which do not stop- at physical aggression against other nations in order to impose their ideological hegemony; and there are others which respect those principles in general but nevertheless . use their economic power to exercise pressure on third countries.
143.	In view of those alternatives, it is difficult to be a medium-sized or small nation. Nevertheless, Chile is confident that this; situation may be eliminated for good, provided the great Powers in their bilateral relations abide by one of the most fundamental principles of the United
Nations Charter, that of respect for the sovereignty of States.
144.	I have outlined the position of Chile in connexion with certain problems confronting the United Nations. We are aware of the Organization's performance in the fields, among others, of co-operation between peoples, the progressive development of international law, decolonization and the quest for peace, all of which we fully support.
145.	We reaffirm our firm intention of complying with the principles and rules which inspired the Charter we adopted in San Francisco. We are certain that we can thus contribute to the supreme cause of peace.
146.	Only v. hen all States comply with obligations voluntarily undertaken and accept in good faith the resolutions deriving there from shall we establish a healthy and effective international relationship.
147.	Chile invites all States represented here to contribute to the achievement of that high objective and hopes for friendly relations with all of them, based on mutual respect, and with none of the hegemony often exercised through political pressures or by the fomenting o' internal differences. Otherwise, confidence and harmony will not prevail.
148.	I would not wish to end without appealing to the members of the international community, whatever may be the ideological and political differences between us, to renew their efforts to make a reality of the ideals which led to the foundation of this international organization "to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war".

















===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿May I congratulate you, Sir, on the happy circumstance you have just referred to of your presiding over the meeting this afternoon. My country joins in congratulating the people of Panama and warmly greets you personally.
136.	May I also, through you, extend to the President of this Assembly the most cordial congratulations of the delegation of Chile on his election to preside over this Assembly. In his election we see a just recognition of his personal merits and qualities, which we have had the opportunity to appreciate throughout his effective guidance of the work of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, of which my country is a member. We see this, too, as a well-deserved honour to his country and as a tribute to the striking individuality with which the nations of Africa join the international community and, with vigour and vitality, renew the strength and the validity of the principles which govern us.
137.	May I associate in this tribute that distinguished Latin American, the former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Colombia, Mr. Indalecio Lievano, for his skilful guidance of the debates of the past General Assembly session.
138.	I should also like to extend our greetings and gratitude to the Secretary-General for his endeavours.
139.	I am very pleased to welcome a nation in the Caribbean, our sister in America, Saint Lucia, which has joined our Organization.
140.	A political writer, who taught in the universities of Germany and the United States, has stated that the intellectual source and, in some cases, even the literal source, of the Charter of the United Nations may be found in a brief paper by Kant,  the great German philosopher of modern Europe. The title of that paper by Kant epitomizes one of the major ideals which our Organization professes: it is "everlasting peace". Summarizing a spiritual tradition of many centuries of culture and civilization, that philosopher's text, written in the eighteenth century rather as a moral manifesto, has in our century become the inspiration for the political and legal Charter in support of whose ideals the nations of the world have gathered.
141.	On the threshold of the new century which we are about to enter, it seems fitting to bring to mind the intellectual and moral sources which were at the origin of our Organization because the principles contained in such sources are those which should indicate its destiny. Throughout its history, the United Nations has been able to gain concrete experience of the real validity of the ideals enshrined as purposes and principles in its fundamental Charter.
142.	Those principles, which are the basis of our Organization whose validity has been confirmed by experience itself and which doubtless are unanimously felt by ourselves and firmly supported by my Government, are the following: the sovereign equality of all States; the self-determination of peoples and non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States; respect for the territorial integrity and political independence of every State; the prohibition and condemnation of the threat or the use of force; the peaceful settlement of ail disputes and compliance in good faith with obligations entered into; and to crown all this, so that we may approach the everlasting peace of Kant, the political will to make a reality of international co-operation.
143.	A realistic analysis of our Organization leads us to observe, alongside the values I have mentioned, which are the true heritage of our Organization, the presence of corrosive factors, of dissolvent principles, which lessen our Organization's effectiveness, break its moral thrust, impair its legitimate force and sometimes radically distort the meaning of its mission.
144.	It is not our intention to criticize, nor do we believe that this is the appropriate time to do so. However, just as we emphasize the principles of profound moral and legal content which are the heritage of the Organization and are incorporated in its practice, we also wish to point to some of the negative factors.
145.	We believe that the first threat to the role of the United Nations which lessens the natural authority it should have over nations is the use of this forum for purely ideological purposes, for the play of power blocs and at times to give vent to the political pressures prevailing within countries. When these things occur the authority of our Organization is morally lessened because it appears to public opinion to depart from its true purpose in order to serve groups or blocs which the Organization is called upon to moderate, keep in balance and regulate.
146.	It then becomes clear to international public opinion that selfish interests have been allowed to prevail over the common good of mankind and that the venerable image of the principles that govern peace has assumed the transitory and distorted mask of ideology and politics.
147.	Another definite and grave threat to our institution is the arms race. It is difficult for nations to discuss matters in this forum with trust and truth so long as there is the possibility that in a frenzied arms race their essential possessions will be jeopardized. Thus, instead of lessening international tensions by the use of peaceful means for the settlement of disputes, by respect for treaties and by compliance with the rules of international law, it appears that the world would rather follow the irrational and tragic course of war, the deadly destiny of the arms race. This is even more serious for the economically weak nations since the sinister accumulation of arms also undermines peace because it absorbs financial resources which otherwise would be used for the development and welfare of the people. Let me illustrate this by saying that the cost of a medium- tonnage warship would be enough to allow the WHO to eradicate the scourge of smallpox from the world.
148.	A third factor which threatens the effectiveness of the United Nations is the international economic crisis, which has reached such a point that it may even jeopardize the principles of the legal equality of States, international co-operation, and in some cases the self- determination of people,
149.	International indexes and the serious concern registered by the majority of the Heads of State, Heads of Government or Ministers who have spoken at this rostrum before me, prove beyond any doubt that the world economy is in a precarious position.
150.	The impact of this crisis is, however, felt more keenly in the economies of the developing countries, which are weaker and therefore more vulnerable to external conditions. In this context special attention should be given to the energy problem as a result of which the developing countries are experiencing great difficulties in shouldering the heavy burden of the constant increase in fuel prices which exacerbates their balance-of-payments problems and increases their external indebtedness, with the social cost that all this implies.
151.	All the foregoing is not the result of cyclical changes but rather of what we believe to be a structural maladjustment in the present international economic order. This order is unsatisfactory from every point of view, both for the industrialized countries of the North and for the mass of the developing countries concentrated in the South. In fact, although the industrialized countries presumably benefit from the present structure, they are now stricken with high inflation rates, economic stagnation, recession and unemployment, that bring a host of evil social consequences—all problems that had been considered characteristic of, and even endemic in, the developing countries alone. Therefore, it is obvious that a change in the present economic structure would benefit both sides. At the same time it is evident that such an undertaking can be achieved only by means of vigorous international co-operation.
152.	On the other hand, it is fundamentally in contra-diction with the principles of international co-operation for the industrialized countries to follow a policy whereby, in seeking to solve their own international economic problems, they persist in erecting protectionist barriers, thus abandoning free trade, the very system on which those countries built their own prosperity. The developing countries, most of them with small domestic markets, see their growth expectations limited because of the restrictions imposed by the actual opportunities for marketing their raw materials and products. So long as this point is not fully realized by the industrialized nations, the ideals of the United Nations will be threatened by this lack of co-operation as well.
153.	In these circumstances Chile is inclined to face the problems of the world economy, not by way of confrontation but rather through co-operation and by a continuing dialogue, because the restructuring of the world economy is a formidable task in which the efforts of all should be combined. For this same reason we unreservedly subscribe to the proposal by the Group of 77 which seeks to establish global negotiations on the outstanding problems relating to raw materials, energy, trade, development, money and finance.
154.	Furthermore, my country attaches special importance to the concept of co-operation among developing countries within the framework of national and collective self-reliance. Within the limits of our capacity we have already contributed assistance and credits to other countries. For Chile this form of cooperation has its own dynamics, which is independent and does not replace traditional North-South cooperation.
155.	The application of the principles of the United Nations Charter and the provisions that give them effect should extend beyond the strategies of antagonistic groups and power blocs. It should not be subject to the ups and downs of political opportunism and should be free from the constant threat of the arms race and the economic crisis, for which the industrialized nations bear so much responsibility.
156.	The principles of the Charter should be applied consistently, without fear or favour, both by the Organization and by all Member States. Tolerance of the violation of those principles and impunity for those guilty of such violation in the end undermine the very foundations of international order and thus deprive the community of States of its ethical and legal basis. Therefore, we must not ask "for whom the bell tolls" when a country is the victim of the violation of its essential rights. The bell will toll for each of the Members of the Organization and indeed for the Organization itself.
157.	My country is aware of the need to join ranks with all nations of the world, on the basis of cooperation and mutual respect. We have been making constructive efforts with a clear awareness of the solidarity of our interests and our common purposes.
158.	With the countries of Latin America we maintain and are working to strengthen ties which go back to our common emancipation and which have as their back-ground an ancient and universal common culture. We are seeking to increase our exchanges with these sister nations, to co-operate in the quest for peace and harmony on the continent, and to strengthen the inter-American system. We are supported in this by the conviction that the nations of the continent must, with a vision of the future, overcome past differences and join their efforts in order to face the historic challenge of our times. It is by surmounting the past and not by repeating it that the countries of Latin America will be able to make their great rendezvous with destiny.
159.	Our links with the countries of Europe are deeply rooted in our history and culture, and we therefore wish to cultivate them. Having just returned from a visit to several European countries, may I greet my dear colleagues attending this Assembly who, a few days ago, so kindly welcomed our desire to carry out that task,
160.	My country has also continued to develop existing links with the countries of Africa, adding to the relations we have had with many nations of that continent those which we recently established with the Ivory Coast, Gabon and Swaziland. We have a real understanding of the problems besetting the States of Africa—some of which we have lived through ourselves—and we believe they must be solved by the Africans themselves, without any external interference. We therefore reject any armed intervention in their continent and proclaim the inalienable right of its peoples to be the architects of their own destinies. Hence we cannot remain silent over the situation of conflict in southern Africa. We note with interest some of the initiatives that are under way—basically concerning Rhodesia and Namibia—and we reiterate our support for decolonization and the self-determination of peoples, as well as our rejection of all forms of discrimination.
161.	We have many ties with the peoples of the Middle East, some of whose sons and daughters have become Chilean citizens, contributing their centuries-old values and culture to our own. We view with alarm the situation in that part of the world, but are pleased with some of the results achieved, thanks to great effort and tenacity, in an attempt to bring peace to that region. We believe that those initiatives must be extended to all aspects of this delicate question. To fail to do that would be to turn our backs on reality and perpetuate a hotbed of tension which endangers world peace. Nor is the tragedy of Lebanon alien to us, and we view with growing alarm the tearing asunder of a country with so much potential. We support the peace-keeping activities of the United Nations in that country.
162.	Because of its great maritime tradition and its extensive coastline, Chile has opened channels of trade across the Pacific with countries of Asia and Oceania. This past year, we have had the pleasure of establishing diplomatic relations with Singapore and Malaysia, thus adding to those we already enjoyed with several countries on those continents. In this connexion, I would stress my visit to the People's Republic of China last year and the recent visit to Chile of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan.
163.	Chile is convinced of the need to enrich its cultural heritage with the legacy of the wisdom of old cultures and civilizations that have flourished in this part of the world and whose international positions are increasingly akin to our own.
164. We have stated some of the principles which constitute the fundamental structure of the United Nations Charter. Our country has maintained an attitude of constant respect for them. It is this spirit which prompts the Government of Chile to express reverent satisfaction that His Holiness Pope John Paul II has agreed to mediate the dispute which has arisen between Chile and Argentina in the southern part of our continent. Great tension has prevailed between our two sister countries; but linked as we have been since our independence by instruments for the peaceful settlement of international disputes, that grave threat to peace has been dispelled by the participation of the Holy Father and his special representative, His Eminence Cardinal Antonio Samore, whose efforts led to the conclusion, in Montevideo at the beginning of this year, of two solemn agreements." The first provided for His Holiness to mediate the dispute over the southern part of our continent; in the other agreement, both Governments, at the request of the Special Representative of the Pope, have, in each other's presence and before His Holiness, committed themselves not to resort to force in their mutual relations, to return to a normal military state of affairs, and to refrain from adopting measures in any sector which might threaten harmony between the two countries. In this atmosphere of relaxation of tensions, our venerated mediator will be able to discharge his noble task of guiding the parties to the negotiations and assist them in the search for a solution.
165. On 27 September last, His Holiness Pope John Paul II addressed the representatives of the two States in the process of mediation and, through them, their peoples and Governments. The ideas embodied in the statement of His Holiness constitute a most valuable contribution to the mediation process.
166.	Precisely because my country has an honourable tradition of settling its disputes by peaceful and legal means, we view with satisfaction the inclusion in our agenda of an item on the settlement by peaceful means of disputes between States, proposed by the Government of Romania, We shall therefore make every endeavour to see that positive results are achieved in this field. The establishment of effective, mandatory systems for the settlement of disputes would contribute to the elimination of violence and the establishment of the rule of law in international relations.
167.	I am pleased to highlight, as an important result of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the adoption of the principle of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone, which originated in the Santiago Declaration of 1952 on the maritime zone. My country played a major role in the drafting of that instrument, and has firmly upheld the doctrine it proclaims.
168.	Accordingly, Chile has continued to participate with special interest in the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, particularly in the drafting of a code of conduct for the use of the sea-bed and ocean floor beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. The tapping of that area's resources, which constitute the common heritage of mankind, must be carried out in accordance with rational and fair criteria, and for benefit of all countries, particularly the less developed. In no case must those ocean areas and the resources they contain be subject to individual claims of sovereignty or to rivalry among States. Opening the frontiers of the oceans to man's use requires imagination and great effort in order to plan a legal regime which, while encouraging private initiative, will integrate it within the activities of joint bodies.
169.	On this occasion I cannot fail to express our concern—a concern shared by many countries—over the North American announcement that the United States will ignore the maritime jurisdiction of other States beyond the three-mile limit. This attitude is detrimental to the rights of coastal States and impedes the negotiations now under way within the Conference itself. Noteworthy in this connexion is the categorical pronouncement of the member countries of the South Pacific Commission—Colombia, Ecuador, Chile and Peru—issued on 18 August last. 
170.	In recent years my country has undergone hard experiences, which a world in confusion and convulsion inflicts on a people wishing to live an open and peaceful life. Ours has been an old and well-balanced democracy, giving opportunities to all forms of political and social structures which the free will of man has forged in our times. However, the nihilist virulence, which cruelly strikes at elementary structures of our civilized life in every region of the world, has seriously damaged our society and threatens the stability of our cultural and historical institutions in a legal and social structure carefully designed to befit our dignity as a nation.
171.	It was necessary and unavoidable that a new government be established with heroic determination to assume the responsibility for guiding the country through that grave crisis. After some years of enormous sacrifice and misunderstanding, this Government may say with serene pride that it has succeeded in overcoming economic bankruptcy, given a new and orderly life to the social systems, guaranteed the security of the citizens, initiated a labour plan, adapted educational and cultural programmes to the requirements of our times and drafted a new constitution, among other things—all of which are enabling Chile to face the future with optimism. In these circumstances we wish to welcome a broad exchange of ideas, experience, goods and wealth with all nations on the basis of mutual respect, and before this Assembly we reiterate our desire to participate actively in its tasks and to honour and support the lofty mission entrusted to it in accordance with the principles of the fundamental Charter.

===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿Mr. President, it is a great pleasure for my Government to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly. You represent a country which is admired by Chile and with which we enjoy historical ties of friendship and co-operation in various fields. Your acknowledged talents as a diplomat constitute a priceless guarantee of success in the conduct of the important matters to be dealt with at this session.
138.	We also wish to extend our appreciation to Mr. Salim A. Salim of the United Republic of Tanzania, who so wisely presided over the last session of the General Assembly, as well as other important sessions of our Organization during the year.
139.	Similarly, the Government of Chile welcomes the delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, a country on the American continent whose independence was attained this year and which has recently become a Member of the United Nations. We hope that that nation will continue to progress on the path of peace and prosperity.
140.	At the beginning of the decade of the 1980s the United Nations is entering a new and delicate stage with the maturity and fruitful experience acquired through its 35 years of existence.
141.	In the course of time, peoples have developed in the most varied manner. Today there are more than 100 States which have been incorporated gradually within the grand framework of the principles and purposes embodied in our Charter. Strict observance of and faithful compliance with those principles will enable us to continue to endorse and support the legitimate aspirations to a world of peace and co-operation.
142.	The evolution of this phenomenon is not alien to the United Nations. In fact, one of its great achievements has been specifically decolonization, which has led to the independence of many States and to their joining us in our common tasks.
143.	Chile has always contributed to the efforts of the international community to find valid solutions within this Organization.
144.	The world is concerned to tackle the problems which face it in the latter years of the twentieth century. Chile shares that concern and it is its national objective to focus on the challenges it presents.
145.	On several occasion my Government has informed the Assembly of the reform has introduced in the economic, social, juridical, labour and educational fields, inter alia, with a view to adapting their structures to the requirements of our time. However, this task could not be accomplished in the absence of a system of coexistence and a dynamic, secure and stable Government. Peoples cannot remain static.
146.	The Government of Chile has, since 11 September 1973, repeatedly reaffirmed its intention to begin a new era in the history of our homeland, designing with an eye to the future the structures of a stable and creative political regime. It has further stated that the new system of institutions developing in the country would be entrusted with establishing the legal framework for the great collective task to which the nation is committed.
147.	Accordingly, one of the first steps taken by the Government was to entrust a committee, composed of university professors of various democratic ideological tendencies, with the task of drawing up a draft political constitution. Over 100 representatives of the most diverse activities, including professional, union and youth leaders, collaborated in that work, contributing their ideas and their concerns.
148.	After five years of thorough legal and political studies, including the consideration of the most modern constitutional texts, the committee studying the question of a new constitution presented to the Government the preliminary draft of a fundamental charter.
149.	The State Council, a body made up of national representatives at the highest level, including former Presidents of the Republic, former magistrates of the higher courts of justice, former rectors of universities and union leaders, reviewed the preliminary constitution. In order to carry out its task properly, the Council requested wide-ranging collaboration, and many suggestions were received.
150.	The conclusions reached by the State Council after over one and a half years of analysis were presented to the President of the Republic. Finally, the head of State and the Government Junta drafted the final text of the constitution which, as had been previously promised, was submitted to a plebiscite for approval.
151.	The Chilean public followed the development and preparation of the new political constitution step by step. Both the preliminary draft prepared by the committee on studies and the draft prepared by the State Council, as well as the final text of the new Constitution, were duly published, giving rise at every stage to wide and active discussion on the part of the different sectors of national life in Chile.
152.	The public debate held during the period just prior to the plebiscite was particularly intense. In that debate supporters and opponents of the new constitutional text and of the Government's action expressed their views for or against in public rallies, with complete freedom and full publicity. The mass communications media, domestic and foreign, published and informed the country and the world of the individual and collective views of all Chileans.
153.	On 11 September, in conditions of freedom, secrecy and full information, a plebiscite was held throughout the Republic so that the Chilean people might decide on the approval or rejection of the proposed political Constitution.
154.	In a country of 11 million inhabitants, 6,300,000 citizens voted. This represents the highest participation ever known in our national history.
155.	All Chileans over 18 years of age, men and women without any discrimination whatsoever, fulfilled this duty which, in accordance with Chile's political tradition, is mandatory. Foreign residents also voted, inasmuch as they share in the life of the nation.
156.	More than 4,200,000 citizens voted in favour of the new Constitution, that is, over 67 per cent of the voters. Approximately 1,800,000, that is, 30 per cent, voted against it. Votes declared null and void amounted to only 2.77 per cent.
157.	No one can contend that there was a lack of opportunity or means to express, with complete freedom, opinions for or against the constitutional text, and to participate in the debate. No one can truthfully hold that there was no access to each of the steps of the balloting process. No one can in good faith state that, on account of regulatory or technical circumstances or legal restrictions, he or she was deprived of the right to vote. No one who thinks dispassionately can doubt the legitimacy, legality and correct conduct of the plebiscite.
158.	Chile is a country which is noted for its constitutional stability. In a period of over 150 years of independence, Chile has had only two constitutions: those of 1833 and 1925. Today, we have approved a new fundamental law which, taking in the principles of freedom and democracy enshrined in the preceding constitutions, aims at organizing that stable and creative political regime needed to meet the vital challenge of the years to come.
159.	The political Constitution of 1980 contains, in general terms, some solutions not usually provided for in contemporary fundamental charters, aimed at solving the problems of the Chilean individual of our times.
160.	As regards the crucial dilemma of the individual versus the State, it provides for the principle of subsidiary status of the State, thus limiting the latter's action in order to prevent its interference in areas which are basically left to the free initiative and action of individuals.
161.	On those grounds, the Constitution of 1980 is directed towards defining the field of action of the rulers and ensuring the freedoms of those governed.
162.	It further enshrines all the rights of man, as established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenants on Human Rights, and provides the means required by individuals in order to ensure that their rights are fully respected.
163.	Another basic characteristic of the political charter is the effective attempt to secure the participation of the people, based on methods designed to bring the people closer to their rulers and to enable the latter to have the opportunity of learning the opinion of those governed.
164.	Likewise, under the rule of the Constitution of 1980, Chile continues to be a democratic republic and its authorities are chosen by means of free, secret and informed elections. It establishes, once again, the traditional separation of the powers of the State and especially the independence and the immutability of the judiciary, which is created in an autonomous manner, a prime guarantee for the respect of the legal order.
165.	Just as the new Constitution endeavours to protect the individual from possible abuses by the State and the authorities, it also aims at protecting the individual from one of the most serious scourges of our contemporary times, that is, violence used as a tool for political conviction, in other words, terrorism. The General Assembly has been dealing with this distressing problem of the twentieth century, this ultimate denial of human rights.
166.	The fundamental charter of Chile explicitly defines the preaching of violence and the practice of terrorism as a constitutional crime and entrusts the investigation, trial and punishment of such acts to the courts of justice.
167.	The aforementioned results of the plebiscite are unequivocal: over 4 million Chileans, that is, 67 per cent of the voters, have decided that the first presidential term of office of eight years, with which the new Constitution enters into force, is to be entrusted to General Augusto Pinochet Ugarte. These figures grant the Government the highest representation registered in the political history of our country.
168.	The President of the Republic, faithfully interpreting this legitimate will of the nation, once the results of the plebiscite were known, affirmed that there were neither winners nor losers and called upon all Chileans to unite in order to continue striving for the prosperity of the country and, most especially, for the economically weaker sectors.
169.	At the beginning of my statement I said that the world was concerned over problems which should be resolved in the last two remaining decades of this century. Those problems are numerous, diverse and serious. The most complex and dangerous ones stem from political situations or from social-economic behaviour, in addition to other problems stemming from religious, doctrinaire or ideological beliefs.
170.	Approximately one year ago the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan. The urgent meetings of the Security Council and the emergency special session of the General Assembly, which condemned that intervention, have proved to be futile in resolving that situation. Neither have the appeals for respect for the most elementary human rights and fundamental freedoms of the people of Afghanistan achieved their purposes. We have witnessed with amazement the intervention in that small country of one of the super-Powers which, because of its military might appears to feel itself invulnerable in the face of the outcry of the international community.
171.	The tragedy affecting that country is eloquently evidenced by the Afghan refugees who are fleeing to Pakistan and whose fate deserves priority consideration by this Organization. Chile shares that concern.
172.	Unfortunately, the case of Afghanistan is not unique. We have witnessed, with distress, the bloody and lengthy struggle of the people of Kampuchea.
173.	The millions of refugees, whose sad story has made an impact on international public opinion, necessarily constitute another humanitarian problem of vital importance for the United Nations. Chile, as in the case of the refugees of Afghanistan, has contributed in so far as possible to the efforts made to resolve this situation. We trust that the generous assistance provided by countries actually reaches those for whom it is intended and who need it so badly. We most sincerely appreciate the work accomplished by the international organizations and other entities, such as the International Red Cross, engaged in this noble humanitarian task.
174.	It will soon be one year since the unusual problem of the diplomatic hostages in Iran began. We note the continued breach of the most basic rights and immunities en-shrined in numerous international instruments.
175.	The crisis in the Middle East continues to be one of the political situations which cause the most pressure and which most threaten the peace of the world.
176.	The recent seventh special session of the General Assembly testifies to the priority assigned by the international community to the solution of the Middle East problem and its main element, the question of Palestine.
177.	The Government of Chile supports without reservation the endeavour of the United Nations to find an urgent solution to the crisis in the Middle East. It believes, likewise, that all efforts towards peace in that region should be welcomed and encouraged by the entire international community.
178.	A realistic solution should be based on the withdrawal of Israel from all the occupied territories, on the acknowledgement of the right of the States of the region, including Israel, to live within secure and recognized boundaries and on the full exercise of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, including the establishment of a sovereign and an independent State, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, especially those of the Security Council.
179.	We are concerned over the situation in Lebanon, a State with which we have close ties of friendship. Many sons on that land are of Chilean nationality. We support the efforts of the Government of Lebanon to achieve peace, unity and prosperity, as well as the important work performed by this Organization in that country.
180.	As regards the grave situation which has arisen between Iran and Iraq, my Government wishes to put on record its support for the appeal issued by the Security Council, through its resolution 479 (1980), to end the conflict and bring about a peaceful settlement in accordance with the principles of justice and international law.
181.	On the African continent, my country has been particularly pleased to witness the birth of the State of Zimbabwe, after so many years of struggle and suffering. For us, it is historical evidence of the positive mission which can and should be carried out by the United Nations in the peaceful settlement of international disputes whenever the parties show goodwill and a readiness to reach an agreement. My Government cannot fail to express its appreciation to those who have made this achievement possible, especially the people of Zimbabwe and the Government of the United Kingdom, whose flexibility and determination have brought the Lancaster House agreements to a happy conclusion.
182.	While expressing our best wishes for the well-being of the people of Zimbabwe and for its progress on the path of freedom, development and social progress, we trust that it may serve as an example in other unresolved situations, such as the case of Namibia. In this regard we call on the parties to make it possible for the Security Council plan for Namibia to be carried out.
183.	Our firm support for decolonization and the self- determination of peoples is accompanied by our forceful condemnation of all types of racial discrimination, including apartheid, and of all foreign intervention in the solution of Africa's problems.
184.	We share with our sister countries in Latin America a common destiny towards which we must advance guided by common principles and values. We must unite our efforts in positive action for the benefit of all peoples. The closer relations among our nations, the increase in trade and the regional co-operation are all pointing in that direction.
185.	We are glad to observe such tendencies on the continent. The meeting held at Montevideo last August, which gave rise to the Association for Latin American Integration and which I had the honour to attend, is eloquent evidence of that spirit of co-operation.
186.	However, we cannot conceal our concern over the foreign intervention and the escalation of terrorism in some regions of America. We wish to see the American continent free from the scourge of terrorism and of totalitarian ideologies—so alien to its historical and cultural traditions—which imperialist interests are attempting to introduce in the region for hegemonistic purposes.
187.	The international community has witnessed how Chile, faithful to its tradition of using peaceful means to settle international disputes, had recourse to the mediation of His Holiness Pope John Paul II in connection with the dispute with the sister republic of Argentina.
188.	Thus on 8 January 1979 both countries signed the Montevideo Agreement, through which they agreed to request the mediation of His Holiness and solemnly undertook not to resort to the threat or use of force in their mutual relations.
189.	Under the lofty guidance of that august mediator, the parties submitted their respective positions and conducted active negotiations aimed at finding points of agreement so as to facilitate a just and definitive solution to the controversy.
190.	Chile has emphasized and now reaffirms its appreciation of the noble mediating task performed by His Holiness the Pope and expresses its trust in that high office.
191.	My country is confident that the solution of the controversy of concern to us must be found on the basis of the mutual readiness and the goodwill of the Governments to unite in their efforts for the well-being of their peoples and of full respect for the rules of international law and the agreements and commitments we have signed, which constitute the foundation for harmonious relations between States.
192.	In this decade the world is facing increasingly urgent economic problems. The solution to those problems, which has so long been postponed, cannot be set aside indefinitely.
193.	Our indecisiveness concerning the need for structural changes offers the prospect of a grim future characterized by slow economic growth, high rates of inflation and increased unemployment in developed and developing countries alike.
194.	The international community, despite the diverse and complex problems facing it, should not forget the sufferings of millions of human beings who are experiencing extreme poverty in the lower income countries. We all share that responsibility. This is Chile's understanding.
195.	None the less, international co-operation is weakened by the decreasing flows of financial aid, the alarming increase in protectionist and discriminatory barriers against exports from the developing countries and the persistent instability imposed today by international currency conditions.
196.	During the 1950s and part of the 1960s, the world economy was surprisingly prosperous. To a great extent, this was accounted for by the more liberal economic policies of the developed nations and their favourable impact on the increase in international trade. However, those same nations which in the past promoted free trade are now, paradoxically, supporting a sort of "organized free trade", involving protectionist measures and commitments for "self-limitation of exports".
197.	My country regards the subject of energy as a fundamental element in the restructuring of present international economic relations.
198.	The developing countries have been doubly affected by the sudden rise in the price of energy, inasmuch as we have felt its direct impact through our hydrocarbon imports and have had to absorb the increase in prices of manufactured goods, resulting from the adjustment policies of the industrialized countries.
199.	My Government deems it vitally important to support all feasible initiatives aimed at channelling funds to finance investments and provide needed assistance for the development of conventional and non-conventional sources of energy in the developing countries, especially in those where there is a considerable shortfall in domestic oil production.
200.	The facts I have mentioned and the far from satisfactory results of the eleventh special session of the General Assembly prompt us to affirm the need for greater political will on the part of the developed countries. We appeal to them to realize the importance of their role in solving inter-national economic problems and in the growth of the developing countries.
201.	We, the countries of the third world, must also contribute with our efforts and our dedication to maintain our economies, ensuring that resources are not uselessly squandered and making it possible for our entire populations to share in the benefits of development.
202.	That is my Government's understanding of the position and five years ago it began a process of restructuring which enabled it to adjust to changes in the world economy, thus avoiding the maintenance of obsolete systems of production regardless of cost.
203.	This development has been characterized by a higher growth rate than obtained in the past and by increased economic independence. The overall growth of Chile's economy during the period 1976 to 1980 amounted to 40 per cent.
204.	Moreover, the Government of Chile has assigned top priority to the redistributive role which the State should play for the benefit of the neediest, since the 1970 census revealed that 21 per cent of Chileans lived in conditions of dire poverty.
205.	In order to overcome this tragic social and economic situation—which is shared by many of our nations—and to permit the inhabitants of the country equitably to share in the benefits offered by economic development, my Government has considerably increased its social expenditures, including financing of programmes in the fields of health, nutrition, education, housing and social security.
206.	Thus, social expenditure has been increased from 27 per cent of Government spending in 1973 to 53 per cent in 1980.
207.	Significant social progress has been achieved, and this is due to the stability of our Government system and to the implementation of an economic policy which has proved to be sound and successful.
208.	My country, which is greatly interested in the outcome of negotiations on the new convention on the law of the sea, wishes to pay a heartfelt tribute to the author of the first Declaration on the 200-mile maritime zone, the recently deceased former President of Chile, Mr. Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, who had the visionary foresight to proclaim, on 23 June 1947, a principle which is today universally accepted.
209.	That statesmanly action, which places him among the pioneers and precursors of the new law of the sea, gave rise to the Declaration of Santiago of 19526 on the maritime zone of the countries of the South Pacific linking Chile, Colombia, Peru and Ecuador. Furthermore, this Declaration is one of the bases for the vast process of revision of the law of the sea, a process which culminated in the adoption and signing, at Caracas, of a universal convention on the subject.
210.	The important conclusions reached at the ninth session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, especially in connection with questions on the exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and ocean floor beyond the area of national jurisdiction, cause us to look forward optimistically to the completion of the broad task undertaken by the United Nations over 10 years ago.
211.	In the face of this extended attempt to achieve consensus in the international community, we cannot but voice our rejection of the unilateral adoption of national laws favouring the exploitation of the sea-bed beyond the area of national jurisdiction. These laws lack all validity with regard to the international community. My country endorses the protests raised by, among others, the countries of the South Pacific and of the Group of 77.
212.	At the dawn of this new decade, we reaffirm our unlimited support for and commitment to the fundamental principles of the United Nations which the Charter has enshrined as indispensable for peaceful coexistence in the international community.
213.	Among other principles, we place emphasis on equal rights, the sovereign equality of States, the fulfilment in good faith of obligations undertaken, the peaceful settlement of disputes, the refraining from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, the self-determination of peoples and international co-operation.
214.	We know that this task is difficult. We know that some States pay lip-service to these principles without ever having honoured them; we know that they distort them in order to use them against other States whose political regimes constitute barriers to their hegemonistic endeavours. We know too that however difficult the task it must never be abandoned. That is Chile's resolve.



===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
I am especially pleased to convey to you, Mr. President, the wannest congratulations of the Government of Chile on your election as President of this thirty- sixth session of the General Assembly. Your election constitutes a tribute to your brilliant diplomatic experience and recognized personal merits.
82.	I wish at the same time to express to your predecessor, Mr. Riidiger von Wechmar of the Federal Republic of Germany, our appreciation for the able and calm manner in which he presided over the last session, demonstrating his outstanding professional skill.
83.	We also wish to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General for his devoted and tireless efforts in the difficult task of advancing the work of the Organization in attaining its goal of peace.
84.	We extend a warm welcome to the Republic of Vanuatu, a nation in the Pacific Ocean and to which we therefore feel close ties of solidarity. We are also pleased to see Belize join the United Nations. Our ties with that State are even closer, because of its geographical location and our common interests. We feel certain that these new Members will enrich the Organization and contribute to it vitality and renewed strength.
85.	thirty-six years ago, in San Francisco, my country joined in the great task of laying the foundations of the Organization, designed to preserve international peace and security, the prerequisites for a just and lasting world order. Chile could not remain indifferent to the aspirations of an entire generation and its right to grow and develop in a climate of peace and mutual trust.
86.	The widespread crisis in which the world was engulfed at that time compelled the peoples to reaffirm their faith in the individual and prompted them to commit themselves to creating the necessary conditions for full human development. Hence, the Charter of the United Nations begins by reaffirming, among other things, the faith of the peoples in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the promotion of social progress and better standards of life "in larger freedom".
87.	Cognizant of this responsibility, the Government of Chile is exerting its efforts to achieve true order at home through the development of all the various spheres of national life.
88.	Towards that same end, Chile is striving to achieve the highest level of friendly relations with other nations, based on respect for the principles of sovereign rights of States and
self-determination of peoples.
89.	In 1981, Chile has been going through a highly significant stage in its history. Full of optimism and with renewed hope, we Chileans are today working towards the consolidation in our country of an authentically free society and of a modern infrastructure capable of ensuring effective social peace and a stable and sustained economic development.
90.	As I stated at the thirty-fifth session [17th meeting] from this rostrum, the Chilean people sovereignly and freely approved, on 11 September 1980, a new political constitution, a juridical instrument designed to permit the reinforcement of the foundations of a solid democracy, capable of surviving the threat stemming from totalitarian doctrines which seek to gain power by every means possible and which consequently lead to the destruction of the democratic system.
91.	The new fundamental charter of Chile entered into force on 11 March 1981, the date of the assumption of an eight-year term of office by the President of the Republic, General Augusto Pinochet Ugarte.
92.	Thus, a new stage in the history of Chile has begun, demonstrating to the world my country's institutional progress. The Government has thus kept its promise to the people to establish a new political, economic and social institutional order which, along with eradicating the danger of a totalitarian menace, will allow the country to advance into the future in order and progress.
93.	The intrinsic dignity of man, his essential equality and his autonomy vis-a-vis the power of the State constitute permanent principles of my Government. The political, social and economic consequences of these principles have not only enabled the restoration of peaceful and harmonious life in Chile but have also the reinforcement of freedom and a spectacular economic revival.
94.	The task has not been easy, nor has it been free of sacrifices and hardship, inasmuch as the deep crisis which Chile suffered could only be overcome thanks to the greatest efforts on the part of its people and Government.
95.	In the socioeconomic field, the present policy has been directed essentially towards the achievement of three broad objectives: the attainment, within a free economic program, of a high and sustained level of economic growth; the strengthening of individual freedom in all its social aspects; and finally, the eradication Of extreme poverty and the subhuman conditions which afflicted almost a fourth of the Chilean population.
96.	With regard to economic growth, it should be pointed out that Chile's gross national product increased at an average annual rate of 7.2 per cent between 1976 and 19§0. This figure exceeds the percentage recorded for any other five- year period in the history of our country.
97.	This growth has encouraged the creative initiative of the private sector, which is an essential factor in development, with the State playing a subsidiary role, as it should by its very nature. This is demonstrated by the fact.that while in the early 1970s private investment represented only 25.3 per cent of total investment, in 1980 it accounted for 6*7.3 per cent.
98.	During the last five years the balance of payments has constantly been positive, thus allowing for the reserves in our monetary system to be increased from $400 million in 1973 to $4.7 billion in 1980.
99.	Our nontraditional exports increased during that same period by 800 per cent, thus substantially contributing to a reduction in our historical dependence on sales of copper abroad.
100.	Finally, discipline in public expenditure and the monetary policy adopted have enabled Chile to reduce its annual rate of inflation from 1,000 per cent in 1973 to approximately 12 per cent, the figure anticipated for this year.
101.	As I have stated, one of my Government's principal objectives is to defeat extreme poverty and misery. To summarize in figures social expenditure, that is, the allotment of Government resources to health, nutrition, housing and education, almost 50 per cent of the total public expenditure in the last few years has been applied to such programs. In 1981 public expenditure amounted to 53.6 per cent and had contributed, inter alia, to a significant reduction in the infant mortality rate.
102.	Finally, we have stepped up efforts to create new employment and this has resulted in a remarkable reduction of the unemployment rate, which in early 1976 had reached 19.8 per cent and has today been reduced to 8.4 per cent of the active population, despite the fact that the latter has far exceeded previous levels in Chile.
103.	In carrying out this task, some of the results of which we have pointed out, it was necessary to make an internal adjustment in order to transfer to the free price system the Orientation of decisions on investment, thus neutralizing the historical role of the State in making such decisions. This adjustment was met with difficulties and strong pressure from various quarters, both domestic and foreign, designed to disrupt its application. However, the great majority of the people supports my Government's economic program, as is evidenced by the approval by over 67 per cent of the people of the new political constitution which, among its provisions, consecrates the principles of freedom, justice, progress and national security which have inspired current social and economic policies.
104.	Our country is convinced that the application of policies of internal adjustment is always difficult, regardless of whatever government regime is in power. However, our experience reveals that if such policies are conducted coherently and without hesitation, positive results, along with the people's support, can always be expected.
105.	I have briefly analyzed some results of the social and economic process in our country because the adjustments made have enabled us to expand our development and to maintain a sustained increase in our contribution to much needed international cooperation.
106.	Indeed, Chile's foreign trade with an increasing number of countries with different economic systems today accounts for 43.7 per cent of its gross national product, which has turned our country into an attractive market for the international community, since the latter's imports from Chile will amount to $7 billion in 1981, an increase of 400 per cent in the last eight years.
107.	My Government believes that favorable conditions prevail in our country to contribute to promoting the economy of other States by ensuring employment and outlets for their respective domestic products. This reveals our increasing contribution to the necessary and desirable interdependence which should exist among economies at the international level and which is unfortunately being threatened by the resurgence of protectionism that can be seen in many countries. We believe that this protectionism can only aggravate the domestic problems of the countries which practice it, because they yield to pressure groups that have ceased to be competitive and thus impede one of the most equitable ways of transferring resources to developing countries, namely, international trade.
108.	In accordance with the provisions of our political constitution and in compliance with the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations, the Government of Chile has continued to exert its efforts to achieve the highest level of friendly relations with other nations, based on respect for the principles of equality, sovereignty, independence and nonintervention in internal affairs.
109.	In conformity with our historic vocation, priority is assigned in this regard to the special ties which link us with the American continent. Thus, the objectives pursued were not only aimed at strengthening our bilateral relations with neighboring countries and other nations of the region, but Chile has also pursued a continental consensus to unify our position with respect to the important matter of security and cooperation in the hemisphere, today threatened by the destabilizing force of SovietCuban expansion.
110.	In the neighboring area, the Government has continued to exert its efforts towards reaching a solution to our differences with Argentina in the south. Following a number of meetings in the course of which the parties submitted their respective positions to a mediator, the
Sovereign Pontiff called a meeting in Rome on 12 De	'
cember 1980 with the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Chile and Argentina and at a solemn ceremony submitted a proposal which he himself deemed to be just, equitable and honorable. While the terms of the proposal made by the Sovereign Pontiff did not frlly satisfy Chile's aspirations, my Government decided to accept it, in view of the involvement of the highest moral authority on earth, and it so informed the Holy Father on 25 December 1980.
111.	My country, by accepting the terms of the Pontiffs proposal once again demonstrated its trust in the Sovereign Pontiff's efforts towards peace and justice. This attitude also implied Chile's unwavering respect for the international commitments it has undertaken and its attachment to the principles of the peaceful settlement of disputes, deeply convinced, as we are, that such principles constitute the essential grounds for harmonious and peaceful coexistence among States.
112.	As a result of successful negotiations with the Government of Peru, our relations with that sister republic have been restored at the highest level, with the appointment of ambassadors at Lima and Santiago.
113.	The traditional friendship between Brazil and Chile was given renewed impetus on the occasion of the visit to our country by the President of Brazil, Mr. Jpao Baptista Figueiredo, towards the end of 1980, during which the heads of State of both Governments signed an important joint declaration and agreements on cooperation and other matters of mutual interest.
114.	We should also emphasize the excellent relations with Colombia, as shown by high-level official visits and the signing of cooperation agreements between our two countries.
115.	Our ties with Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela have also developed harmoniously as is demonstrated by our friendly relations with those sister countries.
116.	Following the conflict which broke out early this year between the Republics of Ecuador and Peru, we were asked to join with Argentina, Brazil and the United States of America as friendly countries and as guarantors of the PeruvianEcuadorian Protocol of Peace, Friendship and Frontiers, signed at Rio de Janeiro on 29 January 1942 to seek a just and speedy solution to the question. The action of the four countries referred to who acted at every stage by consensus made possible negotiations between the parties, which earned the recognition of the Presidents of Ecuador and Peru. We are proud to have contributed to restoring harmony between two brother countries with which we have traditional ties of friendship.
117.	Another significant landmark is the favorable development of our relations with the United States of America, as evidenced by the exchange of visits to our country and the United States by distinguished representatives of the Government, the armed forces, business and other sectors, which has revealed an ample convergence of views regarding bilateral, regional and international cooperation.
118.	We must point out our permanent interest in the situation in Central America and the Caribbean. Chile is opposed to foreign intervention in the internal affairs of those countries. We condemn subversion and terrorism as a means of penetration, and Chile cannot but regret, together with the great majority of the countries of our continent, the FrancoMexican declaration on El Salvador.4 Chile reiterates its belief that it is for the Salvadorean people alone to decide on their destiny in accordance with their full right to  self-determination.
119.	Our links with Western Europe have always been significant for Chilean foreign policy. Among the most favorable events of recent months have been the solution of the abnormal situation affecting our relations with Italy and the remarkable increase in commercial exchange with the great majority of countries in that region. As an example, it should be emphasized that trade with the Federal Republic of Germany reached a figure of $1 billion in 1980.
120.	We have promoted active diplomatic action in the Ear East, with the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations [ASEAN] and with those of the Pacific in general, and we have strengthened our ties with the People's Republic of China. Strong evidence of this is provided by the fruitful visit to Chile in April of this year by the ViceMinister of Foreign Affairs of China, Mr. Zhang Wenjin, and the signing of an important agreement last June. As a result of that same action, there has been a substantial increase in the value of trade with Japan, which this year will exceed $1.3 billion.
121.	We have also strengthened commercial and political ties with the countries of SouthEast Asia, and we have opened an embassy in Thailand, in addition to the embassies previously established in the Philippines, Singapore and Indonesia.
122.	As regards our policy of opening up towards the Pacific, we would point to the establishment of diplomatic relations with the island States of Kiribati and Nauru, as well as the growing participation by Chile in various forums dealing with matters of regional interest. In this connection, it is worth mentioning the offer made by our country, at a meeting of the Planning Committee of the South Pacific Commission, of an overall technical assistance program in the area.
123.	As regards our relations with the countries of the Middle East, besides the high level of our relations with many of them, we should point out as a significant event the establishment of new resident missions in lUnisia, Oman, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.
124.	Our ties with the African nations have been intensified more and more by the exchange of visits, by the establishment of mixed commissions, and by signing numerous agreements on technical, cultural and scientific assistance, as recently occurred with Zaire and Equatorial Guinea.
125.	In our relations with Africa we have not neglected cooperation on the tragic problem of refugees, not only by means of a small material contribution through UNHCR, but also by a proposal for technical assistance.
126.	My Government cannot omit the expression of its deep concern over the explosive international situation now affecting mankind. We have witnessed a confusion of values, in many instances contempt for human beings, deception of entire populations and disregard of various fundamental principles. And of late we have seen an increase in tension, which constitutes an undoubted threat to peace. This is the only way in which we can evaluate the military invasions, the outbreak of new conflicts, the use of subversion as a means of political and ideological penetration, the use of force in international relations, and the continuing increase in terrorism.
127.	On the pretext of ensuring peaceful coexistence the Soviet Union has sent its troops into Afghanistan and has used one of its satellites in SouthEast Asia, causing the oppression of an entire nation and one of the most tragic exoduses in history. It has used another of its allies first to penetrate, then to confuse and finally to act in Central America by means of subversion and terrorism. It has resorted to every means to create and encourage antagonisms in an effort to benefit its own cause. In addition, it has spread confusion and uncertainty by means of dialectics which destroy established values.
128.	Those of us who are convinced of the need for respect for the human person and for human dignity, who firmly believe in freedom of the individual and of nations, in independence, equality and
 self-determination for all peoples, must raise our voices and unite our efforts in order to prevent confusion and weakness allowing the indefinite and unjust progress of such imperialistic action. 'We believe that the time has come for all of us who identify with the authentic purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations to defend them frankly and openly, with the firmness that stems from conviction, by denouncing their violation wherever it occurs and by requesting and supporting application of the sanctions against transgressors which the Organization itself provides for.
129.	Therefore, we must openly denounce the case of Afghanistan, a country which was invaded by military force almost two years ago. Approximately 2,500,000 of its nationals have had to seek refuge in Pakistan, through that country's generosity and the contribution of the special fund for refugees from Afghanistan, which my country has supported.
130.	Another typical example of the use of force in international relations is the case of Kampuchea. Over 200,000 Vietnamese soldiers have attacked that country and are continually threatening its immediate neighbors. Chile condemns this outright aggression and fully supports the initiative of the ASEAN countries aimed at restoring peace and goodwill in SouthEast Asia after so many years of suffering.
131.	The tragedy in that part of the world is also evidenced by the millions of refugees who, in fragile boats, continue their search in other lands for the freedom of which they have been deprived. The United Nations should continue to give its full support to efforts to alleviate the terrible suffering of the IndoChinese refugees.
132.	Unfortunately, the use of force or the threat of use of force is not limited only to the aforementioned cases; it is also evident in Poland, with characteristics which remind us of other tragic interventions on the old continent. It is also found in the Middle East, in Africa and even in Latin America, where it is revealed in interventions and threats, especially in some Central American countries, such as El Salvador.
133.	My country notes this situation with special concern in regard to the Middle East, not only because it affects world peace but also because we feel very close to the peoples that live in that tormented region. Many of the children of those countries have become Chilean citizens, and we feel with them whenever peace is disrupted in those countries, with the terrible sequel of bloodshed and poverty.
134.	In particular, we have followed with deep concern the tragedy of the peoples of Lebanon, torn by bloody struggles which have devastated a once-prosperous nation. We hope that peace and calm will soon be restored in Lebanon and we support the peacemaking efforts of the United Nations, which have helped to mitigate the escalation of hostilities.
135.	Once again, we wish to reiterate that Chile believes that a realistic solution to the problem of the Middle East should be based on the withdrawal of Israel from all occupied Arab territories, on the acknowledgment of the right of all the States in that region including Israel, of course to live within secure and internationally recognized frontiers and on the full exercise of the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to  self-determination in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and especially those of the Security Council.
136.	With regard to Namibia, the Government of Chile believes that the efforts of the international community, and especially of the United Nations, should continue in order to find a negotiated solution to this colonial issue. In this regard, Chile, as a member of the United Nations Council for Namibia, supports resolution 435 (1978) and others adopted by the Security Council.
137.	Likewise, we reaffirm our denunciation of the policy of apartheid, because it constitutes a violation not only of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations but also of the very foundations of respect for human rights, regardless of creed, race or nationality.
138.	Chile, as a peace-loving country, encourages and favors any initiatives which make possible the peaceful settlement of disputes. Therefore, with regard to Cyprus, we endorse the suggestion that has been put forward that the question be dealt with as events and negotiations develop.
139.	Similarly, we believe that the good offices of the Secretary-General to reach a solution on the issue of the unification of Korea through dialog between the North and the South will contribute to the general stability of that region.
140.	We have referred to the commitment of all of us who belong to the Organization not only to respect the human person as such but also to promote the establishment of conditions in which justice and respect for the obligations assumed by States may be preserved.
141.	Two items on the agenda refer specifically to these matters: terrorism, which constitutes one of the most cowardly and cruel attacks against human beings, and disarmament. Unless disarmament is negotiated in good faith the conditions of justice and peace which we are committed to establish will be difficult to achieve.
142.	We attach special importance to the problem of terrorism, the escalation of which constitutes a very serious threat to the internal peace of States and a flagrant breach of the most elementary human rights. We have, therefore, lent our firm support to all those internationally agreed upon measures which seek effectively to counteract this despicable and criminal method of political struggle.
143.	While the paramount obligation to put an end to this phenomenon rests with Governments, we believe that theire is an international responsibility on all States to prohibit the promotion or encouragement in their territories of terrorist activities in other regions, and to punish those who commit or back up such criminal acts.
144.	Another matter which is unquestionably topical is the subject of disarmament, which is dealt with by the General Assembly year after year. While we admit that some progress has been achieved to halt the arms race, we regret that results have been few so far. Our traditionally peace-loving country has always proclaimed, both on a regional and on a worldwide level, its firm adherence to the principles of total disarmament, which is the heartfelt aspiration of the international community.
145.	The Government of Chile believes that the internal effort required from the developing countries should be complemented by international cooperation. Therefore Chile is confident that in the near future the path will be traced towards the launching of the global negotiations, as they are called, which perhaps at this time constitute the only initiative towards the attainment of an adjustment in international economic relations.
146.	If those negotiations are really expected to represent a vigorous contribution to cooperation efforts, it is indispensable that they be launched in the framework of the Organization so as to receive the full backing of the whole international community. At the same time, it appears indispensable for the different groups engaged in this work to make a serious analysis in an effort to unify viewpoints regarding such problems as the program of work or those of an institutional nature which have so far paralyzed talks. This task requires not only a high degree of political will on the part of the developed countries, thus giving effect to their frequent statements in this regard, but also the necessary high principles, clarity of concepts and clear language on the part of the countries constituting the Group of 77, which should agree to a larger degree of realism in their demands.
147.	Meanwhile the efforts towards SouthSouth cooperation have been revived; they were initiated by the developing countries themselves. This constitutes a highly favorable factor, which found its most concrete expression in the High Level Conference OP Economic Cooperation among Developing Countries, held recently at Caracas, where a complete program for horizontal cooperation was drawn up. This task is strongly supported by Chile.
148.	In the area of scientific cooperation, we are witnesses of the progress being achieved year by year for the benefit of all mankind.
149.	As far as outer space is concerned, the extremely rapid development of technology in that sector compels us to establish with great urgency legal principles to govern all activity. This task is being performed by the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, of which Chile is a member. However, further impetus should be given to this task in order to prevent space technology from being applied before the legal norms which should regulate its use, and clearly define responsibilities, are laid down. We hope that a study on the military use of outer space will now be initiated, either in that Committee itself or in the Committee on Disarmament, depending on the decision of the General Assembly. We believe that this is an urgent task which brooks no further delay.
150.	One of the major negotiations carried out under the auspices of the Organization is undoubtedly the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, both because of its great contribution to the progressive development of international law, as contemplated in the Charter, in regulating the use of more than two thirds of the planet, and because of its remarkable contribution to the work of international forums in general by perfecting an operative method of consensus among almost 160 participating States. It is a matter of satisfaction to the world, and especially to Chile, a law abiding maritime country, that next year the immense efforts that have been exerted will culminate in the adoption of a single convention of a universal nature enjoying the consensus of the international community. To that end, we call upon all States to step up their negotiating efforts and upon all the parties involved to so demonstrate the necessary flexibility with regard to the great objectives pursued, without altering the essence of the draft convention.
151.	A moment ago I mentioned the profound concern of the Government of Chile over the international situation at present facing mankind. It was also clearly stated that unfortunately the Organization had not responded fully to the efforts of those who created it in the hope of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war. As the Secretary-General warned us not long ago, we are closer than ever before to the danger of world confrontation [see AI36/1, sect. XIII].
152.	We believe that the time has come as in 1945  for Member States of the United Nations to renew their profession of faith in the authentic values of man and society. Only firm convictions and fortitude in the struggle to achieve a just international order can lead to the attainment of the supreme objective, peace. The Charter itself reveals to us that peace and security cannot be achieved unless there is effective international cooperation in solving economic, social, scientific and cultural problems.
153.	Chile realizes that States, both individually and collectively, should now back up with deeds their professions of profound and sincere willingness to use the United Nations as an instrument for authentic and active cooperation.
154.	In their magnitude and scope, the problems facing mankind today are largely international in nature. Therefore, their solution depends on the concerted efforts of all', large and small, to fulfill the noble task of creating a better world for our children and for generations to come.
155.	From this lofty rostrum Chile ratifies its decision to continue its unflagging struggle for the noble principles and ideals which gave birth to the United Nations in 1945.


===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
It is the tradition of the General Assembly that 
its President carry out the important duties 
assigned to him in a forthright spirit of 
equa-nimity and impartiality. My Government 
trusts that this valuable tradition, so well 
respected by his pre¬decessors, will be 
maintained during the deliberations that are 
beginning today.
127.	I wish to take this opportunity to 
express our gratitude to Mr. Kittani of Iraq for 
the dedication and energy with which he 
discharged his functions during his presidency.
128.	This is also an appropriate opportunity 
to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. 
Javier Perez de Cuellar, for the zealous, devoted 
and skilful per¬formance of his duties in the 
brief period of less than a year since he was 
chosen to shoulder this great responsibility. We 
must express the deep satisfaction with which we 
welcomed his election as Secretary- General. This 
once again highlighted his great personal and 
professional talents and was a clear 
demonstration of the confidence which the 
international community feels in a distinguished 
representative of Latin America and a worthy son 
of the Republic of Peru—a factor of particular 
significance to our region. We offer our warmest 
wishes for his success and once more reiterate 
our sincere willingness to co-operate with him in 
the fulfilment of his important and sensitive 
responsibilities.
129.	Chile comes to the General Assembly with 
feelings of deep concern about the delicate 
interna¬tional situation, which is affecting and 
impairing world peace and the very foundations of 
the Organization.
130.	This recently inaugurated session is 
taking place while the military occupations of 
Afghanistan and Kampuchea persist and the war 
between Iraq and Iran continues. No solution has 
yet been found for the Namibian situation. 
Lebanon has been practically destroyed by the war 
being waged on its territory by foreign nations. 
The Palestinian people remain without a physical 
territory in which to grow and develop as a 
nation. And, finally, the cowardly practice of 
terrorism, international subversion and foreign 
intervention to gain political or ideological 
objectives continues to spread with impunity in 
Central America and other regions of the world.
131.	The armed confrontations and conflicts 
and the systematic violation of the principles of 
the Charter and of international law have 
worsened dangerously, while juridical and 
political mechanisms remain ineffective, not 
having the necessary power to impose real and 
just solutions.
132.	Our people note with great 
disillusionment the inability of world 
organizations to keep the peace and to create a 
climate of consensus in order to advance along 
the road of co-operation and progress. 
Un¬fortunately, confidence in the international 
system is waning in a way that could become 
irreversible, especially in the Organization, 
which was created to promote harmonious and 
peaceful coexistence among States. We must face 
the reality of this situation with vigour, a 
sense of responsibility and decisiveness and work 
intensively to achieve the necessary convergence 
of views, so as to restore the world's faith in 
the principles and objectives embodied in the 
Charter. We are facing a situation which demands 
all our capabilities and efforts since at stake 
is the very future of mankind, of the 
international system and of respect for the 
obligations which all Member States have 
contracted and to which our respective nations 
are in honour pledged.
133.	We have affirmed in various forums that 
one of the elements which guide the foreign 
policy of Chile is its unwavering support for the 
principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes 
and its rejection of the threat or use of force 
in international relations. Today more than ever 
we reaffirm our political will to abide by the 
principles of international law. We call upon the 
conscience of the world for the abandon¬ment of 
mere declarations and decisive support for the 
development of legal instruments that will give 
these principles the quality of mandatory 
standard for the international conduct of States.
134.	These essential norms, explicitly laid 
down in Article 2, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the 
Charter, find their practical application in 
Chapter VI, devoted to the obligations of the 
parties to a dispute and the powers and 
attributions of the Security Council. In a 
similar manner, numerous later instruments 
prepared within the framework of the Organization 
have repeated them and expanded their scope. 
Outstanding among these are: the draft 
Declaration on Rights and Duties of States, 
prepared by the International Law Com¬mission in 
1949 the Declaration on Principles of 
International Law con¬cerning Friendly Relations 
and Co-operation among States in accordance with 
the Charter of the United Nations, adopted in 
1970; the Declaration on the Strengthening of 
International Security, also adopted in 1970; the 
Definition of Aggression, adopted in 1974; and, 
most recently, the draft Manila Declaration on 
the Peaceful Settlement of International 
Disputes, finalized by the Special Committee on 
the Charter of the United Nations and on the 
Strengthening of the Role of the Organization at 
its meeting in Geneva in March of this year.
135.	In the American region the principle of 
the peaceful settlement of disputes has been very 
clearly established in three of the most 
important documents of the regional system: the 
Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance 
concluded in Rio de Janeiro in 1947; the charter 
of the Organization of American States of 1948;? 
and the Pact of Bogota of the same year.
136.	The unrestricted application of the 
principle and its full doctrinal implications 
have not been sufficiently developed, especially 
during the past 30 years, despite the fact that 
it was contemplated in the documents I have 
mentioned and in many other documents of a 
bilateral and multilateral nature. At its current 
session the General Assembly has the important 
task of adopting the draft Manila Declara¬tion, 
thereby giving a strong impetus to the 
vitalization of the system of the peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
137.	Within this context, I should like to 
stress before the Assembly the special relevance 
and priority that my Government attaches to the 
obligation of Mem¬ber States to settle disputes 
by peaceful means and the obligation to abstain 
from recourse to the threat or use of force in 
their international relations. These two 
obligations constitute the basic pillars of 
international relations. Repeated and systematic 
non-observance by some States has led to the 
creation of the present turbulent international 
situation—a situation which is diminishing the 
credibility of the United Nations.
138.	Taking into account these and other norms 
con¬cerning the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
we believe that these should be put into treaty 
form so as effectively to facilitate their 
practical application. As I have already noted, 
we believe that the surest guarantee of the 
preservation of peace among nations would be the 
existence of agreements and instruments making 
recourse to the settlement of disputes by 
peaceful means obligatory under international 
law, in order to eliminate for ever the risk of a 
conflagration. What better guarantee could there 
be for our peoples than the protection afforded 
by the procedure of peaceful settlement, thus 
sparing them the constant fear of a 
confrontation, with incalculable conse¬quences? 
What better way could there be to demon¬strate 
dedication to and respect for the law as peace- 
loving Members of the Organization than by being 
bound by treaties and agreements which establish 
the means of effectively preserving peace? We 
feel that the United Nations, as the supreme body 
entrusted with the preservation of international 
peace and security in our time, cannot remain 
aloof from this noble task.
139.	Unfortunately, events of recent years 
have shown that the failure to apply the norms 
and pro¬cedures for the peaceful settlement of 
disputes provided for in Chapter VI of the 
Charter results in the Security Council's being 
charged with the responsi¬bility of acting once 
hostilities have broken out, when the solution 
becomes much more complex because of the loss of 
human lives and the natural exacerba¬tion of 
feelings. In other words, there is no effective 
and rapid fulfilment of the obligations the 
Member States assume in accordance with Chapter 
VI or the functions entrusted to the Security 
Council under Chapter VII. How much more better 
it would be if the Organization could carry out 
the preventive and dissuasive role assigned to it 
by the Charter, reduce the sources of conflict 
and guide countries towards a peaceful settlement 
of their disputes. We are particularly pleased 
that the Secretary- General, in his report on the 
work of the Organi¬zation, concurs with the 
observations that Chile has been making 
throughout this year, particularly in the 
Security Council and at the second special 
session of the General Assembly devoted to 
disarmament. This task cannot be deferred and we 
believe that the Organization and the regional 
systems are especially qualified to draw up and 
agree upon some procedure for preventive 
vigilance which could lead the parties concerned 
in a dispute towards the effective applica¬tion 
of the means of settlement available, or to 
pursue the development of a procedure to prevent 
the frustra¬tion of efforts and the creation of 
an irreversible situation.
140.	A discouraging and disquieting world 
economic situation has been added to the increase 
in interna¬tional tension. The common and almost 
unmanageable problem of inflation has been 
accompanied by a slow rate of growth, 
unemployment and governmental budget deficits, to 
which has been added external indebtedness. This 
last, which fundamentally comple¬ments the 
financing of the economic growth of almost all 
developing countries, has made more difficult the 
solution of urgent problems, owing to the high 
cost of money. This is particularly serious in 
the social sector, since there is a daily 
increase in the millions of human beings who have 
been left out of the mainstream of the progress 
which scientific and technological know¬ledge has 
brought to much of mankind.
141.	The search for easy solutions to the 
problems has resulted in rising budgetary 
imbalances in many countries, including the 
industrialized nations with market economies, and 
the worsening of their dif¬ficulties over the 
medium term.
142.	The legitimate attempt by some developed 
States to find basic solutions to their internal 
problems has caused a slump in economic activity. 
This in turn has resulted in the reduction of the 
prices of practically all raw materials, severely 
affecting the developing countries which are the 
principal exporters of such materials.
143.	The international crisis has buffeted the 
weakest economies with a force hitherto almost 
unknown, and few countries have escaped its 
effects. Its mag¬nitude is such that however 
forceful internal efforts to combat the problem 
the effects can be only tempo-rarily minimized 
and in no case has there been com¬plete recovery 
and progress for such economies. The 
international economic co-operation which could 
have mitigated the effects of this crisis has 
also decreased with the reduction of the 
resources devoted to that end.
144.	In view of this situation, we must stress 
that the world economic order must be reformed, 
in a spirit of co-operation and with complete 
international solidarity. While recognizing that 
the present world political climate may not be 
the most propitious for beginning such an 
exercise, we believe that the cost of maintaining 
the present situation would exceed that of 
initiating global negotiations, even in 
conditions which, in our view, are not the most 
desirable from the point of view of the 
developing countries.
145.	The international community has a duty to 
study solutions within the existing institutions 
in order to facilitate the efforts and possible 
modifications that should be made by developing 
countries deeply affected by the international 
crisis, a phenomenon not foreign to the Latin 
American region.
146.	In the mean time my Government has well- 
founded hopes that the forthcoming ministerial 
meeting of GATT will achieveconcrete steps 
towards liber¬alizing international trade, and 
putting an end to existing protectionist measures 
which, we are certain, can only contribute to 
further aggravation of current difficulties.
147.	We trust, likewise, that the economic 
co¬operation between developing countries 
formally begun in 1981 at the meeting at Caracas 
will begin to bear fruit and permit alleviation 
of the situation in many of our countries.
148.	I cannot refrain at this time from 
referring to certain specific instances which 
constitute persistent focal points of world 
tension and which are dete¬riorating despite 
resolutions adopted by the Security Council and 
the General Assembly.
149.	Unfortunately, we have noted that the 
efforts of the Organization to find a solution to 
the problem facing the people of Afghanistan have 
proved sterile, despite the fact that another 
year has passed since three fourths of the Member 
States voted in favour of General Assembly 
resolution 36/34.
150.	We again condemn the flagrant aggression 
from which the people of Afghanistan are 
suffering and we reiterate our support for those 
who are struggling to re-establish that country's 
complete sovereignty. We add our voice to that of 
the inter¬national community, as we did in 
commemorating the day of Afghanistan, and demand 
the immediate with¬drawal of Soviet occupation 
forces. We likewise wish to express our sorrow 
over the situation affecting numerous inhabitants 
of that land who have had to seek refuge beyond 
their borders in order to escape foreign 
oppression.
151.	A year has also passed since the adoption 
of Assembly resolution 36/5, insisting on respect 
for the territorial integrity, independence and 
right of self- determination of Kampuchea, 
together with the with¬drawal of invading forces, 
and that resolution has likewise been flagrantly 
disobeyed.
152.	Chile, which gave its support to the 
efforts of the /M Roc Committee of the 
International Con¬ference on Kampuchea to find a 
comprehensive political solution of the problem, 
now expresses its satisfaction with regard to the 
recent formation of the Government headed by 
Prince Norodom Sihanouk.
153.	The tense and unstable situation now 
prevailing in the Korean peninsula confirms our 
conviction that inter-Korean negotiations are the 
only practical way of resolving through peaceful 
means and without foreign intervention, a problem 
that has been dragging on for almost 40 years.
154.	The situation in the Middle East 
continues to represent a threat to international 
peace and security. During the thirty-fifth and 
thirty-sixth sessions of the General Assembly, I 
emphasized that our rejection of the use of force 
as a means for settling disputes, controversies 
or conflicts is the principle which, for a 
country like Chile, has necessarily assumed the 
highest priority. For this reason we emphasize 
the need for a realistic solution based on the 
withdrawal of Israel from all occupied 
territories, with recognition of the right of all 
States of the region, including Israel, to live 
within secure and internationally recog¬nized 
borders, and the full exercise by the Palestinian 
people of their inalienable rights, including the 
right to the establishment of a sovereign 
State—all this in accordance with the pertinent 
resolutions of the United Nations, especially 
Security Council, reso¬lutions 242 (1967) and 338 
(1973).
155.	The tragic crisis involving Lebanon today 
has shaken the not always alert sensitivity of 
the interna¬tional community. We are deeply 
concerned over the situation affecting that 
country, with which we are linked by so many ties 
of friendship and co-operation. The grave 
problems besetting the Middle East have, 
unfortunately, resulted in the clashes between 
the various parties taking place on Lebanese soil 
and at the expense of its people. We insist on 
the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon 
and demand complete respect for the territorial 
integrity and political independence of that 
nation.
156.	We cannot but express our grief over the 
base attack upon the President-elect of Lebanon, 
Mr. Bashir Gemayel. We condemn also most 
energetically the inhuman and brutal massacre of 
the Palestinian refu¬gees in the Sabra and 
Shatila camps. We view with horror the terrorism 
which has struck down yet more victims, breeding 
hate and loss of confidence among a people which 
was naturally longing for peace and prosperity 
after long years of misfortune and des¬peration.
157.	We trust that these reprehensible crimes 
will not hinder the pacification process of that 
noble country, which now faces the challenge of 
starting its own reconstruction in order to seek 
the good fortune it deserves. We therefore wish 
President-elect Amin Gemayel the greatest success 
in his management of the difficult tasks of 
government that he has under¬taken.
158.	Chile, in its dedication to peace and 
love of justice, has supported all initiatives 
designed to bring about a just and lasting 
solution to the complex and delicate situation in 
the Middle East. In this context we applaud the 
peace plans of the President of the United States 
and those of the Arab nations emanating from the 
Twelfth Arab Summit Conference at Fez. We call 
upon the States of this disturbed area to 
consider the proposals which can contribute 
effectively to the cause of peace and offer hope 
for the productive development of all its people, 
in a climate of under¬standing and good 
neighbourliness.
159.	My country, as a member of the Special 
Com¬mittee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementa¬tion of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries 
and Peoples and of the United Nations Council for 
Namibia, has participated actively in the process 
of self-determination and independence that has 
been developing in recent years. For this reason 
we note with special attention the negotiations 
under way to find a peaceful solution that will 
permit the people of Namibia finally to achieve 
independence in accordance with its interests. In 
this regard, my Government firmly supports 
Security Council resolu¬tions 385 (1976) and 435 
(1978). We hope that a solu¬tion will be found to 
ensure a stable peace in the region and the 
withdrawal of all foreign forces from the zone.
160.	Chile is a country with strong feelings 
of loyalty to the American continent. It is proud 
to belong to a young and forceful continent which 
has given proof throughout its history of its 
genuine spirit of co¬operation and world 
solidarity. For this reason, we observe with 
concern the crisis affecting the inter- American 
system, the result of feelings of frustration and 
disenchantment among the American nations 
themselves resulting from the various conflicts 
and divisions within the confines of our 
continent.
l63. The Government of Chile reaffirms from this 
rostrum the urgent need for the nations of the 
con¬tinent to strengthen their regional 
coexistence on the basis not only of the 
continent's legal system, but also of an 
essential political consensus that will enable us 
to recover an appropriate position in the 
international community.
164.	This year, Latin America was shaken by 
the outbreak of the Anglo-Argentine conflict over 
the Malvinas Islands. The deep impact on the 
hemisphere of this unfortunate confrontation 
reflects our natural concern about the problems 
which trouble the Latin American community, 
especially the loss of faith in the effectiveness 
of the mechanisms of the inter-American and world 
systems. Faithful to its tradition of respect for 
the norms and principles of international law, my 
Government, together with 19 other Latin American 
countries, sponsored a request to include an item 
on the Malvinas Islands in the agenda of the 
present session of the General Assembly and we 
make an urgent appeal for the peaceful settlement 
of the dispute between Argentina and the United 
Kingdom under the auspices of the United Nations.
165.	Faced with the present uncertain world 
pan¬orama, it is necessary to continue fighting 
tirelessly in order to attain the positive goals 
which will strengthen the Organization. In this 
respect we attrib¬ute special importance to the 
development of the new international law of the 
sea, to the efforts being made on disarmament and 
on the exploitation of outer space for peaceful 
purposes.
166.	After nine long years of negotiations 
which established consensus as the method of 
legislating on international affairs, the Third 
United Nations Con¬ference on the Law of the Sea 
has adopted a con¬vention which should be a cause 
of pride to the world community. The 
Secretary-General of the United Nations has 
described it as one of the greatest achievements 
of the century. The law of the sea Con¬vention, 
which brings together important institutions and 
principles, such as classic maritime law, the 
rules governing the sea-bed and for the peaceful 
settlement of disputes and other no less 
significant matters, constitutes the new 
international law of the sea. These norms are 
designed to cover the activities of mankind on 
two thirds of this planet.
167.	Special reference should be made to take 
eco¬nomic zone of 200 miles. This concept, which 
was originally framed by the Governments of 
Chile, Ecuador and Peru in 1952, is based on the 
legitimate right of States to their natural 
resources for the benefit of their respective 
populations. Latin America has gradually made 
this new maritime space its own, to the point of 
transforming it into one of the pillars of Latin 
American law of the sea and then into general 
interna¬tional law.
168.	We believe that the significance and 
scope of the law of the sea Convention make it 
advisable that all member countries of the 
international community should participate in it. 
We must make every effort to achieve this and to 
avoid looking for alternative schemes lacking 
legal foundation and validity, and therefore not 
deserving of international recognition. It is 
important that the Convention be ready for 
signature on the date scheduled, that the 
Preparatory Commission established by the 
Conference* start functioning and that this 
decisive instrument enter into force as soon as 
possible.
169.	In June of this year I had the honour of 
ad¬dressing the Assembly at the twelfth special 
ses¬sion, the second special session of the 
General As¬sembly devoted to disarmament [gee 
77/Meefwg]. In stating the position of my country 
on that occasion, I pointed out that Chile, as a 
peace-loving nation, respectful of the law, 
condemned the use of force in any of its 
manifestations. Those principles, I added, 
constituted the basis of our foreign policy and 
deter¬mined our conduct in the difficult Held of 
interna¬tional relations. For that reason, we are 
concerned over the arms race in which today 
certain nations are involved, which is increasing 
tension and the threat of destruction hovering 
over mankind. Disarmament is closely tied to 
development and for that reason it will be most 
difficult for nations to find the path to 
progress if they have not first established 
effective and lasting peace. That is why we have 
supported demilitarization by regions, under the 
control of the United Nations, supporting 
valuable proposals, such as that made by the 
Japanese Government, which seek to neutralize the 
conventional and nuclear arms races. Chile, 
moreover, favours the strengthening of IAEA so 
that, through universal acceptance of its 
monitoring of nuclear facilities and the 
comprehensive use of its technical assistance 
capabilities, nuclear energy can be directed 
towards those objectives which seek to expand 
development and consolidate world peace.
170.	Among the challenges to the improved 
develop¬ment of nations is the exploitation and 
utilization of outer space for peaceful purposes. 
Its condition as the common heritage of mankind 
must be safeguarded so that its exploration and 
exploitation can be conducted for the benefit of 
all peoples. We believe also that in order to 
preserve that condition it would be highly useful 
to have a world authority to administer the 
resources that may derive from exploitation, 
ade¬quately channelling applications of 
technology and indirectly preventing the 
militarization of outer space.
171.	At the regional level, Chile has 
supported the establishment of a Latin American 
space agency which could serve to obtain the 
greatest advantages of the uses of space and 
improve expectations of well-being. We are happy 
to see that this initiative was favourably 
received by the Second United Nations Conference 
on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer 
Space.
172.	Within this context of promising 
perspectives I believe it would be appropriate to 
comment on the interesting developments taking 
place in the area of the Pacific basin. Various 
indicators have shown that we are in the presence 
of a process of growing economic interdependence 
between the coastal nations of that Ocean, where 
transportation and communica¬tions, trade, 
investments and the general flow of goods, 
services and people have been growing more than 
in any other area of the world during the past 
decade. As a result of these positive 
developments, various initiatives, especially 
from the academic and private business sectors, 
have been moving forward around a structure of 
regional integration and co-operation plans. 
Although this involves a vast basin, with many 
dissimilar racial, linguistic, religious, 
political and development factors, they 
frequently complement each ether and provide 
incentives, together with the phenomenon of 
interdependence I have already described, for 
establishing a course towards a future economic 
community in the Pacific.
173.	Chile, a maritime country which attaches 
great importance to its diplomatic, economic and 
cultural activities in the Pacific region, 
decisively supports such initiatives. My 
Government therefore upholds the concept of a 
continuing interchange of ideas and consultative 
mechanisms for a common Pan-Pacific dialogue and, 
more particularly, the South-South co¬operation, 
which is feasible among Latin America, the 
islands of the South Pacific and the members of 
the Association of South-East Asian Nations.
174.	The Chilean Government, faithful to its 
un¬wavering tradition of resolving disputes 
through peaceful means under international law, 
and its con¬sistent respect for treaties and 
international instru-ments, is continuing its 
attempt to settle its existing differences with 
the Republic of Argentina in our southern waters. 
We reiterate our faith in and full support for 
the noble mission undertaken by His Holiness Pope 
John Paul II in his capacity as mediator. His 
providential intercession permitted the staving 
off of a dangerous crisis between our two nations 
at the end of 1978. The happy initiative of this 
distinguished mediator has already yielded 
valuable results which allow us to hope for the 
final and complete success of his efforts. We are 
certain that the final agreement to be achieved 
will contribute to the greater strengthening of 
the deep historical ties which have joined the 
two republics together since the dawn of their 
independence.
175.	It is my very pleasant duty to reiterate 
to the Assembly the gratitude of the people and 
Government of Chile to a man who, as Vicar of 
Christ on earth, is engaged in such a noble 
undertaking in a world convulsed by violence.
176.	As I stated at the beginning of my 
inter¬vention, the Chilean Government brings to 
the General Assembly a deep concern about the 
sensitive situation facing the world today. We 
agree with the Secretary- General when he states 
in his report that "We are perilously near to a 
new international anarchy... one symptom of which 
is the crisis in the multilateral approach in 
international affairs and the concomitant erosion 
of the authority and status of world and regional 
intergovernmental institutions". In order to 
avoid such anarchy, my country considers it 
essential to deal firmly with the situations 
which today constitute the principal sources of 
interna-tional tension, employing the means 
available to the Organization to ensure that 
States conform to the principles set forth in the 
Charter, in particular refraining from the threat 
or use of force, the peaceful settlement of 
disputes and international co-operation in every 
area. An act of collective creativity is required 
which, with imagination and realism, will enable 
us to find agreed legal formulas to banish the 
apocalyptic phantom of war and to prepare for a 
future of world coexistence. To do so, we must 
not allow the Organ¬ization to become merely a 
body to which States bring their differences and 
problems. We must arrive at a sufficient 
consensus to enable us to avoid the outbreak of 
armed clashes, because once such a clash begins, 
it is almost impossible to stop it. To achieve 
that aim, we reaffirm the need to change the 
pro¬cedures for the peaceful settlements of 
disputes, and give them the necessary mandatory 
character.
177.	In the course of this statement, I have 
stated the fundamental principles upon which our 
foreign policy is based, namely, respect for the 
individual and for the law. Our Government, 
maintaining a clear and consistent position, is 
applying those same prin¬ciples to its domestic 
life. With the broad support of its citizens, it 
is carrying out a process of 
institu¬tionalization designed to modernize the 
country in every sphere and to give its people 
greater oppor¬tunities for spiritual and material 
development.
178.	Chile is prepared to continue along the 
road of peace and respect for the law, a 
tradition which is deeply rooted in its national 
character.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿1.	 I am indeed gratified to have the opportunity to offer my very cordial greetings to the President of this thirty-eighth session of the General Assembly, the Vice President of Panama, Mr. Jorge Illueca, long identified with this Organization, and through him to the people of his country, linked to mine by a warm and enduring friendship.
2.	At this session of the Assembly we are witnessing two developments which are of special satisfaction to my delegation: first, the fact that the presidency is held by the worthy representative of a Latin American nation, and secondly, the admission of Saint Christopher and Nevis as a new Member of the Organization, after having solemnly declared its independence on 18 September, the date on which my country also commemorates its birth as a sovereign nation. With the addition of Saint Christopher and Nevis, to whose delegation we offer our best wishes, the number of countries of our region that are determined to contribute to strengthening the principles and purposes of the Charter of San Francisco is thus increased.
3.	As a Latin American and as a Chilean, I am particularly happy to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General for the brilliant and efficient manner in which he has been carrying out his functions, including the negotiating efforts to promote peace and the achievement of the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations.
4.	In my capacity as Minister for External Relations of Chile, the most constructive contribution I can make to this world forum, at a time when difficult circumstances confront the international community, is a brief review of the objectives we pursue, the paths we should take and the resources we have for attaining our goals.
5.	Almost 40 years have passed since the solemn signing of the Charter at San Francisco, where the decision to preserve future generations from the scourge of war was sealed. Bodies have been created to achieve that aim and efforts have been made to secure true international co-operation to solve the major political, economic, social and cultural problems affecting mankind.
6.	At the same time, scientific and technological development has reached such a point that, together with producing hitherto unknown possibilities, it has placed in the hands of man weapons capable of destroying the species. It is paradoxical that the very human being who has succeeded in reaching the stars has forged the means which could lead to his annihilation.
7.	I believe I am not exaggerating if I point out that the risk to our peoples lies in the inability to live in keeping with the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter. While such great advances have been made in the field of science, we have fallen terribly far behind in the unavoidable task of preserving harmony and avoiding aggression.
8.	The existing and potential conflicts number in the dozens, and in many cases the smallest countries are mere actors in the disagreements behind which obscure interests of ideological and economic influence are hidden. The threat of major conflagrations hangs over us as the consequence of decisions in which, in many cases, we were not involved. Power protects the powerful, but the blood that stains the earth with its iniquity is not always that of those who created the disputes.
9.	For that reason it is necessary to reiterate that the peaceful settlement of disputes, pledged a thousand and one times in texts, speeches and international agreements, must become the rule. This aim has been thwarted because a real will to accept solutions dictated by law or advocated by fairness does not exist.
10.	If the use or threat of the use of force is banished from international practice and a decision to respect the law is taken, we shall have gained a world of peace and harmony which will enable man to fulfil the aspirations of progress enshrined in the Charter.
11.	We are duty-bound to note with sorrow that, unfortunately, the Security Council has been used many times just for effect, which has led to the distancing of its deliberations from the spirit that led to its creation and to making its resolutions simply repetitive, diverting it from its fundamental responsibility of maintaining international peace and security in the name of the United Nations, that is to say, the international community.
12.	For that reason, it is urgent to examine the question of what formula would allow the Organization to follow closely the evolution of certain problems in order to guide them towards peaceful means of preventing and settling disputes in accordance with international law and human rights. Perhaps some form of joint action could be worked out for those unresolved differences which carry the risk of potential confrontation. In this manner there could be timely co-operation in the initial stages with the parties directly concerned, thereby possibly averting confrontation. I cannot help recalling what the representative of Chile said last year in this regard: "Experience should have taught us only too well that there is a limit, at the transgression of which a thousand diabolical elements will band together to blur understanding and lead to the precipice.'"
13.	It is true that in some cases such preventive action could lead to frustration, but then experience, lessons and sometimes great endeavours flow from failures. On the other hand, inaction and inactivity have always proved sterile.
14.	We state with conviction that we must not remain unmoved in the face of the clear proliferation of potential or real conflicts. We must never permit a situation such as that in 1945, in which the initiative for and the achievement of international agreement has to emerge from rubble and death. We must prevent a situation in which peace must be created by war; peace must be the child of peace.
15.	Because we hold this conviction, my Government today reaffirms, as it has in the past, its unqualified support for the fundamental principles of the Charter, the peaceful settlement of disputes and respect for treaties. The best guarantee of peace must be effective juridical instruments which will obviate the temptation to succumb to the misleading attraction and dangerous expedient of force.
16.	Coming generations could look towards the future with tranquillity if the United Nations had an efficient mechanism for preventing sterile confrontations.
17.	My country has the moral authority to deal with these subjects because of its consistent devotion to peace and its identification with the ideals which led to the creation of the United Nations. In a world which has not been-able to silence the guns of war, we, together with our neighbours, have enjoyed a century-long peace, moving forward successfully along the common paths of understanding and co-operation. For that reason we feel qualified to express our concern about situations which might disturb the peace. If the international community does not face with imagination, creativity and resolution circumstances which constitute risks to peace—such as the events in Central America, the Middle East, Afghanistan and Kampuchea—the Organization will see the frustration of the dreams and hopes which the nations of the world have held for it since the very moment of its creation.
18.	The Chilean Government has pursued tirelessly and patiently, in the peaceful spirit I have recalled, its efforts to ensure harmony in the southern region of the continent.
19.	We have always complied with the decisions of international justice, and we welcomed the paternal appeals of His Holiness Pope John Paul II. After accepting the 1977 arbitration finding, compliance with which was obligatory in accordance with a commitment previously agreed to by the parties, we promptly accepted the settlement proposal later worked out by the Holy Father. We have also been prepared to sign a peace treaty, as recommended by the same mediator, to guarantee juridically the harmony fortunately existing between my country and the Argentine Republic.
20.	We have not succeeded in securing the culmination of the Holy Father's mediating efforts. In view of the passage of time, we reiterate today our faith in the result of his patient action and express our hope that, thanks to it, our objectives of peace, unity and integration will be achieved.
21.	Similarly, we count on the success of the negotiating action entrusted to the Secretary-General in the South Atlantic conflict between the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom.
22.	The direct threats to peace to which I referred earlier are associated with another danger: the world economic depression. The nations with the most fragile structures are today suffering the consequences of a crisis which is perhaps the worst since the end of the Second World War. We do not wish to shirk our share of responsibility, but we must emphasize that any solution requires the resolute collaboration of the economically strongest countries.
23.	What is lacking today is a major consensus for development. From the ministerial meeting of the Contracting Parties of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to the sixth session of the, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, through the failure of the attempt to renew global negotiations and the difficulties in establishing a viable financing system for science and technology for development, as well as the reduction of all flows of official development assistance, we have gone from disappointment to disappointment, and a crisis of international economic co-operation has been precipitated.
24.	We should not turn a deaf ear to these warnings, because history teaches that economic crises constitute the atmosphere in which political tensions and international conflicts thrive.
25.	The present situation forces us to recognize the magnitude of the new dimension of interdependence which today defines relations between North and South.
26.	But beyond the inevitable tensions and antagonisms a true mutuality of interests exists between the industrialized and developing States. The less developed countries know well that the cause of peace and progress cannot be served by slowing or destroying the growth of the more advanced ones. And the latter cannot but fully recognize their responsibility as partners in the process of world recovery. Both must join forces to make the most of the exploitation of resources in a more equitable and more rational international division of labour, based on the comparative advantages of the various regions. It is appropriate, therefore, to formulate a juridical and political plan for our world, with the participation of all in the determination of new areas of freedom and innovation, based on the cardinal principles of sovereignty, development and peace.
27.	An honest and clear distinction must be made between what is desirable and what is possible within today's limited resources. In this context, the programme of action proposed by the Secretary-General during the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development could serve as a good guide for our debates.
28.	Now that I have referred to subjects of priority interest, I should like to mention briefly my Government's position on matters of special interest to the General Assembly.
29.	The community of nations must not remain indifferent to the occupation by foreign forces of Afghanistan and Kampuchea, where the rights of the peoples are being systematically violated and international juridical norms are being mocked.
30.	It is imperative for the Soviet as well as the Vietnamese aggressor, which infringe the most elementary standards of coexistence, to withdraw from those illegally occupied territories so that their peoples can exercise their inalienable right of self-determination.
31.	While we unreservedly support the humanitarian work being done on behalf of the refugees, we are concerned at the failure to comply with the resolutions adopted by the United Nations, which constitutes an open violation of the Charter and of international law.
32.	Furthermore, it is with serious concern that we witness the crisis affecting our sister nations in Central America. We share with them their desire to preserve their identity and freedom in the face of the disturbing ideologies which an extra-continental Power seeks to introduce into our hemisphere.
33.	We have given our firm support to the negotiations of the Contadora Group, and we hope that this initiative will result in a formula which will preserve the values of freedom and human dignity for that part of our continent, which is undergoing a difficult stage in its history.
34.	With regard to the situation in the Middle East, Chile has constantly insisted on the need to find a just and lasting solution in keeping with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). In our view this objective can be attained only through realistic approaches based on recognition of the right of all States of the region, including Israel, to live within secure and internationally recognized boundaries and on the full exercise by the Palestinian people of the right to self- determination and to establish its own sovereign State.
35.	We also feel that the international community would be failing in its duty were it not to succeed in establishing lasting peace in Lebanon. The withdrawal of all foreign forces from that country and respect for its territorial integrity and political independence are indispensable if that once prosperous nation is to recover its unity and the tranquillity necessary for it to begin its speedy and definitive political and material reconstruction. In this regard, the truce recently achieved in Lebanon has aroused our hopes.
36.	Inspired by its pacifist calling and its commitment to the idea of good-neighbourliness, Chile will always support initiatives which seek a fair and lasting solution of the complex and delicate situation in the Middle East.
37.	I cannot complete these brief references to international matters without placing special emphasis on a situation which Chile, as an active member of the United Nations Council for Namibia, views with great concern. I am referring to the persistence in Namibia of a situation which the entire international community has condemned. In this regard, we wish again to express our complete support for the negotiations which the Secretary- General is conducting in order to find a peaceful solution for this problem which will permit the speedy implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978).
38.	I also reiterate our repudiation of the practice of apartheid an historic anachronism which is an outrage to the conscience of mankind.
39.	Similarly, we continue to deplore the unstable situation in the Korean peninsula. The profound significance of the division of that nation, as far as Chile is concerned, persuades us to support the inter-Korean negotiations more than ever as the only peaceful formula, free of foreign interference, that can lead to a solution of the problem.
40.	Furthermore, we energetically denounce the criminal attack upon a Korean civilian plane by Soviet war- planes with the consequent unfortunate loss of life, which is mourned not only by the Korean people but also by Members of the Organization. The contempt for and indifference to the international community and international law shown by the Soviet Union cannot but be condemned.
41.	I must also reiterate the concern which my country has indicated on other occasions in this forum with regard to the continued nuclear testing which France is carrying out in the South Pacific. Our firm position is based on the inherent dangers to human life and the flora and fauna of the region. For that reason, we strongly support the signing of a general treaty prohibiting all nuclear tests.
42.	Turning to other matters, the issues of outer space, the law of the sea, the Pacific Basin and the Antarctic region are of priority concern to our country.
43.	Chile has actively participated in the work being done by the United Nations in the field of outer space, particularly in the search for means of co-operation and in the drafting of juridical instruments regulating the various activities now taking place in this Held.
44.	We wish to stress at this time the reception given to the Chilean initiative on the creation of a Latin American space agency. Such a body would permit joint exploitation of the benefits of space science by the member countries, thus making a decisive contribution to their economic, social and cultural development.
45.	The signing of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea represents the culmination of long years of effort and negotiation. It is the definitive sanctioning of the concept of an exclusive economic zone of 200 nautical miles, an idea which was originally introduced by my country in 1947.
46.	The Chilean Government welcomes the fact that more than 120 Member States have already signed this Convention, and it calls upon those which have not yet done so to give their support to this important instrument of modern international law, the result of the good will displayed by the international community in the process of negotiations.
47.	The Chilean Government takes note of the work done by the recent second session of the Preparatory Commission for the International Sea-Bed Authority and for the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, and, as Vice-President of that body, we affirm that we will continue actively to co-operate in the implementation of the provisions of the Convention.
48.	Chile attaches special importance to the Pacific Ocean, its natural maritime field, which daily demands from the coastal States increasing attention to its inestimable potential, and to the lively dialogue of co-operation which has taken place among the countries of the Basin in recent years.
49.	Chile is a Consultative Party to the Antarctic Treaty and its research activity on that continent and the co-operation offered to other Members of the United Nations have been constant.
50.	Chile is an Antarctic country by virtue of legal title, history and geographic continuity. The fact that it is a developing country with limited resources has not prevented it from carrying out activities which for more than a century have contributed to linking that continent with the rest of the world, and to the preservation of its unique ecosystem.
51.	As a founder the Antarctic Treaty, a Consultative Party and a country that exercises sovereign rights in the Antarctic, Chile cannot be in favour of having this subject discussed in the United Nations.
52.	We view with concern the consequences that might occur if this Organization were to undertake the consideration of matters which are the subject of international treaties, open to participation by all States, as is the specific case of the Antarctic Treaty. The twelfth meeting of the Consultative Parties was recently held at Canberra with the active participation of all the adherents.
53.	That Treaty, which upholds the principles and purposes of the Charter, has proved to be a unique instrument and an example of international co-operation integrated into the United Nations system and open to all its Members. Those countries with Antarctic activities, including the super-Powers, have found themselves obliged to set aside those matters which separate them and to co-operate peacefully in all areas linked to the Antarctic.
54.	For countries such as Chile, which, in addition to century-old activity, exercises its sovereignty in that territory and has its rights protected under article IV of the Treaty, an inadequate consideration of this subject would constitute a violation of Article 2, paragraph 7, of the Charter.
55.	Thanks to the existence of the Antarctic Treaty, that region has been preserved as a zone of peace, free from nuclear weapons, far from the traditional confrontations between the great Powers and open to the participation 
of all States Members of this Organization. The system which has been structured around the Treaty guarantees faithful compliance in the Antarctic with all the aims and objectives of the Charter, in addition to duly safeguarding the interests of humanity.
56.	In this session we have heard certain foreign ministers, seeming to follow orders, refer to the internal situation in my country, thus demonstrating a selectivity which we denounce and certainly reject. In some cases their remarks reveal deliberate ignorance and in others a lack of information and even an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs. For this reason only I am compelled briefly to emphasize what is occurring in the process of institutional consolidation in Chile.
57.	Early in 1974, in the face of the institutional, material and moral collapse of the country, the Chilean Government solemnly proclaimed that its objective would be centred on full recovery of a lasting democracy. As early as 1277 the necessary stages for gaining normality were structured. At that time there was no lack of prophets arguing that those announcements were merely rhetorical and devoid of real content. The same thing happened at the announcement of the drafting of a political constitution, which, when presented to the nation, received the ratification of two thirds of the Chilean people.
58.	In accordance with that same political constitution, Chile today enjoys full freedom of the press, information, assembly and opinion, and the Government has proceeded to implement the political laws which will lead the country to the exercise of the rights of citizens in a full democracy. To bring that about, the Council of State is now working on those laws and its work will be completed in the near future.
59.	In order for those basic provisions to have the support of the democratic sectors, the Government has begun a dialogue which is being carried out within a framework of the broadest national representation.
60.	The decision to permit the return of Chileans living abroad who had been prevented from returning earlier had a similar integrating direction. During August and September alone, that measure benefited more than 3,000 persons, among them prominent leaders of the political opposition.
61.	This responsible pattern of institutional consolidation has not been changed, not even by cowardly assassinations, terrorist acts or acts of vandalism which have been shamelessly claimed by groups of anonymous persons and craven delinquents who, acting under assumed names, are nothing but the concealed armed tools of Soviet imperialism, which contributed to the breakdown of Chilean democratic institutions in the period between 1970 and 1973.
62.	In this brief statement I have attempted to bring to the international community represented here the message of friendship which Chile offers to those who respect its identity as a free and sovereign people.
63.	Returning always to the idea of peace, I believe that we can find the most precious aspiration of my country at this time in that sentence left us by Milton: "Peace hath her victories/No less renowned than war".
 



===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿Sir, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate you on your election as Vice-president of the General Assembly. Please convey to Mr. Lusaka our congratulations on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly. We wish him every success.
278.	I also wish to express our gratitude to the President of the thirty-eighth session of the Assembly, Mr. Jorge Illueca, President of the Republic of Panama, for the outstanding way in which he guided the debates of that session.
279.	I also wish to pay tribute to the Secretary General for his tireless efforts and dedication m meeting the responsibilities of his important position.
280.	On behalf of the Government and people of Chile, I cordially welcome Brunei Darussalam, a new Member State which recently joined the United Nations.
281.	Thirty-nine years have passed since the San Francisco Conference and four decades since our representatives met at Bretton Woods. We note with sorrow that the great expectations which were born then are not reflected in today's world.
282.	The crisis in multilateralism is evident in all the fields of action of the international system.
283.	States entrust their security to the creation of steadily growing arsenals, together with their will to use them unilaterally instead of relying on the rule of law, which is suffering an alarming decline.
284.	The institutions which emerged from Bretton Woods have been displaced by events and, in the most serious economic crisis to affect the world economy since 1930, unilateral decisions, of which protectionism is the most accentuated expression, are once again taking the place of cooperation and joint action.
285.	The concepts of integration have vanished. International order appears to be in a precarious situation. A joint destiny appears not to exist for us. Peace has not established its authority in the world. We are moving towards the year 2000 in the midst of dangerous tendencies which point to chaos and anarchy in the international system, which we must avoid.
286.	The long and distressing war between Iran and Iraq, the guilty silence in the face of the tragedy of the Afghan people, the justified desperation of the Palestinian people, the dangerous and unstable situation in the Middle East, and the economic crisis affecting the international community are only some of the manifestations of the deterioration of coexistence that we are witnessing today.
287.	Compounding this state of affairs, which is serious enough in itself, is the incapacity of the United Nations to act and create a climate of minimum consensus suggesting some real and just solutions. All of us are responsible for this situation, some for excessive politicization in our debates and others for believing that, to resolve it, a solution must be sought outside the institutions we created precisely to deal with the type of difficulties we face today. Instead of seeking a solution to these mistaken tendencies, new steps are taken, actions which disregard all the accumulated experience of the existing organizations. These new measures prove to be failures within a short time since the root of the problem is the lack of political will to apply them. 
288.	A dangerous feeling of disenchantment with the United Nations and discouragement because of the impotence of international organizations invade our peoples. They see no signs of definitive contributions to ensuring peace.
289.	We must recognize the fact that there is a reason for this feeling of discouragement. Through our speeches, through our agreements and resolutions, we have been creating an imaginary world of solutions which have nothing to do with the torrent of actions which reality precipitates around us.
290.	Peace is spoken of, but there is no action to bring it about; the law is mentioned as the basis for our coexistence, but it is not upheld in action; the principle of non-intervention is proclaimed, but in practice there is outright intervention; we mention the word progress, but we do not create international conditions conducive to attaining that goal; we emphasize international cooperation in words while we observe clear demonstrations of the fact that it is entering a twilight period.
291.	In this general debate we have the obligation to reflect on this failure and to ask ourselves some questions. Are the principles of the Charter of the United Nations no longer applicable? Can we obtain peace without universal respect for them.
292.	My Government is convinced that the problem lies not in the field of principles but in the political incapacity to give them meaning and in the poor use made of the possibilities which the United Nations system offers. The problem is the lack of political will and appropriate conduct to implement the possibilities offered us by the Charter.
293.	I mentioned earlier that the deterioration of international cooperation was a symptom of the current situation, a grave process in the face of the accentuated turbulence observed in the world economy.
294.	The 1980-1983 recession has been the most protracted and perhaps the most profound of the last 50 years. Trade and international finance have undergone tremendous pressures. Signs of recovery are now being noted in the economies of the industrial nations. However, the lack of international cooperation not merely hinders the extension of this recovery to the developing nations, but contributes to the persistence of the crisis among them with serious implications for their social and political stability.
295.	This situation has particularly affected Latin America. The crisis in our region is to be seen in the contraction of productive capacity, in the deterioration of the terms of trade, in the enormous increase in unemployment, in the squandering of the region's economic potential, in the inflationary tendencies which have spread in some countries and in the net decline in the inflow of capital.
296.	Nevertheless, the symptom and the cause which contributed to provoking the crisis are embodied in the overwhelming foreign debt affecting the greater part of the region.
297.	The Latin American countries have made an enormous readjustment effort to overcome the crisis. They have assumed, at great sacrifice to their peoples, their responsibility to initiate a process of economic recovery. But external factors predominate in the crisis, imposing impossible constraints on their efforts to overcome the economic situation in which they find themselves. We are limited by factors that are beyond our control.
298.	The high interest rates and the stiffening of the financial terms for credit have produced a substantial change in the nature of the debt previously contracted, resulting in a decapitalization process in Latin America which threatens our development and progress.
299.	In order for Latin America to continue to honour its commitments it must, through international cooperation, find solutions that respect the interests of all and prevent the responsibility for solving the crisis from falling back solely upon the peoples of Latin America. In this regard, international trade represents an irreplaceable element. The reiterated manifestations of protectionism which have occurred in the industrial nations constitute a grave threat which not only conspires against the recovery of the international economy but also adversely affects harmony among peoples.
300.	There is little room for optimism in view of these realities. The signs we perceive in the world panorama are rather pessimistic. However, we want to overcome this state of affairs. We trust that rationality will finally prevail for the good for all.
301.	In addition, we believe that to surmount the present difficulties we must act with objectivity and draw inspiration from the great principles contained in the Charter of the United Nations, as noted by the Secretary General in his report on the work of the Organization.
302.	In this hour of international uncertainty, my Government reiterates its unreserved support for these fundamental principles and calls upon all to join in defining the routes which could bring us closer to a renewed role for multilateral diplomacy and for the United Nations. In this regard, I wish to express my country's support for some measures which I consider are inspired by the principles contained in the Charter, such as the continuing activities of the Secretary General on behalf of peace and, more particularly, his action with regard to the conflicts affecting the Persian Gulf, the Middle East, Cyprus, Afghanistan and Kampuchea. These are activities which my country considers of outstanding importance and which it supports.
303.	In this connection, my country wishes to refer to some aspects of the international panorama which cause concern to the international community and are of particular concern to Chile.
304.	As an active and longstanding member of the United Nations Council for Namibia, we see with some uneasiness the perpetuation a situation which the entire international community, without exception, has condemned. Again we associate ourselves with those who call for the implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978).
305.	In the Middle East, it is essential to promote realistic initiatives for peace. In order to create an atmosphere conducive to a resolution of the problem, it is necessary to take a realistic and moderate approach, discarding heightened rhetoric. Chile maintains that it is essential to recognize the right of all States in the region to exist within secure and recognized borders; it is essential to make the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination effective, including the right to establish a State, and, in accordance with Security Council resolution 242 (1967), it is essential to ensure that Israel withdraw from the occupied territories. 
306.	The conflict afflicting the Middle East is of special concern and grief to my country. The friendly relations existing between my Government and the States of that region are not the only link that keeps us close. We are also bound, with a special feeling of affection, to the numerous children of the Jewish and Arab peoples who, having established themselves in my country, have come to form part of Chilean society and have enriched it with their culture, traditions and enthusiastic contribution to the nation's development.
307.	The cases of Afghanistan and Kampuchea constitute painful examples of the arbitrary use of force and failure to recognize the political independence of those two nations. We join in the international community's condemnation of the violation of the essential rights of those peoples and the resulting mockery of express provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. The violations are all the more serious in that attempt are being made to transform them into	and irreversible situations.
308.	Those of us who firmly believe in the freedom of man, in respect for the sovereignty of nations and in independence, equality and the self-determination of peoples have the duty to denounce the persistent violation of those rights with a firmness arising from a conviction of their inherent validity and to condemn the flagrant aggression to which those peoples have been subjected" We must unite our efforts to prevent an unacceptable increase of these imperialistic actions. Chile reiterates once again its unlimited support for those nations in their effort to establish full sovereignty and calls for the immediate withdrawal of the occupation forces.
309.	Central America is another region where the principle of non-intervention is openly breached. We are witnesses to a drama which feels to us as if it were our own, since it involves sister nations with which Chile is proud to have had a long tradition of friendship. We deplore the fact that that noble principle of the Charter is ignored by those who support actions and ideologies which an extra continental Power is seeking to introduce into our hemisphere against the wishes of the inhabitants. For that reason we have expressed our determined support for the efforts of the Contadora Group, an initiative which we are certain will find the formula for preserving the values of peace, freedom and human dignity for the region.
310.	The peaceful settlement of disputes is another basic principle. Justice and law are the only means available to the international community for adopting just, equitable and honourable solutions for the parties involved when international conflicts arise. It is in that sense that we look forward to the success of the negotiating effort entrusted to the Secretary General in regard to the South Atlantic conflict between the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom.
311.	Also in connection with our concern for peace, we wish to create with our neighbour and sister republic, Argentina, all the conditions that will permit us to live in peace, while developing and expanding our respective potentials. Impelled by Chile's traditional devotion to law and justice, we had recourse to the mediation of Pope John Paul II to obtain a final solution to our southern dispute. With the aid of the Holy Father, we have made important progress towards the happy termination of those differences. I am confident that the historical imperative of peace, something never refuted by the facts, will once again prevail among us. The people and the Governments of Chile and Argentina share this sentiment of brotherhood very profoundly. At the current concluding stage of papal mediation, it is now for us to develop and safeguard this general pacifist conviction, which is so deeply rooted on both sides of the Andes and which is the fruit of a glorious shared history. Two neighbouring nations, possessing one of the longest frontiers in the world, have not had a war in 170 years. Is this not a living example of the fact that peace is a matter of political will and historical responsibility.
312.	If we wish the actions of the United Nations to be of assistance in strengthening universal peace, we must concern ourselves with guaranteeing within the Organization the full applicability of the principle of universality. Therefore, in conformity with the Charter, we believe that all countries that wish to participate in the General Assembly should be able to do so. We hope that in the near future both Koreas will be present in this Hall as full Members. We also champion a dialogue between those nations, free from foreign intervention, that will permit resolution of the difficult situation in the Korean peninsula, thus contributing to peace in the region.
313.	Chile, an Antarctic country, exercises sovereignty over part of that territory by virtue of legal and historical titles, geographical proximity and the longstanding presence and activities of its people. We view with special concern diverse measures tending to weaken the Antarctic Treaty. This instrument has proved in the course of its implementation to be one of the most effective multilateral agreements ever reached. The Treaty and the system it generated have made possible the maintenance of that continent as the only one that is free of nuclear arms and where peace, ecological purity and scientific cooperation among different countries can prevail.
314.	Initiatives which could lead to the dismantling of the Antarctic system would constitute a disastrous precedent for the United Nations, one which would open the doors to penetration of the region by ideological, political, economic and military disputes which now cast so many shadows over the future of mankind. My Government is convinced that the Antarctic Treaty itself and its complementary conventions possess sufficient amplitude, flexibility and openness to allow for adequate improvement of its performance.
315.	Everything relating to nuclear weapons and tests is of serious concern to my country. We belong to a region which has lived free from the scourge of atomic weapons and the danger of nuclear stockpiles. We wish to maintain this situation, which is in keeping with our peaceful objectives and which serves to obviate the need for tests of that kind. For that reason we reiterate here the declarations we made in February and March of 1984, together with Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, member countries with Chile of the South Pacific Permanent Commission.
316.	Turning to other matters, my country attaches equally outstanding importance to the treatment of terrorism, a scourge of this era, which gravely endangers the lives and security of individuals, reaping a growing toll of innocent victims, flagrantly violating the most fundamental human rights and threatening the internal peace of States. It is the inescapable duty of the Members of the United Nations to lend their firmest support to all internationally agreed measures which seek effectively to counteract this despicable and criminal method of warfare and to prevent the propagation or facilitation, from within their own borders, of terrorist activities in other regions. Those who commit or support the commission of such criminal acts deserve exemplary punishment. We believe that international condemnation of terrorism must be absolute and punishment universal. Equivocal positions support and stimulate violence. Terrorism is terrorism; there is no distinction and there are no extenuating circumstances. It is a criminal and mad device that makes use of the lowest instincts of man.
317.	In this regard I cannot fail to mention the despicable crime against humanity committed at the United States Embassy in Beirut.
318.	We reiterate that each country has the sovereign right to enact the legislation it deems most suitable for protecting its people against this threat. At the same time, we maintain that the community of States has the right and the duty to promulgate international norms to facilitate the eradication of this scourge and the punishment of the guilty.
319.	Having reviewed the principles which inspire and shape Chile's activities in the international Held as well as the problems of the world community and of our region which are of particular concern to us, I should like to say a few words about the constitutional situation in my country.
320.	The Chilean Government is committed to a clear and definitive process of democratic consolidation. The different steps to be taken are provided for in the existing political Constitution, which was approved by a great majority of the Chilean people and came into effect on 11 March 1981. Our goal could be no other, because devotion to the rule of law and to democracy constitute an essential ingredient in the character of Chile and the Chilean tradition. That democratic system of government, which we must endeavour to improve and strengthen in the light of the needs and threats of the modem world, is firmly rooted in the soul of all Chileans—our armed forces, our workers and intellectuals, and the young people who will constitute the nation of tomorrow.
321.	We are constantly receiving messages expressing anxiety for Chile to accelerate its process of institutional evolution. Those who offer us such counsel forget that Chilean democracy, a model in America, was destroyed by totalitarian forces which took advantage of precisely those characteristics which are today debilitating the Western world. Experience has demonstrated to us how defenceless democracy can be if those who do not believe in it and are prepared to undermine it by their every action are permitted to operate freely from within.
322.	We do not want this to occur again. That is why we are taking a gradual, firm and sure path in a process which we consider the most suitable for the consolidation of a democracy properly, protected from those disruptive agents which acted in the past. We do not wish to repeat the experiences of other countries which in their haste failed to ensure solid foundations for the system they desired and ended up with an ephemeral dream. That is not the fate we wish for our country. The Chilean approach has been determined by the Chilean people and therefore constitutes the only prerequisite which the Government has to fulfil in order to attain solid and permanent results.
323.	Clear manifestations of our progress are the press freedom that exists in the country, the organization of labour and its active participation in national affairs and the forthcoming promulgation of political laws which will consolidate this process.
324.	On behalf of the Government and people of Chile, I ask this world Assembly for the respect merited by the process which our people, pursuant to their sovereign right, freely chose to adopt in order to establish a renewed, modern democracy, a democracy which is not an empty word but a real element in the preservation of our national identity, thus contributing to international peace and security.


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
On behalf of the Chilean delegation I wish first of all to congratulate you. Sir, on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. We are delighted that such an important post should have been entrusted to a diplomat of your vast experience, a person who has faithfully dedicated so many years to the United Nations and who, from a sentimental standpoint, has been closely linked to my country.
It is also fitting to pay a tribute to Ambassador Paul Lusaka, who performed his duties as President of the Assembly at its thirty-ninth session with brilliance, talent and impartiality.
We are likewise indebted to the Secretary-General, Mr, Javier Perez de Cuellar, for his tireless efforts to revitalize the Organization and make its presence more effective in all fields of human endeavor, as well as for his special dedication to the cause of peace. We reiterate before the Assembly our firm support of his conduct of United Nations affairs.
Forty years ago the founders of this Organization expressed their unswerving intention to create an integrated international community in which sovereign States could face the present and conceive the future, all united by the essential bond of solidarity.
The tragedy of the Second World War, which in a single generation had subjected humanity to untold suffering and death, had been left behind. Our peoples had manifested their weariness and skepticism as a result of the unsuccessful attempt to maintain peace through power politics and balances based on fragile and ephemeral alliances and counter-alliances.
An international community organized multilaterally appeared to be a suitable response to the aspirations to peace, progress and. solidarity: the United Nations, through its mechanisms for security and co-operation, and together with the establishment of an international order based on the majesty of the law, would make of these aspirations a reality. Furthermore, in San Francisco the representatives of our Governments established principles outlawing the use of force and promoting the peaceful settlement of international disputes. On the economic front, the free flow of products, capital and services was emphasized in order to replace extreme economic nationalism.
In its 40 years of existence the Organization has made important contributions and, despite its limitations, we must recognize the fact that it has carried out an essential function. Its universal character assures at all times a channel for communication and dialog. In periods of crisis it has been able to reduce tensions and the peace-making action of its relevant bodies has proved to be relatively effective on various occasions.
In fact, the United Nations has demonstrated that, if intentions regarding common and higher objectives can be reconciled, it is capable of broadening the frontiers of the human condition. That is the case with regard to decolonization. Our Organization has been the key factor in the process of peaceful transfer of power from the metropolitan centers to the peoples that have recently gained their sovereignty, thereby achieving the full application of the principle of self-determination for peoples. This development takes on added importance as we celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of resolution 1514 (XV).
As a member of the Committee on decolonization, my country is committed to these processes of national emancipation, which evoke the glory of our own independence that gave us, and the other Republics of the Western hemisphere, our nationality more than a century and a half ago. We shall continue to co-operate actively with the United Nations in support of this noble cause, just as we have done traditionally in the past.
Through the United Nations system, international co-operation has acquired a dimension and scope unknown at any previous time. Perhaps this is one of the most notable achievements of international coexistence.
The specialized agencies and the subsidiary organs have traditionally been faithful exponents of the ideals that gave rise to their creation. Their effectiveness largely depends on their not diluting their functions towards areas outside of their fields of competence. The interest of certain States in introducing political problems into these bodies is of particular concern to ray Government. We reject these tendencies because we are convinced that the role of international organizations is to eliminate or reduce conflicts and in no way to create, exacerbate or generalize them.
The United Nations can be considered as the most celebrated landmark in the history of the struggle to base international relations on the rule of law. The Charter of the Organization is the focal point, since it has laid down the bases for a true international juridical order.
In the field of the progressive development and codification of international law, the Charter makes these tasks a political aim, and Member States are committed to cooperation in carrying them out. The work of the United Nations in this regard has been notable and productive.
It is of particular interest and satisfaction to my country, which has traditionally based its foreign policy on international law, to support and participate actively in the work of the Organization. We are convinced that there are no reasonable alternatives to the creation of what we could term a genuine and effective legal and international community.
Another principle of the Charter incorporated into the core of Chile's foreign policy is full support for the use of peaceful means for settling international disputes. Chile and Argentina have recently given a new demonstration of the validity of this principle and of the unlimited possibilities for reaching an understanding through peaceful means when the law and the will to negotiate are present. In this endeavor in the cause of peace, the mediating efforts of His Holiness Pope John Paul II were a determining factor. His concern made possible the signing of a Treaty of Peace and Friendship that put an end to a complex and delicate situation. Once overcome, a constructive and integrating stage of great historical implication for these two sister nations became possible.
Throughout seven long years, Chile and Argentina were involved in a serious, profound and transcendental process of negotiation, aimed at bringing an end to a historic controversy. Government officials, technicians, diplomats and jurists of both countries joined forces and talents to overcome difficulties and seek formulas making possible the aforementioned settlement, a process culminating in ratification of the Treaty of Peace and Friendship.
This accord includes four essential elements: solution of the dispute; renunciation of the use of force; a mechanism for compulsory arbitration to solve any controversy that might arise in the future, and an instrument of co-operation aimed at promoting broader integration between the two countries. The negotiation effort was, therefore, undertaken not only to overcome past problems but also to lay the foundations for building the future together.
That is why the people of Chile take legitimate pride in the fact that these two South American nations have set an example to the world.
This action by Chile and Argentina, designed to consolidate the peace, represents a sound pattern for giving effect to the principles of the Charter, in sharp contrast with the realities of a world full of violence and unsolved conflicts. It is also in sharp contrast with the paralysis which prevents the Security Council from making the contribution to peace which is incumbent upon it. It is similarly in contrast with the impotence with which the international community views the existence of conflicts that become worse and tend to spread.
The realization of the objectives confirmed by the Charter must be effected with complete respect for the principles of the sovereign equality of States and non-intervention in their internal affairs. The history of the first 40 years of the Organization demonstrates that, to the extent that it maintains in its acts due harmony between its goals and these two fundamental principles, the work of the United Nations has been effective and productive for all peoples. When the balance is disrupted the mechanisms of the Organization become, at best, innocuous or turn into a mere scenario for the exacerbation of conflicts and rhetorical outbursts.
The vocation of universality of the United Nations has not weakened the basic idea that the sovereign State continues to be the basic unit of the international community. For that reason, every time the principle of sovereign equality is violated through discriminatory actions, a blow is delivered to one of the premises which enables the Organization to be effective.
Similarly, whenever the United Nations intervenes in the internal affairs of States, the Charter is being violated and the Organization loses its power of persuasion and the moral authority for achieving its objectives. In fact, the principle of non-intervention and its confirmation as a rule of international law have been regarded as a primordial objective of their international policy by the countries of the Latin American region. My country, which gives a special meaning to this principle, believes it is opportune at the present moment to recall the historic "Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-Operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations (resolution 2625 (XXV)). Among other provisions, it emphasizes that strict compliance by all States with the obligation not to intervene in the affairs of others is an essential condition for assuring peaceful coexistence among nations.
Complete respect for the sovereign attributes of a State constitutes a guarantee, especially for the small or medium-sized nations which, including Chile, represent the great majority of the Members of the Organization. They wish to develop their own political, economic, social and cultural plans with full autonomy and free from threats of foreign interference.
Chile, which in recent years has lived through difficult hours while seeking to consolidate the freedom which was almost completely lost in the political process of 1970 to 1973, has often suffered from blatant interference in its internal affairs. Countries which are unaware of the real situation have always been disposed to take a negative view of our actions. We have also been victims of one of the most subtle forms of interference, namely, the campaign of disinformation which was mounted politically on an international scale, aimed at distorting our image in the eyes of world public opinion.
While acknowledging the accomplishments of the United Nations system in the maintenance of security, the promotion of co-operation, the codification and progressive development of international law, it is also necessary to refer to the serious problems and obstacles which face our Organization. The fact that we are today attending the fortieth session of the General Assembly makes it even more timely to reflect on the way in which the Organization and its Members have responded to the challenge of history and to the expectations and desires which our predecessors sowed in San Francisco. We observe with consternation that despite the clear and mandatory rules contained in the Charter, the policies of force, aggression and ideological imperialism continue to exist. For its part, the collective security system provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter has not been effective because of the lack of co-operation among the permanent members of the Security Council. That co-operation, a necessary condition for effective action in cases of a breach of the peace, did not succeed in surviving the emergency created by the Second World War. It seems that the international community forgot the lessons of history as soon as the forces of aggression were defeated and before the reconstruction of a devastated world occurred.
Disillusionment with the way the United Nations system has operated since then in maintaining international peace and security has induced many to seek security in the old notions of power politics and increases in armaments. They ignore the fact that such a strategy is futile and illusory, since the unilateral search for security only generates feelings of insecurity in others, thus creating incentives for changing the status quo in the vain hope of achieving the much-desired feeling of security.
My Government is convinced that the challenge of today requires us to strengthen our common action through renewed support for the purposes and principles of the Charter.
In the area of promoting international co-operation we observe that the forms of action accepted as effective and necessary yesterday are today going through a critical period. There is no political will to give a new impetus to co-operation and to deal with the grave problems now confronting us.
This session of the Assembly is taking place at a time of acute international economic crisis that is affecting most countries, and above all the developing countries. Those countries see their prospects of progress fading alarmingly, and they are finding themselves exposed to political upheavals and to economic and social conflicts with unpredictable consequences.
Recovery appears uncertain and fragile, both in pace and distribution, reaching only a small number of nations without reflecting itself significantly in most of the countries.
The outlook is most disturbing. Interest rates remain high, and financial flows to the developing countries are still inadequate. The servicing of foreign debt has become an excessive burden and goes hand in hand with a dramatic deterioration in the terms of trade. More serious, however, is the enormous discrepancy in the process of adjustment in the world economy: while a far-reaching adjustment, with very high social costs, is being imposed on us as developing countries, other countries with a decisive influence on the international economy have been limiting the inevitable transformation of their own economies by increasingly resorting to protectionism.
International co-operation and obligations and commitments we have undertaken require that all of us, and particularly the developed countries, must take the external effects of our internal economic policies into account.
Chile has made great sacrifices, as have most Latin American countries, in order to adapt its economy to steadily worsening external conditions. The coherent macroeconomic program we have undertaken to correct the situation provides for a properly adjusted balance of payments and a gradually declining rate of inflation. This national development strategy encourages domestic savings and gives priority to stimulating employment. The main motive force remains the promotion of exports as the source of funds. However, this aim will be unattainable if market access for our products is not improved and stabilized.
There is an urgent need for a comprehensive analysis of the external debt problem of the developing countries based on the existing relationship between trade and financing in order to align the presumed objectives of the monetary and international trade system with the existing political and economic realities.
It has been clearly demonstrated in recent years that none of the debtor countries will be able simultaneously to pay its foreign debts, spur economic growth and maintain the political and social balance in its own society.
When the mere payment of interest forces a country to apply for further loans, a historically unique and politically untenable stage has been reached where the debtor developing countries become net exports of capital to the industrialized countries, as has been the case for some years.
We recognize that annual negotiations have considerably relieved the problem and that their conditions have improved over the years. However, the enormous burden of a constant adjustment, supported exclusively by the developing countries, in conjunction with an obvious deterioration in the world economic situation, makes it clear that that cannot be regarded as the only way of handling this problem.
Responsibility for the debt is shared by the debtor countries, the creditor countries, the international financial institutions and private banks. As already stated, thus far the sacrifice involved in confronting the crisis has fallen exclusively upon the developing countries, together with all the ensuing unemployment, poverty and suffering.
There will be no solution to this situation unless all the actors in the drama assume their share of responsibility. This has been the basis for the statements that the countries participating in the Cartagena Consensus have been making. The Consensus calls urgently for a political dialog to solve the problem of the foreign indebtedness of the developing countries, in terms not only in its immediate aspects but also of its rejections for the future of international economic relations.
Each day the world becomes less safe. In addition to the constant acts of terrorism that oppress us with their widespread harvest of irrational violence and death, there are international situations of conflict that seem to take on a permanent form, testifying to the lack of willingness to seek peaceful solutions that will ensure the rule of law.
We are concerned and distressed by the endless dismembering of Lebanon, a nation to which we are joined by ties of friendship, and a country that was once an outstanding example of prosperity in the region. We await with concern and impatience the restoration of the forms traditional coexistence in that country, based on the essential conditions of respect for its territorial integrity, sovereignty and political independence.
The bonds of friendship that link us to the nations of the Middle East go back a long way. Many sons of those lands have settled in our country. Consequently we look forward with particular anxiety and concern to the achievement of a just and peaceful solution to the problem posed by this long-standing center of international tension. We trust there will be increasing acceptance of the possibility of peaceful coexistence and collaboration among the States of the region.
Chile continues to maintain that it is essential to ensure, in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), the right of all the States of the region, including Israel, to live within secure and internationally recognized boundaries, and that that country withdraw from all the occupied territories. It is also essential to ensure the exercise of the right of the Palestine people to self-determination, including the right to found their own State.
My Government wishes again to join ranks with the great majority of States that categorically condemn and reject the Soviet invasions of Afghanistan and of Kampuchea, the latter in association with its vassal regime in Viet Nam. We indignantly denounce the veritable genocide being committed daily against the patriots of those oppressed countries who are fighting for their inalienable right to self-determination. The intransigence of the Soviet Union, which does not hesitate to use military force if that suits its imperial interests, constitutes an act of direct defiance of the international community and is an affront to our Organization, which has demanded the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the aggressors.
By acting as a sponsor of the draft resolutions this Assembly will be
considering on these situations, ray country joins the international community's condemnation of the brutal repression of the fundamental rights of those peoples. Chile energetically opposes the idea that such acts should be accepted as
irreversible, since they are backed by the illegitimate use of force. Aggression confers no rights.
With regard to the situation in Korea, we support the inter-Korean negotiations as the only realistic, peaceful formula, free from outside interference, for harmoniously resolving a situation which has been dragging on for so many years. My country, in keeping with its traditional defense of the principle of universality of this Organization, takes the view that the presence of both Koreas in the United Nations would contribute to a rapprochement of the parties and a negotiated solution of the dispute.
As an active member of the decolonization Committee and of the United Nations Council for Namibia since they were first set up, Chile shares the growing international concern over South Africa's unwillingness to grant the Namibian people their right to independence by peaceful means and in conformity with Security Council resolution 435 (1978).
We note with concern that the continuation of the practice of apartheid, repeatedly condemned by the entire international community, could lead the region of southern Africa to a serious confrontation, creating a new focal point of international tension. There is still time for a peaceful and negotiated way out of this critical situation which otherwise could become unmanageable.
Because they involve sister nations with which Chile is proud to have enjoyed a long-standing relationship, we are deeply disturbed by the slow pace of the negotiations for establishing peace in Central America.
We maintain our support for the Contadora Group's efforts to find a peaceful solution to the Central American crisis, in order to give full effect to the relevant principles of international law, as well as to the values of freedom and human dignity desired by the republics of our continent.
We are most distressed to note once again the absence of progress in disarmament and the consequent increase in the arms race, particularly the nuclear arms race. The serious difficulties facing the multilateral negotiations and the dialog between the two great Powers are obvious, as well as the lack of effectiveness of the legal instruments we possess to discourage this growing threat to our peoples.
The nuclear danger, undoubtedly the most serious threat, and the increase in military expenditure, which seems to extend throughout the world, present us with a gloomy picture, contrasting dramatically as they do with the poverty, hunger and despair afflicting millions of human beings.
Chile, in keeping with its traditional position, is prepared to support international efforts aimed at the achievement of general and complete disarmament, under effective international control and verification.
My country has throughout its history urged and supported regional initiatives leading to arms control and the reduction of military budgets. In 1902 we signed an agreement with the Argentine Republic whereby both countries committed themselves to limiting their armaments and seeking a balance between their respective navies.
Later, in 1959, the President of Chile, Mr. Jorge Alessandri, proposed a limitation on arms in Latin America, as the General Assembly was duly informed, designed to release funds to be used for the economic and social development of the region. The Organization of American States (OAS) took note of the Chilean concern and proposed the holding of a specialized conference on the subject. Unfortunately, this did not take place. In 1977, we proposed to the Andean countries that they reduce their military budgets, and two meetings were held to consider the proposal.
A few weeks ago the President of Chile, Mr. Augusto Pinochet, gave a clear demonstration of the peace-loving spirit of my country, when he responded to the call of the President of Peru, Mr. Alan Garcia, calling on the South American nations to abstain from acquiring more weapons. In his reply, the Chilean Head of State indicated his willingness to support the proposal on the basis of regional reciprocity and to have those resources allocated to the material development of our continent.
We trust that this noble proposal will materialize for we are committed to collaborating firmly on this initiative.
One of the most important instruments, and certainly the most successful in this field of disarmament, has been the Antarctic Treaty signed in 1959. The system, created by this international instrument, has established a regime of peace and demilitarization on an entire continent. Military deployment and the introduction of armaments, conventional or nuclear, are prohibited. For the first and only time in the history of disarmament agreements, an effective on-site inspection system was instituted and the dumping of nuclear waste was forbidden.
The benefits of the Antarctic Treaty are not limited, however, to the sphere of disarmament. In reality, it deals with an integral system of broad international co-operation for exclusively peaceful purposes, open to the participation of any interested State. It stands as an example for all nations.
Chile, a country which enjoys and exercises sovereign rights in the Antarctic and linked to it by unquestionable historical and juridical bonds, as well as geographic continuity and a long-standing presence, fully supports the operation of the Antarctic Treaty, which adequately guarantees the interests of all countries, and upholds the maintenance of consensus within our Organization for dealing with the subject.
The international community notes with growing concern an increase in terrorist actions in various parts of the world. It notes with anxiety that in many instances these crimes against mankind remain unpunished because of the protection those responsible find in some States.
The urgent task today is to make a serious effort to discourage this criminal activity which affects innocent human lives and can jeopardize the normal development of relations of friendship and co-operation among peoples.
My country supports efforts to find a global solution for this social evil through the drafting of clear legal rules banning terrorist acts anywhere they occur and curbing those who are involved in any way. We must commit ourselves as States to providing international guarantees for the safety of individuals and their possessions.
Based on a wide and general political consensus, terrorism must be repudiated in all its forms, regardless of its motives. Such behavior must be treated as a crime against mankind so that justice will not be obstructed for any reason.
Chile's foreign policy gives high priority to our ties with the Pacific Basin and seeks too develop broad and reciprocally beneficial means to co-operate with the coastal and insular States of the Basin. We hope that as a result of these efforts we can create new forms of integration which will encourage greater interchange of all kinds.
We also share with these nations a deep concern with regard to the continued French nuclear explosions taking place at the Muroroa Atoll. The Permanent Commission of the South Pacific, to which we belong together with Peru, Ecuador and Colombia, has repeatedly expressed its condemnation of and protest against these nuclear tests which pose a grave danger to people, to the environment and to natural resources.
With regard to the present state of the exploration of outer space and related research, Chile encourages the development of space law, scientific co-operation and the basic idea that all activity in that sphere must always be carried out for peaceful purposes of benefit to mankind. In this regard we reiterate our initiative to create regional mechanisms in Latin America.
Chile has a long history of active participation in the formulation of the contemporary law of the sea, and its contribution to this subject has been relevant and forward-looking.
In this context I believe it is necessary to call special attention to the recent decision of the Chilean Government, which, supported by the norms of the new law of the sea, recently proclaimed national sovereignty and jurisdiction over the sea-bed around the islands of Pascua, Sala and Gomez in the Central Pacific Ocean for a distance of 350 miles.
In my capacity as Special Envoy to the celebration of the fortieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, I have the honor to transmit the following special message from the President of Chile, His Excellency Augusto Pinochet Ugarte: "On this historic occasion, Chile wishes to reiterate the commitment made in 1945 as a signatory country to the Charter of San Francisco, reaffirm its confidence in the principles and objectives of the Organization, and ratify its willingness to collaborate with States prepared to make a reality of the theme 'The United Nations for a better world'.
"During the past four decades the Organization has left its mark on the action taken by its peoples to realize the objectives of peace, security, freedom, justice and development that inspired the founders of the Organization.
"However despite the efforts made and the successes registered, there is still much to be done to make the principles of the Charter a reality.
"We live in a world distressed by violence and terrorism, which, encouraged and directed by very well defined interests and ideological centers of power, cause death, suffering and chaos in the most varied latitudes.
"Fairness is absent from international economic relations, and the developing countries do not encounter the understanding necessary for the mobilizing of their resources and the benefiting of their peoples through the efforts they have made.
"The Chilean Government has observed with concern the persistent violations of the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of States. This principle, the basis of international coexistence, is ignored not only in the unilateral actions of some States, but also, and this is even more serious, in the headquarters of some international organizations.
"In an Organization of sovereign States, in which decisions are applied through conviction rather than coercion, the political willingness of States to apply the mechanisms of the Charter and make its principles operational is essential.
"We have noted a crisis in the collective political will. The goal of understanding is absent. Conflict predominates over consensus, and unilateral decisions prevail to the detriment of co-operation.
"The Chilean Government expresses its fervent desire that this anniversary represent the beginning of a new era in the life of the Organization in which the international community will witness realization of its desires for peace, prosperity and development, the values that constitute the basis of the San Francisco Charter.
"Chile's foreign policy has always been inspired by the principles of the Charter, and my Government, on this solemn occasion, reiterates its permanent commitment to them and to their strengthening."


===== Session 41 - 1986 =====
 Please permit me to begin my remarks by expressing to you, on behalf of my Government and my delegation, our warmest congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly. This constitutes not only recognition of you as an individual, but also a demonstration of appreciation for your Government's prolific work in the United Nations.
I also wish to take advantage of this opportunity to reiterate our gratitude and felicitations to the outgoing President, Ambassador Jaime de Pinies, a person closely linked to Chile who brought a brilliant diplomatic career to a close as President of the world's most important forum.
I should also like to pay a tribute to Ambassador Javier Perez de Cuellar, who is completing five years at the head of this Organization, directing it during a particularly difficult period.
We have commemorated the fortieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations and have started on the fifth decade of the life of this Organization with growing uneasiness. The United Nations today is but a pale reflection of the Organization that emerged from the ashes of the Second World War, as an example of the international community has enlightened interest in giving concrete expression to mankind's hope for lasting peace. Today that institution, which gave rise to so many hopes, is experiencing not only a financial crisis but also one of confidence and destiny.
The responsibility for the financial crisis rests with the majority of Member States that do not make their contributions on time, with those that adopt the most extraordinary attitude of making selective payments, Favoring the programs that coincide with their political objectives, and with those that have assumed the illegal attitude of reducing their contributions unilaterally, in violation of the international obligations to which they had freely committed themselves.
In addition to this crisis, there is another, one which is far more serious. It arises from our peoples' loss of confidence in the system and in its ability to achieve the objectives for which it was created. Although it was created to be an instrument for assuring peace, the United Nations has instead become a forum of sterile confrontation. The Organization has thereby lost its ability to be a protagonist in international life and its ability to impose prudence in the conduct of States and to generate efficient initiatives for solving problems.
The lack of agreement to move forward in natters of great importance and the real stagnation into which we have been propelled by a lack of willingness to achieve consensus on vital matters have been accompanied by a tendency to indulge in resounding verbiage and rage signifying absolutely nothing. Thus we have a steady torrent of innocuous resolutions that have given rise to traditional stands that choke creativity and at the same time establish a doctrine under which the capacity for innovation, for acting on the inter national scene, simply does not exist. The successive efforts made to bring about change have not been sufficient to generate effective and necessary dialog capable of pulling the Organization out of its state of immobility. Immobility cannot be concealed by an excessive increase in the number of meetings or by the proliferation of documents which the meetings produce. Through inertia and lack of courage to check a senseless process that seems to be leading nowhere, it has foundered into a voracious calendar that only consumes time, money and hopes.
The impossibility of facing up to this reality, which is becoming more and more complex and dynamic, has led the United Nations to a position so far removed from reality that the world it reflects today is a fictitious one.
Despite these problems which disturb us, Chile has faith in the ideal of the United Nations, for the Organization must not only be an instrument for resolving international problems, but it must also express mankind's ideal: the possibility of living, developing and progressing in peace; of living in a world where countries rich and poor can work together in harmony to achieve those objectives.
Despite the failures, our faith is justified by the successes of the
United Nations that represent concrete expressions of that ideal, for example the
process of decolonization, which has peacefully brought almost 100 nations into the international community.
Then there is the priority treatment and definitive presence in today's world that the United Nations has brought to the search for development.
Throughout its existence the Organization and its specialized agencies have made substantial contributions to the economic development and political independence of nations.	/
While the world has become more independent, imposing a logic that no country
can avoid, and while the need for multilateral co-operation appears more evident,
we note that because the United Nations has become inoperative a tendency to seek
solutions beyond the framework of the Organization by consolidating parallel
mechanisms has become noticeable. This trend must be reversed in order to restore
the United Nations to its original competence. This will require political determination.
In the course of this session the General Assembly must pronounce itself on
the report on the administrative and financial situation of the Organization
prepared by the Group of Eighteen Intergovernmental Experts from various nations.
The report and the final treatment it is given by the General Assembly could
constitute the first step towards restoration of the United Nations to the position
it deserves as the principal protagonist on the worrisome international scene in the final years of this century.
There is no doubt that one of the most unstable situations in the world is that which persists in the Middle East. Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) contain the fundamental elements for the achievement of a lasting and stable peace in the region. At the same time, there can be no solution of
the problem without recognition of the right to free determination of the Palestinian people and its right to establish a sovereign State. It is necessary to reach just settlements that guarantee the peace and security of all States, including Israel's right to live within secure and internationally recognized borders. That is the only way in which the Middle East can cease to be a region in perpetual crisis.
The South African situation is cause for concern and uneasiness. At the root of the conflict is that Government's apartheid policy, which Chile has repeatedly rejected.
At the same time my Government supports the efforts of the international community, the Sscretary-General and the Security Council to obtain Namibian independence by peaceful means. One milestone in that process is Security Council resolution 435 (1978), which guarantees a realistic solution that assures the Namibian people of the right to free determination as well as territorial integrity
and national unity.
With regard to the Korean situation, we support the inter-Korean negotiations as a realistic and peaceful approach free from outside interference to achieving a harmonious solution of a situation that has dragged on for years. We recognize the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Korea in this respect. In line with its traditional defense of this Organization's principles of universality, my country maintains that the presence of both Koreas in the United Nations would contribute to bringing the parties closer together and achieving a negotiated
settlement.
We have noted with satisfaction the attitude that President Victor Paz Estenssoro of Bolivia has adopted towards my country. The Chilean Government hopes that the process of rapprochement we have initiated with Bolivia will be successful and produce concrete results and begin a period of effective co-operation between our countries.

We observe with indignation and sorrow the Soviet obstinacy in Afghanistan and in Kampuchea, causing death and desolation among nations eager for freedom and peace. The Soviet Union's invasion of those countries has been deservedly condemned by the international community because of its illegitimate and illegal violation of the principle of self-determination. The liberating impetus of their oppressed peoples is more powerful than any opposing armed force, as has been demonstrated by the fact that the resistance continues despite the brutal effort of the Kremlin to crush both countries.
The initiatives of the Secretary-General with regard to Afghanistan and of Prince Sihanouk with regard to Kampuchea deserve our determined support since they are the only realistic initiatives that have been undertaken to resolve those conflicts.
We are also horrified by the tragic circumstances affecting the Lebanese people, which has long been linked to Chile through close ties of friendship. The people of Chile are shocked by the continuous flow of reports of death, suffering and tragedy coming from Lebanon. Many Lebanese have made Chile their home, and therefore those reports affect us deeply. We voice our fervent hope that peace and tranquility will soon be restored in Lebanon so that its people can once again devote themselves to the tasks of reconstruction and development.
My Government has always been keenly interested in initiatives that might lead to international peace and security and has noted with great interest and approval Brazil's proposal that the South Atlantic be declared a zone of peace and co-operation. That initiative pursues important objectives in the areas of economic development, social welfare and peace which ought to be endorsed by the General Assembly.
It is necessary to maintain the priority of those general objectives and to shun external factors alien to general interests such as private interests or the positions of some countries that only serve to distort the objectives and generosity of the Brazilian proposal.
The acute world recession of recent years, which has had grave economic, political and social consequences for the developing world, has emphasized the effects of the crisis I mentioned earlier.
The developing countries have been obliged to adjust their economies, with painful political and social repercussions, and have had to bear the greater part of the cost of a situation for which the macroeconomic policies applied by the industrialized countries have been responsible, we have noted with consternation that while this heavy burden has been imposed upon us, the developed countries have liaited adjustments in their own economies, thereby incurring the greatest imbalances in contemporary history. This has only served to further aggravate the crisis.
We are convinced that the final solution of the crisis will be obtained only through an integrated and cons is tent approach to the urgent problems of development, trade and finance, including the very grave debt problem.
To achieve that objective the industrialized nations must make a fundamental change in their economic policies, recognize that they share responsibility for the existing problems, bring about conditions which would allow truly free international trade to prevail without the obstacles that today arbitrarily disrupt the exports of the developing world, and reverse the de-capitalization process Favoring the developed nations, a process which The Chilean people have been among those adversely affected in the Latin American region. However it is fair to recognize that they have known how to face the crisis with courage and abnegation, lb day we are firmly on the road to economic recovery; we are achieving significant growth and scrupulously complying with our financial commitments.
Chile has noted with great concern the serious deterioration in the observance of the principle of non-intervention, a legal principle essential to coexistence and the harmonious development of relations between States.
Chile has had to reject many instances of intervention in its affairs in recent years. Under the pretext of being concerned about human rights, attempts have been from outside to manage our political affairs, to establish procedures and plans that are not our own, and objections have been made to the path chosen and the rules laid down in our political constitution, adopted by the Chilean people themselves. Those who criticize the human rights situation in Chile ignore the obvious progress we have made in that regard; the decisions of the courts of justice have been objected to and challenged, and I believe that the only reason terrorist activities have not been applauded is that many other countries are suffering from the same scourge.
What is worse, and bitterly ironic, is that many of our critics and accusers do not know what true democracy is and what human rights are. They do not respect the right of other nations to govern and decide their own destiny, and it is their declared policy not to give their own peoples freedom and democracy.
The international community is appalled to see that some States have committed themselves to training, financing, supplying and sheltering terrorists. In doing so those responsible are not only blatantly violating the principle of non-intervention, but are also committing a genuine act of aggression, and making themselves accomplices in crimes against humanity.
That is why one of the matters that urgently demand concerted action by the international community is the unprecedented escalation of terrorism, which is today striking brutally at a large part of the world community, violating the basic norms of human rights.
We are fully aware that it is the inescapable responsibility of each Member State to combat this scourge, which is threatening both the internal peace of States and international peace. Therefore, we believe that all nations must share the international responsibility of co-ordinating efforts to pursue and punish, in accordance with their own laws, those who commit such criminal acts or lend their direct or indirect support.
Chile has been the victim of criminal acts of that kind for more than 15 years. They did not cease even when the Government of Popular Unity was in power, as the Communist Party, which formed part of it, proclaimed that its goal was to gain not only political power, but total power, and that to that end all means could be used.
Today my country is the victim of the same brazen aggression. Indeed, in early August, as we informed the Security Council at the time, our armed forces discovered in parts of northern and central Chile an enormous quantity of arms and military equipment that had been smuggled into the country, mainly by sea, in view of the long Chilean coastline.
That impressive arsenal - particularly impressive in relation to a small country such as Chile - includes, among the weapons found so far, 3,260 American-made M-16 automatic rifles; 214 Belgian-made light machine guns; 114 Russian-made Katyusha rocket launchers, of the same type as those now being used in Afghanistan; 170 TCW antitank rockets; almost 2 million rounds of ammunition for the weapons I have mentioned; 3,000 kilograms of high explosives; 2,000 hand grenades; 1,800 rocket-propelled bombs; and other weapons which it would take too long to list here. In summary, it amounts to more than 80 tons of armaments, worth more than $10 million. Since the original discoveries, other arms deposits have been found even in Chile's capital city, confirming the magnitude of the terrorist challenge we face.
We believe that a substantial portion of that arsenal has not yet been found and seized. That is the essential reason for the temporary emergency measures , which we have had to take throughout our territory.
My Government has formally requested international co-operation to determine the origin and source of those weapons. It should be noted that their destructive power, and the information we have gathered on how they were smuggled into the country, show that we are facing not only a terrorist operation, but one of a truly military character, planned and financed from outside Chile, with the deliberate aim of promoting violence, destruction and death, and plunging the whole country into civil war. Calculation of the number of victims that the use of all those arms could have led to clearly demonstrates the scale of the tragedy that has been successfully averted. Moreover, such an assault would have represented a massive violation of human rights.
We know who are behind all these actions; they have not tried to conceal their involvement. We believe that the international community cannot remain indifferent or passive when faced with this new type c* aggression, since what has been attempted against Chile today, if left unpunished, could lead to an irreversible disaster for the region as a whole.
Thus we must again accuse the Chilean Communist Party, which has time and again publicly declared its decision to conduct an armed struggle to definitively establish a totalitarian Government in Chile so that it could then assist other similar terrorist or guerrilla movements operating in our continent. The continuing campaign of calumny provided daily by Radio Moscow and other media for over 13 years is further proof of that statement.
In addition to these illegal and immoral actions, those responsible have had the audacity to claim that they have become the champions of international peace and freedom, while launching a campaign designed to sow doubts about the truth of the facts reported by Chile, in order to escape the onus of their actions or merely to hide the truth about the shocking discovery of that arsenal from the world.
This is the culmination of an infamous process, encouraged by the countries of the Soviet bloc, through which violence has been incited in Chile by a persistent campaign, both internal and external. The Western nations, and particularly those of Latin America, must note that those arms were not destined exclusively to weaken the present Government of Chile. The violence which is being attempted is part of the framework of a long-established criminal plot with the ultimate aim of undermining the essential values that inspire the Western nations.
As I have said, the illegal importation of a gigantic arsenal of Soviet arras into Chile was first noted in 1971, and at that time, too, the world was shocked. There is abundant reason for linking the process to which ray country is being subjected with actions that have caused disruption or harm in other countries. It is part of the network of international terrorism, which is also affecting other nations in our continent. Its aim is very clear: to prevent the consolidation of democracy in Latin America.
Those who seek that goal do not know how mistaken they are. All the democratic sectors in Chile, including the opposition, have condemned the illegal import of arms. But the most serious aspect of the discoveries is the confirmation that the purpose of introducing those arms was to provoke a civil war in Chile. For on 7 September this year the President of the Republic was the target of terrorist groups employing arms from the arsenal I have mentioned, in a heinous attack aimed at taking his life and creating national chaos. The toll in that tragic episode, the only one in the history of Chile involving a Chief of State, was five dead and nine seriously wounded.
Demonstrating criminal resolve and audacity, those concerned sought to assassinate the President and his escort, demonstrating that they knew no humanitarian or moral restraint. That is the belligerent terrorist logic
supported by international communism.
Despite those very grave events, the Chilean Government continues to dedicate itself to the process of democratic institutionalization, confident that the clandestine importation of arms, the attempt to assassinate a prominent person and the goal of revolution through subversion served only to unite all Chileans who are opposed to violence and are lovers of peace.
In denouncing this aggression before the United Nations, we solemnly reiterate our unwavering intention to return Chile to full democracy and my Government's commitment to pursue the process of institutionalization in accordance with the modalities set out in the 1980 Constitution which binds the Government and the governed alike.
It is quite easy to confine one's self exclusively to a critical analysis of the United Nations. We do not wish to remain at that stage nor is it our style. Chile, at this time, wishes to share with the other delegations some projections for the future.
We are convinced that there are what may be called areas of consensus, which require an in-depth study and represent a useful field for harmonizing the efforts of the Organization. If we direct the dynamism of the United Nations to those areas and leave aside those which are at a standstill, we can create a climate of greater confidence in the Organization.
My country wishes formally to propose that the United Nations concentrate or dedicate its preferential action to the areas of consensus. We have identified some aspects as being susceptible of generating agreements or leading to productive negotiations.
The first is the utilization of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Such a valuable instrument of development requires the more active involvement of the General Assembly of the United Nations which, without disregarding the important contribution of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), provides the appropriate political and juridical framework so that all States may benefit increasingly from this technology.
The world cannot continue to merely observe in amazement the destructive effects and the distorted use of nuclear energy. On the contrary, we want to recover the positive elements and have that precious source of energy produce life instead of death.
Secondly, the structuring of regional disarmament mechanisms. In view of the standstill in the global disarmament negotiations, we feel that we should seek action in the field of regional disarmament. These mechanisms should contain instruments leading to the creation of a net protecting the countries, or, at least, reducing the dangers which the potential situations of conflict arising in various parts of the world today entail.
It is obvious that the generalization of a mechanism of this type would free resources for development. As far as ray country is concerned, the proposal is not an abstract one. On the contrary, it constitutes an important goal of its foreign policy. That is why, we immediately voiced our support for the declaration of President Alan Garcia of Peru regarding regional disarmament.
In addition, as a consequence of these principles, we initiated, earlier this year, a series of meetings between the High Commands of the armed forces of Chile and Peru in an effort to find a concrete formula which would permit reductions in arms expenditures.
We believe there are other regions in the world in which agreements or similar initiatives could and should be undertaken, conducive to diminishing the scourge of force and to actively promoting conditions Favorable to international peace, security and justice. In this, there is no doubt but that the United Nations can be catalyst and driving instrument for an initiative of this kind.
Thirdly, there is the use of outer space for exclusively peaceful purposes. The international community observes with growing interest the technological challenge stemming from the exploration and exploitation of outer space. Chile,
like the other developing nations, aspires to the benefits which may be derived
from a broad system of co-operation in the outer space area. Hence, it is
extremely important to start out on road landing to the adoption of an 
international agreement that legislates on permitting access by all peoples to the distribution of the benefits of space technology. Outer space, the common heritage of mankind, is regarded by nations as a promising area since it would provide them with the means for protecting and developing their natural resources and for employing the most effective tools in their plans for economic and social growth.
Access to the distribution of the benefits of such activity also undoubtedly implies acknowledgment of the right of the Powers exploiting outer space to a commensurate compensation for their efforts and their scientific and technical research.
Fourthly, there are the problems related to environment. Many problems today affect humanity as a result of the depredation of its natural resources and the contamination of air, sea and land. This has created a political imperative which the General Assembly of the united Nations cannot ignore. A physically rarefied environment is a crime against the elementary norms of human quality required for life in dignity. Hence the importance of emphasizing the study of these subjects and of evaluating, for example, the problem of cross-boundary contamination and the deposit of waste in third countries, thereby creating dangerous and noxious situations.
Fifthly, we have the world's food problem. The international community has been stunned by the food crisis affecting some African countries and, in general, the development tragedy in that continent. Thus the international community is emotionally prepared to undertake an in-depth action to resolve the world's food problem, with emphasis on the problems of Africa.
This is a new subject for consensus which our efforts and our imagination should promote.
In short. Chile is firmly convinced that there are areas of consensus such as 
those we have referred to and briefly described, and that the time has come to
begin a process of integrated and comprehensive negotiation, since there are common
denominators amongst them. Essentially, they can be the sources of eventual
international agreements and constitute a productive source for guiding the United
Nations along a technical path, free of ideological considerations.
In making these proposals, which must necessarily be refined and attuned to the political moment and the respective forums, we are motivated only by a sense of international public service, free of narrow dogmas and contingent sectarianism. The United Nations cannot continue to be the setting of sterile confrontations and of quarrels and disputes that erode its very credibility. It is particularly important to plan for the future and take realistic and pragmatic advantage of subjects susceptible of bringing nations together in their own lasting interests.
When Western Europe still suffered the after-effects of the Second World War, allied nations and their rivals in that conflagration modestly conceived, in a determined and imaginative manner, a route that had certain points of consensus. That effort kept growing and gradually became transformed in what is today the European Community, a major process in the history of co-operative relations among nations.
Today, when we again face the need of starting out on the road to the ideal of
the United Nations, let us consider the process of the European Community. The
option of the present hour is co-operation and understanding, or disintegration and confrontation.
My Government is convinced that the modest but resolute Method of finding points of consensus will enable us to take firm and realistic steps towards a more integrated, unified and peaceful word.



===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿
I wish to convey our greetings to Ambassador Florin of the German Democratic Republic and press the hope that his term as President of the General Assembly will be beneficial and positive for the work of our Organization.
I wish on behalf of my country, to extend to the Secretary-General our deep appreciation for his work and constant dedication to the cause of peace. His work reflects distinction on all Latin Americans.
The art of governing, always a difficult task, is especially arduous at the present time. In earlier times, managing and assuring the well-being of immunities lacking expeditious means of communications and dependent to a large extent on their own resources, without a sufficient basis for comparison, was even a formidable undertaking that could bring about discontent and criticism.
The advances of civilization, the transformations brought about by science and technology, the accelerating rate of change and life style, and the publicity about goods and services that makes them appear to be easily available, linked with the development of world-wide communications systems, have tended to distort the assessment of the individual and social realities of our peoples. They have urgent, enhanced expectations of progress and well-being which, even though now available only to the few, motivate them all to want to see their expectations realized at the very moment they are perceived.
This revolution of expectations, as it has been so rightly called, together with the crisis in moral values, has added to the tasks of governments in meeting the present requirements of their peoples the inescapable obligation to formulate, in accordance with the country's potential, the path, programmes and projects which may enable them to approach the degree of well-being enjoyed by the most developed centres of the world.
The responsibility of governing today includes the need to advance development in an internationally comparative context. In policies and actions, it calls for harmonizing the objectives of the more developed communities with the concrete realities and effective potential of the nation being governed.
The close interrelationship that now characterizes the life of nations requires more urgently than ever that we become able to regulate our shared existence upon this planet, giving due consideration and respect to our own geographical, political, economic, social, technical, historical and cultural differences. It also requires that we foster a spirit of true unity that will facilitate harmonious progress where equity will prevail over our present and future relations.
This Organization, which brings us together, is designed to be the instrument for that profound goal. Its creation and existence respond to one of the most constructive aspirations of nations, and its principles to the common ethical values that should prevail in relations between men and peoples.
The complexity of relations in a world vulnerable to confusion and exposed to rival interests and ideologies means that those goals, no matter how lofty, are difficult to realize in a timely and effective way. The greater and the more cherished our aspirations, the more we want to see them promptly realized, and the more we tend to feel frustrated over the slow progress in attaining them.
This understandable reaction should not undermine the strength of our determination. Difficulties cannot halt the progress of this integrated process, if difficulties do arise, they should, on the contrary, provide added impetus to rededicating ourselves to achieve our goals. Many have maintained that the efforts of the United Nations have not succeeded in leading to the high objectives that have been established. Certainly it is not difficult to point - as has been done on other occasions in this forum - to the frustrations of the international community at the frequent failure of its deliberations and conclusions to lead to successful results.
The world's stage is still the scene of wars, violence, discrimination, fundamental social deprivation, various forms of assault on the life of the individual and the society, scorn for or indifference to the weak and helpless, conquests and disturbing disinformation. Certainly there is no shortage of elements that could give us a feeling of frustration or impotence.
But if, at the same time, we consider the sustained and varied efforts relating to conflicts and the prevention of problems that could become insoluble, the benefits obtained in the most diverse technical fields, the agreements on the use of resources and the fact that we can meet to deal in a civilized manner with the anxieties in the world today and the uncertain tomorrow, a negative judgement is not warranted.
We are building international understanding, and this in itself is difficult because of the growing complexity of the situation. Perhaps we shall not attain it in a short time, but our most responsible determination consistently to support the effort is more than justified. We shall thus be able to face the future creatively and with a shared effort, and therefore to face future generations with the sense of responsibility that they have a right to require of us. We must leave them an inheritance of peace, understanding and progress, not just problems that we could not or did not decide to resolve. We know that the world is far from having exhausted its potential for well-being. We are aware that we have forged instruments that enable us to work together. We must pursue faithfully the measures already initiated by those who preceded us. We must use and perfect those instruments for the good of mankind and our peoples. We shall not allow temporary problems or crises, no matter how serious, to divert us from this constant and overwhelmingly important objective.
If we adhere firmly to that decision, we shall find ways to reform the world society and give it a sense of solidarity in the spirit that His Holiness pope John Paul II has repeatedly urged us to show. We must give force and vigour to the principles that must inspire our relations, seeking peaceful solutions to controversies, respecting the self-determination of peoples, rejecting intervention in the national affairs of sovereign States, respecting international treaties and seeking an international order that benefits all and ensures lasting peace and progress.
Motivated by these convictions, my country welcomed with particular satisfaction resolution 598 (1987) on the Iran-Iraq war, adopted unanimously by the Security Council on 20 July 1987. The aim of that resolution was to re-establish harmony in the region and bring to an end a confrontation that has brought suffering to two developing nations that need peace. We ate new following with special concern the developments in that area.
Similarly, we are following the efforts to achieve disarmament and remove the danger of a nuclear confrontation. We hope that the improved relations between the United States and the Soviet Union will make it possible to arrive at a balanced and just agreement that will remove this factor of uncertainty for mankind.
Similarly, we welcome the promising agreements signed in Central America and hope that they will lead to deeds that make a reality of the aspirations on which they are based. We hope, too, that they will benefit the sister nations to which we have been linked by close bonds throughout our history.
In view of these positive developments, it is our duty to note with concern that, unfortunately, there are actions that do not fall within that pattern of peace and respect. There are untrammelled acts of support for violence and terrorism which call for the attention of the international community. The phenomenon of terrorism, with its cruelty and the advantage that permits it to act against society anywhere, against any of its members and with anonymity, tends to divide the organized community no matter what its social, economic, cultural or political characteristics.
This is a scourge that affects the basic principles and values of mankind, and every possible effort must be made to eradicate it. It is, to say the least, deplorable that there are still terrorist movements that can count on support from Governments that approve of their activities. In order to confront this evil it is necessary, on the basis of a firm, universal decision, to put a strategy into practice in which all civilized countries participate. My country makes this special appeal with the greatest determination, since it is well known that we have been the victim of serious, repeated terrorist acts, and the international community has had proof of foreign interference.
Similarly, we must express our concern over the many actions that reflect Intervention in the internal affairs of other nations. International coexistence requires that, together with a sense of unity in progress, we must respect that which is within the exclusive competence of each sovereign nation or State. There must be no intervention in the internal affairs of other nations or interference in the free self-determination of any people. The great Powers have a special, clear responsibility in this field. Balance will be achieved with the ability of each and every nation to mould its own destiny responsibly. Opposing or intervening in their sovereign and free decisions can lead only to undermining the true foundations of this balance and creating situations that do violence to that reality. We must not forget that neither power not wealth constitutes legitimate grounds for assuming the role of an arbiter of international morality or a mentor of the historical processes of another country. 
We must denounce as unacceptable foreign interference in national plans, in so doing, we are not rejecting the conventional limitations established in respect of human rights. International regulations govern the field of human rights, and we certainly do not reject them. We regard them as relevant so long as they are applied faithfully, without partiality or political prejudice, and so long as they are not involved out of mere convenience.
However, the arbitrary use that has been made of these legal instruments for political purposes has, on many occasions, exceeded agreed international jurisdiction and has thus eroded the principle of non-intervention, in such cases, responsibility does not rest with the great Powers alone.
It is therefore essential to refine the human rights system, both substantively and procedurally - the latter with regard to both organic and functional factors. To the degree that the bodies of regulations are refined and duly respected, we shall not only be preserving the principle of non-intervention, but the cause of human rights will thereby gain greater protection.
In this regard, we wish again to express our concern that the Middle East continues to be a region in which peace has yet to become a part of the lives of its peoples. Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) are designed to provide an effective foundation for the consolidation of peace in that region. In this respect, as we have said here, and as we wish to reiterate, there must be recognition of the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination, including its right to form a sovereign state, and of the need to arrive at just agreements that guarantee the peace and security of all peoples, including that of Israel so that they may live within secure and internationally-recognized boundaries. 
We are also deeply concerned by the tragedy experienced by the Lebanese people. We have very close links with that country; many sons of Lebanon have found a second homeland in Chile. We express the hope that Lebanon will overcome its problems and that peace and harmony will be restored to that country.
We regret to note the absence of progress on the question of Namibian independence. Security Council resolution 435 (1978) provides a just and realistic solution for the Namibian problem that would ensure the self-determination of its people, its territorial integrity and its unity. We support the efforts of the international community and those of the Secretary-General and the Council for Namibia in this regard. But we are concerned at the politicisation of this cause within the Council and the introduction of extraneous matters, which, far from favouring the cause of Namibia, tend to disturb the situation even further.
We also deeply regret to note the continuance of the tragedies in Afghanistan and Kampuchea. In Kampuchea, despotic Soviet imperialism, acting through one of its satellites, continues to act with violence and cruelty. The tragic situations of those countries deserve profound and critical thought, and praise is aroused for the courage of those who are resisting the invader and striving to maintain their national identities and achieve freedom.
The complexities and difficulties of those situations prompt us to continue to give the Secretary-General all the support he deserves in continuing to pursue his initiatives in Afghanistan and prompt us also to give continued support to Prince Sihanouk in his unwavering efforts on behalf of his people.
In Korea, the situation continues to be troublesome. We must emphasize that negotiations between the Korean peoples, without foreign interference, constitute the only viable way to address this problem and find a realistic and peaceful solution. In this regard we recognize the efforts being exerted by the Government of the Republic of Korea. We believe that the presence of the two Koreas in this Organization would facilitate contact between the parties and the finding of a peaceful solution to the problem. We should thus be complying with the principle of the universality of the United Nations, to which we attach great importance.
To those disturbing questions we must add the grave problem caused by the imbalance of the economies of the industrialized countries and the absence, thus far, of decisions for structural reform - decisions that should be more than mere simple responses to temporary situations and should restore stability and lead to the disappearance of the uncertainty now prevailing in international trade. Because of its scope and nature, this problem requires multilateral attention that will lead to the improvement of situations that now compromise the development of nations, especially those most in need of development. There have been indications of a spirit of understanding of the needs of the developing countries - for instance, the decision to grant 1 per cent of the gross national product of developed countries to development programmes for the developing countries. But that has not gone beyond a declaration of intention; it is not actually happening.
We trust that these problems will eventually be solved because, as is well known, the developing countries are actually sending their creditors, the developed countries, more than they are earning from their exports. And their earnings are already deteriorating because of adverse terms of trade and protectionist initiatives. We must never forget that situations of Imbalance such as this have their limits and, if prolonged in the absence of a planned solution, they may cause incalculable damage to the detriment of everyone.
Before concluding, let me add some specific comments about my country, which is going through a historical period of particular importance - a period that, it would appear, the international community does not always wish to understand Chile has demonstrated and maintains the deepest interest in contributing to the activities of the Organization, to the best of its ability. As one of the founding Members of the United Nations, and a faithful participant in its programmes and initiatives, we have spared no effort to co-operate as regards its lofty aims and purposes. For more than 40 consecutive years, we have pursued this consistent line of conduct, emphasizing our respect for the rights of other nations and their sovereign freedoms.
We must emphasize the unlimited co-operation my country has given to the special rapporteur on human rights, despite the unacceptable discrimination implied by the exceptional treatment involved. We have acted thus because our principles and values correspond to the essential ethic of our traditions and culture and because we desire understanding and peace. In an eminently constructive fashion and as a contribution to international understanding, my country - unlike others that have not, fortunately, had such experiences - was a victim of an attempt to destroy its sovereignty and its identity, a threat that it was able to overcome thanks to the resolve of its freedom-loving people. In 1973, we began a process of national recovery and of reconstruction of an economy that was falling apart. Despite the world's economic crises, which have seriously affected us, we have brought our economic and social situation to levels that have drawn praise from the most diverse international circles.
It also proved necessary for us to undertake the political reconstruction of the country in order to recover and strengthen its freedom. Chile set for itself a programme and a schedule, on a broad juridical basis approved by the people, for overcoming the ills it had suffered and restoring full democracy. Prom that time on, through the sovereign will of the people, we have proceeded to take each of the steps set in advance for carrying out the fixed schedule. Chile is making progress towards the establishment of a modern, solid, stable democracy. Because of its experiences up until 1973 and of the problems of the past, we have had to put forth every possible effort to achieve that objective. It is Chile's intention that its new democracy should be fully consistent with the complete freedom of the Chilean people and that their participation in the fate of their Republic should be expressed not only at the polls but in every aspect of daily life.
The socio-economic structure of the country is therefore based on a fundamental preference for private enterprise and respect for property rights. The role of the State has been reduced so that it has now been assigned a subsidiary function, with preferential attention of significant proportions being given to the eradication of extreme poverty. 
I have indicated that the responsibility of government implies the need to plan development in a competitive international context. Today, a whole set of interests are emerging that affect the international community. This is doing away with the traditional inertia and the tight compartments within which nations used to carry on their debates.
New concepts of co-operation are emerging, which are leading countries to an awareness of the need to pool their efforts to face these problems. Development and the use of our resources should not be indiscriminate. On the contrary, everything must be done in a responsible fashion for the benefit of the community.
In addition to the recent economic and financial problems that have demanded international attention, there are now others such as those resulting from man's own activities affecting his very future and environment. The deterioration of the ozone layer and pollution of the seas are some examples of the challenges man must face if he wishes future generations to continue living on this planet.
International co-operation, the conceptual development of which has been extraordinary in this century, will have to increase greatly if we are to meet the threats that man himself has created.
We are facing a new situation, and in that situation the United Nations will play a central role. Its Secretary-General is already warning us about the need to begin thinking of reformulating some instruments of co-operation for that purpose. Their efficiency will be strengthened if there is harmonious agreement to that end.
It will be our joint endeavour to embark upon that task for the benefit of all. Let us nurture this rebirth of international co-operation with optimism. We trust that the peace and harmony we shall gain from it will make the task of government an increasingly efficient one for the benefit of our peoples. 


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿
On behalf of the Government and people of Chile, I have pleasure in offering sincere congratulations to Mr. Dante Caputo of Argentina on his election to the presidency of the forty-third session of the General Assembly. We are confident that in discharging his duties he will not only do honour to Latin America but also make a significant contribution to the progress and success of the work of this Assembly. It is particularly gratifying to Chile to see the Foreign Minister of the Argentine Republic presiding over our work, representing as he does a nation with which we are linked by geography, history, culture and an identical shared peace-loving tradition.
Our congratulations go also to the Secretary-General and his team of collaborators whose active endeavours have been a positive factor in making it possible for this year's General Assembly to see promising signs of the closer approach of wider international peace.
In this address I shall first express my country's opinion on some of the subjects that currently merit international consideration, and then I shall refer in particular to Chile, in view of certain important facts regarding our present situation.
We note with satisfaction that the cause of order and peace has been strengthened. Just a year ago, in this same Hall, the hope was expressed that the new relationship being perceived between the United States and the Soviet Union really would establish a world a climate that would benefit the international community. The strategic agreements that materialized this year offer encouraging prospects and we, together with the other nations of the world, await the new advances which these Powers may succeed in achieving. 
Similarly, we hope that their concept o£ peace and constructive international coexistence based on respect will not only induce them to safeguard their own interests but with an awareness of their influence on the world scene, also impel them to encourage just and balanced international development.
We also hope that this newly declared spirit of peace may signify the end of hegemonist intentions or intervention, and will be translated into the effective ending of any such encouragement or assistance to violence as that given from well-known and condemned sources given to extremists groups in my country.
Further, we note with satisfaction the announced withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the quadripartite negotiations between Cuba, South Africa, the United States and Angola on the withdrawal of Cuban troops from Angola; the beginning of the implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978), designed to lead to the independence of Namibia; the cease-fire agreed upon by Iraq and Iran; and recent reports regarding an agreement between the parties in the region of Western Sahara.
These hopeful advances are part of a process that should continue without faltering until real and completely satisfactory results are attained. We hope that thus we hope, prolonged tribulations will come to an end. In this process, the Secretariat has made great efforts, which deserve our praise, and it should serve as a basis for new achievements in keeping with the paramount principles of the United Nations Charter.
We should like to see these results augmented by new progress on the problems of ecology, denuclearization, outer space, free trade, underdevelopment, terrorism and drug trafficking, and on all the other challenges which mankind must confront in order to achieve the international common good. However, we continue to be concerned about situations affecting other nations and peoples which have not yet found definitive solutions.
We note with sorrow the continued violence in the Middle East and its repeated effect on the life of the peoples there. This anguish is profound because many descendants of the Arab and Israeli peoples form part of the Chilean society and are dynamic elements in our nation.
We reiterate the importance of the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), and the need to act realistically to bring about fair agreements that recognize the right of the Palestinian people to establish a sovereign State, and guarantee the peace and security of all the peoples of the region, including Israel, so that they may live within safe and internationally recognized boundaries.
We also observe with great sorrow the continuance of the tragedy affecting the Lebanese people. We trust that the new circumstances that prevail internationally will contribute to the ending of this tragedy by a satisfactory solution for all the parties involved.
We deplore the prolonged tragedy of Kampuchea whose people have been grievously attacked and subjected to sustained violence by a satellite of Soviet imperialism. I reiterate my country's recognition of the valour of those people in resisting the invader. We associate ourselves with the call by the Foreign Ministers of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) last July for a prompt solution of the Kampuchean problem to end the threat to the stability of that region.
We salute the Republic of South Korea on the completion of 40 years of its independence and applaud its efforts to unite its people. We value the call by the President of South Korea for dialogue between the two Koreas, and his Government's desire that both be incorporated into this Organization. 
On our continent, we share in the situation involving the peoples of Central America, a region that during the last decade has been harassed by the activities of foreign ideologists. We recognize the efforts of the Central American nations to achieve peace. We are confident that the renewed proposals for peace which have been reported to the international community, and to which I referred earlier, will be extended to this area, the countries of which are so closely tied to the Chilean people by principles of freedom, historical origin and traditional friendship. 
At the same time, we reaffirm our consistent rejection of any political or social policy that implies any kind of discrimination on racial or religious grounds. For this reason we reject apartheid and any other practice that disregards the equality of rights of man.
We also maintain our traditional policy of supporting true decolonization. As members of the Special Committee on decolonization, we have supported its action in the case of New Caledonia. We observe with interest positive signs emerging in the actions of the administering power, that should lead to legitimate self-determination for the people of that territory.
Similarly, as members of the Council for Namibia we shall continue to support compliance with Security Council resolution 435 (1978). Our action in the Council has taken on a special connotation this year because of the visit of a delegation from the Council to Chile. This permitted us to set forth our position clearly and pinpoint our offer of technical co-operation for the vocational training of Namibian experts in various fields.
We add out condemnation and repudiation to the civilized world's rejection of terrorism. It is a scourge that besets society as a whole, an outrage against the normal life of citizens, their families and their property. Terrorist acts – and I say this in the light of experience in my own country - destroy the human individual or render him an invalid, demolishing in minutes what has taken our national heritage years to create. Furthermore, these acts are often orchestrated for imperialistic purposes or ideological expansionism, in order to undermine the integrity of nations and jeopardize their sovereignty. 
The world knows that there is a trans-national terrorism that still receives the overt or covert support of certain States. Moreover, the odious and repugnant links which at times become evident between terrorism and the drug traffic, bind together these two elements which destroy health and social coexistence. The most vigorous, definite and co-ordinated reaction on the part of the international community, without delay, is needed to eradicate these devastating perversions. One of the tests of the objectives of peace which certain Powers proclaim would be the degree of effective contribution they are able to offer to make such eradication a reality.
We resolutely support the cause of human rights and reaffirm the co-operation which we have offered in support of the responsibility which this Organization should bear in this regard. We do so on this, the fortieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, despite the ostensible discrimination to which we have been subjected.
We want human rights to be protected effectively. To achieve this and it is necessary to introduce in-depth modifications into the instruments and the conduct with which States approach the treatment of the subject.
Experience affirms the need to create juridical and procedural instrument that are universally binding, free of political and ideological content, that will guarantee non-discrimination, ensure impartial objectivity and preserve the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States 
The politicisation of the subject of human rights has served to distort its high and noble objectives. Use of the subject for political purposes, or to exert  unjustifiable pressure has led to manifestly erroneous actions and downright omissions and silences.
This involves the risk of deterioration of the bases of peaceful and correct understanding between peoples and countries the very human rights and true values they represent.
We fully share the uneasiness caused by the world economic situation, and especially that which affects developing countries. In recent years these nations have suffered from the combined effects of the deterioration in terms of trade, the high level of real interest rates, and the absence of any effective or realistic treatment of the problems arising from the recession of the beginning of the decade, and external debt.
The destiny of the developing countries is closely linked to the possibilities for them to expand their international trade. For that reason, we view with concern the protectionist measures and disregard of multilateral commitments to liberalize trade which are emerging in the more developed countries.
Protectionism restricts international relations in the modern world, intensifies the differences in the world community, and reduces the debtor's ability to meet its financial obligations.
We are hopeful about the results of the Uruguayan Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), but we must point out that we cannot wait for the dismantling of protectionist barriers, or even accept the invoking of a dilatory excuse, such as the conclusion of a new round of negotiations.
The foreign debt problem, in its multiple dimensions - political, social and economic - requires that the debtor countries, as well as the developed nations, assume their respective shares of responsibility - the former by pursuing internal adjustment and reforms that will lead to the strengthening of their economies, and the latter by curbing protectionist tendencies and increasing effective co-operation with the debtor countries.
For those of us who, as in the case of my own country, have liberalized their economy and carried out an internal adjustment of profound ramifications, complying fully with all our commitments, the repercussions of international trade, protectionism and indebtedness have unquestionably a significance about which we cannot remain silent.
We share a common destiny with the developing and industrialized nations alike. We seek an economic order in which all of us can grow. The future of humanity demands that this growth be balanced. To fail to contribute to it and to attempt simply to accept only the short-term advantages is to close one's eyes to tomorrow.
In concluding this first section, I wish to voice the desire that world society should take to heart the profound appeal of His Holiness Pope John Paul II, who, in his last encyclical, said that in the natural interdependence of nations it was necessary to superimpose solidarity among them if an international order of peace and justice was to be achieved. We are encouraged by the hope that this Assembly is leading us on to that noble goal.
I shall now refer to Chile. It seems an opportune moment to do so.
Efforts have been made on the international scene to misrepresent the political realities of Chile. There has been no desire to believe the affirmations of my country and opinions, unjust and without foundation, have been expressed regarding the institutional process which it has been implementing. Time and again we have denounced and rejected the repeated attempts to interfere in our internal affairs. We do not accept attempts from outside to direct or influence the Chilean political process. As history confirms, grave crises suffered by some peoples have very often had their origin in colonialist designs or foreign intervention ism. The fundamental principles of international coexistence and the rights and powers of national sovereignties will be gravely impaired by any external abuse that interferes with a nation's own private political life.
Within a few days the people of Chile will take a political decision of profound significance in its institutionalized transition to democracy. In response to the will of the Government and our citizens, the culmination of our current political process is beginning. A system of government, fully in accord with the constant norms of the political Constitution approved by the people in 1980, calling for a democratic system in keeping with Christian-Western values and principles, will be inaugurated. My participation in this Assembly coincides with this historic national moment. Objective appreciation of this event is certainly necessary for a better understanding of our reciprocal links and for the fusing of our common goal of progress.
It is useful and appropriate to recall that in 1973 the Government of Chile took over a nation on the brink of material disintegration and of the loss of its national identity, with the imminent risk of being deprived of its sovereignty. It was a country in a shattered political, juridical, economic, social and moral condition. The institutions of the Republic had been seriously eroded or derided. The nation's economy was destroyed, its production sources paralysed, its international reserves exhausted. Chilean society was in crisis. The loftiest and permanent values of the nation were threatened. 
Since then the Government of President Pinochet has assumed the arduous and complex task of reclaiming Chile's democratic institutionality and opening the way to sustained progress, in harmony with the national common good.
To make headway on this great task the labour and effort of all Chileans has been required. We have faced adverse conditions resulting from international crises and recessions, as well as from the lack of understanding and the difficulties that we have encountered even from those that shared our principles and were aware of the nature of our problem.
This difficult task had the object of giving shape in Chile to an authentically free society, based on three fundamental pillars which mutually complement one another. These are, simultaneously, improvement of the Chilean's quality of life through social development, a social economy of the marketplace through economic development, and a solid participative democracy through political development. If an impartial, unbiased visitor were to check on what has been achieved in Chile, he would appreciate the substantial progress which the country has made at these three levels.
As for quality of life and social development, the respective indexes are eloquent and the forecasts are promising. The marked increase in life expectancy, the virtual disappearance of illiteracy and serious infant malnutrition, the increase in school enrolment, the decline in extreme poverty, the noteworthy urban improvement, housing construction, the increase in the number of home owners and the decline in the rates of unemployment to figures even lower than those in more developed nations are some samples of our social achievements, and these will continue to increase in the interest of the welfare of all Chileans,
As far as the economy is concerned, the results obtained have been the object of praise and recognition in specialized technical circles. To mention only a few aspects in this area, it is worth noting that the fiscal budget has been balanced; inflation has been controlled, having been reduced from percentages greater than 6üü per cent annually to 5.9 per cent in the first eight months of this year; an increase in the gross national product has been maintained for the fifth consecutive year; diversification of exports has substantially changed our position from that of being predominantly an exporter of a single product, with the result that, overall, exports have increased by more than 5 per cent, with the decisive participation of the private sector; and there has been negotiation of the servicing and reduction of the external debt.
In the political sphere, we have always affirmed that Chile would restore its democratic regime, proceeding with a process of transition outlined in a detailed plan.
The Political Constitution approved in 1980, which governs the country today, provided that in 1988 the people would be called upon to make a sovereign, free, secret and well-informed decision to elect a leader to assume the presidency of the Republic for the next term. It also provided that in 1989 the senators and deputies who would form the two branches of the National Congress would be elected by popular vote. To that end and to ensure the development of full democracy, the necessary legal regulations were prepared and put into effect.
As a result Chile today has a sophisticated system of public electoral registration of its citizens which has enabled almost 7.5 million Chileans to participate now in the electoral process. That is 92 per cent of the possible total in the country - a percentage that not even the more developed nations have attained and that has certainly never before been reached in Chile. Similarly, the legislation that regulates the voting and scrutiny process guarantees the correctness of the voting system and its results. The secrecy of voting is guaranteed, as is public scrutiny, and the representatives of all the political parties can verify results in the voting precincts and associated areas. Any complaints that the electoral processes may produce are dealt with by the Election Qualifying Board, a politically independent organism, in accordance with the respective statutes.
In compliance with the legislation on political parties, these are functioning in significant numbers, participating daily and constantly in the political debate in support of their respective options and arguments
In addition to the ample freedom that exists for electoral publicity through the media - radio, newspapers and other written material - free time has been legally granted on all television channels, with equal periods for all the electoral options presented to the citizenry. Anyone who does not keep his eyes closed in Chile today can see all the publications representing the most diverse political points of view, and if he does not plug his ears he can also hear innumerable radio stations broadcasting programmes about the different party options.
In addition, all the exceptional measures in effect in the country have been lifted, despite the persistence of extremist activity, so that total legal normality now exists. The last of the prohibitions on entry into the country established by virtue of the state of emergency, now revoked, has also been terminated.
In sum, all these actions confirm the absolute resolve of the government and people of Chile to restore full democracy.
Within this framework, Chile is now nearing the plebiscite to be held on 5 October, that is to say, a week from today. This plebiscite constitutes a form of election permitted once only under the Political Constitution as an extraordinary and exceptional measure. Its purpose is to allow Chileans an opportunity to give their majority support to the person proposed for the next presidential term and thus to ensure the best possible conditions for beginning the restored democratic institutional process. If this support is granted it will mean that the elected candidate has gained in a direct vote more than 50 per cent of the votes cast, a proportion which no one can contend does not represent the democratic will of a people. If that does not happen, a President of the Republic will be elected at the end of one year, in accordance with the general and permanent provisions of the Constitution.
This is the culmination of Chile's institutional and political development. However, we are not unmindful of the obstacles still to overcome.
We know that there are elements that seek a breakdown or failure of the institutional process, to the point that they have called for the electoral results to be disregarded or their constitutional effects modified. We also know that they will continue to try to distort the realities in Chile, through disinformation, creation of false images and falsification of results, and will even go so far as to charge fraud. Unfortunately, some of these disruptive elements seem to be able to rely on foreign complicity, or seek to obtain it. The Chilean Government will not hesitate to maintain order to guarantee free electoral expression by its citizens. 
Let the international community not be confused with regard to the situation in Chile. The facts I have just set forth confirm that the process that is now going on is in keeping with the deeply felt interests of the Republic, and enables it to face the future with stability, seeking the well-being of all Chileans.
The democracy that is being restored in Chile today constitutes a system in which political and economic freedoms are solidly linked with social development. It is based on our conviction that it is this unity that will give it stability since socio-economic development gives the individual freedom in his personal and social life, and political development involves him in participation in the common good of the nation.
We have full respect for the will of each nation and for the way in which each State manages its internal affairs. We have the right to ask that this respect be reciprocal.
Let me say in closing that it is the desire and the confidence of Chile that this Organization which unites us will succeed in finding proper and timely answers to the desire for peace, justice and development so deeply felt in the world today and that it will also know how to inspire us to make a real contribution to the international common good, a responsibility we all must share.


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿
I wish, first of all, to convey to the Ambassador of Nigeria, Major General Joseph Garba, our congratulations on his election as President of this General Assembly. His talents as a diplomat guarantee a substantive contribution to the success of these sessions.
We also wish to acknowledge the positive presidency of his predecessor, the former Minister of Foreign Affairs of Argentina, Congressman Dante Caputo.
We also desire to extend our congratulations to the Secretary-General, Ambassador Javier Perez de Cuellar, and his colleagues, for their effective peace-making efforts.
We are pleased that these meetings are being held under the presidency of a representative of the Africa* continent. My Government has always been interested in broadening its relations with the peoples of Africa. It has steadfastly maintained its condemnation of apartheid aid all other forms of discrimination. They are offensive to human dignity. As you know, Mr. President, our ties to Africa are due to the United Nations, especially through our participation in the Committee on Decolonisation and in the United Nations Council for Namibia. We note with satisfaction the progress being made towards the attainment of independence for that Territory.
The Chilean Government wishes to express satisfaction with the renewed vitality and effectiveness of our Organization, which represents a reiteration of the commitment of the international community to the principles of the United Nations Charter.
We likewise note that the new relationships that are being established between the super-Powers are contributing to an improved international political atmosphere. The gentle winds of understanding are opening the way to a better world. Of course, our sense of optimism is not limitless. We continue to have serious concerns with regard to the grave problems which are threatening the peace or which are adversely affecting developing countries.
Regional armed conflicts, poverty, the drug traffic, lack of access to world financial markets, obstacles to international trade, destruction of the environment are problems that still exist. There has been progress towards better understanding but the opportunities for well-being do not reach the great majority of humanity.
As a country that is part of the American community, I wish on this occasion to stress again our solidarity with the peoples of Central America, a region harassed by the action of foreign interests.
My Government also views with profound regret the prolongation of the tragedy afflicting the Lebanese nation. We support the appeal for peace in that region made by His Holiness John Paul II. We are convinced that all non-Lebanese troops should be withdraw from that territory.
Violence continues to distress the peoples of the Middle East. We feel this very deeply because many descendants of the Arabs and the Israelis are part of our Chilean society.
There is no rest for those who champion the cause of peace and the rights of man. Whenever we begin to think that progress is being made in troubled areas, strong forces of reaction threaten that progress. We are still concerned therefore about the citizens of Turkish origin who are being persecuted in Bulgaria. Chile reiterates its support for the universality of the United Nations, and would therefore welcome the desire expressed by the Government of the Republic of Korea for membership in this Organization.
We regret the prolongation of the Cambodian drama. Despite the progress there, we feel that much remains to be done to enable the Cambodian people to recover their right of self-determination and freedom.
In addressing the representatives of the peoples of the world I do so with the satisfaction that comes from speaking in the name of a nation aid a Government that are taking an historic step, overcoming both major domestic and external obstacles. Thanks to the efforts and determination of each and every Chilean, we have built a new society based on political and economic freedoms. From the depths of the crisis that affected us between 1970 and 1973, we have rebuilt our democracy and a strong and prosperous economy. On more than one occasion, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Chile has explained to this Assembly the process we have been following in establishing a secure democracy and a strong, developed economy. We have also announced in advance the precise dates, forms and stages for achieving the transition to full democracy, in accordance with the constitution which was overwhelmingly approved by the voters in 1980 - and the improved text of last July received the broadest popular support in our political history.
There were those who did not wish to acknowledge the power of the rebirth of democracy in Chile, because it meant the end of the totalitarian regime of the "Popular Unity". There were also those who did not believe or who questioned the sovereign decision of my Government and my people to establish a free and progressive society. We were the object of discrimination, a double standard and irrational hostility, and then, in the face of Chile's undeniable progress, a conspiracy of silence arose. Only recently has Chile gained the international understanding and recognition its historic achievements deserve. The disinformation, ideologization and scepticism that distorted my country's image have finally given way to objective reality. There has been a positive change within the international community in its attitude towards Chile. The combination of political and economic freedoms is a reality in Chile and stands as the principal achievement of the Government of President Augusto Pinochet.
From adversity, Chile has emerged strengthened. We have shown that foreign pressure cannot overrule the decision of a nation when its cause is just. We have learned that the sovereignty of nations is also a constant challenge. Finally, we have learnt that the only real collaboration between nations is collaboration which recognizes the independence and dignity of all States. The people of Chile is the only people which can choose what the destiny of the Chilean people is to be. Supported by accomplishments and facts, I can affirm that we have carried out what we proposed and what we promised. The Government of President Pinochet has made a reality of the objectives it set for itself in 1974. Freedom of the press, the activities of the most varied political parties, completely open public debate, full individual and trade union rights and economic improvement are, among other things, concrete expressions of a fruitful process of normalization which is not limited to recognition of civic freedoms but recognizes also those freedoms of a social, cultural and economic nature without which any society collapses into frustration. The progress Chile has been achieving in its economy and in modernizing its social structure ensures that democracy will not be a risky, fragile and Utopian adventure.
Chile today is calm and peaceful, and the worth of moderation is new very clearly valued. Op to 1973, ideologized programmes had the upper hand; these were revolutionary in scope, and aimed to change society radically, "today, on the other hand, only democratic parties have popular support and a chance at the polls.
The progress Chile has made is not the result of foreign inspiration or aid. Chile owes its success aid its bright future to its people and its Government; they have worked hard and not turned from the path laid out by their opinions and traditions. We have a stable currency, sustained growth, controlled inflation and a balanced budget. We have put in place economic freedom that is stimulating the creative initiative of individuals aid recognizes the function of the market rather than the State bureaucracy in allocating resources. Chile's progress and the stability of its Government's policies inspire confidence in those doing business with my country. They know that our word is good, that we keep our promises and that our future belongs to our people.
Progress in Chile has taken us to the threshold of being a developed country. I would like to give you some figures which reflect the sustained progress made by the Chilean economy: real growth in gross domestic product (<3)P) since the 1982 recession has an annual average of close to 6 per cent, and was over 10 per cent in the first six months of this year; more than a million and a half productive jobs have been created over the last five years, reducing the unemployment rate by half j in 1970, Chile exported 400 products to 58 countries, and is now exporting over 1,500 products to 112 countries? in 1973, Chile's exports totalled $1,305 billion, while exports in 1989 will exceed $8 billion; in 1986, the foreign debt peaked at $19.5 billion, and has since been reduced to $16.8 billion. In the social domain, expenditure has been concentrated on the sectors where there is extreme poverty, achieving successes which are the pride of all Chileans. For example, the health indicators show that the infant mortality rate dropped from per thousand in 1970 to 18.8 per thousand in 1988; life expectancy rose from 61.5 years to 71.8 years between 1970 and 1988> and the literacy rate has readied 94.3	per cent.
The changes the world has experienced in the last 16 years have been wide-ranging and profound. The option Chile took in 1973 - its commitment to expansion and freedom - ran counter to many of the dominant trends in the economy and policy of that time. The same policies and sectors which failed in Chile towards the end of the 1960s and the early 1970s managed to establish themselves elsewhere, and now we are witnessing the collapse of the illusions offered by totalitarian and collectivist systems and their eventual demise. Peace itself seems to be gaining strength, and decisions by the main Powers are converging towards a greater degree of understanding and rationality.
The world has become ever more interdependent. Knowledge and science, technology and resources are overcoming boundaries and artificial limits. The same phenomenon is occurring with problems or situations which affect the whole international community and therefore pose a challenge to world co-operation and to this Organization.
One of the greatest challenges facing the international community is the challenge of effectively combating drug trafficking, a scourge which is corrupting society, the family and nations. We join with those Governments which have undertaken to combat such traffic, particularly the Government of Colombia for its courage in confronting the powerful criminal organizations which have taken advantage of that nation.
Since 1973, Chile has kept the most severe manifestations of this problem under control through a rigorous programme of prevention. We are not a drug-producing country, but we have been the victims of the activities of drug traffickers. In September 1973, one of the first acts of the Government was to expel a group of foreign drug traffickers which, taking advantage of the political and social crisis in the country, had set themselves up in northern Chile.
We are convinced that individual action by any one State is not enough: we must join forces. The world has declared war on drugs, but we must make it clear that contingency actions in this war will not solve the problem definitively. The permanent solution is education to strengthen our young people end alert them to the damage drugs do and programmes to help victims recover. To do this, the community of nations must allocate the necessary resources to implement effective education programmes.
We have been expressing our concern about terrorist activities for years now. I should like to take this opportunity to repeat that we repudiate and reject terrorism. We Chileans are particularly conscious of terrorism. We have suffered from its cowardly, irresponsible attacks and more than once have seen how other nations allow the free transit of know terrorists claiming political immunity. If modern societies wish to overcome, once and for all, terrorism and narco-terrorism Which is threatening to engulf us all, we must act decisively. No nation should offer them shelter or facilitate their movements.
On occasion, certain international organizations have permitted the human rights question to be manipulated systematically. Attempts have been made to politicize it and even to include the legitimate fight against terrorism and subversion under the phrase "violations of human rights". We are not disregarding in this context the inviolable rights inherent in every human being. But we condemn the gross manipulation of human rights which, at its very heart, demonstrates that there is no real respect for what is said -falsely - to be respected. Human rights must be respected by all nations without exception, but must not be manipulated.
It is neither just nor balanced to make facile pronouncements on the painful events that some nations, such as Chile, had to experience in overcoming subversion and terrorist violence. In our case, these were the result of the political upheaval aid breakdown of our society from 1970 to 1973. We must bear in mind the root causes and the general context of the disruption of the peaceful life of our peoples.
In Chile we have been able to build a society in which human rights are protected not only by democratic institutions and the rule of law, but also by Chileans' respect for each other's individual freedom, values and beliefs. Those rights are also protected by the spirit of understanding that prevails in Chile.
For our part, we have decided to build a new future for Chile, and to accept the implications of our own past.
In 1978 the Government of Chile adopted an amnesty law as the corner-stone of our efforts to pacify and unite the com try. Amnesty is the juridical course of prudence, of reconciliation and of commitment to a peaceful Chile - the common goal of the vast majority of the Chilean people. For the sake of the future of everyone, we believe it is necessary to put the past behind us, to heal rather than reopen wounds. The people aid the Government of Chile are firmly committed to continuing to advance on the road of unity and peace which they have always followed.
International co-operation is the basis of peace and progress. The world is advancing toward the creation of expanded free-trade markets. An outstanding example is the European Community.
We find reason for hope in the prospects that the twenty-first century holds for nations capable of facing the challenges of the future. That hope is based on the fact that the free-trade agreements will inevitably be extended to Latin America, which is moving forward in accordance with the prevailing trend towards greater economic freedom.
Chile wishes to promote effective Latin American integration. It is necessary to modify the present approaches based on the artificial strategy of imports, restraint's on foreign investment, and regional markets strictly protected and regulated by the State. We believe that, instead, those approaches should conform to the prevailing trends towards privatisation, elimination of customs barriers, a free market and the negotiation of general agreements that would enable the region to swim with the tide of progress and to move towards ever-freer flows of goods and services offering opportunities to everyone. The conditions have been created for true regional economic integration that would expand the agreements reached in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Chile has made every effort to accommodate its economy to those trends, convinced as we are that this is the preliminary step to the broad aid modern integration that will enhance Latin America's promising prospects. However, we also view those prospects with concern because the trade negotiations aid associations of the industrialized nations could become de facto protectionist barriers against trade with the rest of the world.
The recent experience of the unfair embargo on the export of Chilean fruits - which, for reasons that remain obscure, was temporarily excluded from world markets - demonstrates not only the complexities of international trade, but also the danger of protectionism on the part of the developed nations, which can halt the exports of the developing countries aid inflict serious damage on their economies.
Our peoples want to move with the great currents of world progress. They do not want to receive "humanitarian assistance" in exchange for protectionism, which maintains imbalances harmful to the developing nations. What we want is equality of opportunity, just and equitable treatment. I am sure that on the basis of such equal treatment and mutual respect my country and many others will be able to advance securely on the road of growth aid to meet the foreign-debt obligations which weigh so heavily on our economies.
Nevertheless, a large foreign debt entails great sacrifices of our peoples' standard of living and slows production aid consumption in creditor as well as debtor countries. Everyone involved in this cycle must join forces to overcome it.
It is not an exaggeration to say that the re-evaluation of the dollar, high international interest rates, and protectionism have been the direct causes of the present debt problem.
A plan for co-operation and co-ordination between the industrialized nations has served as a complement to the Bretton Woods institutions. But in that co-ordination the interests of the developing world have not been adequately represented. The monetary discipline on the part of the industrialized nations that would take into account our countries' economic needs has not emerged.
Chile's foreign policy is based on the principles of international law and on the goals of peace and co-operation. Those goals are linked not only to the promotion of the national interest within the community of nations but also to the promotion of the common good at the international level. In our country's actions in multilateral forums, we are firmly committed to the promotion of peace, friendship and co-operation between States.
We are living in a dynamic era. But the enduring human values - truth, justice, equality and freedom - must be maintained.
Present international relations are marked -- as they will also be in the future - by a growing freedom from ideologies; by the diffusion of power among many centres of decision-making aid influence; by the globalisation of relations between nations as a product of the clear and growing interdependence of all spheres of human activity, aid, finally, by the growth of a consensus on the role of the individual, his creative capacity and his initiative as the most dynamic elements in the social process.
We are living in a new age. Some very difficult times, which seriously threatened the idea of co-operation between nations as well as human freedom, have been left behind. We have reason to be optimistic. Ahead of us lies a world of opportunities. Chile is determined to face the challenges with the decisiveness characteristic of young and confident nations.


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿
Mr. President, I come before this Assembly with joy and great emotion, as the authentic voice of the Chilean nation, which has only recently been reborn to democratic life. With deep satisfaction I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to conduct the proceedings of the General Assembly at its forty-fifth session. I should also like to congratulate Ambassador Joseph Garba of Nigeria on his positive and dynamic performance during his recently ended term as President. I also extend my greetings to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar. We, in Chile, are proud of the prestige which this great Peruvian diplomat has brought to the United Nations. His visit to our country just a few days ago was an honour for us.
As members are aware, Chile has distinguished itself throughout its history for its freedom-loving spirit, its respect for law and the soundness of its democratic system. We have recovered those values and we have done so in peace, without rancour, looking to the future and with a broad sense of hope and reconciliation.
The logic of war that divided Chileans into friends and enemies has been overcome by the logic of peace where we all recognize each other as compatriots, no matter what our differences may be. The average Chilean is enjoying a fuller life in, liberty and greater security without the fears of the past, in happiness and with hope because he is aware that he is respected, and his dignity is valued. We also know that he has been called on to participate with his contribution to the common cause of building the future of our homeland·
In renewing these traditions of a democratic people, Chile, through me, expresses its greetings and gratitude to the United Nations and to all the peoples and individuals the world over who stood by Chilean democrats in their struggle to defend the dignity of man and win back their freedom.
The issue of human rights occupies a special place in the relationship between Chile and the United Nations. We have been tireless promoters of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights since its inception. We have fostered a concept of human rights that goes beyond the physical protection of the person to encompass political, social, economic and cultural dimensions, and we have advocated the supremacy of these principles. For Chilean democracy, human rights have never known any frontiers.
In the recent past, however, the pendulum swung in the other direction. When serious violations of human rights occurred in my country, the United Nations never once relaxed its scrutiny of events in Chile. This position of vigilance, expressed in repeated condemnations of the situation obtaining at that time, constituted a valuable contribution to the restoration of democracy, for which I should like publicly to express my gratitude today.
This experience has strengthened our commitment. We know full well that unqualified respect for human rights is a universal imperative that constitutes the moral and juridical foundations of all civilized life in both the national and international spheres. 
We likewise believe that the defence of human rights is an ongoing and universal endeavour, which must never be used for discriminatory purposes or in the service of other foreign policy objectives. Human rights must be protected everywhere and at all times.
We therefore deem it important to inform the international community about the spirit which has moved us to assuage the wounds that were inflicted on the national spirit by the grave human rights violations which occurred in the past.
We are tackling this problem with prudence, equity and a great sense of responsibility. There is a need to clarify and ascertain the truth about what happened in the past so as not to keep endlessly alive a constant source of anguish. Nevertheless, we do not wish to hold back the march of history or, even less, to encourage sterile enmities. The aim is to seek the truth and, together with it, genuine reconciliation among Chileans.
Towards this end, my Government has ordered the establishment of a special commission known as the "Commission on Truth and Reconciliation", whose mandate is to investigate serious violations of human rights. That Commission is gathering the information that is available and will make a report in the relatively near future. Given its administrative character, the Commission is not intended in any way to take the place of the courts of law. The Commission, which is composed of individuals of the highest moral calibre and national prestige, is working in absolute independence and is receiving the co-operation of the various segments of society.
In this way, with good will on the part of all, we hope to satisfy the Chilean people's yearnings for peace and understanding through law and on the basis of truth, justice and reconciliation. As it embarks upon a new stage, Chile is facing the challenge of consolidating democracy as a form of political coexistence based on the freedom of the individual, with economic growth and social justice. This, I believe, is a challenge that is common to all developing countries.
Experience reveals that it is possible for a time to have economic prosperity without democracy, but such prosperity does not put down lasting roots because the lack of freedom will encourage abuse of the weak, mainly the poor, by the strong, will stifle the initiative and participation of many people, and will create a suffocating climate of oppression and consequent rebellion which will render stability impossible.
It is possible to have democracy without economic growth, but well-intentioned efforts to improve the living conditions of those who have less by redistributive measures that bring about greater equality without increasing the supply of goods will inevitably lead to serious economic crises, and these crises will endanger the entire social system and, of course, democracy itself.
Without social justice, any democracy, no matter how prosperous it may be, will live under the permanent threat that the understandable agitation of the poor for equity will disrupt the economic development process and jeopardize the stability of the political system itself.
In order to achieve peace and stability in national life it is therefore essential simultaneously to ensure democracy in the political sphere, growth in the economic sphere and justice in the social sphere. This is precisely the task undertaken by the Chilean people.
If we are to be successful in that undertaking we need to pool our domestic efforts and ensure that they are orderly, and we must also have the understanding and co-operation of our friends around the world, especially the major developed countries. Our best efforts may be reduced to naught if equity and solidarity do not prevail in economic relations between our countries.
This is a problem that vitally affects the entire developing world. If we wish to remain faithful to the principles that presided over the founding of the Organization we must be consistent in pursuing the idea that world peace is closely linked to the reign of freedom, economic and social progress and rising standards of living for all the world's peoples. As long as there are peoples ground down by hunger or poverty, or others who, although their plight is less dire, must grapple with insuperable obstacles in their efforts to achieve growth and advancement, the cause of peace will continue to be threatened.
The activities of the various specialized agencies of the United Nations, of the international financial system and of programmes of co-operation between industrialized countries and developing nations are without a doubt very important contributions towards the solution of this problem. However, I would venture to make an appeal to the most highly aware and responsible leaders in the major developed countries to weigh fully the impact their own decisions may have on the enhancement or the decline of freedom, justice, progress and peace in our world.
We cherish the hope that the new climate of peace between the great Powers will enable the richest nations to shift the resources they have been spending on defence towards the objectives of economic and social progress in the developing world.
We reaffirm the basic tenets that have guided Chile's foreign policy and that largely reflect the national consensus. Those tenets are fully in keeping with the values, principles and objectives that constitute the raison d'être of the United Nations.
Within that framework the main objectives of Chile's foreign policy are as follows: first, to restore our country's influence in the world by means of realistic action inspired by the values and principles to which we have already referred, with special emphasis on the defence of human rights; secondly, to make our international relations more universal in the political, economic, social and cultural fields; thirdly, to promote economic integration and political co-ordination in Latin America, including the development of modern concepts of security which strengthen peace and democracy in the region; fourthly, to pursue an open and modern external economic policy linking Chile to the dynamic centres of growth and technological innovation; fifthly, to foster relations of co-operation and understanding with the developing countries; and, lastly, to strengthen multilateral organizations and Chile's participation in their activities.
The world is rapidly undergoing a transition to a new international reality. We welcome the strengthening of freedom, the greater respect for human rights and the expansion of democracy, all of which augur well for the progress of mankind.
Now more than ever there is a need to intensify the struggle against authoritarian systems of every stripe. Today, the ideological excuses for dictatorships are crumbling. There is no possible legitimacy for rule by force. Full enjoyment of the fundamental freedoms of the human person is the necessary condition for any civilized society. My Government therefore strongly supports and attaches great importance to the consideration of appropriate ways and means of enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of periodic and genuine elections, which is under way in the Commission on Human Rights.
We view as extraordinarily positive the end of the cold war, the guest for agreement and the climate of friendship and co-operation between the great Powers. We extend a most cordial welcome to the united Germany and to the new European democracies. That spirit needs to spread to the other nations and make it possible to end the numerous conflicts and tensions that have dragged on for years in different parts of the world.
This new situation has strengthened the political and moral unity of the United Nations and must give an impetus to political dialogue aimed at improving the international situation. The time has come decisively to quicken the pace of efforts aimed at achieving general and complete disarmament, a ban on the use of nuclear weapons, the cessation of nuclear testing and a total renunciation of the use of chemical and bacteriological weapons.
It would be counter to that spirit and an unacceptable threat were the dread and now defunct cold war to be replaced by an intensification of regional, ethnic or religious conflicts. The United Nations must remain alert to this situation and must take action under the Charter whenever it deems it necessary.
The unanimous international condemnation of the invasion of Kuwait is an expression of those desires and principles and a reflection of the repudiation and just indignation aroused by such conduct, which is a flagrant violation of the norms of international law and a grave threat to the dawning era of peace and co-operation. Chile fully supports and is scrupulously complying with the decisions that the Security Council has taken on this matter. 
My Government reaffirms its conviction that Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) constitute an adequate basis for guaranteeing both Israel's right to exist within secure and internationally recognized boundaries and the Palestinian people's right to a sovereign State.
There are other areas of tensions in the world that also give cause for concern. We are confident that solutions will be found to those problems by peaceful means, in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
Chile also condemns all forms of racism and racial discrimination and, in particular, the harmful apartheid regime. My country fervently hopes that the new avenues that are being explored with imagination and political will by the Government of President De Klerk and the African National Congress, through its leader. Nelson Mandela, will lead to the final demise of apartheid through peaceful negotiations that will lead to democracy without discrimination and based on respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Forty-five years have elapsed since the founding of the United Nations, and today it is gratifying to be able to give the Organization high marks for its very important work in the field of decolonization. The full implementation of the Declaration on decolonization must eliminate colonialism before the beginning of the next millennium. 
In this new world environment each region must promote collective security in order to reduce mistrust and strengthen peace within the framework of the international treaties and agreements in force.
We wish to highlight the extraordinary contributions various Governments have made, with the support of the Organization of American States (OAS) and the United Nations, with the aim of bringing greater tranquillity to Central America.
Chile is privileged to be geographically situated in a region where wisdom and common sense have prevailed, as evidenced by the signing of the Treaty of Peace and Friendship between Chile and Argentina in 1984 and the strengthening of co-operation between our two countries.
Chile's traditional vocation has been one of participation and co-operation in Latin America. We believe it is essential to promote regional and subregional political linkages. The establishment of large-scale economic zones in other parts of the world forces us to reflect, among ourselves and together with other groupings, on the best way of dealing with these new phenomena and avoiding the risks implicit in the protectionism they represent.
The region is experiencing an important period in which its economic structures are being opened up and modernized. This entails adjustments and varying paces of domestic change which must be taken into account in agreeing upon pragmatic forms of co-operation. Our aim is to advance towards stable and lasting trade and investment agreements which will make it possible to overcome the traditional obstacles to our reciprocal trade. We have already taken important steps in this direction with various countries and shall continue to advance down that path.
No nation can remain unaffected by world-wide trends towards more open markets and the establishment of large-scale economic zones. What is needed, therefore, is a review of the prevailing policies and existing structures in the developing regions and an effective policy for gaining access to markets in the industrialized countries.
The developing nations will not be able to introduce greater openness into their economies and expand their exports unless they receive reciprocal treatment from the most advanced countries. We have noted recently with disappointment that both tariff and non-tariff barriers not only subsist but are increasing; such barriers hamper or even prevent the export of our goods to markets in the industrialized countries. In our view, external co-operation is absolutely essential in order to facilitate world-trade flows and introduce greater flexibility with respect to debt-servicing obligations.
In the light of what I have said so far, my Government will consider in a positive spirit the so-called Americas Initiative announced recently by the President of the United States, who has proposed the establishment of a free-trade zone in the Western Hemisphere. In our view, this is a constructive step towards an improved continental relationship.
If detente proves to be effective and lasting, we can envisage a United Nations which, instead of having to focus the bulk of its efforts on avoiding the armed confrontations that result from a divided world, can devote itself to solving problems common to us all, such as the struggle against drug addiction; problems of the family, women, young people, the elderly and the handicapped; environmental degradation; food shortages; terrorism; the development of health and sanitation, and a whole range of other problems dealt with by the Organization. The solutions we find will help bring about better conditions for mankind.
In November this year Chile will have the honour of acting as host to the most important meeting ever held within the Antarctic Treaty System for the protection of the environment of the frozen continent. Chile, like all the parties to the Treaty, is profoundly committed to this objective. 
Our planet is undergoing profound changes, and today more than ever before there is a need for imaginative and creative vision in dealing with the current international realities. Practical ideas must be sought without neglecting moral values or beliefs. We must maintain our passion for fighting against injustices, but a calm attitude and a realistic approach are essential to the guest for the most effective ways of solving these problems. With this realistic approach we must recognize that the economic resources available to the United Nations are meagre, and this situation is compounded by the great diversity of the issues with which the United Nations has to deal.
We are therefore in favour of streamlining the United Nations system to the fullest extent possible by avoiding duplication and achieving greater co-ordination between specialized agencies and greater financial and administrative efficiency. That will make more feasible a speedier response to the problems we are facing. We strongly support the efforts being made now to this end.
On the whole, it is clear that the advance of democracy has made for greater humanization in the political sphere. There is greater respect for the individual, and the individual is more protected and less vulnerable. However, at the same time, there is a counter-trend towards increased dehumanization in the social sphere. Equality of opportunity is declining, the individual is increasingly defenceless against his environment; employment is difficult to find and hold on to; and people are unable to make ends meet with their earnings, while large segments of the population live in conditions of extreme poverty.
The world social situation is, in our view, the most serious problem that must be solved, since it poses a threat to international stability.
There is an urgent need for international social justice; in order to prevent the economic difficulties of the least developed countries from being transposed to the political sphere and affecting the processes of economic modernization and political democratization.
We must therefore deal with social issues from an interconnected global perspective, giving health, education, housing, employment, the status of women, youth development and other related matters the urgent priority they require. We join in the many appeals for such an approach which have been made from this rostrum.
The accurate diagnosis and comprehensive analysis with which various studies and reports of the Organization have provided us are marred, however, by the lack of specific proposals for combating the evils which have been weakening our societies. We therefore consider it of the utmost importance to give the Secretary-General the mandate he needs so that, in the shortest possible time and drawing upon the vast store of information that already exists, he can propose specific action-oriented measures for alleviating the most serious social problems that have been identified.
It is especially encouraging that in the next few days the Heads of State and Government of nearly 70 countries will be meeting to adopt a declaration of political commitment and a plan of action for a better future for the world's children. This is a symbol that the new consciousness for which we have been calling is already emerging, for behind every disadvantaged child is a disadvantaged family. Troubled children symbolize the problems of the world. We must be aware that today's ill-treated child is tomorrow's cynical citizen. In contrast, the child who is secure and protected will without any doubt be a builder of the new and harmonious world we all fervently desire.
The international community stands on the threshold of a new era. The fundamental change brought about through the end of the cold war opens up the broadest prospects for increasing and enhancing international co-operation in the twenty-first century. For the first time in its 45 years of existence the United Nations has an opportunity to devote itself to this basic task without having to deal with the limitations imposed by attempts to mediate in the bipolar confrontation, which, since it affected virtually every area, made it enormously difficult to make progress towards constructive understanding.
In the context of this new reality, I have a message of peace and optimism to convey on behalf of the people of Chile. Recent events have given mankind reason for hope. Were it not for the grave crisis that has been irresponsibly created in the Persian Gulf that is causing such damage in many different parts of the world and that is responsible for the dangerous uncertainty in which we are living, we might say that the world is advancing towards a higher stage of humanization with all that that entails for the enhancement of peace, freedom and justice.
Civilization has advanced as the acceptance and general compliance of the norms that must govern the behaviour of men and the conduct of nations are becoming widespread, thus making possible life in harmony, co-operation and the well-being of mankind.
All nations, whether weak or strong, must understand that the United Nations is prepared to ensure that those norms are enforced, that we cannot remain indifferent in the face of any flouting or disregarding of those norms, let alone approve such behaviour. The United Nations exists to support and promote peace, justice, law and the well-being and progress of all. These are the foundations of the national and international commonweal and the underpinning of a civilized order for mankind.
Chile believes that all of us - "we the peoples of the United Nations" - on the threshold of the twenty-first century face a future that is not without obstacles but that also offers a wealth of promising prospects, whose realization will depend on our determination to work together to abide strictly by the principles of the Charter and to practice the principles of solidarity.
In keeping with its means and possibilities, Chile wishes to take part with faith and enthusiasm in this lofty endeavour. This is a new opportunity that has been given to our generation to build a better world. It is a vital challenge to all our peoples and Governments. 


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿There are times in the life of nations when circumstances arise that offer exceptional opportunities for strengthening peace and cooperation between peoples, opportunities for correcting past mistakes, for making up for the time wasted in conflicts, for realizing long-cherished desires.I believe, without exaggerated optimism, that we have begun passing through one of these stages. There are indeed many signs that this is the case. But of all of them, the most fundamental is the restoration of the dignity and freedom of the human being. That development has made it possible for history to change its course, with the result that we have today the extraordinary opportunity - and also the vast responsibility - of attempting to build a better world than the one we have known up until now.It is from this that this newly opened forty-sixth session of the General Assembly derives its special importance. Accordingly, Mr. President, we welcome your election, which enables an experienced diplomat to steer our debates to a successful conclusion. The General Assembly has voted to admit seven new Members, thus raising the number of Members of the United Nations to 166 and simultaneously confirming the Organization's validity and universality. We greet the Democratic Republic of Korea, Estonia, the Federated States of Micronesia, Latvia, Lithuania, the Marshall Islands and the Republic of Korea, and extend a most cordial welcome to them.The formidable progress made by the cause of freedom in a few short but intense years has created conditions that will enable the United Nations, without sterile dissent, to comply fully with the stipulations of its basic Charter.Chile and Latin America at large have also been a part of this process. The map of Latin American democracies, yesterday mutilated and obscured in various places by various forms of authoritarianism, now begins to conform to the outlines of a world seeking to establish a dialogue based on the common ideals of democracy and respect for human rights.At this very moment the renewed democratic reality of our continent is feeing a crucial test in the form of the coup d'etat in Haiti. This constitutes an affront to the international community - which just a few days ago welcomed the President of Haiti on this very podium - and the most reprehensible type of attack on peace and security in our region. Yesterday the Organisation of American States set in motion the mechanisms agreed upon at its last general assembly to ensure the effectiveness of the Santiago Commitment to Democracy. The meeting of foreign ministers of States members of the OAS adopted measures to ensure the re-establishment of the legitimate Government in Haiti and sent a mission to that country. It expressed its willingness to take further steps, if necessary, to obtain this objective. We agreed without hesitation to the approval of these agreements.Chile - which has known the suffering incurred by the breakdown of liberty - expresses its solidarity with the Haitian people and demands the respect for their free exercise of sovereignty as expressed in December of 1990 at the polls. Democracy must be re-established in Haiti.We have seen that it is the values of democracy that have transformed an environment of confrontation into one of collaboration. These values have made it possible to put an end to conflicts that had dragged on for a long time and to make progress towards the solution of other as yet unresolved problems. They have achieved a start to the dismantling of the reprehensible apartheid regime, which we hope will soon disappear. Likewise, they have made possible the unequivocal and unanimous condemnation and halting of aggression perpetrated against a Member of the United Nations, thus discouraging the repetition of such acts in the future.We agree with the statement in this year's report of the Secretary-General to the effect that: "the end of the long season of stagnation for the United Nations" (A/46/1, p. 2) has arrived. It is a reality recognised by all world leaders that the Organisation has gained in authority and prestige.In large measure, this has been due to the effort, tenacity and creative imagination of its current Secretary-General. As the end of his term of office approaches, we should place it on record that Javier Peres de Cuellar has been an exemplary model for the standard of conduct recommended by the first President of the General Assembly to the Organisation's first Secretary-General: he has been firm without being intransigent, conciliatory without being weak, and impartial without exception. Almost half a century after its birth, the United Nations will have to be adapted to the challenges of the coming millennium. The present session will have to concentrate its efforts on such tasks. The far-reaching changes that have taken place on the world scene have, apart from moving beyond the former balance of power, changed the former concepts of security on which it was based. These changes now need to be reflected in the structures and procedures of the world Organization. They constitute capital which must be invested in bringing about significant progress in improving the mechanisms for peace, in negotiations for reaching substantive and balanced agreements on arms regulation, including the full and definitive prohibition of all weapons of mass destruction.It is essential that the peace-keeping function entrusted to the United Nation by the San Francisco Charter should be fully discharged, in all forums, through multilateral action, and this should be a shared responsibility of all Member States. The experience of the Persian Gulf should lead to improvements in the means available to the Security Council for taking action with regard to the subjects within its competence and with regard to compliance with its resolutions.We must recognise that peace is a commodity that is under constant threat on many fronts. This makes it advisable to welcome and support the timely and expeditious contributions that emerge in various ways and in various regions and subregions for preserving peace in those very places. In turn, the role of the Secretary-General during crises and in preventing conflicts needs to be strengthened. Chile is proud to add to its previous peace-keeping missions its current participation in the dedicated work of the United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM) in the Persian Gulf and that of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO).Above all, peace means that the disturbing tensions which still confront mankind have to be faced. The temptation to resort to force, terrorism, drug trafficking, the arms trade, the oppression of tyrannies, violation of human rights and the poverty that prevails today in extensive regions of the world cannot but be constant sources of conflict and insecurity.In the immediate future, we are confident that, through understanding and collaboration, the dramatic situation now prevailing in Yugoslavia will be resolved; and we also hope for a fruitful outcome to the negotiations to ensure that the International Peace Conference on the Middle East will lead to a just solution to unresolved issues in that area.The same spirit of understanding and cooperation inspires President Aylwin's government and all the Latin American nations in their efforts to make our region one where peace and democracy prevail- The promising and unprecedented steps recently taken in this direction are the outcome of the profound adherence of Latin America's democracies to dialogue and the full validation of International law.In this way, Chile and Argentina have offered the community of nations eloquent testimony to their peaceful and law-abiding will to resolve by mutual agreement the remaining border disputes between them - on one of the longest and most difficult frontiers in the world - by resorting, on the only point that could not be resolved directly, to the arbitration mechanism provided for in the 1984 Treaty of Peace and Friendship.The conviction that all disputes can be resolved peacefully has made possible a strengthening of the climate of trust in the region. In the recent Mendoza Accord, which we signed jointly with Brazil and Argentina, later joined by Uruguay, we proclaimed our determination to eliminate from Latin America any possibility that chemical and biological weapons would be introduced. Such initiatives will have to be supplemented by the establishment of a broad nuclear-free zone when we succeed in ensuring that the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America enters fully into force.In the context of the positive steps aimed at neutralizing the risks of conflict in the continent, we received with profound joy and satisfaction the news of the agreements on El Salvador signed just a few days ago in this Organization, which us> r in the culminating phase of the pacification of Central America.In Latin America today, active and concerted political efforts are under way to meet the challenges of a changing world. Despite the difficulties and limitations - and precisely with a view to overcoming them - cooperative agreements and mechanisms are multiplying in number. There is a growing awareness that peace and security can be consolidated only if we are capable of overcoming the diverse problems that conspire against the well-being and stability of our peoples.Chile has committed itself to the task of making the promise of freedom and justice, which is inherent in democracy, a reality. This means bringing about growing levels of equity for our society, as well as effectively and coherently ensuring sustained and sustainable economic development.Our country has recently demonstrated its effective export potential and its firm resolve to pursue the practices of an open and dynamic economy in conformity with the currently prevailing trends.We consider that, in the present circumstances, an economy which aspires to be up to date must be able both to compete in all spheres of trade and to meet the demands of complementarity within its own region.On the basis of this premise, Chile has joined resolutely in the process of Latin American integration within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association, employing a flexible approach which ties in with other encouraging formulas now current in the region.We have concluded important agreements on economic issues with Argentina. We have just signed a highly important agreement with Mexico - the first of its kind in Latin America - which, after a brief period of progressive reduction of duties, will bring about freedom of trade between the two nations. We are developing similar arrangements with other countries of the region, namely, Venezuela, Colombia and Bolivia, with which we have already made significant progress.In a world in which the trend towards globalisation is daily becoming more marked, we believe that regional integration and openness to the world, far from being in conflict, are converging approaches which cannot fail to optimize and strengthen the potential of our economy. In this sense, we have positively appraised President Bush's Americas Initiative and are fully ready to continue making progress towards the implementation of its provisions. Similarly, we are seeking to strengthen our links with Europe and with the Pacific nations, which are already important.Interaction between different regions, rather than confinement within them, must be viewed as vital to the economic progress of mankind. Therefore, for the present, the expansion of world trade, the growing flow of investment and the transfer of technologies cannot be exclusive privileges of the industrialised countries. Rather, their salutary and beneficial effects should be extended to all regions and countries. It would be particularly discouraging if the collapse of ideological walls were to be succeeded by the erection of economic walls blocking the developing world's aspiration to become integrated into the international economy.We are concerned, therefore, that in contrast to the signs of opening up and liberalisation, and in violation of basic norms of equity and reciprocity, protectionist positions continue to be reiterated, such as those which to date have made the Uruguay Bound of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) unproductive and that-, drastically affect the ability of the nations that have fallen farthest behind to offer better living standards for their peoples. The time has come for the new focus on the human being that has become evident in the political sphere to be reflected likewise in the humanization of the economy.In this connection, Chile is following with interest the proposals for reform that have been made with respect to the Economic and Social Council in an effort to systematize and coordinate its functions, rationalize its resources and strengthen the topics of development and technical cooperation. This process should help link the Council more effectively with other international economic and financial organisations.The political progress made by the international community in recent years has not been accompanied by a similar process in the field of social development. The "social cost" of political change and economic adjustment has led to an alarming deterioration in the standards and quality of life in many parts of the world, particularly in the developing countries.It is in these countries that the crisis in social conditions is having its most acute and devastating effects, exacerbated by the harmful impact of environmental degradation, which is today attaining truly intolerable proportions. All this has led not only to their continued stagnation but even to an open deterioration of their development prospects, while at the same time constantly counteracting the efforts at modernisation that are gaining some ground in these nations. This affects in particular the countries of Africa, which need special attention from the international community.But this situation is not restricted to the developing world. Its effects and consequences extend, infiltrate, and bring pressure to bear on the industrialized societies as well, introducing increasingly disruptive elements.Therefore, it is imperative that international development cooperation be recognized as vital to world security, and that all nations must be a part of it. Just. as the international community has begun to be aware of environmental problems - and the forthcoming International Conference on Environment and Development is an encouraging sign of this - it must tackle social problems with equal resolve. For these purposes, there is no multilateral forum other than the United Nations system. That is why the Government of Chile strongly supports the holding of a world summit meeting for social development, the careful preparation of which should take place at the highest possible level, in a world-wide consensus to step up multisectoral development cooperation and strengthen security in its twin aspects of the individual and society.The dignity of the human being and the application and improvement of democracy must be the ultimate objective and central concern of all nations. It is democratic systems, despite their imperfections, which afford the best guarantees of respect for the human being and which most effectively promote healthy international coexistence.A major contribution would be made to this objective if democratic governments themselves were to invite observers from the United Nations or regional organisations to be present during their electoral processes. In this way, this practice would become universal in other regions, rendering obsolete the argument that it constitutes a threat to sovereignty.The Secretary-General reflects our view fully when he states in his report on the work of the Organisation:"... the principle of non-interference with the essential domestic jurisdiction of States cannot be regarded as a protective barrier behind which human rights could be ... violated with impunity." To accept this false argument would run counter to the basic rule of all coexistence and betray the hopes of those who are victims of totalitarian systems and powerless to defend themselves. It is to them, and not to their persecutors, that we owe our loyalty. Solidarity is on the side of democracy and condemns those who violate it.Accordingly, President Aylwin's Government - which has assumed an irrevocable moral commitment to the defence of these rights - will work untiringly, transcending frontiers and ideologies, to strengthen the mechanisms that protect democracies and, ultimately, the fundamental values of the human being. Accordingly, we attach special importance to the World Conference on Human Rights scheduled for 1993.The last decade of this surprising century has opened up unsuspected possibilities for the international community - and also great uncertainties. It is for the nations assembled here, and for the Organisation that brings them together, to know how to take advantage of the former and dispel the latter.But as important as the security of States, or more important, are the security and integrity of individuals. It is in relation to these, in the final analysis, that the tasks that are set and the actions taken must find their meaning.Large numbers of human beings continue to live an existence clouded by all kinds of deprivations and threats. We cannot put off meeting their demands and their hopes, or disappoint them. They express fundamental and constant values of mankind which we all see as our own.We have an opportunity such as we have perhaps never had before of ensuring that those values begin to prevail once and for all. Achieving this will mean giving back to large numbers of persons their dignity and freedom so that they can shape for themselves the course of the history they wish to live.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
In our 
times, a unique advance has been made in the search for peace, understanding 
and cooperation among peoples. Mankind is progressively becoming more and 
more aware of this new reality. 
Accordingly, the present juncture is an appropriate one for reflection 
and dialogue within the framework of the United Nations, for a review of our 
achievements as well as of our shortcomings, and for a serious, in-depth study 
of the role we assign to the Organization and the hopes we seek to fulfil, 
hopefully in the near future. 
I wish to reiterate here the conviction of President Aylwin's Government 
regarding the moral, political and social imperative of placing the needs of 
people at the heart of United Nations activities. Reducing poverty. 
increasing employment and promoting social cohesion are needs shared by the 
entire international community. 
For these reasons, the importance of this forty-seventh session of the 
General Assembly is inarguable. 
We welcome the new Member States that have joined the United Nations and 
that will take part with us in its endeavours. 
We welcome your election, Mr. President, since it will permit an 
experienced figure in world politics to guide our deliberations and lead them 
to an outcome which is satisfactory to all. At the same time we appreciate 
the judicious administration of your illustrious predecessor, 
Ambassador Shihabi.* 
The world is on the threshold of the twenty-first century. We have left 
behind us the senseless ideological confrontations between the super-Powers 
and the danger of nuclear holocaust. 
But there is no guarantee of peace. There are still old tensions and new 
ones the result of racism, religious fanaticism and extreme nationalism; there 
remains the historic challenge of development for all; and there is still a 
terrible social debt which cannot be rescheduled to the most 
disenfranchised members of all our societies. 
Our Organization is still faced with many challenges calling for more 
effective action. The war in Bosnia and the grave reports of massive 
violations of human rights, reaching the point of genocide, in the territories 
devastated by the conflict in the former Yugoslavia demand concerted and 
vigorous action. 
The auspicious but still uncertain process launched in South Africa poses 
new challenges for our Organization. 
The ongoing negotiations on the Middle East augur well for the future, 
but other situations in the world still pose a threat to peace. 
Social confrontation, the outcome of the growing gap between well-being 
and poverty, has become a source of global instability. Today more than ever, 
development with equity is the new requirement for peace, a common task we are 
called upon to join together and undertake. 
Now that the cold war is over, the role of the United Nations has taken 
on more relevance than ever before. The Organization has a central role to 
play in building a new international order which will make it possible to face 
the crises that constitute serious threats to peace in many parts of the world. 
These crises, and a whole series of economic, social and environmental 
challenges, can be overcome only if the Organization is strengthened, commands 
more respect and becomes more efficient in the pursuit of its lofty goals. 
Of course, it is essential that this enormous task we are calling on the 
world Organization to perform be complemented by the preventive activities 
carried out by regional organizations. Our own regional organization, the 
Organization of American States, is carrying out that mission by engaging in a 
realistic and tenacious effort to forestall or resolve the region's varied and 
difficult problems. 
But it is in the United Nations that we must develop the concepts, 
principles and agreements which will make the security of individuals a 
priority objective of international cooperation. This, in turn, will enhance 
coexistence among States. 
We must search together for new political directions that allow us to 
strengthen the role of the Organization in the maintenance of peace and 
security, in the defence of human rights, in the protection of the 
environment, in the struggle against drug trafficking and terrorism and in 
closing the gap between North and South. 
The starting-point must be the values that inspire our action. Chile 
proclaims before this worldwide forum its unswerving dedication to peace and 
respect for the dignity of the individual, its conviction that justice is the 
foundation of any truly stable society, its belief in the universal value of 
human rights, its respect for individual creativity and democracy as an ideal 
form of government its commitment, in short, to the needs of the most humble 
in all our societies and its recognition of the validity of law and of the 
search for consensus as a foundation for major national and international 
agreements. 
Chile firmly believes in the Charter of the United Nations. There is no 
substitute for this Organization as a world parliament, as a forum for 
international debates and agreements, as a source of innovative technical 
analysis and as a multilateral body responsible for peace, security and 
development. 
Just as we back the role of the United Nations without reservation, we 
likewise set no limits on our demand that it should be efficient and 
democratic in the attainment of its objectives. Certainly, that depends on 
the will of Governments, as well as on the strengthening of the competence and 
autonomy of the Secretariat. 
Above all, a balance needs to be struck between the General Assembly as 
the principal political organ, the Security Council as the organ responsible 
for dealing with the traditional problems of peace and security, and the 
Economic and Social Council as the primary body for promoting sustainable and 
equitable development. 
Mutually respectful interaction among these three levels should permit 
the United Nations to take the lead in creating an international order of 
peace in which the interests and problems of all countries are adequately 
represented. 
In this new world order which is taking shape and which all members of 
the Organization must contribute to designing, a vitally important place is 
occupied by the Secretary-General's report, entitled "An Agenda for Peace" 
(A/47/277), which contains ideas and suggestions regarding preventive 
diplomacy and peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building. 
Chile agrees that the role of the United Nations in the maintenance of 
international peace and security should be strengthened. 
While preventive diplomacy is playing an increasingly significant role on 
the international scene, the concept of peace-building, in the sense of 
creating a new climate and strengthening security through economic, social and 
cultural development, is a fundamental issue. 
Our country is collaborating with the United Nations and is prepared to 
increase its participation in the future, should that prove necessary. 
Chile's readiness in this regard has been expressed in its support for the 
Security Council in the decisions that have been adopted. Likewise, it has in 
recent years placed at the service of the United Nations the knowledge and 
professional experience of its armed forces and forces of public order. 
Chilean soldiers have traditionally been among the members of the United 
Nations observer forces in the Middle East and the Asian subcontinent. Our 
marines are initiating their activities in Cambodia, our pilots have been 
active in Kuwait, and our police are collaborating with the peace force in El 
Salvador. 
In this spirit of service to the cause of peace, Chile is a constant 
participant in the debates in multilateral forums on disarmament on a global 
scale, without prejudice to our active involvement on the regional level. 
We support the Convention on chemical weapons and reiterate our 
legitimate desire to become a full member of the Conference on Disarmament 
once the issue of its enlargement becomes the subject of real discussion. 
In the regional sphere, we see as important the initiative we have taken, 
together with Argentina and Brazil, that is designed to give full effect to 
the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the 
Caribbean through a set of amendments intended to strengthen its monitoring 
system and which the conference of signatories has approved by acclamation. 
In the context of the positive spirit that has succeeded the cold-war 
period and is characterized by the search for agreements and a climate of 
friendship and collaboration between the Powers, my country considers that the 
time has come to undertake, on a carefully thought-out time scale, the total 
elimination of nuclear weapons, and to put a definitive end right now to the 
testing of such weapons. 
I join my voice with those of the Ministers of the Nordic Group who, 
meeting at Svalbard, welcome the efforts being made, particularly the halting 
of the French tests in the Pacific, and expressed their wish that the 
voluntary moratorium on all nuclear explosions should become a permanent one, 
removing from the world once and for all these practices which threaten our 
security, coexistence and environment. 
In the years to come, we shall have to take up the issue of the 
composition of the Security Council. We believe that this important body 
should reflect new international realities, and we are accordingly ready to 
consider with interest and sympathy new formulas that would appropriately 
reflect the aspirations of new world Powers which are seeking to become 
regular members of the Council. 
It is also essential to strengthen the presence in that body of the 
various developing regions. Inevitably, this will entail greater 
participation numerically, as well as new forms of regional representation. 
With improvements over time, this practice could become a mechanism for 
representation of the regional groups which would combine freedom of action 
for the country elected with the expression of the will of the countries of 
its region. This system, if effectively operated, could ensure that all 
Members of the Organization feel that they are participating to the proper 
extent in the decisions of the Security Council. 
Chile is also interested in strengthening the Economic and Social 
Council. According to the Charter of the United Nations, this is the 
principal specialized body of the system for analysing in an integrated way 
the political, technical and operational dimensions of current economic and 
social problems. The Council should be strengthened and renewed in order to 
become a true council for development, capable of guiding high-level dialogue, 
formulating development policies and providing proper guidance for the 
operational activities of the system. 
We shall be participating actively in discussions under way on these 
issues on the basis of the interesting proposals submitted by the Nordic 
countries and the Group of 77, and of the resolutions of the most recent 
session of the Council. 
A factor that will contribute to the reform of the" Economic and Social 
Council will be the establishment, under it, of the commission for sustainable 
development, which is called upon to become the body for monitoring 
environment. problems. The link between the commission on sustainable 
development and the world environment fund is also the key to the success of 
Agenda 21, the ambitious programme of action approved by the United Nations 
Conference on Environment and Development. 
The practical results of the Conference, which were characterized by the 
great effort made to reach agreement, are being carefully watched by the 
public at large, which is participating in ever-greater numbers in this 
process. 
The signing of the Conventions on biological diversity and climate 
change, the convening of the world conferences on desertification a subject 
of great interest to many countries, but of vital importance to the African 
nations and the conference on fishing on the high seas are milestones in the 
international effort to preserve the environment. 
We cannot enter a new era of world peace although it is potentially 
within our grasp if we forget the human being. In the final analysis, our 
capacity to lead and the raison d'√™tre of the United Nations will be measured 
by the success we achieve in the field of social development. 
Without greater well-being for all our citizens, there will be no peace, 
security or lasting stability at either the national or the international 
level. That is why we put forward the initiative for a world summit for 
social development. This proposal was recently endorsed unanimously in the 
Economic and Social Council, which approved a positive recommendation to the 
General Assembly that it convene the summit at the beginning of 1995 at the 
level of Heads of State and Heads of Government. 
I should like to take this occasion to thank all the Member States which 
participated in that consensus, and in particular the 121 countries that 
sponsored the relevant resolution. I should also like to thank the 
Secretary-General for having assigned to our representative to the United 
Nations, Ambassador Juan Somavia, the task of bringing to a successful 
conclusion the consultations required to put this initiative into effect. 
The first step has now been taken. Much remains to be done. There is no 
doubt that the primary responsibility for resolving this situation is borne at 
the domestic level. Each country must take steps to stabilize the functioning 
of its political system, encourage investment, trade and technological 
development and ensure equitable distribution of income. 
Chile has accepted that challenge. It is growing today at an annual rate 
of 7 per cent and has reduced unemployment to about 5 per cent and inflation 
to 13 per cent a year. In addition, under President Aylwin's Government, the 
process of solving the problem of external debt has been concluded, the real 
income of salaried workers has increased by 15 per cent and policies designed 
to alleviate the poverty of the most disenfranchised sectors of the population 
have been implemented. This has been done on the basis of an open economy 
which has concentrated on both economic and social efficiency against a 
background of personal freedom and political democracy. 
Although the success of these programmes has been recognized by the 
various sectors in our national life, we are aware that much more still needs 
to be done with our resources. But we are equally aware that the benefits for 
our country would be significantly greater if the ground rules of the 
international economy were more equitable. 
Even while most of the world is calling, with growing clarity and force, 
for the abolition of protectionism and the formulation of stable and 
non-discriminatory rules to govern international trade, unilateral measures 
are reversing this world-wide trend and giving rise to direct forms of 
protectionism in the main world markets, in a departure from the principles 
and regulatory framework established under the General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade. 
I now wish to say a few words on the Secretariat. 
First, we welcome the election of the distinguished scholar, diplomat and 
politician Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali as Secretary-General. The Members of the 
United Nations are witnesses to Chile's consistent support for the African 
continent's aspiration to see one of its own in that high post. We have 
already expressed our opinion publicly at the bilateral level, within the 
Non-Aligned Movement and in the General Assembly last year. We already have 
evidence of the Secretary-General's character and decision-making ability. We 
support him in his task. 
The Secretariat is of course a vital organ under the Charter and in the 
United Nations system. In order to meet the challenges that lie ahead, it 
must act with the maximum efficiency and autonomy. 
The Secretariat is at the service of all countries, and accordingly all 
of them must be properly represented at its various levels. The efficiency of 
the Organization depends to a large extent on the confidence Governments have 
in the technical ability, experience and impartiality of its staff. 
At a time when we are asking the Organization to perform all the tasks 
that arise in this era, its constant financial insecurity is absurd. It is 
essential to enhance the fluidity and automaticity of countries' payment of 
their assessments. This is doubtless a responsibility that is shared by all, 
but to the greatest extent by the main contributors. We cannot have a strong 
Organization with a weak financial base. 
The specialized agencies and regional commissions are called upon to 
continue playing a vital role in such fields as cooperation for development, 
protection of the environment and economic and social analysis. The 
contributions they have made, to the benefit above all of the developing 
world, must be assessed at their true value.* 
The support of the United Nations for the second Space Conference of the 
Americas, to be held shortly in Santiago, is another example that regional and 
global efforts are complementary. 
Chile has long had the privilege of being the site of important regional 
offices of the world Organization. Their presence in our country is proof of 
Chile's commitment to the activities of the United Nations, which we shall 
always be prepared to support. 
The subject of the United Nations, which is certainly what has brought us 
together, is an exciting one for the international community. Indeed, 
fulfilment of the purposes and principles of its Charter has been a constant 
concern of our country. Likewise, failure to respect them arouses a sense of 
frustration. 
The duties and rights of each Member State vis-a-vis the Organization can 
in no way be reduced to a matter of legalities or to simple mechanical 
action. We recognize a real commitment to the United Nations system, and 
consequently we discharge each of our duties responsibly. 
The nations assembled here and indeed the world have before them the best 
possible opportunity of firmly guaranteeing the future of coming generations, 
a substantial improvement in the quality of life, the elimination of the 
development gap and the attainment of peace in short, the opportunity of 
building a better world for all and with all. Let us all take up that 
challenge. 

===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
I am particularly pleased to congratulate
Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of

the General Assembly, which does honour to the Group of
Latin American and Caribbean States. We know that he has
long-standing close personal ties to Chile.
It has been our lot to witness and to be a part of events
of far-reaching significance in the history of mankind. The
political, technological, economic and social changes that
have shaken the world over the past 10 years are beginning
to take root, and as they do so the enormous influence they
have had on the establishment of new forms of behaviour,
new values and new institutional schemes is becoming
apparent.
The maintenance of democracy as the single paradigm
has brought with it beneficial influences, although for some
the establishment of this system of coexistence has given
rise to upheavals which are not yet over. But we can afford
a measure of realistic optimism if we fix our attention on
other developments. The beginnings of an agreement
between Palestinians and Israelis are a tangible example of
this. Another is the awakening of South Africa to true
democracy. The spirit of consensus that is beginning to
spread throughout the world is a consequence of the
democratic paradigm. Against this new backdrop, the
United Nations has a vital role to play.
At this juncture, then, there are grounds for optimism,
and we have a duty to be optimistic. For only in being
optimistic will we be able to overcome the reluctance of
some and the temptation of others to take refuge in
fundamentalism. It is also imperative for us to take a firm
stand against a kind of rigidity of approach which is gaining
ground in the world. This is the tendency to treat systems
as if they were incontrovertible truths. It is the transfer of
dogma to sciences that are not at all exact. And this is
happening at a time when advances in human knowledge are
demonstrating precisely that what is vital today is to open
our minds to reason and to distance ourselves as far as
possible from dogmatism.
We are living in a world which has ceased to be
foreign. No human reality is alien to us. No suffering is
remote. No triumph of intelligence is a private matter. But
globalization does not mean uniformity. What is more,
without respect for differences, it would cease to have the
vigour it exhibits today. Its competitiveness would be lost,
and the concept of one world would inevitably find itself on
its deathbed.
This is the world in which we have to live and move,
a world plagued by disturbing yet, paradoxically, stimulating
contradictions. It is in such a world that we must strive to
seize the opportunity to take positive initiatives, without
prejudices, and come closer to the innermost reality of man.
This is why we are now striving to make progress in the
defence of universal humanitarian law. This concept is
inherent in the new vision of the world, and Chile comes
forward as its most resolute proponent. It is this concept
which has led the "Blue Helmets" in the past three years to
take on as many missions as they conducted between the end
of the Second World War and the beginning of the 1990s.
The United Nations troops serve the invaluable objective of
peacemaking and rebuilding coexistence, a task which we
must perform if we are to meet adequately the need to strike
the proper balance between local sensitivity and global
sensitivity.
The number of problems that are worldwide in scope
has greatly increased. Whether through rigidity in the
application of the system or through shortcomings in the
system itself, we are witnessing some tragic consequences.
Millions of human beings are suffering from poverty. Nor
is the tragedy confined to the poor nations. We are
witnessing a worldwide social crisis. It has left its mark on
the developed countries as well. Social marginalization is a
reality which has taken on truly disturbing dimensions
hitherto unknown in those latitudes.
Chile’s present Government has always viewed
economic development as inseparable from social
development. We see the economy not as an end in itself,
but as a means by which humanity can attain happiness.
This is our objective, and this is what has led President
Patricio Aylwin to assign the priority to dealing with what
we have termed the social debt. This term encompasses the
recognition that society as a whole must accord to the poor.
This idea has gained ground. As a result, the Chilean
initiative regarding the convening of a world summit for
social development has been positively received. The
meeting, to be held at Copenhagen in 1995, will be a
tangible demonstration of this concern on the part of the
United Nations.
My country is confident that we will make every effort
necessary to ensure that the Copenhagen meeting arrives at
appropriate and specific solutions. The environment is
favourable, which makes us feel that we shall be able to
conclude the summit with an "agenda or programme for
people", one essential element of which must be broader,
more effective and more united international cooperation.
Today’s world poses questions which must be answered
without delay. Poverty, hunger and other social scourges are
perceived as aberrations. Their eradication is the task of the
38 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
international community as a whole. In this task, the United
Nations will play a decisive role. It has the capacity to take
the leadership, which means channelling international
cooperation.
Furthermore, we recognize that the United Nations has
a fundamental role to play in dealing with the relevant
issues.
In the specific field of international peace and security,
my country has repeatedly stressed its support for the action
taken by the Secretary-General, and Chile advocates the
strengthening of his role, particularly with respect to
preventive diplomacy. We hail his report "An Agenda for
Peace" as a valuable and significant aid to Governments.
We look forward with interest to the forthcoming publication
of an agenda for development, which we intend to consider
with the greatest enthusiasm.
In the same spirit of cooperation, we have conveyed to
the Secretary-General suggestions regarding the benefits that
might derive from an increase in the number of members of
the Security Council. Because of the great importance of
that body, any change that is proposed should reflect the
very clear political will of the majority. I want to put great
emphasis on this point. We view the changes in the Security
Council as part of a wide-ranging exercise aimed at
strengthening the United Nations. No reform can be viable
if its sole aim is to grant some degree of political
recognition to certain emerging Powers. The aim of our
proposal is that appropriate account be taken of the new
international reality. At the same time, it seeks to reflect the
increase in the membership of the Organization since the last
time the Council was enlarged.
In our suggestions to the Secretary-General, we indicate
the need for the reform to result in a limited membership.
This will enable us to ensure efficiency and to achieve our
objectives of democratization. In this context, we feel that
it is important that the various regions of the world be duly
represented. This will enable us to combine the idea of
democratization with the balance that is essential.
Regarding the right of veto, we agree with many
nations that this is not a democratic means of
decision-making. For this reason we wish to make it clear
that we are opposed to its being extended to new permanent
members of the Council. In line with these ideas, Chile has
raised the possibility of the Council’s comprising permanent
members, permanent members without the right of veto,
regional members with an extended term, and non-permanent
members.
Still in the context of the protection of democracy, we
cannot fail to mention that at the regional level too new
circumstances have led to changes in the instruments
available to the Organization of American States (OAS).
Clear evidence of this is the Santiago "Commitment to
democracy and the renewal of the inter-American system"
approved at the General Assembly of the OAS held in the
capital of Chile in 1991. This new approach has already
yielded results. The OAS has achieved successes that would
previously have been impossible in the region - particularly
in the field of the protection of democracy and human rights.
Of concern to us, together with steps in these two
sensitive areas, is decisive action for the protection of nature.
Currently, Chile holds the chairmanship of the environment
commission established within the organization.
In addition, my country has joined in the effort to
combat drug trafficking. Accordingly, we support various
initiatives aimed at drafting new legal instruments to combat
this scourge effectively.
Likewise - returning to the world scene - we attach
special importance to the process of restructuring in the
economic and social sector. This will raise the possibility of
saving millions of human beings who are currently
marginalized, living in minimal security conditions. In our
view, cooperation for development should become one of the
most solid pillars of the international agenda for the twenty-
first century. We shall continue to put forward ideas and to
support initiatives, in the Group of 77 and any other body,
that will serve to advance the negotiations.
President Aylwin’s Government has striven to make
international cooperation a reality. We have participated in
various activities within the programme of technical
cooperation between developing countries. Currently, we
have projects in 43 countries, and 70 institutions from the
public and private sectors are participating in them.
There is an active current of cooperation with our
neighbours in Central America, the Caribbean and South
America. Also under way are projects that link us with
Mexico. Similarly, we have programmes with the People’s
Republic of China, India, Indonesia and the Philippines.
Recently, contacts have been established with African
countries and with South Pacific island territories. All of
this forms part of a deliberate policy aimed at strengthening
links with the Latin American and Caribbean nations and at
establishing close ties with all developing countries.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 39
An outstanding feature of the major changes taking
place throughout the world is the important role being
assumed by the Pacific basin in political, economic and
strategic terms. Chile is a coastal State of that ocean, and
our identification with the basin is one of the most
innovative elements in the foreign policy being pursued by
President Aylwin. We have made a sustained effort to
associate ourselves with the main agreements on cooperation
in the Pacific region. Since 1990, Chilean business has been
participating actively in the Pacific Basin Economic Council,
and since 1991 Chile has been a full member of the Pacific
Economic Cooperation Council. We hope also to join the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, as we view this
as an important means of promoting the liberalization of
regional and world-wide trade. In this effort we have
received valuable support from the States members of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations, and for this we are
grateful.
In another context, I cannot fail to take this opportunity
to mention an issue that is of special significance to the
developing world. I refer to the Uruguay Round of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). The
renewal of these negotiations provides some grounds for
hope. The so-called Dunkel text is very far from meeting
our legitimate aspirations, although it does constitute a major
advance in the current situation. Unfortunately, nonetheless,
it embodies a number of limitations on genuine freedom of
trade.
The most difficult issue in the Uruguay Round has been
trade in agricultural products, which, for the nations of Latin
America -for developing countries in general - is of vital
importance. Hence our lively interest in what is happening
in GATT. Insistence on intransigent positions, which
objectively impede world trade, creates insurmountable
barriers to development - a situation to which we cannot
remain indifferent.
Chile has fully discharged its commitment to the
collective security system. We regard this United Nations
initiative as highly appropriate in the current international
situation. My country has participated in a number of
peace-keeping operations. It has sent military observers to
the Middle East and to the frontier between India and
Pakistan; police officers to El Salvador; air force personnel
to Kuwait; and army personnel to Cambodia.
In discussing this issue, we cannot overlook the
financing difficulties that peace-keeping operations are
facing. We support the steps being taken by the
Secretary-General of the United Nations to overcome these
problems.
Unquestionably, however, in our view, any discussion
of peace is incomplete if it does not refer to the progress
made in relation to disarmament. The Convention on
chemical weapons is a significant achievement. We trust
that the work initiated with a view to the signing of a
comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty will follow the same
course.
At this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, I
wish briefly to evaluate the results Chile has achieved in
some of the areas to which it attaches priority in the
restoration of democracy.
Let me refer first to our reintegration into the
international community. In the multilateral sphere, we can
point to the generous support of our peers, which has
enabled us to become members of the Economic and Social
Council, the Commission on Human Rights, the International
Law Commission and the Executive Council of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and
to the election of our Ambassador to the United Nations,
Juan Somavia, as President of the Economic and Social
Council and Chairman of the Preparatory Committee of the
World Summit for Social Development.
In keeping with its mandate, President Aylwin’s
Government sees human rights as another of the objectives
towards which its actions are directed, both domestically and
in foreign policy. The latter aspect reflects a traditional
position of our country: that of encouraging respect for
international law and promoting peace and justice. At the
same time, however, it is the least we can do by way of
reciprocating the enormous solidarity the international
community has extended to the Chilean people at the most
difficult moment in its history.
It will be the task of the General Assembly at this
session to begin the implementation of the agreements
contained in the Plan of Action adopted at the second World
Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna at the
beginning of this year.
Along with its re-emergence on the international scene
and its protection of human rights and democracy, Chile has
set itself the goal of working for effective regional
integration.
Here, too, we can point to major achievements. Our
relations with our Latin American and Caribbean brothers
40 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
could not be better. Agreements that have already been
signed and various others that are in the drafting stage -
some 220 agreements and treaties in four years - bear
witness to this fact.
To that same end, we have worked for the
strengthening of the Rio Group; we currently have the
honour to be coordinating its temporary secretariat. That
institution is the embodiment of a modern approach to
international relations. It embodies the will of the region in
its relations with individual countries or groups of countries
outside the region. This forum for political consensus
already has significant achievements to its credit on various
levels. Moreover, it is a clear demonstration of what we can
aspire to if we manifest imagination, political openness and
realism.
Special mention needs to be made of the understanding
we have reached with our neighbours. The understanding,
generosity and vision of the future exhibited by the Heads of
State of Argentina, Bolivia, Peru and Chile have allowed us
to settle issues which in some cases had been dragging on
for more than a century. While respecting our respective
traditions and abiding by the inviolable principles of
international law, including non-intervention and the sanctity
of treaties as the source of rights, we have nevertheless
understood that, as the twenty-first century approaches, it
will be useful to exchange ideas about our national
aspirations, inasmuch as they promote the maintenance of
peace.
It is a great honour for me to be addressing the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. The four
years I have represented Chile in this important forum,
whether accompanying President Aylwin or personally, have
been an enriching experience.
The period in which we have the good fortune to be
living demands increasingly dynamic and effective
responses. The world is moving towards a new structure
which will undoubtedly afford us the possibility of moving
ever closer to satisfying the needs of human beings. But
whether we can make this a reality will depend on the
intelligence with which we confront the future.
I have every confidence in the rich sap that nourishes
this spreading tree, which shelters us all. The United
Nations has before it a glorious future in working for the
cause of peace. But that future will be possible only if we
demonstrate the imagination to be bold, the knowledge to
move ahead, the love to understand that to strive for the
common good is always a viable option, the solidarity to be
more human and the wisdom not to repeat the mistakes of
the past.
Members of the Assembly, my good wishes go with
you.


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====

May I first congratulate you, Sir, on your election to
preside over our work.
I wish you every success in your presidency, and
assure you that you may rely on the full cooperation of
the delegation of Chile.
I wish also to greet the Secretary-General and to
assure him once again of our support in the performance
of his difficult task. When he visited Chile a few days
after the inauguration of President Eduardo Frei, the
Secretary-General had an opportunity to appreciate our
readiness to cooperate in the activities of the United
Nations system, in the conviction that multilateral action
was essential to the strengthening of international peace
and security and to the improvement of the living
conditions of men and women the world over.
36


The fall of the ideological barriers imposed by the
cold war gave rise to expectations of an era of peace and
global security. These expectations are strengthened by the
spread of democracy and the emergence of a new
awareness of the importance of human rights throughout the
world. At the same time, the processes of globalization and
economic interdependence are creating new opportunities
for progress and making the dissemination of technology
and knowledge more feasible.
Nevertheless, five years after the end of the cold war
we must acknowledge that the reality has fallen far short of
our dreams. The last decade of this century is one of
uncertainty and contradictions. Regrettably, along with the
signs of hope there has been a re-emergence of many
economic, political, ethnic, religious and cultural conflicts
and a tendency towards fragmentation and differentiation,
which pose new threats to the peace and new challenges for
the international order.
This process of transition has enhanced the role of the
United Nations as the guarantor of world peace and
security. It has compelled our Organization to assume new
responsibilities, both in negotiations for conflict prevention
and in operations for the maintenance or restoration of
peace.
Nevertheless, the immediate concern to maintain peace
and security should not prevent us from recognizing and
attacking the root causes of these conflicts. Poverty,
inequality between individuals and between nations,
environmental deterioration, unemployment and ignorance,
over-population, disorganized migration, and discrimination
against women and young people are today as important
factors in creating conflict as is military proliferation or
ideological confrontation - if not more so. Tackling these
problems requires using the imagination, creativity and
solidarity of the international community, as well as
resources as large as or even larger than those being spent
today on resolving conflicts that have already begun. The
security of human beings must be an international priority
along with widespread promotion of respect for human
rights.
In March of this year a new phase in the Chilean
democratic process began with the installation of the
Government of President Eduardo Frei. The continuity of
this process has made it possible to strengthen the stability
of democratic institutions and has increased respect for
human rights in the country. Of course, we do not claim
that our democracy is perfect; many aspects of it still
require further attention, and with that in mind draft
legislation on institutional changes is currently being
discussed in the National Congress. Nevertheless, we are
certain that, together with the other countries of Latin
America and the Caribbean, Chile will continue to
advance along the path of political stability, democratic
institutionality and respect for human rights.
Our recent economic experience has been successful.
Since the return of democracy we have had an average
annual growth of more than 6.5 per cent with a very low
unemployment rate and controlled inflation. On the basis
of these facts the Government has formulated an
ambitious modernization strategy focusing on three main
areas: education and training, development of
infrastructure, and modernization of the State. The
reforms in education seek to respond to the need for
effective and creative integration of young people into
society, and to meet the challenge of competitiveness.
The changes in the functioning of the State entail a
special concern for ethics and probity in the exercise of
power.
Attainment of these priorities should enable us to
raise our productivity and increase our capacity to
compete in international markets in the context of a
growing open economy. We are concerned at the
difficulty the major countries are nevertheless
experiencing in opening up their economies in sectors that
are vital to the equitable functioning of world trade. We
reject an international trade system based on
protectionism by the powerful directed against those who
are prepared to accept competition.
Nevertheless, economic advances would lack
meaning if they did not lead to a substantial improvement
in the living conditions of the majority of Chileans. The
Government recognizes this and has made the elimination
of extreme poverty an essential priority of its programme.
Without equity, growth would lose its raison d’être and
stability would be threatened by the tensions arising out
of the privations experienced by large sectors of the
population. Economic growth and social justice constitute
two terms of a single equation.
Latin America and the Caribbean are our natural
frame of reference and external action as a region that
shares both political and security interests and major
economic interests. The region has overcome the
political, institutional and economic crisis which afflicted
it in earlier decades. Most countries of the continent have
recently held elections, or will do so in the coming
months. The tranquillity, openness and participation that
37


today characterize these processes are convincing proof that
Latin America has embarked on a major process of
modernization and stability.
Along with this has come a major expansion of
cooperation and regional integration. Integration initiatives
and mechanisms of varying geographical coverage and
thematic scope have multiplied. Chile has participated in
these efforts, negotiating economic complementarity and
free-trade agreements with the majority of the countries in
the region. In the immediate future, Chile hopes to be able
to make a new contribution to the creation of a broad Latin
American economic area by achieving closer links with the
Common Market of the Southern Cone and by signing
complementarity agreements with Ecuador and Peru to add
to those already concluded with Mexico, Venezuela,
Argentina, Bolivia and Colombia.
We also view with enthusiasm the strengthening of our
links with the Central American and Caribbean countries
with which we have significantly expanded our political and
economic relations and cooperation.
We wish to promote a climate of peace, dialogue,
solidarity and mutual trust among the countries of the
region. We are sure that today this is more possible than
before, given the presence in the region of more democratic
regimes than it has ever had in its history.
In this context, the Rio Group has become a
significant regional political cooperation mechanism, and its
activity has recently expanded to cover economic
coordination aspects. The strengthening of the Rio Group,
which emerged from our continent’s re-democratization and
resurgence, is a key to Latin American’s ability to speak
with a unified voice in the new international context. That
is how our main partners in the world, with whom we meet
periodically in discussion forums to which we are attaching
increasing importance, perceive it.
Our policy towards Latin America and the Caribbean
is fully compatible with closer integration into world
markets. Chile today is a country that is open to the world,
dependent for 40 per cent of its gross national product on
external transactions and seeking to strengthen its relations
with the dynamic centres of growth and technological
information. We define our policy as an open regionalism,
one which seeks regional integration not in order to close
its markets but in order to achieve greater integration into
the world economy.
In this connection, our preference for multilateralism
is well known. We support all the phases of the
extensive negotiations under the Uruguay Round of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and are
now in the process of ratifying the agreements reached
there.
Our attitude in this respect matches that of our main
partners in Latin America. During the eight years for
which the Uruguay Round lasted the countries of the
region unilaterally reduced their tariffs by an average of
more than 50 per cent and contributed by making
significant concessions, despite the fact that not all the
objectives they were seeking to negotiate were achieved.
Accordingly, we now have the right to call for the
results of the Round to be implemented and, once the
World Trade Organization has been established, for
progress to be made in discussion of the many problems
the Round left pending, especially in relation to
agriculture and services.
Nevertheless, it is obvious that in the current phase
of the world economy multilateralism is being
accompanied by the negotiation of partial or regional
economic agreements which are progressively extending
over a large part of international trading activity. Hence
our interest in the integration progress in North America,
our search for sounder and more imaginative patterns of
economic relations with the European Union, our
imminent entry into the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council (APEC) and our constant readiness,
shared with our region, to move ahead with economic
cooperation with all regions of the world.
Current international circumstances have led to
progress in various areas which it is important to
emphasize: the defeat of racism and apartheid, progress
in disarmament, the solution of international conflicts,
cooperation and détente - all issues which have led to the
strengthening of the world Organization.
Chile salutes the people and the Government of the
new South Africa in the person of President Nelson
Mandela and welcomes the success achieved by the
United Nations and by the South African people
themselves in building a democratic and just South Africa
which respects the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations.
We wish also to express our support for the peace
and negotiation process under way in Angola and
38


Mozambique. We urge the rebel forces in both countries
to negotiate seriously and in good faith to end this conflict,
in compliance with United Nations resolutions. In the case
of Angola, the date of 30 September set by the President of
the Security Council for the ending of the negotiations is
approaching, and it is accordingly essential to arrive at a
speedy solution on the basis of the "Acordos de Paz".
Let me also express our satisfaction at the progress
made through the agreements between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization, which are overcoming
obstacles to the attainment of a lasting peace throughout the
Middle East. On behalf of my country, I wish to reiterate
our support for the negotiations under way between Israel
and Jordan, as well as those between Israel and Lebanon
and between Israel and Syria.
In contrast to these positive steps, we view with great
concern the tragedy in Rwanda, horrified at its magnitude
and at the inability of the international community to
contain it. Chile conducted a national campaign of
solidarity with the children of Rwanda which met with an
extremely good response in our country. The risk is that,
if efforts are not made to eliminate the deep-lying causes of
tragedies such as this, other similar sources of tension may
arise in other countries, testing the capacity of our system
to react.
Likewise, we cannot fail to express our most profound
concern at and most energetic rejection of the extremes to
which the fratricidal struggle in the former Yugoslavia has
been taken. We urge the warring parties to abandon the
use of force as a means of solving their disputes and to
submit them to the internationally recognized peaceful
means of settlement.
Chile is also profoundly concerned at the situation in
Haiti resulting from the protracted usurpation of power and
the non-implementation of the Governors Island
agreements. The military occupation of a country is always
a regrettable occurrence that we should all like to avoid.
Nevertheless, it is important to recognize that in this
instance such action was taken on the basis of a Security
Council resolution and in response to repeated failure to
comply with international commitments, failure for which
the Haitian military alone are responsible.
We reiterate in this Assembly our support for the
measures taken by the United Nations and, in particular,
our full acceptance of the resolution adopted by the
Security Council. The Government of Chile will fulfil its
commitments to participate in the reconstruction of Haiti,
in the manner agreed upon with the democratic
Government of that country, as soon as institutional order
has been restored.
Chile has cooperated in peace-keeping operations,
and it has recently expressed its readiness to expand that
cooperation, in the profound conviction that improving the
capacity of the United Nations system in these efforts is
a priority task. The current bureaucratic mechanisms,
which place a very heavy burden on the countries
providing peace-keeping contingents, must be replaced by
others that will make it possible to provide the United
Nations with the best in human resources and equipment.
It is essential to reach agreement on a statute for
protection of United Nations personnel and to create an
international fund to administer the financing of
peace-keeping operations.
The new impetus in international disarmament
negotiations, particularly with respect to a nuclear-test-ban
treaty, increases the need for a global, democratic and
participatory approach in this area. There is an urgent
need to increase the membership of the Conference on
Disarmament - the only major multilateral negotiating
forum on these topics - to make it sufficiently
representative and enable it to respond appropriately to
the new challenges.
Chile considers that prohibiting the use of fissionable
materials for hostile purposes and universalizing security
guarantees for non-nuclear-weapon States would be
positive steps in the direction of nuclear disarmament.
Nevertheless, their success would depend on full
acceptance of inspection and verification procedures. In
step with progress in the substantive negotiations, a need
is making itself felt to extend and expand safeguards and
control regimes until they become universal, without
thereby impeding the access of developing countries to
sources of science and technology.
The recent ratification of the Treaty of Tlatelolco by
Chile, Argentina and Brazil, as well as Cuba’s decision to
sign it, will enable Latin America to become a genuine
nuclear-weapon-free zone. This, together with the
manifest reduction in tension and armaments in the
region, constitutes an effective contribution by our region
to world peace.
In this context, we have indicated our interest in
becoming a member of the Security Council for the
period beginning 1996. We have done so convinced that
Chile can legitimately and adequately represent the
39


interests of Latin America and the Caribbean in that
important body.
We can and must make substantive progress in
designing better systems for preventing conflicts or taking
immediate action to restore peace. But, unless we
simultaneously attack the enormous inequalities and
privations that lie at the root of many conflicts we shall not
significantly reduce international tensions. The origins of
these tensions lie in the exclusion of major sectors of the
world’s population from the benefits of the new order, an
exclusion aggravated by population growth and by the
characteristics of the new world economy, for when factors
such as knowledge and technology come to outweigh
others, such as the availability of raw materials or low-cost
labour, the hopes of those who possess only an abundance
of the latter are increasingly disappointed, thus widening
and deepening the social gaps within and between
countries.
From a bitter past, Chile has learned the lesson of the
close relationship that exists between peace, democracy,
economic growth and social development. The central
objective of a security policy is the security of individuals
and of the communities in which they live. The
accentuation of inequality or exclusion is not only ethically
unacceptable, but also politically dangerous. No new
international order will be stable or lasting if it is based on
the exclusion of the majority of those who comprise it.
We are convinced that the absence of democracy and
the lack of economic growth centred on the human being
are at the root of the international instability that
characterizes our era. President Frei has spoken of a
"diplomacy for development", referring in these terms to
the necessity to adjust foreign policy to the objectives and
needs of each country and to the link that must necessarily
exist between our international action and our internal
objective of growth with equity. We therefore attach the
greatest importance to the Agenda for Development that is
under discussion in the United Nations.
This was the thinking behind the convening of the
World Summit for Social Development, unanimously
approved by the General Assembly. The analysis by Heads
of State and Government in Copenhagen next March should
lead us to a new policy to combat poverty, promote
employment and accelerate social integration. In particular,
we believe that the social Summit should adopt a common
commitment to eradicate extreme poverty in the world
through a concrete and efficient plan of action. What is
decided there will be intimately linked to the conditions of
security and coexistence in the emerging international
order.
The social Summit, together with the recent
Conference on Population and Development, held in
Cairo, the World Conference on Women, to be held in
Beijing in 1995, and the Secretary-General’s proposed
Agenda for Development, indicates the growing interest
that this Organization is taking in social issues.
Chile intends to comply with the agreements reached
at the Rio de Janeiro Summit and to promote a new
policy on environmental issues. In this context, its
National Congress recently approved the Convention on
Biological Diversity, and our ratification has just been
deposited with the United Nations. In turn, we are
convinced that environmental problems will remain
unresolved, and may even become exacerbated, if the
necessary resources are not available to deal with them
through joint action by developed and developing
countries. This is becoming increasingly apparent in
some developing countries, where poverty is accelerating
environmental deterioration as a result of the excessive
and uncontrolled use of certain resources.
The dual task of maintaining peace and at the same
time creating conditions for the elimination of structural
sources of conflict is an enormous challenge to this
Organization. Nevertheless, we are convinced that if we
do not take up the challenge we shall reach the beginning
of the next millennium without having laid the real
foundations for a new international order that will permit
the peaceful coexistence of mankind.
Taking up this challenge is not a task for the major
Powers alone, although their involvement is essential;
rather, it is a task for all nations capable of making a
contribution - especially the medium-sized countries,
which make up a large part of the international
community.
Chile is prepared to be a part of this effort, as are,
we are sure, all the countries of Latin America. The
central role of this Organization must be strengthened and
supported in the crucial years that lie ahead, for this is the
only way to ensure that the settlement of conflicts does
not alter international legality, that arbitrary intervention
is prevented and that the rights of the weakest are
respected.


===== Session 50 - 1995 =====
Let me first convey to you, Sir, my delegation’s and my
own congratulations on your election as President of the
General Assembly. Your appointment to preside over the
Assembly at such an important session constitutes a
recognition not only of your personal abilities but also of
the important international role that Portugal plays on the
international stage.
As we commemorate half a century of the existence
of the United Nations, we do so with renewed hopes for
the purposes and principles of the Organization, and we
wish to reaffirm our country’s commitment to it.
The major processes taking place in the modern
world have transcended national borders and taken strong
root in the multilateral sphere. Like never before in the
history of humankind, the solution of the problems of the
peace and security of States and the people inhabiting
them, as well as the protection of the individual, his
welfare and his environment, depend more on collective
decisions and action than on any one country. Our
multilateral system may still have major defects and
shortcomings, but there is no replacement that has the
political legitimacy of the United Nations to take up the
challenges facing us as we approach a new millennium.
Hence, it is important, during this session of the
Assembly, to engage in a broad debate on the functioning
of our system, in order both to adapt its objectives to the
new realities and to introduce far-reaching changes in the
structures of the Organization, which were designed to
meet the challenges of a post-war world that no longer
exists.
My country aspires to occupy a seat in the Security
Council as a non-permanent member in 1996 and 1997.
From this rostrum I wish to express our gratitude for the
unanimous endorsement we have received from the Latin
American and Caribbean Group, as well as for the
support to be provided by other countries of the United
Nations in the election, which is to be conducted at this
session of the General Assembly.
Chile is in a position to assume this responsibility
and contribute to the search for the consensuses required
to strengthen the Organization and make its decisions
really effective. We shall do so on the basis of our
17


principles of international policy, seeking always to reflect
the views and interests of the region we wish to represent.
We believe that the primary objective of a security
policy is to reduce the insecurity of the international
community as a whole, of its Member States and of
individuals, families and the communities in which they
live. Helping to reduce these insecurities is the main task of
the United Nations.
We are experiencing the combined effects of the
ending of the cold war and of the process of increasing
globalization. Both have positive consequences in the
economic and political spheres, but at the same time they
face us with new situations and uncertainties.
The fear of the nuclear destruction that might have
resulted from the world-wide ideological confrontation
between the major Powers has disappeared, and the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), to
which Chile is now a party, has been indefinitely extended.
Nevertheless, the nuclear Powers and those aspiring to
that status still do not acknowledge that the very existence
of nuclear weapons capable of destroying mankind is a
source of insecurity for us all. To believe that nuclear
weapons confer greater security on the State that possesses
them is an illusion. What they produce is profound unease
in other nations and in the population of the nuclear-
weapon State itself in the face of the possibility that the
weapons, in an escalation of folly, might end up being
used.
The renewal of nuclear tests by certain Powers —
precisely at a time when, in the wake of the recent
Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons, there should have been a moratorium on
such tests so that a definitive test-ban treaty could be
prepared — shows insensitivity in this regard. Nevertheless,
China and France, countries for which we profess respect
and friendship, have opted to continue such tests. We
condemn their attitude, and we see this as a clear setback
for the cause of disarmament and non-proliferation of
nuclear weapons, which we all claim to share.
For Chile, France’s decision to renew its nuclear tests
on Mururoa Atoll, in the Pacific Ocean, is of particular
concern. As a Pacific country and a member of the Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC), has
categorically condemned those tests, and President Frei has
made our opinion known to President Chirac.
We are concerned lest the South Pacific region, in
which Chile has vital interests, should become a zone in
which it is regarded as legitimate to engage in activities
that are unthinkable in other parts of the world. We wish
to state clearly our willingness to work together with
other States of the region to prevent the proliferation,
emplacement, transit or testing of nuclear weapons and
other radioactive materials in that region and throughout
the world.
On the other hand, we appreciate the positive
attitude of those nuclear Powers that have declared and
maintained unilateral moratoriums. Chile, along with other
countries, believes that the General Assembly should take
a stand on this issue in order to promote an immediate
moratorium on all nuclear tests, as proposed by the Heads
of State of the Rio Group and the States parties to the
Treaties of Tlatelolco and Rarotonga at their recent
meeting.
The end of the cold war has given rise to a genuine
ideological decolonization that has opened the way for
greater freedom and democracy in various regions of the
world. Nevertheless, the hope that this change would lead
to a more peaceful world has been thwarted. The new
world disorder has encouraged the development of ethnic,
religious, cultural or simply group differences. The former
Yugoslavia, Rwanda and Somalia remind us that hatred
that still festers in various parts of our world.
People rightly look to the United Nations to bring its
political and moral weight to bear in helping prevent such
atrocities. Consent to barbarism in any part of the world
weakens the moral fibre of all human beings. That is one
of the great lessons of the cold war; after the overthrow
of fascism, the world also had an opportunity to expand
democracy and freedom.
Nevertheless, the systematic abuse of human rights
which tactical allies were allowed to engage in, and which
also characterized the Soviet Union and its areas of
influence, reduced the ethical quality of the world
inherited after the ending of the cold war. What alarms us
today was just yesterday promoted or consented to for
“reasons of State”.
Thus, the promotion of human rights, freedom and
democracy cannot be seen as unwarranted interference in
other people’s affairs. There cannot be political, cultural,
ethnic or religious reasons for trampling on human
dignity. This is the core of the emerging international
18


humanitarian law which Chile regards as a cornerstone of
the world order for the twenty-first century.
In addition, the need to promote the security of the
individual has recently acquired particular prominence. The
main factors that today affect such security are
unemployment, hunger, poverty, marginalization, crime and
discrimination on grounds of class, sex, religion, culture or
ethnic origin. People are demanding to be included in a
process of development which affords opportunity, and
asking that shared progress should ensure increased equality
for all. Societies today are aware that social polarization is
becoming their main source of uncertainty.
The world economy also recognizes this fact. As
President Eduardo Frei has said:
“We know today that there can be no stable
investment in unstable societies, and that economic
prosperity cannot prosper amidst human insecurity. On
the contrary, it is becoming increasingly apparent that
one of the main sources of growth and development
for the future is, in all countries, the incorporation of
today’s marginalized people into the worldwide
production system that is coming into being.”
Heads of State and Government from all parts of the
world ratified these views at the World Summit for Social
Development, when they stated:
“We acknowledge that the people of the world
have shown in different ways an urgent need to
address profound social problems, especially poverty,
unemployment and social exclusion, that affect every
country. It is our task to attack both their underlying
and structural causes and their distressing
consequences in order to reduce uncertainty and
insecurity in the life of people.” (A/CONF.166/9,
annex I to resolution 1, para. 2)
The same problems stemming from the processes of
globalization and internationalization have led to the
emergence of a new set of problems relating to security.
These include the corrosive influence of drug production
and consumption, and the corrupting effect of the
movements of vast amounts of money that this traffic
involves; the degradation of the environment, from its
global impact on the ozone layer to its local effect on the
health of children and the elderly; the large international
migrations resulting from insecurity in the countries of
origin; the expansion of international terrorism; and the
increase in transmissible diseases such as AIDS.
One immediate conclusion emerges: there is no
substitute for the multilateral system to tackle this
interrelated set of problems. The areas for purely national
action are shrinking, while the need for international
agreements and understandings is growing on a daily
basis.
Another important conclusion is that to deal with
this multifaceted constellation of problems, we need to
make use of the United Nations system as a whole. If we
want to resolve the problems of security, as they are
experienced by people and as we have described them
here, not only the Security Council, but also the General
Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the
specialized programmes and agencies have a vital role to
play. We must give them greater responsibilities in
relation to these issues.
In this context, I wish to outline a number of general
principles by which our activity in the Security Council
will be guided. We shall:
First, focus on preventive diplomacy and on peaceful
settlement of disputes in accordance with Chapter VI
in order to reduce to the minimum the use of force,
in accordance with Chapter VII of the Charter.
Secondly, promote confidence-building measures and
regional solutions based on the capacity for action of
countries in the region; the regional option can be
effective, as the case of Latin America is
demonstrating, and should precede and complement
recourse to the Security Council.
Thirdly, always maintain a special concern for the
victims of the conflicts dealt with by the Council,
encouraging the fullest use of humanitarian law.
Fourthly, protect, in cases where sanctions have to
be applied, the interests and needs of the most
disadvantaged sectors of society; we do not believe
in unilateral sanctions or in sanctions that ultimately
hit only the weakest.
Fifthly, promote greater transparency in the
procedures and decisions of the Council, so that the
other States Members of the United Nations, civil
society and public opinion at large can exercise
democratic oversight over its actions; the more
widely the complexities of the issues it deals with
are known and understood, the greater the support
for its work will be.
19


Sixthly, monitor the growing cost of peace-keeping
operations with a view to rationalizing use of the
available resources and making them more efficient.
We believe that one of the essential tasks for the
United Nations in striving to attain the goal of increasing
global stability is to promote the progressive establishment
in various parts of the world of regional zones of peace and
cooperation that is, geographical areas, defined by the
participants themselves, in which are applied agreed rules
for coexistence and the strengthening of peace and security.
The United Nations has already declared the Indian
Ocean and the South Atlantic to be zones of peace. The
same objective has been pursued by the Treaties of
Tlatelolco and Rarotonga in relation to nuclear weapons in
Latin America and the Caribbean and in the South Pacific.
We need to draw the main lessons from the benefits and
limitations of the experience they afford.
It is important to stress that the ending of the cold war
leaves the concept of a zone of peace devoid of any
ideological implication and makes it possible to
acknowledge its practical usefulness. The Government of
Chile considers that many regions, including ours, are in a
position to follow this example. We intend to request the
Secretary-General to engage in consultations with the
Governments of United Nations Member States regarding
the interest in and possibilities of promoting zones of peace
in various regions of the world and to report thereon to the
General Assembly next year.
If we wish to make an effective response to the
challenges we face, we need to improve the
representativeness and efficiency of our Organization. This
Assembly will also have to discuss important aspects
relating to the reform of the system in these two directions.
Chile shares the view of many other countries
regarding the need to restructure the Security Council to
make it more representative. That entails bringing in as new
permanent members countries which over the past 50 years
have acquired much greater weight than they had when the
Second World War ended.
The new realities of the international system have not
affected only the developed world. Other regions have
increased their influence in a world which — although
“globalized” — is still extremely diverse.
While maintaining its capacity for rapid
decision-making, which implies a small number of
members, the Security Council needs to be expanded to
take all these factors into account. That will mean making
the present categories of membership more flexible, while
always maintaining geographical balance.
Of course, we agree with all the countries of Latin
America and the Caribbean that any expansion of the
Council should provide for an increase in the
representation of our region, which in recent decades has
acquired a greater international presence and has shown
itself always ready to undertake responsibilities in the
strengthening of international security.
Nevertheless, the reform needed in the United
Nations goes far beyond the Security Council. Important
reforms also remain to be carried out in the economic and
social sphere, through which it will be possible to
promote greater efficiency in the discharge of the major
tasks of eliminating poverty, protecting the most
disadvantaged social groups, creating employment,
protecting the environment and strengthening free trade.
In these and other areas, we also expect important
initiatives from this Assembly.
Finally, the financial situation of the United Nations
has been a cause of concern to us all. This situation is
largely due to the many additional tasks the Organization
has had to take on in recent times. But we share the idea
that, rather than endlessly increasing contributions, it is
important to take up the urgent task of rationalizing
expenditure and setting adequate priorities for our
activities. We greatly value the initiatives the Secretary-
General has been taking in this direction, and we assure
him of our full support in his efforts to adapt our
Organization to the new realities.
Over the past 10 years, Latin America has
undergone far-reaching structural changes in the direction
of democracy, respect for human rights and economic
reform. Now we are also making an effort to attack the
major problems of poverty and inequality that blight us,
and to eliminate once and for all the scourges of drug
trafficking and corruption.
Chile, as an integral part of the community of Latin
America and the Caribbean, is a country of social peace
and continuing development. Our economy has
experienced sustained growth rates and our country is
determined to consolidate the democratic process and
attain justice and social equity.
20


As a country that is open to the world, we have
expressed our readiness to assume in full the international
responsibilities incumbent on us in the common task of
bringing about peace, security and development. We are
convinced that this Organization, which we helped to found
fifty years ago, will continue to be the main multilateral
vehicle for our proposals, our contributions and our dreams.


===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
First of all, Sir, I wish to express our pleasure at seeing the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Honduras — a country with
which we have long-standing and well-established ties of
friendship and with which we are currently working in the
Security Council — preside over this meeting. I would also
like through you to convey my Government's
congratulations to Ambassador Razali Ismail on his election
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first
session.
This is a transitional period for the United Nations and
is therefore not devoid of complexities and uncertainty. Yet
we still have confidence in the ability of Member States
and in the privileged forum provided by this Organization
to develop new policies and management structures to deal
with the gamut of emerging international problems.
As this session of the General Assembly begins, we
once again renew our commitment to the principles and
purposes of the Charter, the living instrument essential to
the future work of this Organization. The United Nations is
an Organization which, through its nature, principles and
objectives, transcends any individual or national interests to
represent, instead, the interests of all.
Not even those who criticize the United Nations in the
hopes that they can weaken it or shrink its role have ever
been able to propose any better way for us to come
together to address the major problems of an increasingly
interdependent world. That is why we are convinced that,
far from becoming weaker, this Organization will be called
upon to play an increasingly important role in this new era
of globalization, in which cooperation is the only possible
option for a true international order.
International peace and security, free trade, social
development based on growth with equity, environmental
protection, democracy and human rights are the basic
components of the future work of our multilateral system.
These are the areas of action of our Organization to which
Chile attaches the highest priority and in which we will try,
within our means to make our greatest contribution.
It has often been said that the end of the super-Power
confrontation that characterized the first 50 years of the life
of this Organization makes it easier than ever to shape the
conditions for peace and stability. And yet, the challenges
of bipolar confrontation have been replaced by new ones
posed by the emergence of numerous local conflicts.
These are often characterized by mass violations of
human rights, uncontrolled population flows and
humanitarian emergencies that threaten the security of
individuals and States and eventually may affect the
international system as a whole.
Our participation in the work of the Security Council
is aimed at contributing our fair share to the maintenance
of international peace and security. We encourage
preventive diplomacy, consensus solutions, the
implementation of measures to contain conflicts, the
promotion of peaceful solutions through peace-keeping
operations, conciliation, good offices and, in particular,
the protection of affected populations and victims.
At the same time, it is indisputable that peace and
security are not simply the absence of tensions and
conflict between States. Harmony between people within
the same border has now become a fundamental factor in
international peace and security. Chile has suggested that
the Security Council should act in cases where there is a
real or potential risk of mass and systematic violations to
which the international community has reacted strongly
and when earlier mechanisms or bodies trying to resolve
the problem have been exhausted.
Recent measures adopted by the Council, such as
resolution 688 (1991) on protecting the Kurdish minority,
770 (1992) on providing assistance to victims of the
conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, resolution 986 (1995)
on alleviating the burden of sanctions on the civilian Iraqi
population, are a few examples of a broader and more
progressive interpretation of what constitutes a threat to
peace and establish valuable precedents for helping the
Security Council to deal with these kinds of conflict.
These criteria also guided us in our active
participation on the question of Burundi, which led to the
adoption of resolution 1072 (1996) establishing
procedures for the various parties to the conflict to be
able to agree on a political path to a peaceful resolution
of their differences. We must continue to pay close
attention to developments in this situation. The
international community, the United Nations and the
Security Council cannot risk another tragedy like that of
Rwanda and must exhaust all possible means of averting
such a tragedy.
Today we would also like to express our great
concern at the serious crisis that has arisen in the last few
6
General Assembly 11th plenary meeting
Fifty-first session 26 September 1996
hours affecting the peace process in the Middle East, a
process we have supported from the outset. We urge the
parties to the conflict not to waste what has been built up
in the last few years and to resume dialogue within the
context of respect for agreements reached and for the
beliefs of the peoples involved.
Establishing stability requires clear commitment to
disarmament and arms control and limitation. My country
has played an active role in this area, as shown in the
recent ratification of the Chemical Weapons Convention,
membership in the Conference on Disarmament, which
Chile had long aspired to, ratification of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and our
unstinting support for nuclear-weapon-free zones.
Last Tuesday, 24 September 1996, I had the honour to
sign on behalf of my country the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty. Just one year ago, this Assembly was
discussing the nuclear-weapon tests still being conducted in
the South Pacific and Asia. Today we are meeting to sign
a Treaty that eliminates those tests once and for all and is
the combined effort of almost all the countries in this
Assembly, including all the present nuclear-weapon States.
When the United Nations is criticized for its alleged
inefficiency I think we should also vaunt our successes.
These initiatives, along with progress in the area of
conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction,
help to create the right conditions for peace and security
and enable the international community to concentrate its
efforts and material resources on the development of
nations and environmental protection.
Peacekeeping operations are one of the most important
instruments of this system. Peacekeeping forces have to
strive for results in the framework of clear and well-defined
and legitimate mandates. Chile has participated in
peacekeeping operations in India, Pakistan, the Middle East,
Cambodia and Kuwait, and we are currently taking part in
the activities of the United Nations Special Commission
(UNSCOM) in Iraq.
However, there is no doubt that this mechanism needs
to be tailored to dealing with current political
circumstances. To this end, Chile is active in deliberations
on how to improve planning and rapid-reaction capacity to
deal with incipient conflicts. In all these aspects, a
multilateral approach, action that enjoys the consent of the
parties and financing through the Organization all help to
ensure success in our work. We hope to increase
significantly our contribution to operations such as the
ones I have just described.
A broad understanding of the maintenance of
international peace and security requires decisive action
in the area of social development, democracy and the
promotion of human rights. The world order of the next
century will need broader basic freedoms. The global
society of the next century is appearing as an open,
heterogenous one, rich in material potential and new
developments. What is needed now is to create conditions
to enable people and States to make the most of this new
setting, with increased access to the goods that are the
fruit of rapid technological development.
In this respect, the six recent world conferences and
summits on the environment and development, human
rights, population and development, women, social
development and, most recently, human settlements, have
all been geared towards promoting protection of the
individual and gradually creating a framework for social
rights.
One tangible result of these meetings, in the social
area, was the emergence of national coordinating bodies
to implement the agreements signed. But these efforts are
not enough, given the tragic reality of most of the less
developed peoples, which means that the United Nations
system must play an ever stronger role in the international
social area. We must speed up the process of
implementation within the context of the United Nations
and of the agreements that emerged from Rio de Janeiro,
Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen, Beijing and Istanbul.
The first steps have now been taken within the
various bodies of the system, particularly in the Economic
and Social Council and its functional commissions. It is
encouraging that the Economic and Social Council bodies
dealing with sustainable development, women, social
development and population have adopted multi-year
agendas as a follow-up to the conferences.
Similarly, the agreements reached at the World
Summit for Social Development include the decision to
hold a special session of this Assembly in the year 2000
to assess the implementation of the agreements.
In this connection, Chile wishes to propose the
establishment of a working group of this Assembly that,
with that special session as its basis, can provide follow-
up to the six conferences, taking into account the Agenda
for Development, so that in the year 2000 the General
7
General Assembly 11th plenary meeting
Fifty-first session 26 September 1996
Assembly can take up a very wide-ranging and coordinated
assessment of the implementation of the commitments of
the 1990s and make the necessary recommendations for
future work.
In recent years Latin America has taken major steps
forward with regard to free trade. This Assembly has
already heard about progress in the Southern Cone
Common Market (MERCOSUR), Chile's recent accession
to that agreement and MERCOSUR’s decision to negotiate
similar agreements with the Andean Group and Mexico.
Taken alongside the progress made by other subregional
groups, such as the Central America Common Market
(CACM) and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), these
achievements all go to show the new impetus in Latin
America for integration based on economic ideas that differ
from those of the past but that remain true to the political
will for unity that has always existed among our peoples.
However, none of these regional developments in
which Chile has been very active constitutes an alternative
to multilateralism. Chile continues to believe that a
multilateral system to establish standards and practices to
ensure free trade throughout the world, with clear
institutional machinery for negotiations and dispute
settlement, is the best option for the global economy and
for each of our countries.
For this reason we have always insisted that our
negotiations fit into the multilateral framework of the World
Trade Organization (WTO). Latin America wants to be
integrated so that it can become more of a part of the
global economy, not cut off from it. Our bilateral and
regional agreements are based on open regionalism. The
best proof that this is being put into practice is that during
this period of increased integration, external tariffs in the
countries of our region have also fallen considerably,
compared with those of the rest of the world.
One of the most promising developments of recent
years has been the strengthening of the multilateral trade
system through the establishment of the WTO. The
existence of a standing multilateral forum means that more
energy can be devoted to implementing the agreements
reached and provides an institutional framework for
continuous progress in negotiations and for opening up
world trade.
In this connection, Chile attaches great importance to
the follow-up meeting to the Uruguay Round, to be held in
Singapore in December 1996. This, the first biannual
meeting in the framework of the WTO, will be crucial in
determining how effective the new mechanism is.
In the last few years many regions and countries in
the world have made major progress towards broadening
and consolidating democracy and respect for human
rights. Latin America in particular has been experiencing
a rapid movement towards democracy that is
unprecedented in its history. This is accompanied by a
considerable increase in political dialogue and regional
coordination, evident mainly in the Rio Group, which has
been active and fruitful for 10 years now.
Far from making us complacent, this emphasizes our
concern that in many parts of the world there are still
situations of massive violation of human rights and
fundamental freedoms. Sometimes these situations relate
to the peace and security problems we mentioned earlier.
As democracies develop, the support given them by
the people depends more and more on their ability to
ensure stable, efficient and transparent governments. The
legitimacy of democratic governments is closely related
to their accountability, but in many countries there is still
corruption, inefficiency and insensitivity to social needs.
This erodes the legitimacy of democracy and highlights
its fragility.
The Government of our President, Eduardo Frei, has
made democratic governance the main subject of the sixth
summit of Ibero-American Heads of State and
Government, to be held in Chile in November 1996. To
this end, we have enjoyed the valuable cooperation of the
United Nations, through the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). We hope
that our Organization's work in this area will spread to
other regions in coming years.
One of the most dramatic changes for mankind in
the last few decades has been our awareness that nature
is fragile in the hands of man. There is a vulnerability in
nature we had not suspected until we saw the damage
done, much of it irreparable. And so there is a new
dimension to human responsibility to nature. The
possibility of altering life on our planet for the worse
means that our unbounded scientific and technological
power must be accompanied by a new principle: and that
is the idea of shared responsibility.
The work facing us is hard, but the path was already
laid out in 1992 at the Conference on Environment and
8
General Assembly 11th plenary meeting
Fifty-first session 26 September 1996
Development. In Rio de Janeiro there was agreement on
fundamental aspects. On the basis of the consensus, and the
commitments reached there, my country is prepared to
proceed. Since that Earth Summit, Chile has further
developed its environmental legislation. We have embraced
the principles of the Rio Declaration that we consider
fundamental, such as preventing environmental pollution,
cooperation and the primary responsibility of the polluter.
The State has accepted its obligation to adopt the most
suitable instruments for preventive environmental
management. But we also believe that society must be
given a leading role in protecting the environment, and to
this end various social actors must be more committed and
more responsible.
My Government thinks it is also important to stress
the political commitment of the world community to this
issue that is by nature international and in many respects
global. Hence, we attach great importance to the
functioning of the bodies set up and to the monitoring of
the agreements reached at the Earth Summit.
Developments in the international arena, the increasing
diversity of issues to be taken up and the number of actors
involved in the United Nations — all of this revitalizing the
reform process of our Organization essential in order to
adapt it to emerging realities and challenges. Integrated and
multidisciplinary focus must be given preference in dealing
with these problems. This constitutes the conceptual
framework of the Organization and a basis for the urgently
needed process of reform. This requires a very thorough
analysis of the content of our multilateral work, of the
Organization's agenda, of the functioning of
intergovernmental bodies, of our human and financial
resources and of the structure of the Secretariat. By doing
all that, we can carry out reforms that are more than
rhetoric, that will enable us to take up the challenges of the
next century with policies and organizations adapted to the
new reality.
Chile wishes to reiterate its appreciation for the work
being done by the Secretary-General in this area. In
difficult budgetary circumstances and facing a very difficult
political situation, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has decisively
begun, within his purview, the process of reforming the
Organization.
We welcome all initiatives that can enhance the
efficiency of our Organization, reduce its bureaucratic
excesses or alleviate its financial problems. But we believe
that United Nations reform should not be mistakenly
identified with one single issue of administration or
budgetary efficiency. There is quite a contradiction
between saying that we need an Organization adapted to
the new challenges and focused on the next century, and
then reducing the practical debate simply to cost-cutting
and better control of resources. We have to enhance
administrative efficiency, but we must also appreciate
substantive effectiveness. Our objective should be to
strengthen the Organization as well as to streamline it.
Before concluding, I cannot fail to mention a
question of reform on this year's agenda that is more
urgent than it was in previous years. The plethora of
decisions taken by the Security Council has resulted in a
growing desire on the part of the other Members of the
United Nations to be more involved in Council decisions,
so as to strengthen its legitimacy and the political support
for its actions.
Improving the working methods of the Security
Council has opened up additional ways of enhancing its
credibility. There has been progress, but much remains to
be done, particularly in connection with consultations with
countries that contribute troops to peacekeeping
operations, consultations with countries neighbouring a
conflict area that might be affected, and third States that
are negatively affected by the application of sanctions.
A second determining factor of legitimacy and
political support for Council decisions relates to its
membership. In this connection, Chile believes it essential
to resolve once and for all the problems of increasing the
membership of the Security Council, which have
concerned the Assembly since 1992. We think there is a
broad base of agreement for allowing Germany and Japan
to become permanent members of the Council, and at the
same time for giving developing countries one permanent
seat per region, the occupants of which would be elected
at the regional level.
Also, in order to meet the need for representativity,
given the great increase in membership of the United
Nations in the last decade, the number of non-permanent
seats should be increased from 10 to 15, with appropriate
equitable geographical distribution. A membership of
twenty-five members would not undermine the
effectiveness of the Security Council but would enhance
the representativity of its actions.
However, we wish to emphasize that Chile is willing
to act with maximum flexibility here. This means we are
willing to consider other proposals by other Member
States that also seek to combine the two fundamental

elements that should guide our decision: recognition of the
new international realities and a legitimate desire for
representativity in the principal bodies of our system.
We wished to touch upon those issues that, in Chile’s
view, will be the Organization’s main tasks in the years to
come, with a view to establishing the framework of stability
and legitimacy necessary to achieve United Nations
objectives. Chile commits its firm support to this difficult
understanding, which will be attainable with the will and
participation of all members of the international community.


===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿It is with particular pleasure that I extend to you, Mr.
President, my sincerest congratulations, and those of my
Government, on your election as President of the General
Assembly. Your election will ensure that the business of
the General Assembly will be conducted skilfully,
impartially and very efficiently at this important moment
for the General Assembly, when it will have to make
decisions that may be vital to the future of our
Organization.
The General Assembly session that we are now
beginning is a particularly important one in that its
purpose is to ensure that in the future multilateral activity
will be assured of validity, effectiveness and credibility.
With the United Nations having completed more than 50
years of existence, we need new ways to view the world,
without forgetting the many achievements made and the
valuable experience gained both from successes and from
failures.
This is an appropriate time for us to renew our
commitment to multilateralism as the guiding principle of
international relations and the essential tool to resolve
crises and problems that are beyond the ability of any
State, however important or powerful it may be, to
resolve on its own.
This is particularly important in the face of a
growing unilateralism that has recently emerged as a
feature of the international scene. The new international
reality makes it essential for States to act together so as
to confront energetically and resolutely the problems of
the environment, organized crime, arms control, human
rights, democratization, poverty, unemployment, social
fragmentation and many other issues.
Chile has consistently contributed to the
Organization and, to the limits of its ability to do so, will
continue to lend its strong support to the great work of
the United Nations in all its forums.
I wish to speak first of the issue of the Security
Council and its reform process. I stressed before the
General Assembly last year the importance of greater
involvement by Member States in the decisions of the
Security Council in order to strengthen its legitimacy and
25


give it the necessary political backing for the actions it
undertakes.
We reiterate once again the desirability of revising the
composition of the Security Council and its working
methods. In this connection, we appreciate the arduous
work conducted by the Working Group on this issue, which
has served to clarify the various positions and to allow a
proper appraisal of this enormously complex subject.
I wish especially to pay tribute to the outgoing
President of the General Assembly, Mr. Razali Ismail of
Malaysia, for his keen sense of responsibility and his
courage in taking the initiative to make specific proposals
on these matters in order to ease the difficulties
encountered within the Working Group and make it
possible to analyse and discuss them in specific terms.
My Government considers that any future composition
of the Council must combine the requirements of its
effectiveness with the need for an equitable representation
of the developing countries that properly reflects the
increase in the number of Members in the past 50 years.
Where these fundamental issues are concerned, Chile
supports and endorses the content of the Declaration on the
strengthening of the United Nations and the reform of the
Security Council issued by the Heads of State or
Government at the eleventh summit of the Rio Group in
Asunción, Paraguay, on 24 August of this year.
In that Declaration we expressed the great importance
we attach to the process of expanding and reforming the
Security Council, which must result in a broad general
agreement that will make it possible to correct the
imbalances in its current composition, improve the decision-
making mechanisms, make the conduct of its work more
transparent and represent with greater legitimacy all States
Members of the Organization.
With regard to the total number of members of the
Security Council, we believe that a membership of up to 25
would not impair its effectiveness, provided that the
expansion met the requirements of responding properly to
the increase in United Nations Member States since the last
reform of the Charter and the undeniably growing
importance of developing countries.
Chile shares in the broad base of agreement on
allowing the entry of Germany and Japan as permanent
members of the Security Council. Nevertheless, there is
also a conviction that this can take place only in the context
of suitable regional representation, including other
permanent members from Asia, Africa and Latin
America.
We support a process of regional consultation and
consensus to fill these seats. This, however, does not
exclude a possible role for the General Assembly in case
there is an absence of regional agreement. In this
connection, the Assembly will have to analyse carefully
the proposals that have been put forward regarding
rotation. These are undoubtedly attractive since they
include a larger number of countries, but they could
impair the effectiveness of the Council and increase
tensions between permanent and non-permanent members.
As far as the Latin American and Caribbean region
is concerned, its fundamental responsibility is to fill its
seats through a process that gives its members legal
validity and political legitimacy. In this process,
consideration must be given to all the possibilities that
will allow for appropriate regional representation. Chile
is prepared to accept any formula that reflects this.
Serious consideration must be given to the possibility that
only one of its members will occupy the permanent seat
allocated to the region.
The question of the veto will also have to be
discussed in greater depth, taking into account many
factors, such as legal ones relating to Charter obligations
and the evolution of modern international law, and
political ones, such as the evolution of the international
situation, which are today very different from those
prevailing at the time the United Nations came into being.
The outgoing President of the General Assembly has
made some very interesting proposals in this regard,
which need to be carefully considered by Member States.
Chile is concluding this year, with a sense of
satisfaction, its participation in the Security Council after
an absence of more than 30 years. Our decision to
participate was motivated by the need to assume our
international responsibilities, and we did so in the
conviction that we could make a contribution.
As a preliminary conclusion, I would like to
emphasize that the rich contribution of the non-permanent
members of the Council provides genuine balance and
enables the Council to renew itself over time. Our
experience has been a rewarding one, and we have sought
to focus our contribution, beyond our natural interest in
issues relating to the Latin American region, on a number
26


of areas in which welcome progress has been made, to
which Chile has made an effective contribution.
We welcome the important progress the Council has
made regarding its responsibility in the humanitarian
sphere, which has necessarily become a major aspect of the
maintenance of international peace and security. This is the
foundation of the presidential statement issued by the
Council on the protection of humanitarian workers. The
strengthening of this aspect of the Council's work was one
of the main issues in which Chile participated. Motivated
by our concern about this matter, we proposed a mechanism
that establishes the modalities by which the Council
communicates with the humanitarian agencies working in
the field.
Similarly, Chile has been particularly concerned that
countries that have experienced severe conflicts should not
be abandoned by the system once conflict ends. We have
therefore insisted on the need for a United Nations presence
in the field when peace-building gives way to overall
reconstruction and development activities.
With respect to sanctions, it has been demonstrated
that, where authoritarian Governments are concerned, broad
sanction regimes merely penalize the population without
bringing about political change. We have noted the progress
made by the Council in devising sanctions, as in the case
of resolution 1072 (1996) on the situation in Burundi and
the one recently adopted on UNITA in Angola, which are
indeed capable of yielding the desired results without
harming innocent populations.
Lastly, Chile has attached special importance to
African affairs while a member of the Security Council. We
believed it important to assist the Council in taking
decisions on the problems that region is facing at this
historic moment when African countries are assuming their
own responsibilities for regional problems, as has been
apparent in the Organization of African Unity initiative in
the Arusha process and the activities of the Economic
Community of West African States, among others.
We are aware that the reform process is not confined
to the Security Council. The Secretary-General has told us
clearly and lucidly that we are facing the most extensive
and farthest-reaching reforms in the 52 years of this
Organization's history. Accordingly, we welcome his
comprehensive report of last July, entitled, "Renewing the
United Nations: A programme for reform". We agree with
his proposals aimed at transforming the leadership and
management structure of the United Nations so as to enable
it to act with greater unity of purpose, coherence and
agility in tackling the problems.
We wish to convey to the Secretary-General and his
colleagues our gratitude for the report, which the General
Assembly will have to analyse in depth, and Chile will
contribute to the debate with interest and dedication and
in an open spirit of consensus.
In this connection, we agree with the Secretary-
General's statement that the major source of institutional
weakness in the United Nations is the fact that over the
course of the past half century certain of its organizational
features have tended to become fragmented, duplicated
and rigid, resulting in their ineffectiveness in some areas
and superfluity in others. As Chile sees it, the main
obstacle to the reform process has been the fear of change
that exists in the Organization, which has paralysed the
process since it began here in the General Assembly four
years ago. The time has come for all of us, the Secretariat
and Member States alike, to show proudly our collective
creativity, courage and realistic inventiveness. The period
of bureaucratization in the United Nations must give way
to the era of creation.
Only through flexible and efficient management will
we be able to give new impetus to the Organization and
provide it with the proper tools for the true modernization
the international community demands. Reform is not
intrinsically an exercise in cutting costs or reducing staff.
Its aim is to ensure a real and growing increase in the
political effectiveness of the United Nations, from the
Security Council and the way it deals with and resolves
present-day conflicts in today's world to the Economic
and Social Council and the development agencies.
Many of the problems facing the Organization result
from the fact that Member States have been remiss in
responding to the need to adapt intergovernmental
machinery to the new requirements of the international
situation. This is perhaps one of the main aspects of the
reform process we have embarked upon.
Accordingly, it is essential to proceed further with
the reorientation and restructuring of the Economic and
Social Council in order to coordinate both the agencies
and its subsidiary bodies so that it may engage in
executive interaction with the functions of the General
Assembly. In that way, it can regain its leadership
position as a flexible and efficient organ and contribute
effectively to answering the challenges on the economic
and social agenda of the Organization.
27


Given this mandate of the Economic and Social
Council, its future relationship with the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund will be extremely important.
In this connection, the establishment of a substantive
secretariat of the Economic and Social Council seems to us
an interesting proposal.
Furthermore, the reform process should leave room for
the progressive regionalization that is taking place within
the United Nations system. In the review of the regional
commissions to be carried out by the Economic and Social
Council, there is a need to find mechanisms which, without
affecting the regional mandates of each commission, can
contribute to the definition and regional implementation of
the major agreements and consensuses reached by the major
conferences sponsored by the United Nations system over
the past decade.
We are following with interest the proposal to give to
the Resident Coordinator of the Secretary-General authority
over all United Nations bodies in the field. This new
integrated approach, in which the funds and programmes
will retain their autonomy, will contribute to the necessary
cohesion and reduce the natural tendency towards
divergence between the multidisciplinary agencies
represented, thereby strengthening their activities.
It also seems to us essential to evaluate the subsidiary
bodies in greater depth, using as the main criteria their
relevance and effectiveness, and to take the appropriate
decisions. Accordingly, we are concerned by the
recommendation to merge the Commissions on Narcotic
Drugs and on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, since
that would run the risk of limiting treatment of the problem
of narcotic drugs merely to its criminal dimension, losing
sight, in the process, of elements that are an inherent part
of the drug issue, such as education and prevention. At the
same time, the reform process must assign special
importance to measures and mechanisms designed to
accelerate economic and social development, especially in
Africa, by supporting domestic efforts at economic
restructuring, diversification of raw materials and increased
food security being carried out by the countries of the
region.
We welcome the proposals designed to strengthen the
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, both
institutionally and substantively, since they seem to us to be
of great importance for the future development of the
Organization. The protection and promotion of human
rights and fundamental freedoms, together with democracy
and equitable growth, are the three pillars of present-day
international society. As the Secretary-General himself
has stated, they constitute an essential component of
international peace and security. Any measure that
contributes to strengthening the ability of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights to take action will
receive the firm support of the Chilean delegation.
Similarly, we strongly support the initiatives by the
Secretary-General with regard to the proposals for
interaction between civil society and private enterprise,
which have become major actors at both the national and
international levels. The time has come for civil society,
including the business community, to participate in the
United Nations at a level that reflects the contribution that
it has been making for some time.
A series of measures have been recommended to us
that are designed to make more flexible the procedures
for deliberations in the General Assembly, to reduce the
length of meetings, apply a thematic approach to topical
issues, overcome delays and enable us to concentrate on
the most essential matters. While technically these
proposals appear to relate more to formal than to
substantive aspects, we know that in fact they will not be
simple or merely procedural decisions. In reality, their
aim is to promote the capacity of this Organization to
build consensus, so as to arrive at concise decisions in the
shortest possible time.
On financial matters, we endorse the proposal for
results-based budgeting, with few institutional
mechanisms having a major strategic impact. This seems
to us an innovation will have far-reaching consequences
for the Organization. We also support the idea of
reallocating savings to economic and social activities
through the establishment of a development account.
28


We have focused our statement on the great task of
reform, which is difficult, complex and full of potential as
well as of problems. We are determined to find the
solutions that the United Nations requires if it is to
discharge all its mandates and satisfy the demands and
aspirations of an international community that is anxious to
place in the Organization great hopes for the future. We are
determined not to let this opportunity to restructure and
renew the United Nations pass us by. The full cooperation
of the Chilean delegation can be counted on in this effort.

===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on behalf of the
Government of Chile and in my personal capacity, on
your election as President of the fifty-third session of the
General Assembly, which represents a deserved tribute to
your political skills and diplomatic career, as well as a
recognition of your country?s commitment to the work of
the United Nations. It gives us very special pleasure
because you are a national of Uruguay, a Latin American
country that is especially close to Chile, and with which,
in addition, we are cooperating closely in the Rio Group
and the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR).
We also congratulate the Secretary-General on the
leadership he has demonstrated since he took up his
duties. His vision of the necessary reform of this
Organization, as well as his dedication to the solution of
important international problems, gives us great
satisfaction. We encourage him to persevere in pursuit of
the goals he has set himself.
Globalization, interdependence and regional
integration are phenomena that characterize present-day
international realities. The experience of many countries,
Chile among them, shows that greater participation in the
world economy, if appropriately channelled, can constitute
a key element in the economic growth and prosperity of
countries. Nevertheless, these phenomena, whose logic
and dynamics are universal in scope, still offer ambivalent
and contradictory lessons and meanings, depending on
their magnitude and the effects they are causing in the
different parts of the world. It is obvious that this process
gives rise to legitimate uncertainties and concern in the
context of the financial upheavals that, having started in
the Asia/Pacific region, now affect the whole world. The
need for more effective and concerted action by the main
international economic Powers and the specialized
22


agencies to deal with these situations is becoming
increasingly apparent. The need to reshape the global
financial architecture is becoming ever more obvious.
It seems clear that there is a need for greater
coordination regarding the international community?s
institutional capabilities to deal with situations like the
present one. The world has experienced similar situations
before, but they now take place in a context of much
greater interdependence. This necessitates an in-depth
review of the current structures of the world financial
system in order to adapt them to the new challenges of
internationalization. Otherwise, we shall always be
vulnerable to upheavals like the present ones, and to
setbacks in those parts of the world that are affected.
Obviously, no agency of the multilateral system, on its
own and using only its own methods, is in a position to
bring certainty and stability to the current crisis. In the
search for solutions, we need to combine different
approaches and concerns: financial order, growth of
international trade, effective social security networks,
promotion of investment and growth, and respect for
workers, among others. We have a great opportunity to
grasp fully the integrated nature of these problems and
define genuinely coordinated policies in order to solve
them. This is a task in which the entire international
community must participate. The Latin American countries
have assumed their responsibilities for building sound
economies with increasingly low levels of inflation,
progressively decreasing their budget deficits and reducing
unemployment and indebtedness.
What Chile has done in this respect is recognized, and
has been frequently praised in recent years. In little over a
decade, Chile has doubled the size of its economy. This
year, 1998, will be our twelfth year of uninterrupted
growth. For eight years we have been constantly reducing
inflation and unemployment, with a financial surplus and
high domestic and external savings rates. All of this has
taken place in a context of great openness to the outside
world and a regional integration process conducted with a
view to promoting open regionalism. It has also taken place
in the context of an increasing expansion of social
investment, whose benefits for the most vulnerable sectors
of the population are apparent in the high indicators
achieved by Chile in this Organization?s latest Human
Development Report.
However, despite these significant achievements we
have also had to face in recent months problems that we
share with many countries in our region, stemming from the
global financial crisis and the difficulties created in some
of our main export markets. President Frei's Government
has adopted stringent adjustment measures in order to
reduce public and private expenditure, avoid an upsurge
of inflation, and, at the same time, maintain social
investment and protect Chileans? jobs.
This permits us — as the Heads of State and
Government of our region did when they met on 5
September at the Twelfth Rio Group Summit — to call
on all to discharge their responsibilities in this respect, as
we have discharged our own. Our Presidents are
concerned about the possibility that the crisis will become
more acute, and accordingly they urge the countries in
which it arose to take the necessary measures to correct
their imbalances; the countries of the Group of Seven to
take action to restore the stability of financial markets and
ensure the growth of the world economy; and the
international financial institutions to involve themselves
more rapidly and effectively in resolving the crisis.
There is also a need to prevent a mishandling of the
crisis or half-way measures leading to the reproduction or
even accentuation of the inequities that characterize the
current international system, which not only postpone
access to progress and encourage despair, but also pose a
serious and constant threat to international peace and
security.
The emergence of a new worldwide awareness, the
enlargement of the international agenda and the need to
deal collectively with the problems of interdependence
provide an impetus for the adoption of new international
regimes. Examples of the progress achieved in
cooperative multilateralism include the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Antarctic Treaty,
international humanitarian law, the Uruguay Round
agreements that led to the creation of the World Trade
Organization and the set of regimes relating to arms
control and disarmament in general.
Human rights have ceased to be an issue reserved
exclusively for the sovereignty of countries, and have
become a universal concern that no Government can
ignore. Protection of the environment has an undoubtedly
international dimension, in that issues as vital to our
future as climate change, pollution and over-exploitation
of the seas, depletion of the ozone layer and the advance
of desertification all call for global treatment.
The promotion and protection of human rights and
fundamental freedoms constitute an inescapable
23


responsibility of the United Nations. The fiftieth
anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the fifth anniversary of the World Conference on
Human Rights, held in Vienna, constitute opportunities to
renew our concern for and commitment to the values and
principles embodied in the Declaration and the agreements
adopted at the Conference.
For Chile, the universality of human rights means
assuming the intrinsic dignity of all inhabitants of the
planet, regardless of their culture, religion, social status,
ethnic origin, gender or traditions. Neither lack of
development nor cultural characteristics can be invoked to
justify limiting the human rights recognized in a
Declaration to which we have all subscribed. In this
context, the recently approved International Labour
Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work and its Follow-up is an important step
forward in strengthening the basic rights of workers
throughout the world. This new international regime must
be promoted by the entire multilateral system.
A few days ago, I had the great honour of signing in
Rome, on behalf of my Government, the Statute of the
International Criminal Court. Chile has committed itself to
participate actively in the launching of the Court. This
institution has been a long-standing aspiration, and many
recent events have made it essential. It will contribute to
the strengthening of the international human rights regime,
the progressive development of international humanitarian
law, the prevention of mass violations and the fight against
impunity in cases of genocide or crimes against humanity.
The subject of disarmament also continues to be one
of the most vital issues on the international agenda. Recent
events in this field, such as the nuclear tests carried out in
South Asia, which my Government deeply deplores,
highlight the urgent need to enhance the validity and
universal application of instruments such as the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). We must
take responsibility for the danger of nuclear proliferation
and urge the parties concerned not to repeat such actions,
and we must renew our calls on all States to sign and ratify
the international instruments designed to eliminate the
nuclear threat. Accordingly, we welcome Brazil?s recent
accession to the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
We must also make efforts to develop and improve
our instruments for regulating the manufacture, trade and
use of conventional weapons. In this context, we are
extremely pleased to know that the Treaty on the
elimination of anti-personnel landmines has entered into
force with the completion of the first 40 ratifications.
Chile hopes to complete its process of legislative approval
shortly in order to be able to ratify this important
instrument. For these same reasons, we adopted this
morning, together with other countries, a declaration
supporting the ad hoc group in its work to strengthen the
verification and monitoring mechanisms of the Biological
Weapons Convention.
Chile strongly favours the process of establishing
new international regimes, whether regional or global, to
confront these and other challenges. The United Nations
plays a vital role in this field.
The campaign against drug-trafficking and other
forms of organized crime can be truly effective only when
it takes place in a context of strong and genuine regional
and worldwide cooperation. Chile supports the
implementation of the decisions adopted at the twentieth
special session of the General Assembly, on the world
drug problem, decisions which can serve as a basis for a
common regulatory system and effective multilateral
cooperation.
The fight against international terrorism, which has
perpetrated such reprehensible acts this year, also requires
a much more effective international cooperation. Such
dramatic issues as the treatment of refugees and
combating hunger fall fully within the scope of
multilateral activity. My country attaches great importance
to this function of our Organization. We believe that it
must continue to be expanded and intensified in the years
to come. Of course, Chile is fully prepared to continue
participating in this task.
In the context of our participation in the United
Nations, I wish to express my gratitude to the Member
States, as well as to the employers? and workers? groups
of the International Labour Organization (ILO), for the
singular confidence placed in Chile and its Ambassador
to the United Nations, Mr. Juan Somav'a, by electing him
Director-General of the ILO, beginning in March 1999.
My Government wishes to express its profound
satisfaction at having been a part of the Security Council
during the biennium 1996-1997. In the exercise of the
responsibility entrusted to us by the international
community, my Government sought in every action it
took to contribute to the maintenance of international
peace and security and to fully assume the humanitarian
24


responsibility placed upon the Security Council in its
activities.
We have always believed that this responsibility
should be manifested in the protection of the humanitarian
workers in conflict zones, in the ongoing presence of the
United Nations and its specialized agencies subsequent to
the ending of hostilities so as to build peace effectively and
in the focused application of sanctions that are adopted so
that they will not affect innocent civilians.
Chile is convinced that the United Nations
peacekeeping forces can be identified as the Organization?s
most effective mechanism for preventing and resolving
international conflicts. We are aware that peacekeeping
operations designed to take action in crises and conflicts
between States have been faced with major challenges
during the present decade. Nevertheless, for all the well-
known limitations, the experience built up over the past
three years can be regarded as promising for the future.
Many more human lives could be saved through United
Nations peacekeeping operations, were we able to
strengthen them effectively. My Government wishes to
express its firm resolve to continue cooperating, actively
and frequently, in the activities of this important instrument
of the Organization.
Three years ago, when we celebrated the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, Member States assumed
a commitment to unite our efforts to reform and
democratize the structures of the Organization, with a view
to the new and complex challenges we shall have to face in
an increasingly changing international scene. This session
of the General Assembly has the task of taking up
important pending aspects of that reform. The adoption of
resolution 52/12 constitutes an important first step down the
long road to reform.
We are also encouraged by the changes that are being
introduced in the Economic and Social Council. The
introduction of new methods and programmes and the
incorporation into its agenda of a segment on humanitarian
affairs will contribute to its renewal.
The summits and conferences on economic and social
issues that have been held within the framework of the
United Nations during the 1990s have reaffirmed our
Organization?s priority commitment to development.
Likewise, those events have provided conceptual tools and
ideas that are of great value for drawing up public policies
for achieving economically, socially and environmentally
sustainable development.
The eradication of poverty must continue to be a
central objective. The same is true of the promotion of
human rights, gender equality and protection of the
environment. It is essential that the General Assembly
conduct periodic reviews of the commitments made on
these issues at the summit meetings and conferences, as
is to happen in the case of the International Conference
on Population and Development, which is to be reviewed
next June, and the Fourth World Conference on Women,
the review of which will take place in the year 2000.
We also attach special importance to the special
session of the General Assembly to be convened in the
year 2000 for the purpose of reviewing compliance with
the commitments of the Social Summit. Chile has had the
honour of presiding over the preparatory committee for
that special session. It is our hope that that meeting will
be able to conclude with the adoption of new initiatives
at the national and international level that will allow
further progress to be made in the process of
implementing the agreements reached at the Summit.
The process of reforming and democratizing the
Security Council is one of the most important of the
many objectives we have set ourselves in the context of
the process of renewing the United Nations. The Council
must reflect the new international realities. It needs to be
enlarged to remedy, among other things, the unjustified
under-representation of the developing countries in that
body.
Nevertheless, the arduous process of reform in which
we are engaged calls for broad-based majority support. It
will be possible only with solid and substantive
consensus. Frankly, we would prefer to sacrifice some of
the urgency of such reforms rather than participate in a
decision-making process which, lacking the support of the
vast majority of members, could give rise to serious
divisions between us.
Furthermore, my Government believes that
enlargement of the Council, important though it may be
from the standpoint of enhancing its representativeness
and legitimacy, is not of itself sufficient to endow the
Council with the qualities required by its role as the
guarantor of international peace and security. At the same
time, measures must be adopted with regard to its
working methods, particularly in relation to transparency,
with which every one of its actions should be imbued and
which should not be challenged.
25


We must stress the negative impact of the veto
mechanism, which should be regulated and progressively
reduced with a view to its gradual elimination in the long
term. A first step in this direction might be to amend the
Charter so that the right of veto can be applied only to
actions taken by the Council under Chapter VII.
I should like to conclude by expressing our optimism
with regard to the future of the Organization. I hope that
the Millennium Assembly, to which we have lent our full
support, will be the expression of a renewed and much
stronger United Nations as we enter the new century.











===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
I would like
first of all to express to you, Sir, our warm
congratulations on your election as President of the
General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We join the
earlier delegations in wishing you success in the
important task of guiding our debates.
I would like to express to your predecessor, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Eastern Republic of
Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, our gratitude for his
outstanding leadership as President of the Assembly at its
fifty-third session.
I also wish to convey very special greetings to the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to express our
deep appreciation for the work that he has done and our
firm support for his efforts to achieve peace in a year that
has been of critical importance for the United Nations.
Chile extends a hearty welcome to the new Member
States of our Organization, Kiribati, Nauru and the
19


Kingdom of Tonga, fraternal countries of the Pacific
community.
Globalization and interdependence require new and
stronger international institutions. As the international
environment becomes increasingly complex and difficult,
the United Nations, with all its limitations, remains the only
global actor capable of addressing not only the problems of
cooperation and global conflict, but also issues that, by their
very nature, are no longer within the exclusive competence
of States.
The expansion of the international agenda and the
need for collective management of the problems of
interdependence are the impetus for this trend. The issue of
democracy, or rather of the lack of democracy, has ceased
to be exclusively a sovereign matter for countries to deal
with; it has become a universal concern that no Government
can ignore. Protection of the environment has an
indisputable international dimension, inasmuch as issues of
vital importance for our future, such as climate change, the
pollution and over-exploitation of the oceans, the
deterioration of the ozone layer and growing desertification,
all require global remedies. Increasingly strict international
regimes are being established for the regulation and
prohibition of weapons of mass destruction and for the
elimination of anti-personnel landmines. The fight against
drug-trafficking can be truly effective only if it is waged
within a framework of close regional and international
cooperation, based on the principle of shared responsibility.
Such moving issues as the treatment of refugees, the fight
against hunger and major epidemics fall squarely within the
scope of multilateral action. The Government of Chile
enthusiastically supports this trend towards a new
multilateralism.
The crisis in Kosovo revealed one of the most serious
weaknesses and contradictions of the United Nations. The
policies of ethnic cleansing supported by the Serbian
leadership in that region required an immediate and
vigorous response by the international community.
It was truly regrettable that our Organization was
prevented from the outset from taking action with the
vigour that the situation required. It was also regrettable
that the solution to the crisis was found outside the
appropriate framework of United Nations mechanisms and
in contravention of the principles of the Charter. There is
clearly a responsibility shared by all the permanent
members of the Security Council for the inadequate
functioning of the mechanisms of collective security. Once
again, it was evident that the veto or the threat of its use
can reduce to impotence the world's principal organ of
collective security. Once again, it was evident that, when
this occurs, a vacuum is created that can lead to the
unilateral use of force without the prior authorization of
the Security Council.
More recently, the United Nations has had to face a
new challenge, a fresh humanitarian tragedy that it had to
stop at all costs. I refer to the crisis in East Timor. Chile
supported with hope and enthusiasm the holding of the
referendum on 30 August, which was made possible by
the significant agreement reached between Indonesia and
Portugal under United Nations auspices.
A Chilean delegation of two distinguished
parliamentarians was able to observe the successful
organization of the electoral process and the admirable
work of the United Nations volunteers and staff. They
also witnessed the onset of the incidents that culminated
in the massacre of which we are all aware. These acts are
totally unacceptable. We are pleased that the Republic of
Indonesia has requested the intervention of the United
Nations to put an end to violence on the island. We are
encouraged by the fact that, after so many unnecessary
deaths, it has been possible to organize a multinational
force under the efficient leadership of Australia.
I wish to reiterate and reaffirm the commitment of
Chile to the peacekeeping operations of the United
Nations. Without interruption since 1949, my country has
lent its cooperation to several of these operations. Today,
we are expanding our participation in this field and have
decided to contribute to the peacekeeping forces deployed
in Kosovo and in East Timor. In February, Chile formally
joined the reserve forces system. We have already
identified the personnel to be kept at the ready in terms
of military units, police monitors and civilian experts.
I wish to stress the importance that we attach to the
implementation of the Ottawa Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and
Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their
Destruction, which Chile has signed and for which it is
completing the formalities required for its approval by our
National Congress. In keeping with the spirit and purpose
of that instrument, I reiterate my country's commitment
not to produce, export, import or lay any new anti-
personnel landmines, as we demonstrated last April in our
official declaration of a unilateral moratorium.
My country notes with optimism and hope the
positive signs that have recently emerged with regard to
20


the long-awaited resumption of the peace process between
Israel and the Palestinian people. Chile has resolutely
supported this process from the very beginning and noted
with great concern its virtual paralysis. We hope that the
Israelis and the Palestinians alike will have the courage and
resolve to opt unambiguously for dialogue and peace.
Chile expresses its concern and frustration at the
obstacles that continue to block the self-determination
referendum provided for under the United Nations
Settlement Plan for Western Sahara. We hope that the date
that has been set will be honoured so that the Sahraoui
people can have the opportunity to express their preference
in a free, informed and transparent manner.
Latin America has continued to make significant
contributions to international peace and stability throughout
the year. A final settlement has been achieved in the border
conflict between two fraternal peoples on our continent:
Ecuador and Peru. As one of the four guarantor countries
of the 1941 treaty by which those two countries are bound,
Chile is pleased to have contributed to the rapprochement
between the parties and to have facilitated the dialogue that
led this year to the settlement of their differences and the
signing of a peace agreement.
The border between Argentina and Chile is one of the
longest in the world. Numerous disagreements have arisen
in the past over its demarcation. Thanks to the political will
of the two nations, it has been possible to find solutions to
each one of these problems. I have the deep satisfaction of
announcing to this Assembly that we have reached a
settlement with Argentina on the last remaining border
dispute between our peoples. Our Parliaments have adopted
the Campo de Hielo Sur agreement and we can now
concentrate without distraction on the task of developing a
relationship of peace, friendship and cooperation and a true
strategic alliance between our two countries.
Four years have passed since, on the occasion of the
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, the Member States undertook to intensify efforts
to reform and democratize the Organization's structures in
order to equip it to deal with the new and complex
challenges that it faces in a constantly changing
international environment. We must acknowledge, however,
that little progress has been made. It has become a truism
to point to the changes that have occurred in the
international system set up after the Second World War.
Less frequently mentioned is the fact that the institutions
have not kept pace with these changes.
Chile has stressed the need for due importance to be
given to the process of reforming the General Assembly
as the prime deliberative and decision-making body of the
entire system. It is only here that all Member States are
represented on an equal footing.
On this occasion, we reaffirm our position that the
reform of the Security Council must take into account
such criteria and principles as the sovereign equality of
States, equitable geographic representation and the need
to create conditions for a functioning that would
guarantee greater transparency and democracy in the
working methods and procedures of that body. The
persistence of the veto — which, moreover, can be
exercised without any public justification — represents a
serious obstacle to the achievement of substantive
agreements. It is a fact that most of the obstacles to the
admission of new permanent members are directly related
to the right of veto that accompanies such membership.
Clearly, the loosening of regulations that govern the
free circulation across borders of the knowledge, goods
and capital that are characteristic elements of
globalization has entailed significant benefits for our
societies. It is also true, however, that globalization has
thrown up new challenges and, in some cases, new risks,
particularly those associated with capital movement.
The international financial crisis of recent years has
demonstrated our ongoing vulnerability to events that we
cannot control and for which we are not entirely
responsible. Following the near collapse of the
international financial system, the demand for structural
reform has increased exponentially. Today, while the
situation appears more hopeful, nothing has changed in
substance. The systemic risks remain. We must relaunch,
with fresh impetus and vigour, the necessary reform
process to stabilize the international financial system in
the future.
Capital flows far exceed the value of world trade. It
is ironic that, while we have devoted so much effort to
establishing new trade regimes throughout the world, so
little has been done in the field of international finance.
The point is certainly not to impede the international flow
of capital, but to establish an appropriate international
framework to address the problems to which it may give
rise. We cannot continue to be passive spectators as
financial crises interrupt world growth and limit the
development of our countries.
21


It is also essential that we put all our energies into the
new round of multilateral trade negotiations that is just
beginning. The multilateral trade system, reflected most
accurately in the World Trade Organization, must be
strengthened with a view to ensuring sustained and
genuinely equitable growth for all countries. It is essential
that the new round soon to start in Seattle be balanced so
as to reflect the interests of developed and developing
countries alike. We also hope that it will be comprehensive
in its thematic coverage. We oppose a limited approach in
the form of sectoral trade negotiations.
In the framework of the agendas of United Nations
summits and conferences, the closing decade has witnessed
gatherings at the highest level to consider the urgent social
problems that beset mankind. From Copenhagen to Rio de
Janeiro, Beijing to Cairo, Vienna to New York, the United
Nations has accomplished a superlative task in reviewing
problems and adopting programmes of action in the most
important social spheres. In this connection, we attach the
greatest importance to the follow-up and implementation of
agreements emanating from the World Summit for Social
Development. A special session of the General Assembly,
to be held in Geneva next June, should renew the
international community's commitment to the process begun
in Copenhagen.
We welcome the recent Convention of the
International Labour Organization (ILO) on the prohibition
of the most severe forms of child labour. We are confident
that that organization, under the leadership of our fellow
Chilean, Mr. Juan Somav'a, will play an increasingly
relevant role in the new international social agenda.
Violations of the basic rights of individuals can no
longer be considered an exclusively domestic problem of a
country. Protection of these rights is the inescapable task of
the international community. This has been recognized by
Chile, which, since regaining democracy in 1990, has
firmly and sincerely supported the establishment of
effective universal and regional regimes for the protection
of human rights. We must bear in mind that the
international regime for the protection of human rights is
fragmentary and evolving. It consists of a set of standards
and institutions that are gradually beginning to be applied
with many gaps and imperfections. It should also be noted
that this regime is being applied within the context of a
certain international reality characterized by important
differences in the relative power of countries and by
selective and sometimes paternalistic practices.
Genocide and massive violations of human rights are
destined to fall within the competence of international
tribunals. Chile welcomes that tendency, but it also
recognizes that we are now in a transitional stage of the
process of globalization of justice. In this stage the norms
of jurisdictions are not clear and are subject to various
interpretations, including some that may be arbitrary and
erroneous.
Chile regained its democracy almost 10 years ago.
My Government represents those who fought for nearly
two decades to restore Chile's tradition of freedom. Our
economy has experienced remarkable growth during this
period. We scrupulously respect human rights. We
participate avidly in furthering Latin American
integration. We are adhering to the new regimes being
established by the international community in very diverse
spheres.
We have also faced the dilemma of administering
justice with respect to violations of human rights that
occurred in the past in our country. This choice has led to
considerable tension. Many countries that began the
process of transition to democracy in more favourable
conditions than Chile's preferred to circumvent such
tensions by refraining from prosecuting very serious
crimes that occurred during the previous regimes.
In these circumstances, what grounds would exist for
the judiciary of a third State to exercise jurisdiction with
respect to acts that are currently the subject of
proceedings in the court of the State in which those acts
were committed? There is no denial of justice in Chile.
We do not accept impunity for human rights violations.
The Government has initiated a broad dialogue to deal
with the consequences of the most serious human rights
violations that occurred in our country, particularly the
tragedy of those who were arrested and disappeared. At
present nearly 300 cases relating to human rights
violations committed during the authoritarian regime that
governed our country between 1973 and 1990 are being
tried in Chilean courts. In several cases, the Chilean
courts have convicted the accused and have sentenced
them to prison terms that are now being served in
penitentiaries.
We would understand if the organized international
community attempted to administer justice in countries in
which the rule of law did not prevail or where the most
basic human rights continued to be trampled. But in a
democratic State the task of administering justice must be
undertaken by that State and its institutions.
22


The Government of Chile considers it highly
undesirable that judges of other countries should claim
jurisdiction to intervene directly in that process. This claim
to jurisdiction, based on the principle of separation of
powers, means plainly and simply ignoring the principle of
the juridical equality of States. Interference in matters
within our country's jurisdiction is inappropriate and
misplaced and is tantamount to a lack of respect for our
State of law and our democracy. Today this interference
affects Chile and other fraternal countries of the Southern
Cone of Latin America. Tomorrow it may extend to the rest
of the international community, leading to juridical chaos
and competing judicial claims that will end up damaging
the international relations of many of our countries.
But our reaction to these imperfections and
discriminatory practices is not to seek refuge in outdated
principles and notions. On the contrary: we must move
forward towards a clear, orderly and non-discriminatory
regime, such as the one envisaged in the Statute of the
International Criminal Court. The establishment of a
permanent organ designed to exercise criminal jurisdiction
over persons accused of any of the crimes over which it has
competence will have the virtue of discouraging both
improper internal procedures that guarantee the impunity of
the perpetrators and attempts by judges in other countries
to make themselves the righteous of the world.
I wish to conclude by expressing prudent optimism for
the future of our Organization. Many States and other
actors, such as non-governmental organizations that make
up our increasingly vibrant international civil society, would
like to raise the standing of the United Nations. We hope
that the Millennium Assembly, to which we have given all
our support, will become the symbol of a renewed and
much stronger United Nations as it faces the new century.








===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
First
of all, Mr. President, permit me to congratulate you on
your election to preside over the Assembly's fifty-fifth
session, the first of the new millennium. I wish you
every success in your presidency, and promise you
Chile's full cooperation as you carry out your
important duties. I would like to express our
admiration and affection for the country you represent,
Finland. My appreciation also goes to the praiseworthy
efforts of Foreign Minister Gurirab of Namibia during
the work of the session that has just come to an end.
Likewise, we congratulate the Secretary-General on the
leadership he has demonstrated since taking office. We
recognize and value his commitment to the vision of a
new United Nations for the twenty-first century. We
encourage him to continue his efforts to reform the
Organization.
Globalization is without a doubt the name of our
era. Today it is pointless to ask ourselves whether we
want to participate in globalization. Isolation is not a
realistic option. Chile views globalization as an
unquestionable reality and as a font of opportunity that
has brought us very valuable benefits. The opening of
our economy has enabled us to double the size of our
gross domestic product within 10 years, compared with
the almost 50 years it took to accomplish the previous
doubling. Technological advances have helped to bring
us closer to major world centres.
Globalization gives rise to opportunities, but it
can also deepen the inequities which have always
characterized the international system. The United
Nations can help to ensure that globalization does not
result in exclusion, with the benefits of modernization
limited to a lucky few. We must make a firm
commitment to developing a new form of international
cooperation, focused in particular on broadening access
to the knowledge-based economy.
The flows of goods, services, capital, information
and technology characteristic of globalization tend to
bypass domestic regulations and escape the control of
Governments. This lack of regulation is generally not
counterbalanced by other standards or authorities. It is
up to us to fill this vacuum by using all available
multilateral forums.
As never before in the history of humanity,
resolving the daily problems faced by people
worldwide depends on collective international
decision-making. The challenge confronting the United
Nations today is to lend a certain degree of order to
globalization; to establish effective institutions and
rules, so that globalization will serve to advance the
development of our peoples; and to ensure that the
fruits of scientific and technological advances benefit
all peoples.
At the Rio Group's most recent Summit of Heads
of State or Government, held in Cartagena, Colombia,
the countries that make up this regional political
coordination body prepared a joint contribution to the
Millennium Summit, reaffirming the central role of the
United Nations in this new era on which we are
embarking.
The past year has given rise to a mixture of hope
and concern with regard to peace and security. Chile
followed with particular interest the historic talks held
between the leaders of North and South Korea, from 13
15

to 15 June of this year. We congratulate the leaders and
the peoples of both countries on the progress made at
this groundbreaking summit.
The conflict in the Middle East has entered what
seems to be a decisive stage. We are heartened by the
advances made this year and encourage the parties to
continue their negotiations in accordance with the
established timetables and relevant Security Council
resolutions. We are confident that Israel and the
Palestinian National Authority will find satisfactory
solutions to the remaining issues, particularly those
related to Jerusalem. We are also encouraged by
Israel's withdrawal from southern Lebanon.
We support the Security Council's decisions
establishing a massive humanitarian programme for
Iraq  under the 'oil-for-food' formula, and we favour
an ongoing evaluation of that programme. We urge the
Iraqi Government to cooperate effectively with the new
inspection agency  the United Nations Monitoring,
Verification and Inspection Commission  whose
work we deem particularly important.
We have followed closely developments in the
Balkans. The seeds of intolerance and 'ethnic
cleansing' are still present in the region. Chile views
with fear the possibility of a new Balkan conflict. Only
full respect for democracy and human rights can bring
about peace in the region.
We are concerned by the conflicts in Africa. We
are hopeful as to the significant mediating role played
by regional entities such as the Organization for
African Unity, especially in the Ethiopia-Eritrea
dispute, and the Southern African Development
Community. We hope that these efforts, along with
those of the United Nations, can bring about peace,
allowing the continent to fully develop its enormous
potential.
We are pleased to note that the Security Council
has directly addressed the scourge of HIV/AIDS in
Africa, designating it as an international security issue
requiring urgent action. We hope that initiatives will be
adopted to effectively combat this problem, which casts
an even greater shadow over the future of the continent
than the current armed conflicts.
We view with concern the difficulties surrounding
the upcoming referendum in the Western Sahara. Chile
would like to see the elections take place as soon as
possible, on the basis of a free and secret ballot and
adequate voter information. We are concerned about
the obstacles that are hindering this undertaking.
Although post-cold-war hopes for a world free of
nuclear weapons in the near future have been tempered,
that goal remains fully valid. I have the honour to
report than on 12 July, Chile deposited its instrument of
ratification for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty  the sixteenth country to do so. We call upon
all nations to ratify this Treaty as soon as possible in
order to reach the quorum of 44 countries necessary for
its entry into force.
In our information-based society, the problems
experienced by any one country affect the world
community as a whole. No state can shirk its the
responsibility to promote peaceful coexistence within
and among nations. From the ethical standpoint of our
common humanity, we have viewed with interest the
development of the concept of humanitarian
intervention. Chile continues to abide by the principles
of non-intervention and the self-determination of
peoples. But these principles must be linked to other
principles of equal or higher priority, which have
emerged prominently since the end of the cold war. We
cannot remain impassive in the face of the
humanitarian catastrophes caused by great conflicts.
Thus, we propose that in specific cases, and in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,
concerted multilateral action be taken to provide rapid
assistance to those who are suffering. Chile is also an
enthusiastic participant in the Human Security
Network, in response to an initiative put forward by
Canada and Norway.
Chile considers it an ethical and political
imperative of the greatest urgency to expand its
participation in the United Nations peacekeeping
forces. Since 1999, we have developed an internal legal
framework that is in closer harmony with international
requirements for participation in these operations.
Those legal modifications have enabled us to
participate in the United Nations Transitional
Administration in East Timor, beginning in February of
this year.
My country is also willing to discuss a new
payment scale for the financing of United Nations
peacekeeping operations. We believe that this scale
must be adjusted to reflect the current financial
situation of Member States.
16

We cannot fail to mention the process of Security
Council reform. While some progress has been noted in
discussions of the Council's methods of work and of
the degree of transparency required by this body, we
note that there have been few, if any, advances toward
the expansion of its membership.
Chile feels a certain dismay and fatigue at the
lack of progress, which is the result of positions that
appear irreconcilable. The issue of the veto further
complicates this sensitive subject. Until we seriously
address the question of limiting the veto with a view to
its ultimate abolishment, we doubt that the discussions
undertaken by the Assembly's Open-ended Working
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on
and Increase in the Membership of the Security
Council and Other Matters related to the Security
Council will bear fruit.
Globalization is not limited to the economic
sphere. It also involves the universalization of values
and principles of our common humanity, and the
strengthening of the rights of the individual, which
have increasingly become subjects addressed by
international law. The absence of democracy and good
governance, and the people's lack of a voice and
participation in public affairs in States Members of the
Organization are of concern to us all. The United
Nations exists for individuals, not for those who
govern. Under the imperative of putting people at the
centre of all our efforts, we must support and promote
human rights and democratic processes.
Chile was among the countries that worked to
convene the Towards a Community of Democracies
conference held at Warsaw, Poland, last June. More
than 100 United Nations Member nations participated
in that gathering and endorsed its final declaration. We
are convinced that, as time passes, the community of
democracies will be an increasingly potent moral force
within the United Nations, provided that it maintains
its high standards and requirements.
Democracy is based on justice, both national and
universal. Chile enthusiastically supports the
establishment of an International Criminal Court, and
hopes that all countries will ratify its statute.
Establishing a permanent body to exercise criminal
jurisdiction over those accused of crimes that fall
within its purview will discourage the irregular
domestic proceedings which have allowed such
individuals to enjoy impunity, as well as limiting
jurisdictional disputes among countries.
At the World Summit for Social Development,
held at Copenhagen in 1995, heads of State or
Government met for the first time in the history of the
United Nations to declare with force and clarity that
the chief responsibility of our societies is to improve
the quality of life of our populations, particularly for
their most marginalized and dispossessed members.
This year, in a special session, the Assembly reviewed
the progress made towards fulfilling the Summit's
commitments and launched new initiatives on their
genuine implementation. That was an important step in
the quest to better humanize the process of
globalization. We must continue to incorporate the
objectives of the social Summit into our national and
multilateral policies.
In the social sphere, the United Nations has
recognized the vital need to promote gender equality.
Chile has worked together with our regional
neighbours in Latin America and the Caribbean to
reaffirm the principles and proposals of the Fourth
World Conference on Women. We have renewed our
commitment to the advancement of women, and have
developed a new plan to equalize opportunities for men
and for women. A concrete demonstration of that
commitment is the fact that about one third of
President Lagos Escobar's cabinet members are
women.
We reiterate Chile's strong support for
preparations for the General Assembly's 2001 special
session to follow up the World Summit for Children.
We also attribute special significance to the concern of
the United Nations for the rights and welfare of
indigenous populations and of the elderly.
Chile has volunteered to host the regional
preparatory meeting for the World Conference against
Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and
Related Intolerance. We aim to contribute to the
regional consensus in that area, confirming our very
firm commitment to tolerance and respect for diversity.
Environmental protection is an issue that crosses
national borders and has become a global concern,
driven in part by an emerging international civil
society. Here, international cooperation, under the
auspices of the United Nations, continues to be an
urgent necessity. The United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro,
17

laid the foundations for agreements on climate change,
forest conservation and biodiversity. It is very
important that we fulfil and gradually expand those
commitments with new agreements and protocols
ensuring the management, protection and conservation
of our planet's resources. This session, as well as the
Rio + 10 event which will take place in 2002, must
continue to spur commitment to a new ethic of
environmental conservation.
We are witnessing the globalization of financial
markets, which significantly affect capital, currency
and credit flows, as well as the economies of all of
nations. As recent experience demonstrates, a financial
crisis in one corner of the world can rapidly trigger a
domino effect, spreading the crisis even to faraway
nations with no responsibility for or control over the
causes of the original disturbance. It is a great injustice
that countries that have been prudent and responsible in
the management of their domestic economies can be
affected by problems with which they had nothing to
do. It is urgent for us to find ways to impose order and
standards of good management on the international
world. This does not mean obstructing international
capital flows, but rather establishing an appropriate
international framework to address the problems they
may cause.
Chile has enthusiastically supported the
international community's progress towards free trade
through deregulation and the elimination of
protectionist measures and barriers. The failure of the
1999 Seattle World Trade Organization (WTO)
conference was unfortunate. But let us be frank: that
failure was not brought about by civil-society
demonstrations, but by the lack of agreement among
the world's leading commercial Powers. Chile
continues to believe in the urgent necessity of initiating
a new round of multilateral trade negotiations.
The United Nations must play a key role in
bringing about substantive improvements in the
management of commercial, monetary and financial
systems, so that their operations will take into account
the needs of all countries. The Economic and Social
Council has done commendable work to coordinate
United Nations activities with those of the Bretton
Woods institutions. But the General Assembly too has
a critical role to play in this area.
The decision to hold a High-level International
and Intergovernmental Event on Financing for
Development in 2001 was of groundbreaking
significance, and we must resolve to carry forward the
commitments expressed at the Millennium Summit to
ensure the success of that event. That would lead to a
new phase in North-South relations, since the political
legitimacy arising from a broad multilateral consensus
will allow us to design a new financial architecture and
a system of international trade and exchange that
reflect the legitimate interests of all the world's
peoples.
My country believes that official development
assistance is still necessary to promote the
development of many countries and regions. A
globalized world cannot neglect the principle of
solidarity, which is an idea so central to the United
Nations tradition. In the same spirit, international
assistance must be provided to relieve the distressing
conditions of many countries burdened with
unsustainable debt, so that they can meet the
challenges of development.
This year Chile began a new six-year political
term, under fully democratic conditions. Our country is
in complete harmony with the international community.
We possess a vibrant civil society, which made its own
contributions to our preparation for the Millennium
Summit. Human rights and the rule of law are
respected in Chile. Our courts impart justice with
rigour and a sense of responsibility. We enjoy a
vigorous and open economy, and we have resolved to
continue reducing inequalities in our country. We reach
out to the world from a firm foundation in our own
region, Latin America. We are strengthening our
multilateral policies, based on open regionalism and on
cooperation with countries with similar criteria
throughout the world.
We are confident that this General Assembly
session, dedicated to the millennium, will be recorded
as the one in which we began to address the great
challenge of our time: to give order to the forces of
globalization and promote the extension of its benefits
to an ever-increasing number of the inhabitants of our
planet. You can rest assured, Mr. President, that Chile's
delegation will lend its full support to meeting this
challenge.

===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿Mr. President, I wish to congratulate you on your
election, which is a mark of recognition of the
Republic of Korea and of your distinguished personal
record in the public and academic spheres. I am
26

confident that, under your guidance, the work of the
Assembly will be successful for the States Members of
the United Nations.
Today New York is receiving us as it always has.
Why, then, did we witness, two months ago, a terrorist
act that shook the world? If I may be allowed to say so,
it is because New York is the city that best represents
the values that the twentieth century defended at the
cost of tremendous suffering. It is a city that welcomes
those persecuted by intolerance of all kinds; respects
all nationalities, races and religions, all ideas, and the
freedom to think and to create; offers opportunities for
all to succeed; and protects individual rights through
democracy.
It is not by chance that it was here in New York,
on the banks of the East River, that the Headquarters of
the United Nations was erected. It was built here
because the values of this city are the values of our
universal Organization of nations.
The terrorist attack on New York was therefore an
attack on the unity of our nations. It was our values,
our security and our faith in a better world — a world
based on dialogue and cooperation — that were the
targets of terrorist fanaticism. That is why we have felt
so close to the United States during this period: its pain
is our pain; its grief is our grief; and its response to
terrorism is our response.
We are here to reiterate our condolences to the
people and to the Government of the United States. The
sight of thousands of persons bearing photographs of
their lost family members amid the smoking ruins gave
rise to a profound sense of empathy among Chileans.
Hence we wish to express our admiration for the
unity and courage of the American people and of the
city of New York. We pay tribute to the Government of
the United States and to President Bush, who, faced
with an attack of this magnitude, has managed to act on
the basis of reason rather than emotion in seeking
diplomatic support and in building an extremely broad-
based coalition.
The holding of this General Assembly marks a
sound defeat for the terrorist cause, which seeks to
replace dialogue with the cult of violence, and reflects
our renewed faith in this world forum.
We are here to extend to the Secretary-General
and to the United Nations our warmest congratulations
on having been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, which
this year has recognized the outstanding contribution of
the United Nations to our quest for peace.
Many have remarked that the twentieth century
has been one of the most violent and deadly in the
history of humankind. However, the twentieth century
was also the century that produced major advances,
improved our quality of life and eliminated great evils
forever.
The First World War was followed by the League
of Nations and by a new awareness of the fundamental
equality of peoples. The Second World War was
necessary to put an end to fascism in its most
monstrous manifestations, but also out of it emerged
the United Nations, the decolonization process, the
Bretton Woods economic agreements and a new
awareness of the fundamental equality of human
beings. The cold war brought about a clash between
two political and economic visions, but, once ended, it
left in its wake a new awareness of democracy and
individual freedoms.
At the dawn of the twenty-first century, we are
confronting a new conflict of global proportions. Our
first objective must be to put an end forever to
fanaticism and to the kind of intolerance that is
translated into terror.
Chile believes that this vast diplomatic alliance
must also pursue other objectives. Like other victorious
coalitions throughout history, it must begin to ask now
what new progress it will seek to achieve for humanity
after its victory. We must start to envision the new
world that must emerge from this tragic period in our
history — a world that is better organized and that
shows more solidarity. Indeed, the terrorists will have
achieved their objective if, as a result of their attacks,
the globalization process changes direction and begins
a trend towards less freedom and decreased
international trade.
On the other hand, as the Secretary-General has
so rightly said, in order to achieve success in the
globalization process, we must learn how to manage it
better and, above all, how to manage it better together.
I think that it is very important to understand that
of the 6 billion people in the world, half are struggling
to live on less than $2 a day. They have no personal
computer; they have never made a telephone call. They
have never seen these things. Though wealth has
increased, there has been no significant decrease in the
27

number of poor people, and the gap between rich and
poor is daily becoming increasingly difficult to bridge.
The balance of our world is becoming precarious, and
we must address this issue.
The recent tragic events have shown us that no
nation on earth that can consider itself invulnerable and
that genuine security can be attained only through
cooperation among peoples and States. What makes
our citizens vulnerable today — besides terrorism —
are such phenomena as ignorance, hunger, drug
trafficking, climate change, uncontrolled population
movements, and the erratic flow of $1.5 trillion every
day in financial markets. We must devise ways of
tackling these phenomena.
Chile therefore supports the coalition of countries
that, in exercise of the right of self-defence, have
embarked on a campaign aimed at eradicating
terrorism. At stake here are the universal principles and
values that we share and that we must defend. These
actions, therefore, are not targeting the Afghan people
or the Arab world, nor are they aimed at any particular
religion, all of which we deeply respect and admire.
In order to put an end to terrorism, there is a need
for broad, ongoing and resolute cooperation. That is
why Chile has supported the responses decided upon in
this Organization. We are actively implementing
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We are
already a party to the 12 global conventions against
terrorism, and today we will deposit with the
Secretary-General the respective instruments of
ratification. My country has ratified all United Nations
agreements.
Similarly, we are working to coordinate
America’s response. We are partners in a
comprehensive dialogue to review and improve each
country’s domestic legislation and legal order to root
out the terrorist threat.
We reaffirm the need to strengthen measures to
promote mutual confidence and cooperation in the area
of defence. In that regard, Argentina and Chile have
standardized their data on military expenditures, and
we are working towards the same objective with our
neighbour Peru.
Yet we cannot conceal our frustration at the
difficulties blocking progress towards limiting the
manufacture of and illicit trade in small arms and light
weapons.
We also feel obliged to say that we view with
horror the deteriorating situation in the Middle East.
That conflict poses a threat to international security.
Like other delegations that have spoken today, we hope
for recognition of the inalienable right of the
Palestinian people to self-determination, including the
right to establish an independent State, as well as the
right of Israel to live within secure and internationally
recognized borders and at peace with its neighbours.
Recent acts of international terrorism have
affected our economies, which are the basis for social
progress for our peoples. Fear has gripped the markets.
The only certainty today is that uncertainty will prevail
in the future so long as there is armed action because of
this conflict. If that proves to be the case, and if
international markets fall, terrorism will have achieved
an unexpected victory.
I therefore want to say that institutions such as
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank
must address the concerns of the international political
bodies and devote special attention to the additional
costs of the response to terrorism. We are confident of
success at the Doha, Qatar, ministerial meeting, which
will be discussing ways to make trade freer. We want to
address items of concern to all: agricultural products,
services, intellectual property, anti-dumping and the
settlement of trade disputes. They are all on the
agenda, and they must all be addressed.
The great coalition assembled to combat
terrorism must also promote cooperation among
Governments in order to ensure that no areas are
excluded from globalization. That is the best way to
guarantee security for us all. To create a safer world,
we need more and better globalization, not more
autarky. We need more and better democracy, not more
dictatorial authoritarianism. We must do a better job of
protecting human rights. Here, I believe we must act
preventively to safeguard our democracies and to
ensure respect for human rights.
Democracy is strengthened with each free and
secret election with the participation of an informed
electorate. It is strengthened with higher levels of
justice and social equality. To restore people’s
confidence in democracy, democracy must be
complemented by an end to social injustice. Neither
lack of development nor specific cultural
characteristics can be used as a pretext to justify
curtailing rights recognized in the Universal
28

Declaration of Human Rights. The fight against
discrimination and intolerance must be a frontal attack
on poverty.
We need institutions that ensure respect for
human rights. Hence the importance of the
International Criminal Court, which should serve as an
key instrument for the universal protection of
fundamental human rights, whatever the status of the
violator.
I have come from afar, from the South of the
world, with an optimistic vision. Before leaving my
country, I met with young people of varied origins and
with dignitaries of different religions. I met with
Catholic and Protestant bishops; with Jewish and
Muslim representatives: all those with whom we share
an annual joint religious service — unique in the
world — to celebrate our national independence. I saw
in all of them — Jews and Muslims; Catholics,
Protestants and freethinkers — a renewed capacity for
understanding and comprehension that I am sure is
shared among western and eastern countries, among
ethnic groups and religions — in short, among all those
here today — with the objective of attaining our
common objective of peace and progress.
Let us learn from our experience in assembling
this great global coalition to respond politically and
militarily to the terrorist threat. Let us make it into a
coalition that also seeks other goals. In this coalition,
all are important, irrespective of creed, race, political
history or ideology; in the coalition there are no small
or large countries.
Let us ensure that international institutions take
due account of the interests of all countries, large,
medium-sized and small. Let us ensure that this grand
coalition will bring us security not only against
terrorism but also against hunger, vulnerability and
discrimination. I propose that we should update the
institutions that the founders of the United Nations
created here 50 years ago.
That would be the most fitting tribute to the
victims of terrorism and the best gauge of our
commitment to the weak and powerless of the Earth.






===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
﻿On behalf
of my country, I congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan and the
other members of the Bureau on their election. The
President can count on the full cooperation of the
delegation of Chile for the success of his stewardship.
The Government of Chile takes this opportunity
to welcome the accession to membership of the United
Nations of the Swiss Confederation and, soon, of
Timor-Leste. The presence of Switzerland strengthens
its historical association with the founding principles of
this Organization. The upcoming presence of Timor-
Leste symbolizes the role of the United Nations in the
creation of a viable and democratic State. We are proud
to have contributed to that mission.
One year ago, this city suffered a reprehensible
terrorist attack that left an indelible stain on the
conscience of mankind. That date, 11 September 2001,
marked a turning point in contemporary history. This
episode brought us face to face with new dimensions of
our human vulnerability, with a fragility that
universalized insecurity. The attack perpetrated a few
kilometres from this place showed us, with frightful
cruelty, that human coexistence urgently requires new
approaches and new instruments.
It has become necessary for Governments and
societies to forge positive responses and to work
together to resolutely confront terrorism. In a
globalized world, it is imperative that we re-evaluate
multilateralism, and Chile would like to renew its
commitment in that regard.
We believe that, at this period of history, we have
to make every effort to bring about a safer world. That
challenge should unite societies and cultures. As the
Secretary-General pointed out yesterday, the United
Nations alone has the legitimacy necessary to
contribute to an effective system of security.
Complying with Security Council resolutions is a
responsibility incumbent upon everyone, and is
essential to the future of the Organization.
The changes that have taken place in recent years
have created new challenges and responsibilities for
the world that we must assume, and to which we must
respond, as a global society. The risks today are indeed
both global and without boundaries. Both States and
ordinary men and women in every part of the world
now face a new environment of uncertainty. In that
context, traditional notions of security  which were
formulated against the backdrop of threats from State
actors  have been overtaken. A safer world requires
that we build consensus and that we develop new
approaches that both take into account the multi-
dimensional nature of threats and place people at the
centre of their concerns.
In such a security scenario it is urgent that we
promote a comprehensive focus at the global level to
deal with new threats and to build a world free of fear
and poverty. The concept of human security has
emerged from just that sort of change. We would like
people to be at the centre of every multilateral
deliberation. That was the priority that Chile put forth a
decade ago with its initiative to hold a summit on
social development. It is that same concern that has led
to our participation in the Human Security Network, of
which Chile has been the coordinator this year.
Human security is linked to the maintenance of
international peace and security, public order and the
social environment. Those elements should be
promoted through innovative and effective strategies.
Chile's candidacy for a seat on the Security
Council for the period 2003-2004  which has the
support of the Group of Latin American and the
Caribbean States, for which we once again express our
appreciation  seeks to strengthen the multilateral
approach to crises that threaten international peace and
security, as well as to place human security at the
centre of the concerns of that main body of the United
Nations.
Respect for human rights is a fundamental
requirement in the search for a world that is free from
fear, more secure and full of hope. Human rights are a
source of political and social legitimacy in the
contemporary international system and provide
guidelines for its actions. As a member of the
34

Commission on Human Rights, our country will
participate in initiatives to strengthen the fundamental
and unique role of that body. Similarly, democracy too
is a universal value, one which is expressed mainly
through free elections and change in governance.
Strengthening democracy requires integrity,
transparency and good governance. That is the proper
way to create a democratic environment in which a
society can be better integrated, protected and imbued
with meaning.
My country constructively supports and promotes
the spread of the values of democracy and democratic
thinking throughout the world. In our region,
democracy is a fundamental value. The adoption of the
Inter-American Democratic Charter represents a step
forward in the continuing effort to further refine and
strengthen democracy. In that vein, we welcome the
establishment of the Community of Democracies as a
concerted attempt to make universal the values inherent
in democracy.
The cultural dimension, as an expression of a
modern vision, must be part of our efforts to build a
safer world. Intercultural dialogue and respect for
diversity are fundamental elements of civilized
relations between nations. We believe that intercultural
dialogue should contribute to strengthening the
universal values of human dignity.
International terrorism is a negation of the values
that make possible civilized coexistence, in which there
must be room for the diversity of the world. Terrorism
is the greatest risk facing the global community in
building a safer world. Political commitment is
therefore needed to agree on effective efforts to
eradicate terrorism within the framework of
international law. Intercultural dialogue is essential to
develop a global strategy to combat terrorism. The
United Nations plays an essential role as the leading
organization in the fight against terrorism. The work of
the Security Council and of its Counter-Terrorism
Committee, established pursuant to Council resolution
1373 (2001), and the development of a general
convention on international terrorism are efforts that
we support and to which we will continue to
contribute. A convention on terrorism has been adopted
at the regional level, and we will continue to intensify
our cooperation through the Inter-American Committee
on Terrorism and the Common Market of the South.
The risks and threats to global security, which are
beyond the effective control of States, highlight the
nature of globalization in our world today. Indeed, the
characteristics of globalization can be seen in such
phenomena as the globalization of markets, the
intensification of social relations and the broadening of
cultural exchanges and communications. At the same
time, however, risks have also become global and the
imbalances resulting from the unequal distribution of
wealth have increased, thereby accentuating the trend
towards the marginalization and exclusion of
communities, countries and regions.
We believe in the benefits of economic and
political globalization. But we also believe that
globalization requires good governance and a
systematic and shared effort by the international
community to establish the rules of the new
international system. We believe that there should be
greater participation in this effort, as well as ongoing
consultations with our citizens and our civil societies.
The United Nation system is an indispensable forum
for addressing these challenges.
Just as we believe that the process of
globalization in which we are now engaged requires
clear rules in order for its benefits to reach all of
mankind, we also believe that the economic growth and
prosperity of countries require freedom, democracy and
security in this global world. Chile had adopted a
model that assigns to the market and to the private
sector a key role in its development plans, within a
framework of democracy and solidarity. We are
convinced that active participation in international
trade is a positive way of achieving growth, increasing
employment, being innovative in the area of
technology and being effective in the allocation of
resources.
Based on our commitment to development with
equity, we have opened up our economy, our
communications and our culture; and we are satisfied
at having done so. We believe, based on our
experience, that globalization can be a source of
opportunity for all nations, particularly for small and
remote countries such as ours, which are far from the
major consumer centres and international flows.
In order for the efforts of nations such as ours to
be rewarded, however, it is essential for international
trade to be fair, to have clear-cut, established rules, and
to avoid measures that distort it. Subsidies and lax
35

implementation of anti-dumping measures are
obstacles to the achievement of that goal. In this
connection, I wish to place special emphasis on the
urgent need for the liberalization of the trade in
agricultural products. Many developing countries,
including my own, are highly competitive in this
sector, but the benefits are lost because of
protectionism in the developed countries.
We argued forcefully in Doha and Monterrey that
in order for there to be growth, there must be access to
markets. As President Ricardo Lagos stated in
Monterrey, If trade barriers were eliminated, the
developing countries would have the potential to earn
$130 billion, more than twice the $50 billion that we
proposed as a target for the Millennium Summit'.
We urge the United Nations to continue its efforts
to promote the integrated activities of the various
multilateral political, economic and financial agencies
that are helping to achieve a world of greater
development, equity and security.
As the multilateral system continues to develop
culturally, socially and politically, Chile will continue
to promote the mainstreaming of the gender
perspective into the various activities of the
international system and its subsystems. We also
support the creation of opportunities for participation
by civil society organizations.
The more developed, more equitable and safer
world to which we aspire also requires us to establish
international standards for the protection of the rights
of vulnerable groups. Chile will continue to encourage
the conclusion of agreements that contribute to the
formulation and improvement of public policies in this
field. I would like to underscore our political
commitment to achieving a comprehensive convention
that protects and promotes the rights and dignity of
people with disabilities. Integration, recognition of the
dignity of people and equality of opportunity for all are
the basic precepts of a more secure society.
We are convinced that we need to commit
ourselves as an international community to more active
policies for the protection of the environment. Few
issues on the international agenda affect us all equally
as much as this one and, paradoxically, few generate as
many disputes. The Johannesburg Summit confirmed
my belief that we must work towards consensus on
basic concepts.
The right to live in a socially acceptable
environment is an ethical imperative of the present day.
We must therefore give priority to a global
environmental agenda that focuses on improving legal
norms relating to, and providing better protection for,
the oceans, the climate, the atmosphere and the ozone
layer.
Given the direct impact that this issue has on
development, I wish to note that, in December 2003, at
ConcepciÛn, Chile, the World Biotechnology Forum
will take place under the sponsorship of the United
Nations Industrial Development Organization and the
Government of Chile.
With regard to the political dimension, which
emphasizes security, human rights, democracy and the
fight against terrorism, I would like to refer to certain
areas of the world that are of greatest concern to the
international community. Latin America is a region in
which democracy is the norm, even though in some
cases it is fragile. The nations of our continent have
learned how difficult it is to build and sustain
democratic institutions based on universal principles
and values. We have a number of regional and
subregional mechanisms that compel us to fulfil this
obligation. The Rio Group is without doubt the most
important of these.
The world is aware of the current economic crisis
in our region. This is a paradoxical situation. Latin
America responded properly to the challenge and
adopted many of the structural economic reforms that
were asked of it, which led to a degree of liberalization
without precedent in its history. The developed world,
however, is sending contradictory signals that test the
faith of those of us who view globalization and the
system of free trade as the basis for the development of
our peoples. Those of us who believe that globalization
must be based on the principles of competitiveness
without exclusion thus see, on a regular basis,
restrictions placed on our products; these are very
difficult to explain. This casts doubt on the existence of
a desire to move towards a globalization without
compartmentalization.
Because of its gravity, I must refer to a conflict
that affects the entire international community. Chile
wishes to express its deep concern at the grave
situation in the Middle East in the light of the impasse
in the peace negotiations aimed at finding a solution to
the crisis between Palestinians and Israelis. The
36

continuing escalation of the violence that began in the
region on 28 September 2000 continues to claim many
victims and to cause heavy material damage, and
threatens to spread throughout the region, thereby
posing a serious danger to international peace and
security.
The Government of Chile reiterates the need for
the strict implementation of the relevant resolutions of
the Security Council and recourse to constructive
negotiation, with a view to achieving a just,
comprehensive and lasting peace that make possible
the creation of a viable Palestinian State and
coexistence with the State of Israel within secure and
internationally recognized borders. A world in which
Palestinians and Israelis can live together will be a
more secure world.
We share the international sense of urgency that
the Government of Iraq must abide by the provisions of
Security Council resolutions in the interest of regional
and global security. We are convinced that in this
globalized world it is essential for us to act in
accordance with the principles and values promoted by
the United Nations.
In Africa we now see signs of hope. Chile wishes
to express its firm support for the African continent in
its decision to create modern regional instruments, such
as the African Union and the New Partnership for
Africa's Development. We hope that these initiatives,
to which Africans themselves have referred to as the
African renaissance, will generate in the international
community a response commensurate with those
efforts. This is a new challenge for the twenty-first
century, and the United Nations must be involved.
Chile, a small nation that looks out at the world
from the South, has developed important links of
international solidarity in the most diverse
directions  in Latin America as part of the inter-
American system; in its association with the European
Union; and as a member of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation organization. In opting for open
multilateralism, we are facing today's challenge of
working towards a more secure world  a world free
from fear and poverty. We will encounter obstacles
which we must confront with shared political resolve.
This is the responsibility of all the countries
represented here today in the General Assembly.
Let us advance towards global human security.
Let us combat terrorism, poverty and misery in the
search for a more democratic and more tolerant society.
In this challenge, Chile is convinced that
multilateralism can and must contribute to overcoming
the insecurity currently prevailing in the world. The
United Nations offers such an opportunity to the
international community. It is a forum that can and
must seek consensual solutions to the inescapable
problems now plaguing humankind.







===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
﻿I congratulate Mr. Hunte on his election as
President of this Assembly. As the Foreign Minister of
St. Lucia, a member of the Latin American and
Caribbean community, he can be especially assured of
the full cooperation of the delegation of Chile.
The events of 11 September 2001, the crisis in
Iraq, the conflict in the Middle East and the attack on
the United Nations in Baghdad all pose enormous
challenges for the international community. Tensions
31

have arisen over the way in which we have responded
to some of these crises, but opportunities have also
been created for joint action in new areas. We must
confront these challenges with seriousness of purpose
and a collective approach.
The Secretary-General has expressed his concern
at the differing perceptions of the new and old threats
and the urgent need to develop a programme of
security aimed at building a common destiny. The
United Nations will be what its Member States wish it
to be. The success of the Organization will be the
success of its Members and its failure will be the
responsibility of none other than its Member States.
The United Nations can and must play a central role in
building a common destiny based on universally shared
principles and values. The renewal of the United
Nations is therefore an urgent task that must be
approached from a lofty political and ethical
perspective and not from the bureaucratic standpoint
that has led to stagnation, empty rhetoric and
frustration of the desire for change.
According to our Charter, faith in human rights is
a core value of every society and culture. It is essential
for us vigorously to promote its universality. We note
with concern how the progress made by mankind in
promoting these values is accompanied by reversals
that frustrate the sense of ethics that we wish to impart
to the global community.
The work of the United Nations must continue to
be a guarantee for the promotion and protection of
human rights and for the strengthening of a culture that
guides the conscience of each individual, each people
and each nation. Democracy is consistent with the
purposes and principles of this Organization.
In our region, we have made progress towards the
inculcation of these values. The historic Santiago
Commitment to Democracy of 1991 culminated in the
adoption of the Inter-American Democratic Charter and
has been complemented by the Declaration of Santiago
on Democracy and Public Trust: A New Commitment
to Good Governance for the Americas, which was
adopted at the thirty-third General Assembly of the
Organization of American States, held in Chile in June
this year. In that instrument, we reaffirmed the vital
role of multilateral cooperation in promoting
democratic governance. This effort is an example of
how international cooperation can help to strengthen
the universal value of democracy.
Chile’s commitment to democracy goes beyond
our region. We and other countries are part of the
Community of Democracies, an initiative aimed at
promoting and strengthening this system of coexistence
throughout the world. We hope to work in the United
Nations in pursuit of these objectives.
International peace and security continue to be
key concerns of our Organization. The sacrifice of the
Brazilian and Latin American Sergio Vieira de Mello,
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in
Baghdad, and of his colleagues reaffirms our
commitment to working on behalf of peace.
The United Nations must play a more substantive
role in the future of Iraq. We must work to ensure the
rapid restoration of sovereignty to the Iraqi people so
that they can freely build their future. Chile stands
ready to continue to work in the Security Council with
an approach that will permit progress to be made
towards the consensus that is needed to improve the
conditions of security and to establish a clear timetable
for political transition in that country.
Security must guarantee people a life free from
threats. Human security thus emerges as a distinctive
feature and a prerequisite for a world without fear. We
share the ideas of the Secretary-General for the
elaboration of a programme of common security that
will permit us to overcome the differences that have
arisen in dealing with the increasing fears of our global
community.
Globalization has created new opportunities for the
peoples of the world, but it has also created imbalances as
a result of unequal access to the advantages that it offers.
The equity perspective must therefore be a key
component of this programme of security.
Development in the globalized world can no longer be
sustained only in terms of technological innovation and
economic growth. Progress must be aimed at ensuring
that technological development is placed at the service
of integration and collective prosperity.
In this spirit, we look forward to broad
participation in the Global Biotechnology Forum, to be
held in the Chilean city of Concepci n in March 2004,
and to an outcome that will help to further strengthen
international cooperation in one of the most dynamic
fields of science and technology.
Our political and economic multilateral institutions
were created in a different historical period. We must now
32

demonstrate our capacity to adapt them to better respond
to the challenges of the twenty-first century. Our main
concern today must be how to overcome our immobility
and embark upon a process of renewal. The method used
thus far has not yielded the desired results. It is therefore
necessary to explore new alternatives.
We warmly welcome the initiative of the
Secretary-General to establish a group of eminent
personalities to elaborate a proposal for submission to
the Organization. It is essential to address the
weaknesses of the General Assembly, the Security
Council and the Economic and Social Council. We
must also reflect on what new functions could be
entrusted to the Trusteeship Council. We must
strengthen the dialogue between these organs and
extend it to other international organizations, including
the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade
Organization and regional organizations. In order to go
forward in this process of renewal, we must be able to
utilize the full potential of the Charter, which has not
been fully exploited.
The Security Council has recently gone through a
critical period. We have witnessed the difficulty it has
had in discharging the responsibilities entrusted by the
Charter to this vital organ for the maintenance of
international peace and security. We are in favour of its
revitalization, in order that an appropriate balance can
be achieved between representativity and effectiveness.
Reform must give consideration to the addition of
new members, both permanent and non-permanent, and
include a review of the veto. This process can be
complemented by mechanisms that will allow, within
the framework of the Charter, more active participation
by countries that are not members of the Council.
It is also necessary more effectively to involve the
principal organs in the consideration of issues affecting
international peace and security. This must be done in a
coordinated manner through the effective application of
the Charter, as provided for in Article 15 thereof.
It is necessary, too, more actively to involve
regional organizations and arrangements in efforts to
maintain peace and security by applying Chapter VIII
of the Charter. The region of the Americas has an
institutional structure and various coordination
mechanisms that can be used to contribute to the
fulfilment of the purposes of the United Nations. The
experience of the Organization of American States is
pertinent in this regard.
The General Assembly must undertake a process
of revitalization in order to be able to play its role
effectively as the principal deliberative, normative and
representative organ of the United Nations.
The Assembly has a multiplicity of items on its
agenda and has adopted many resolutions, most of
which remain unimplemented, thereby affecting the
effectiveness and credibility of the system as a whole.
We must have the political will to implement our
decisions. In short, we must strengthen the capacity of
the Assembly to assume political leadership. We must
also promote the establishment of regional agendas that
facilitate agreements and global consensus.
The United Nations must play a key role in the
promotion of equitable development by increasing the
Organization’s capacity to influence the design and
implementation of national and international public
policies in the economic and social spheres.
The process of revitalization of the Economic and
Social Council must be aimed at repositioning that
organ. This will require the streamlining of its agenda,
methods of work and membership, and the
strengthening of its relationship with the Security
Council, as provided for in Article 65 of the Charter,
through its assumption of a role in the prevention and
containment of threats originating in social problems.
We must seek to ensure that the search for
consensus does not prevent this forum from reaching
the necessary substantive agreements required for the
achievement of the purposes and principles of the
United Nations.
Chile, from the southern part of the world, will
continue to shoulder its responsibility to make a
contribution to the international community.
The United Nations is a unique and indispensable
forum for building a world of peace and development
for all. Its core values must inspire efforts for a renewal
that will permit the Organization, in the building of our
common destiny, to rise to the challenges of the
century upon which we have just embarked.







===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
I
wish to express our satisfaction at seeing Mr. Ping
preside over this fifty-ninth session of the General
Assembly and we wish him a successful presidency.
24

Ever since the signing of the Charter of San
Francisco, and before that during the time of the
League of Nations, Chile has been firmly committed to
the international community, to multilateral
cooperation and to the best values of peace, security,
development and human rights which this Organization
represents. Chile has been an active participant in the
international system because we believe that
governance at the global level is the logical extension
of the institutional order that each State has achieved
and can demonstrate in this global forum.
While in the last century our main task was to
establish rules of coexistence and conduct for the
international community, today, faced with the
challenges of the twenty-first century, that task, in our
opinion, has become more urgent and ineluctable.
What we have before us is a panorama of positive
opportunities, on the one hand, and of complex threats,
on the other.
For countries such as ours, integration into the
global community creates opportunities which a closed
society would preclude. We see integration into the
global community as providing possibilities for growth
and for creating space for our efforts, and we feel that
this is the inescapable destiny of all of us. Countries
need freedom, peace, security and respect for
international law; based on scrupulous respect for
treaties, we need to work towards the building of a
shared global order.
Stability can be achieved only through
governance under which all interests are represented.
Thus, voices are being raised in various countries in
order to state the obvious: no one can shape the world
that is emerging except through agreements and
negotiations. The complexity of the world emerging
before our eyes is too great to be handled in a
centralized or unipolar manner.
Of course, little will be achieved if, at the same
time, each country does not put its own house in order.
Without justice, solidarity and respect for human
rights, there can be no stable or genuinely beneficial
governance in our own societies in the medium term. I
therefore believe that it is the responsibility of each of
our societies to apply the principles of the United
Nations and to make them realities. We have an ethical
duty to be efficient and effective in the attainment of
those goals and ideals.
It is clear, however, that globalization also
includes negative aspects that can affect us all. Today,
we are afflicted by such public evils as terrorism and
organized crime; illicit trafficking in persons, arms and
drugs; and the money-laundering associated with those
activities.
Nothing is more counter to our principles than
terrorism, a virtual dark force of globalization.
Accordingly, here in the United Nations, Chile has
contributed through its efforts in chairing both the
Al Qaeda/Taliban Security Council sanctions
Committee and the Counter-Terrorism Committee, key
instruments of the international community for waging
this combat. Globalization also has negative spill-over
effects on the environment and exacerbates the
marginalization of millions of people in societies or
even continents who are unable to achieve integration
into the global economy and global society.
Faced with that reality of light and shadow,
countries like Chile have a stake in helping to improve
the positive aspects of globalization and to eliminate
its negative aspects. But how do we turn those aims
into reality? In our view, the best way to guide the
agenda of globalization is through multilateralism. It is
in the strengthening of multilateralism that each
country has a stake and a national task to fulfil.
As a non-permanent member of the Security
Council, Chile has assumed its responsibility to the
global community and has sought to act consistently
with our values and convictions. Last year, with regard
to Iraq, we said that only the United Nations could give
the necessary legitimacy for the use of force and for
addressing in an effective and unified manner the
threats to peace arising from that country. For that
reason, and in order to be consistent with our
commitment to multilateralism, we said yes to the
United Nations when the Security Council requested
the presence of a multinational interim force in Haiti.
We reacted in solidarity by dispatching to Haiti, in less
than 72 hours, a military force and humanitarian
assistance.
We have shown that our region is capable of
assuming the responsibilities required to ensure
international peace and security. Not since the period
of our national independence have forces from
different Latin American countries acted collectively
and independently of the great Powers in a mission to
maintain peace in one of our countries. Today in Haiti,
25

the troops of a number of Latin American countries,
supplemented by the joint Spanish/Moroccan force, are
under the command of a Brazilian general and the
representative of the Secretary-General is a Chilean.
If we wish to strengthen multilateralism, reform
of the United Nations is becoming increasingly
necessary. Its ideals and founding purposes remain
valid, but, as a number of speakers have noted here, the
power structure upon which the Organization was built
at its inception corresponds to a world that is very
different from todayís world. Not only do we need to
expand the Security Council to make it more
democratic; comprehensive reform of the Organization
is also needed. In addition, the United Nations needs
specialization, not a proliferation of similar
institutions. It needs greater accountability and a more
transparent system of recruitment. It needs to derive
the maximum benefit from every last cent that it
spends. Many of our States are making those or similar
changes in their own public systems. The United
Nations can be better than we can in that area. It is a
challenge for the Organization and for each of our
States.
I had the opportunity to exchange ideas with
some members of the High-Level Panel on Threats,
Challenges and Change. That is why I am convinced
that the Panel will offer to the Secretary-General
recommendations aimed at strengthening two key
areas: first, generate a political commitment that
reaffirms the values of the Charter of the United
Nations; and, secondly, strengthen the system so that it
can face the challenges and opportunities of a world
that is more global than it was 60 years ago.
The world requires a larger and better United
Nations. We have unacceptable humanitarian crises,
such as that in Darfur, Sudan; a steady deterioration in
the outlook for peace in the Middle East; and terrorist
attacks, such as those in Beslan, Russia, and in front of
the Australian Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia.
In the Security Council, Chile supported the
transfer of national sovereignty to the people of Iraq,
and we hope to see the elections scheduled for next
January. In the case of Afghanistan, United Nations
electoral assistance has been essential in the
preparations for the elections scheduled for the
beginning of October.
The world to which we aspire will be better and
reflect greater solidarity with the effective participation
of citizens. In that spirit, we will host in Chile next
year the Third Ministerial Conference of the
Community of Democracies.
Likewise, we are convinced that globalization
will be better only if civil society is recognized as one
of its principal actors. That consideration has been a
decisive factor in the Action against Hunger and
Poverty, which we ó together with the leaders of
Brazil, France and Spain and the Secretary-General ó
have promoted to effectively contribute to the
attainment of the Millennium Goals.
Yesterday's meeting presented us with a great
challenge: have specific answers within 12 months,
before the next General Assembly session. Some of the
actions proposed depend on governmental decisions;
others are the responsibility of multilateral
organizations and civil society ó particularly non-
governmental organizations, the business community,
trade unions and universities. We say clearly: it is time
to recognize that, in practical terms, the exclusive
monopoly of States or Governments in the international
sphere has ended; everyone is called upon to
participate.
The question is whether reform is possible. Why
would the powerful give up some of their power? Our
modest experience has shown us that one can negotiate
free trade, for example, with the worldís most
industrialized countries and reach agreements
beneficial to both sides. Today, trade agreements cover
two thirds of our exports, more than half of which are
already free from tariffs. That has not been a simple
matter; it requires time, preparation and patience. And
why not say this? It involves a degree of conflict with
the more developed countries. Trade agreements, in
and of themselves, do not provide solutions for a set of
issues that can be resolved only at the multilateral
level.
That is why we need to successfully conclude the
Doha round, because there, decisive issues are at stake
that we have not been able to resolve through bilateral
negotiation. There we must resolve the issue of anti-
dumping, the situation of subsidized agricultural and
textile products, complex issues such as those related
to intellectual property, and the question of how to deal
with pandemics by using generic or low-cost drugs.
Those issues are multilateral in nature. We must
therefore deal with them multilaterally, and in doing so
26

we must be strong - we, the countries that understand
that we are going to define more just trade rules.
It is in that area that common sense is of much
more help than dogmatism. One cannot ask others to
give up their fundamental interests, but neither can
anyone hope complacently for unfair results. That is
why integration into the global society is a stairway
with many steps. What is important is not to lose a
sense of progress ó progress towards trade that is free,
but fair; towards capital flows that are free, not
predatory; towards cultural expansion, not destruction
of what is local: our roots, what we are, our identities;
towards an exchange of ideas, not lockstep thinking ó
in short, towards pluralism, so that we all can be better.
I have tried to share with the Assembly the vision
and the responsibilities of a country of the South ó an
open country that is interdependent with the rest of the
world. Our modest experience has shown us that it is
imperative to strengthen multilateralism as the only
approach with the legitimacy necessary to ensure
inclusive globalization that reflects solidarity - as has
been said here, globalization with a human face.
In conclusion, todayís world requires a larger, not
a smaller, United Nations and more, not less,
multilateralism. Our experience tells us that we can
make a reality of our shared dream - the dream that
was dreamt 60 years ago in San Francisco, but that
now obliges us to meet the challenges of the twenty-
first century that is beginning.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
I am
pleased to commend the President, and the other
29

members of the Bureau on their election. We assure
them of our full willingness to cooperate in the tasks
facing us.
We arrived at this session of the General
Assembly with the same conviction and resolve that we
had 60 years ago. We still believe that this is the place
where we can collectively promote human rights,
development, solidarity and peace. The political
agreement reached last week, although it did not meet
all our expectations, enables us to embark on the path
towards comprehensive and balanced renewal of the
United Nations system. We have the necessary
mandates to begin renewal during this session. That
must be possible, because our interest is the interest of
humanity.
We have here an exceptional opportunity to
strengthen multilateralism and to build it within the
genuine framework of international coexistence.
Multilateralism is the very cornerstone of our foreign
policy. In the multilateral system, negotiation and
consensus are the tools to create international regimes
that promote globalization in a legitimate and effective
manner. The United Nations is a unique forum in that
process, and we must strengthen it in order to achieve
those goals. Hence, the urgent need to implement
United Nations reform.
We believe that multilateralism can furnish us
both with more and better instruments to allow every
country, large or small, to participate in the elaboration
of rules and in the allocation of the benefits of
globalization. We are convinced that globalization is
more of an opportunity than a threat. For that reason
we must assure the management of globalization,
which can be achieved only through institutions that
conform to clear, stable and equitable rules of the game
within the context of international law. Economic
forces do not act in a political vacuum, which is why
we need both a new architecture and new working
methods in the United Nations system.
It is in that spirit that Chile has taken an active
part in various meetings concerned with the
revitalization of the United Nations, promoting
comprehensive reform in the major areas of
development, security, democracy and human rights. I
would like to touch briefly on each of those areas.
Protection of human rights is, in our opinion, the
central issue of globalization and a continuing
preoccupation in the recent history of Chile and Latin
America. That history has been written by the citizens
and their struggles to restore respect for the dignity and
rights of the individual.
Indeed, human rights are a legitimate concern of
the international community. Examination of human
rights issues by the United Nations does not constitute
undue interference. On the contrary, it is the exercise
of a shared responsibility, from a standpoint of
cooperation and not of confrontation. When States are
unable or unwilling to act, the Organization cannot
remain indifferent in the face of genocide, ethnic
cleansing, war crimes and crimes against humanity.
The responsibility to protect is an international moral
obligation that we cannot shirk.
For Chile, the decision to establish the Human
Rights Council is a significant step towards universal
protection of human rights. We hope that before the
end of the session, its characteristics, including its
status as a permanent organ, will have been defined.
The election of its members by a two-thirds majority of
the Assembly, as we propose, will strengthen that
organ’s legitimacy.
Comprehensive reporting by the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner would also
enhance the credibility of the multilateral human rights
system. In order to avoid the politicization and
selectivity that are harming United Nations human
rights work, a peer review system would promote
greater cooperation, with all countries subject to
objective evaluations — particularly for those that
aspire to seats on the Human Rights Council.
Democratic values are cross-cutting: they apply
to the citizens who participate in the life of a
community, they underlie the organization of
government and public institutions, and they are also
the linchpin of international coexistence. Democratic
values are a priority on the multilateral agenda and
should be reflected in the active commitment of
Member States to promote and defend democracy. It
was that interest that has motivated Chile’s efforts
within the Community of Democracies.
While some peoples and regions are part of
global society and participate in decision-making and
in the distribution of global output, others are
marginalized and lack access to those benefits. That
situation raises important questions about democratic
participation. It is therefore essential, if we wish to
consolidate democracy in the world, to move
30

decisively to eliminate inequality and to abolish
exclusion. A better quality of democracy is linked to
social integration and poverty relief.
In that connection, the Millennium Development
Goals represent a global commitment to fundamental
rights, with social underpinnings, that must be
achieved in order to effectively consolidate democracy
and uproot moral indifference towards the unprotected
of the world.
The deepening of democracy must aim at
institutional capacity-building in order to meet the
demands of society in an effective and transparent
manner. We have been working along those lines in the
Organization of American States, in particular through
the Inter-American Democratic Charter, seeking
formulas and instruments to improve democratic
governance. Chile believes that that is an area in which
there should be close cooperation between the United
Nations and regional organizations.
The reaffirmation of democracy as a universal
value by heads of State and Government in the
outcome document represents concrete progress in the
consolidation of a new international regime for the
promotion and protection of democracy and the rule of
law.
The creation of the United Nations Democracy
Fund gives us a new forum for cooperation to help
strengthen and consolidate democracy around the
world. In April, 108 countries from all continents
agreed on the “Santiago commitment: Cooperating for
Democracy”, which contains guidelines for action.
We have fully endorsed the concept of
multidimensional security in order to meet old and new
threats. Indeed, the incorporation of the concept of
human security at the United Nations is an important
contribution to the process of renewal. The definition
to be formulated by the General Assembly should
incorporate the progress achieved by the Human
Security Network, in which Chile has actively
participated from the outset.
We were greatly discouraged that no agreement
was reached to include the topic of disarmament and
non-proliferation in the reform process. That is a topic
that must not be dropped from the United Nations
agenda. We therefore supported the Norwegian
initiative, which succeeded in bridging the gap
between opposing positions. Unfortunately, despite
receiving the support of nearly 80 countries, the
initiative did not find a place in the outcome document.
We will continue to work for its adoption.
In addition, we are convinced that terrorism must
be tackled through a global and sustained strategy, with
the cooperation of all States and international and
regional organizations, in accordance with the Charter
of the United Nations and international law and with
full respect for human rights. We must therefore
channel our strong condemnation of terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations into the political will to
conclude an international convention against terrorism
before the end of the session.
The decision to establish a Peacebuilding
Commission is one of the major successes of the
reform agenda, as it will enable the Organization to
provide an institutional and integrated response in
post-conflict situations. United Nations activities
should not cease as soon as a crisis ends but — to build
a durable peace — should continue until institutions
are rebuilt and peaceful coexistence is restored.
As Latin Americans, and aware of our global
responsibilities, we are actively participating in the
United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. We are
convinced that that joint commitment, which is
strongly regional in nature in Latin America and the
Caribbean, has been helpful in enabling Haiti to
recover its ability to control its own destiny. This will
undoubtedly require the continuing presence of the
international community. The elections are an
important step, which Haiti should take on schedule.
Voting, however, is only the basis for self-
determination: we must continue helping to create the
prerequisites for a worthier future for the Haitian
people. Moreover, Haiti could be the first trial run for
the Peacebuilding Commission.
Overcoming poverty, hunger and social inequality
is the great challenge facing our peoples today.
Economic development with equity is essential in order
to achieve a world truly at peace and to guarantee
individual rights and stable democracies.
A few days ago, heads of State or Government
reviewed the implementation of the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs), adopted in 2000. Our
country met over one third of the Goals and hope to
achieve them all by 2015.
31

In order to achieve economic development with
equity, each country has a responsibility to be assumed
domestically and tasks to be performed internationally.
In this connection, it is essential to work to implement
the Monterrey Consensus on financing for
development, so that in its domestic efforts each
country can enjoy the benefits of an international
economic environment facilitating poverty relief and
permitting sustained development.
We were among the sponsors of the Action
against Hunger and Poverty, which seeks to devise
innovative financing arrangements to combat this
problem within the framework of the international
community’s endeavours to attain the Millennium
Development Goals. We need responses now, and the
Action is a definite option recognized in the Summit
Outcome.
Chile considers it essential to bolster overall
efforts to liberalize international trade for the exports
of developing countries and to achieve stable financial
flows to their economies. We urge the speedy
conclusion of the Doha round, to which we are
committed, and a remodelling of the international
financial architecture to promote international
conditions favourable to the sustained growth of the
developing countries and to the elimination of poverty.
Development, security and human rights for all are
three interdependent concepts that dominate our
existence as societies and that must be adequately
reflected in a comprehensive reform process. We have
embarked on the decisive stage of the road to renewal;
we are all responsible for reaching the end.
We must make progress towards consensus on
Security Council reform so that that organ can more
democratically represent the new realities of the
twenty-first century.
It is also essential to renew the Secretariat’s
managerial capacity to administer effective and
responsibly the resources that we all contribute in order
to achieve the purposes of the United Nations. Over
and above the legitimate differences that are part of the
richness of our diversity, we must build universal
agreements reflecting common concerns to ensure the
dignity of peoples and the right to live in a more secure
world.
Let me conclude by saying that this session of the
General Assembly is a historic opportunity to promote
change. If we do not implement the agreements
achieved, hiding behind national interests or narrow
cultural visions, we shall be failing to respond to the
feelings and expectations of millions of human beings
who aspire to understanding among civilizations, a
global alliance for development and a reaffirmation of
the underlying values of the United Nations. Let us not
miss this opportunity. If we do not act collectively
today, tomorrow may be too late.

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
I 
come before the General Assembly as the first woman 
to be elected President of Chile, a country that has 
learned from its history. 
 We Chileans are living through difficult times; 
the Assembly knows this. The learning curve was 
difficult but productive. From pain hope was born. 
Major dissent gave way to major consensus. I come 
from a country where today the rule of law prevails, 
where the rights of persons are respected and 
promoted. It is a democracy that is experiencing 
economic growth, which in the past 16 years has 
helped millions of Chileans out of poverty. Chile 
stands with its region and looks at the world. My 
presence here today is a symbol of that Chile, a Chile 
that is unafraid to look back at the past and is united in 
building its own future. We can say with pride that 
today Chile is more free and more fair. As a society we 
have granted every citizen the basic dignity and respect 
that he or she deserves. 
 The world looks different from the far distant 
south, and that is the viewpoint my country wishes to 
bring here, a viewpoint that is optimistic about the 
opportunities of globalization but cautious about its 
risks. We can and must steer the course of the planet. 
Humans cannot and must not avoid being the 
instruments of their own advancement. 
 We wish to reaffirm our commitment to 
international law and institutions. Only through them 
shall we be able to build the fairer and more integrated 
world of which we dream, where large and small 
coexist in peace and harmony. The United Nations is a 
special instrument in this construction. A year ago we 
agreed on a programme for the reform of the 
Organization based on development, security and 
human rights. This has been called the millennium of 
hope. Let us make that hope a reality and do so from 
here, from this forum. 
  
 
06-52879 6 
 
 Development is a responsibility shared by all 
members of the international community, including the 
developed countries. Its attainment requires 
imagination and the political will to consolidate the 
world alliance endorsed by the Millennium 
Declaration. All this presupposes a more open, 
transparent and fair commercial and financial system. 
To our developed friends I say “Opening your markets 
to products from the south is a requirement of justice.” 
That will represent a huge step forward towards the 
elimination of poverty. Let us therefore redouble our 
efforts to bring the Doha Round to a successful 
conclusion and make progress in integration processes 
at the regional level. 
 As an early supporter of the idea of President 
Lula of Brazil, Chile joined other countries in the 
initiative Action against Hunger and Poverty. We have 
introduced a solidarity tax of $2 on international airline 
tickets, and the funds produced will finance the 
International Drug Purchase Facility (UNITAID) 
project, which will provide millions of quality drugs to 
people in developing countries suffering from malaria, 
tuberculosis and AIDS. 
 The most serious failure of the 2005 Summit was 
its silence on the multilateral disarmament agenda. 
Chile bases its multilateral foreign policy on the 
principle that collective security is indivisible. We all 
share a responsibility to preserve peace and 
international security. That is why Chile has joined in 
efforts to revitalize the disarmament agenda and move 
towards prohibition of the use of fissile material for 
military purposes. 
 The security of States is linked to the security of 
the human beings that make up those States, because it 
allows the exercise of freedom. Terrorism negates these 
freedoms and runs counter to the values that we share. 
Accordingly, we support the advance of United Nations 
reform in the area of counter-terrorism. Terrorism must 
be combated within democracy. Whenever we restrict 
constitutional guarantees and yield to the temptation to 
employ illegal methods to fight terrorism we are 
handing a victory to its proponents, because it is only 
then that they succeed in threatening the spirit of our 
democracy. 
 In a spirit of solidarity we are participating 
actively in the United Nations Stabilization Mission in 
Haiti (MINUSTAH). Chile will continue to support the 
Haitian people, and I appeal from this rostrum to all 
donor countries to provide the economic and financial 
assistance already pledged. 
 The creation of the Peacebuilding Commission 
was undoubtedly one of the most outstanding 
achievements of the 2005 Summit. Chile has joined 
enthusiastically in the work of the Commission and 
will endeavour to ensure that its results live up to the 
hopes placed in it by nations. 
 My country deplores the serious crisis affecting 
the Middle East and strongly condemns any armed 
action targeting innocent civilians. Self-defence may 
be exercised only within the framework of 
proportionality and containment outlined in 
international humanitarian law. The delay in the 
Security Council’s call for a ceasefire in Lebanon was 
also inconsistent with the letter and spirit of the 
Charter. The credibility of the Organization requires 
that all stakeholders do their duty without 
discrimination and without subordinating collective 
security to their individual interests. 
 Chile supports the deployment of the United 
Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) with its 
expanded mandate, and will continue to respond to the 
appeal to meet urgent humanitarian needs in Lebanon 
and Palestine. We urge full implementation of Security 
Council resolution 1701 (2006), which calls on the 
international community to cooperate in a full 
cessation of hostilities in the Middle East, the 
restoration of Lebanon’s sovereignty over its territory 
and the guaranteeing of Israel’s security. 
 The promotion and defence of human rights and 
democracy is the cornerstone of Chile’s foreign policy. 
As I said at the outset, we have learned a great deal 
from our own history. Exactly 30 years ago the General 
Assembly received terrible news: Orlando Letelier, the 
former Foreign Minister and Defence Minister of 
President Allende, had been brutally murdered on the 
street in Washington D.C. Representatives were 
horrified by that crime and today I remember with 
emotion how we felt. I mention that to illustrate how 
we have learned the lessons of the past. Nothing 
justifies the violation of human rights. Chile rejects 
impunity. 
 I assure all members of our commitment and 
enthusiasm to participate in initiatives designed to 
promote human rights and democracy. We therefore 
welcome the launching of the United Nations 
Democracy Fund and the creation of the Human Rights 
 
 
7 06-52879 
 
Council. We very much value the Council’s adoption of 
the International Convention for the Protection of All 
Persons from Enforced Disappearance. 
 The promotion of human rights does not 
contradict the principle of non-intervention in the 
internal affairs of States. Chile has been, and will 
remain, in the front line in the defence of human rights. 
 The General Assembly must continue United 
Nations reform. It must revitalize itself, reform and 
expand the Security Council, reform the Economic and 
Social Council and modernize the management of the 
Secretariat and the administrative procedures of the 
Organization. 
 Allow me to reaffirm our hope in the United 
Nations. As a woman, a doctor and the political leader 
of a developing country, today I ask that we choose 
life, affirm justice, promote social justice and make 
this noble Organization the common and continuing 
response to our peoples’ dreams of peace, development 
and dignity. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
I 
would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to 
preside over the General Assembly. I would also like to 
reiterate Chile’s support for the new Secretary-General. 
Chile will participate in all the undertakings of the 
United Nations.  
 The international community knows about my 
people’s devotion to peace, justice, freedom and 
solidarity. It knows that this country at the southern 
edge of the world   despite the size of its economy 
and population, as well as its remoteness   has 
espoused the great causes of humankind. It knows 
about Chile’s contributions in the areas of poverty, 
AIDS, hunger and social cohesion. It knows that we 
have made substantial contributions to the promotion 
and observance of human rights. It knows that, even in 
difficult times, we have always supported international 
law and world peace   with dignity and 
determination. 
 Mine is a country that believes in progress and in 
the ability of human beings to be the authors of their 
own destiny and to build a better future. The world is 
an uncertain place when we are not able to act together. 
Globalization becomes unpredictable when we are not 
able to manage it. That is the reason we need to 
promote the greatest possible sustainable development 
with greater justice and social equity for all 
humankind. To that end, it is crucial that we craft 
agreements and strengthen multilateral institutions, all 
the while making progress in the areas of disarmament 
and non-proliferation; that we begin negotiations on 
the reform and expansion of the Security Council; and 
that we make progress in the area of management 
reform   on the subject of which Chile, South Africa, 
Sweden and Thailand have put forth a proposal for the 
consideration of Member States. 
 The major tasks facing us today will probably 
require more consensus-building than ever before 
known. How can we ensure once and for all that human 
rights are respected throughout the entire world? How 
can we halt climate change on all continents and 
oceans? How can we make equity and social justice for 
all the men and women of the world a concern of all 
countries? Those are the major challenges which we, as 
an international community, must today tackle urgently 
and with dedication. 
 Chile will vigorously promote universal respect 
for human rights. The establishment of a fairer and 
more humane international order will be possible only 
if we place respect for the dignity of the human person 
at the heart of the debate. We in Chile will work not 
only to improve our own practices and domestic 
legislation, but also to promote the strengthening of 
human rights, economic and social development, peace 
and security. 
 As the General Assembly is aware, human rights 
have been at centre of Chile’s recent history. For the 
citizens of my country no place is too remote nor any 
situation too foreign when it comes to protecting 
human lives and dignity. 
 We are pleased with the progress made in the area 
of norms, both internationally and nationally. We 
welcome the adoption and opening for signature of the 
International Convention for the Protection of All 
Persons from Enforced Disappearance, which fills a 
gap in the system for protecting human rights from a 
crime against humanity. Chile signed that instrument 
and expects to ratify it in the near future. In addition, 
the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or 
Punishment is in the process of being approved by our 
National Congress. 
 The new United Nations Human Rights Council 
should continue to promote a more effective 
international regime for protection, early warning and 
promotion in the area of human rights. We also 
strongly support the United Nations Declaration on the 
Rights of Indigenous Peoples, which is a very 
important step in the recognition of the rights of those 
peoples. 
 We shall also work to ensure that democracy and 
freedom are consolidated throughout the world. 
Democracy is a universal value, but it is a process that 
must be supported over time. That is why we will 
strongly support the United Nations Democracy Fund, 
so that this aspiration becomes a reality. 
 We are studying with concern the scientific 
evidence showing the devastating effects of climate 
change on our planet. Yesterday we were discussing its 
social, human and economic effects. We are glad that 
the world is beginning to take notice of this. It is clear 
that there is a serious threat to our future, and we must 
act now. 
 In Chile, for example, we have seen that the 
speed with which the glaciers are melting has doubled 
in the past ten years. Our southern zones are, in turn, 
experiencing a dangerous depletion of the ozone layer, 
jeopardizing the health of our citizens. Although we are 
not the ones mainly responsible for this deterioration, 
Chile has begun to take the necessary steps to mitigate 
the effects of global warming and to combine efforts so 
that, as a matter of urgency, solutions may be found. 
 As has been said here many times, there is no 
time to lose. The consensus that we must reach, the 
effort to enlist the greatest possible support, is 
comparable only to the international mobilization that 
led to the adoption of the San Francisco Charter six 
decades ago. If we do not act now, the future of all 
humanity will be endangered. 
 Therefore we all have the obligation to construct 
a new global political consensus to generate collective 
action capable of solving the problem in accordance 
with the principle of shared but differentiated 
responsibility and within the framework of the United 
Nations. All of us must contribute, but especially those 
who have already polluted and achieved development. 
We ask the developed countries to pledge technical and 
financial assistance to the developing countries that 
most need help with their efforts to combat climate 
change. 
 We strongly hope that at the meetings of the 
Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate 
Change and the Kyoto Protocol to be held in December 
in Bali, progress will be made in defining the 
parameters of a post-2012 process. We also hope that 
the developed countries will make greater 
commitments regarding mitigation, adaptation, 
technology transfer and financing. 
 We must, however, realize that the greatest efforts 
by the developed countries will not suffice to halt 
climate change. It is also necessary that the developing 
countries take additional emission reduction actions in 
the framework of a global effort within the scope of the 
Convention. 
 I am the bearer of a message of hope as well for 
all nations seeking to eradicate poverty and build fairer 
and more inclusive societies. We still have a lot to do. 
Nonetheless, we can say that Chile has moved closer to 
becoming the country that we so deeply desire, 
enjoying greater prosperity and greater social justice. 
We are eradicating poverty. In 17 years of democracy, 
we have reduced poverty from 40 to 13.7 per cent. We 
have achieved practically all of the Millennium 
Development Goals. It is an ambitious objective, but 
one that is justified by our achievements. We are 
constructing a social welfare system that guarantees the 
social rights of Chilean men and women from the 
cradle to old age. We are protecting our children   
girls and boys, our young people, our mothers and 
fathers, grandfathers and grandmothers. 
 We know that we are not alone in this effort. 
Poverty, hunger, extreme inequality and exclusion are 
realities that exist all over the world. With regard to the 
fulfilment of the Millennium Goals, progress has been 
made in some regions, but it is not enough. We, 
therefore, join in the commitment to the forthcoming 
launch of the Global Business Plan for Millennium 
Development Goals 4 and 5   that is, to greatly 
reduce maternal and child mortality. We do not need 
new commitments; we simply need to fulfil the 
commitments already made. 
 My country supports the idea of holding an 
international conference to focus concerted worldwide 
efforts on attaining the Millennium Goals, proposed by 
the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, so that the 
dream of also globalizing the prosperity that some have 
already achieved can come true in the not too distant 
future. 
 We can also emphasize innovative development 
financing mechanisms for development in order to 
combat inequality and promote social cohesion. 
 We are on the right track. As the Assembly knows 
well, the Presidents of Brazil, France, Chile, Spain and 
Germany, among others, organized an Initiative on 
Action Against Hunger and Poverty and their 
UNITAID Initiative, through which we have managed 
to collect hundreds of millions of dollars to finance the 
purchase of drugs to treat AIDS, tuberculosis and 
malaria; these medicines have been given to hundreds 
of thousands of children, mainly in Africa. 
 But we have to do more. Social equity and the 
construction of a world with a human face should 
become a central topic on our global agenda. 
 The three major causes that I have mentioned can 
be tackled only by common accord of the international 
community. Hence, the importance of our commitment 
to effective and efficient multilateralism, with the 
United Nations as its centre of gravity. We are at a 
complex juncture, but one of great opportunity. What 
we do or fail to do in the next few years will determine 
the future of our descendants. It all depends on us. 
Now is the time to act. 


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
On behalf of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations Her Excellency Mrs. Michelle 
Bachelet Jeria, President of the Republic of Chile, and 
to invite her to address the Assembly. 
 
 
15 08-51749 
 
 President Bachelet Jeria (spoke in Spanish): 
Eight years ago, representatives of all the countries of 
the planet met in the General Assembly Hall to adopt 
the United Nations Millennium Declaration 
(resolution 55/2) — a text that is one of the broadest 
and most explicit agreements ever drafted by the 
international community on the subject of 
development, well-being and quality of life. The 
Declaration set a series of very precise standards in the 
fight against hunger and poverty, education, health, 
gender equality, environment and cooperation, stating 
for each the minimum to which nations should commit 
themselves.  
 The world at that time announced the civilizing 
mission to which it aspired and identified the 
inescapable challenges and unavoidable tasks for any 
Government and for the international community. It 
defined a real ethical vision for the leaders of the 
nations. The world has changed since then, however. 
 We have witnessed, sometimes tragically, the 
emergence or reappearance of various problems of 
global significance, such as climate change, terrorism 
or the food crisis. At the same time, the 
interdependence of economies and communications has 
become even greater over the past eight years, which 
has undoubtedly created many opportunities but also 
greater risks and inequities. 
 In that changing context, we have witnessed 
outstanding progress towards the Millennium 
Development Goals in many countries of the world, but 
we have also witnessed many regrettable setbacks. 
World events over the past year give us much food for 
thought that will allow us to act decisively. The 
optimism of the turn of the century, leading to talk of 
the “millennium of hope”, seems to be dissipating. It is 
estimated that the increase in food prices alone has 
driven more than 100 million people into extreme 
poverty. In turn, financial instability today is afflicting 
many economies, threatening to generate a worldwide 
trend towards recession in which — as always — those 
most affected in the end will be the world’s poorest. 
 That is why it is so crucial to review our Goals. 
We cannot remain indifferent to the deterioration of the 
basic well-being of millions and millions of citizens all 
over the world. Those of us who share the same 
concept of progress and have made freedom and social 
justice our watchwords must raise our voices. 
 The world has managed to secure the economic, 
technical and scientific resources that, for the first time 
in its history, can ensure the well-being of all mankind. 
We cannot squander that capacity. A better world is 
possible, but it requires determination to move 
forward, and the current international economic crisis 
shows that it is precisely such determination that has 
been lacking. 
 The greed and irresponsibility of a few, combined 
with the political negligence of others, has plunged the 
world into a situation of great uncertainty. What a 
paradox we are witnessing today! With the money used 
to bail out the international banking system, the 
scourge of hunger on the planet could easily have been 
eliminated. Thus, now is the time to reaffirm our 
resolve. 
 The international economic crisis is a blow to 
those who believe that nothing can be done, that 
nothing should be regulated or that inequality cannot 
be remedied. That is the major lesson to be learned 
from what has happened over the past year. None of 
the current problems facing mankind, and certainly 
none of the civilizing goals that we have set ourselves, 
can be tackled properly if the public does not have a 
clear option of collective action by States and civil 
society. 
 That is why today I appeal to all to work together 
to support emergency measures to address the food 
crisis and to redouble our efforts to ensure that the 
developing economic crisis does not prevent us from 
attaining the Millennium Development Goals. That is 
why I appeal for an urgent and genuine commitment to 
multilateralism. That is why we must undertake to 
continue supporting and reforming international 
institutions, particularly the United Nations, to make 
them more representative, more democratic and more 
responsive to the hopes of our peoples. 
 That is also why we must reach agreement at the 
Doha Round of the World Trade Organization. That is 
why we must achieve concrete results at the 
forthcoming Follow-up International Conference on 
Financing for Development. That is why we must also 
ensure the success of the 2009 Copenhagen Climate 
Change Conference and convert those negotiations into 
agreements that make a decisive contribution to 
development. 
 I appear before this General Assembly as the 
representative of a nation that has much to contribute. 
  
 
08-51749 16 
 
Modestly and proudly, we announce to this Assembly 
that Chile is ahead of schedule towards achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals set for 2015. I 
emphasize that it is possible to eradicate poverty, that it 
is possible to emerge from underdevelopment and, 
even more importantly, that it is possible to do so in 
democracy and freedom. 
 My country almost tripled the size of its economy 
between 1990 and 2008, which are the years of 
democracy in Chile. Just as we have made the economy 
grow, we have also made social investment and equity 
grow. We have advanced strongly on all fronts: health, 
education, housing, quality of life, social cohesion and 
greater gender opportunities. 
 The numbers speak for themselves. At the end of 
the dictatorship, in 1989, 4 out of every 10 Chileans 
were living in poverty. That 40 per cent dropped to 
13 per cent in 2006. Although there is much to do, 
whenever we achieve one goal we set ourselves a new 
horizon of challenges. Just as we have drastically 
reduced poverty, today we aim to guarantee universal 
access for all Chileans to a social welfare system that 
allows them to live their lives in tranquillity and 
removes the fear of disease, poverty or old age, thus 
increasing opportunities for all, so as to advance 
steadily in greater equality and dignity. 
 However, this morning I wish to highlight the 
reasons for those achievements. What underlies them is 
a clear political determination, shared by the majority. 
The country has freely chosen a path of economic 
growth, political democracy and social justice. All 
political sectors have converged on that path, with 
differences, of course, as in any democracy, but all are 
aware that those are the major goals of Chilean society, 
because behind the achievements there is also a sad 
learning process. 
 In the past, when the country became divided, 
when the country became polarized in two 
irreconcilable factions, there was much suffering and 
very great social setbacks. Democracy placed at the 
centre of public life, as a goal for a freer and more just 
society, has been one of the main lessons that we 
Chileans have learned and that largely explains the 
achievements of the last 18 years.  
 That same conviction led us recently to be very 
active in coming to the aid of a friendly democracy. 
One week ago, when there was a threat to disrupt the 
democratic institutional order in the Republic of 
Bolivia, we nations of South America came to the 
support of the legitimately elected authorities and 
offered our cooperation to help in the resumption of the 
domestic political dialogue, while condemning the 
rebellion and bloodshed. Within a few days, we 
succeeded in convening a meeting of the Presidents of 
the member countries of the Union of South American 
Nations in Santiago de Chile, in order to agree with the 
President of Bolivia on a process for talks and to find 
and support a peaceful solution to the conflict in that 
country.  
 From this rostrum, as the convener of that 
historic regional meeting, I wish to express 
appreciation for the willingness displayed by all those 
involved, because we thereby set an example of how 
multilateral commitment should be understood. It is a 
commitment forged in the diversity of political projects 
but based on shared values, such as democracy, peace 
and the defence of human rights. The La Moneda 
summit — as that meeting was called, after the Chilean 
presidential palace — will forever symbolize the 
moment at which the South American nations decided 
to strengthen their commitment to democracy, 
whenever it is threatened anywhere on the continent. 
 Yet what does that episode tell us? It tells us that 
the values of democracy, dialogue, human rights and 
peace are becoming stronger than ever in Latin 
America. It tells us that the region wants to leave 
behind the dark moments of its history. It tells us that 
democracy is established as a system of government. It 
tells us that violence has no place in politics. And it 
tells us that those values, in addition to being widely 
shared by the citizens, are becoming entrenched in 
multilateralism, in institutions and in international law. 
 Over these years, we have learned that national 
policies, although essential, are not enough, that there 
is no incompatibility between affirmation of one’s own 
identity and integration, and that international 
agreements must be formulated to govern globalization 
and make democracy and the social rights of the 
citizens a universal requirement. Each country has the 
right and the duty to contribute to the creation of a 
world in which the great values of mankind prevail, 
regardless of the country’s economic or demographic 
dimension, of its influence or its power, or of how 
close it is to or how far it is from the hubs where 
decisions that affect the lives of each and every one of 
the planet’s inhabitants are taken. 
 
 
17 08-51749 
 
 From our position at the south of the world, Chile 
is cooperating. We have enthusiastically supported, and 
in some cases promoted, the most diverse initiatives in 
pursuit of the development of our peoples. A few days 
ago, in Santiago de Chile, together with the Prime 
Minister of Norway, we launched an important regional 
initiative for the attainment of Millennium 
Development Goals 4 and 5 in Latin America and the 
Caribbean. Under that initiative, Chile will cooperate 
in the assignment and training of troops in Bolivia, 
Ecuador and other countries of the region. However, 
when we say “troops”, we are not talking about 
soldiers. It will be a force of nurses, midwives and 
doctors specialized in maternal and child health, who 
will travel through the fields and mountain ranges of 
our America, delivering babies, helping mothers, 
providing vaccinations and caring for sick children. 
Because despite the progress made in that regard in 
recent years, which has increased the percentage of 
attended births from 78 to 89 per cent, still 22,000 
mothers die in Latin America each year simply because 
they received no professional care. Despite the 
improvement in child mortality, 400,000 Latin 
American children under five years of age are still 
dying each year — hence, the urgency of that initiative, 
which is the urgency of promoting democracy and the 
social development of our people. 
 In just over two months, the world will have a 
noble reason for celebration. It will be the sixtieth 
anniversary of the adoption of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. What a great step 
forward for mankind. That transcendental charter of 
rights marked the beginning of the end of centuries and 
centuries of arbitrary action, death, torture and abuse 
of power. Certainly that charter did not represent an 
immediate solution, but it did mean the beginning of 
the largest and most effective social and political 
mobilization in favour of people’s dignity. 
 Today, those who violate that charter sully their 
reputation with the international community. We have 
gone even further by creating an international 
architecture of protection and legal advancement, in 
which my region set a great precedent with the inter-
American human rights protection system. 
 We hope that something similar will happen with 
the Millennium Declaration. We want it to become an 
ethical and political requirement for all the world’s 
rulers. We want the citizens of every country to protest 
against famine, poverty and unsanitary conditions. We 
want discrimination against women to be reason for 
shame for all those who practise it. We want 
discrimination against native peoples to be eliminated 
from the face of the Earth. We want protection of the 
environment to be part of the vocabulary of every 
inhabitant of the planet and, definitely, of the priorities 
of every Government in the world. We want 
cooperation by those who have the most to be a 
political as well as a moral obligation. That is Chile’s 
achievable desire, which we have come to present to 
this General Assembly.

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====
For 
the past four years, I have been proud to represent my 
country in this Assembly, the world’s foremost 
assembly, the forum in which the peoples have placed 
so many hopes. Peace, human rights, international law, 
development: these are some of the causes promoted 
here, sometimes successfully and at other times with 
difficulty, but always with progress. This has been 
observed by the poorest in various regions; it has been 
observed by children and women; it has been observed 
by the persecuted, by those who suffer; it has been 
observed by men and women all over the globe. 
 It is true that the efforts have not sufficed to 
eradicate all the injustice or the abuses or the sorrows 
of so many. But it is also true that we have made 
considerable progress in six decades of international 
collaboration. The rule of law and the institutional 
framework have been strengthened, so that humanity 
today has the technical, legal and economic means to 
make much more progress in the struggle for a better 
world. 
 We cannot let those hopes be dashed. But at times 
this is what we seem to be doing. The world is 
experiencing a serious economic crisis resulting from 
the inability of countries and of the international 
community to formulate clear and transparent rules on 
financial matters. 
 We are on the brink of a serious environmental 
crisis resulting from emissions of greenhouse gases and 
from the way the world has chosen to produce and 
obtain energy — as well as from the inability of 
countries to agree on standards and policies to prevent 
global warming. 
 Even more serious, in the twenty-first century we 
see more than a billion people suffering from hunger: 
one out of six people all over the world, 50 million of 
them in Latin America. This is much more than a 
statistic: it is a child, it is a mother dying in a poor 
county despite the opulence in which the developed 
countries are living. 
 Trillions of dollars have been spent in recent 
months to rescue the financial system and revitalize the 
economy. Yet the World Food Programme will see its 
budget reduced by more than half this year. What a sad 
paradox this is. Less than 0.1 per cent of the financial 
rescue plans would end the food crisis affecting dozens 
of countries. I should like today to raise my voice and 
urge that this item be put on the agenda of this 
Assembly, the forthcoming meetings of the Group of 
20 and, in general, all international forums. 
 The economic collapse must not lead to a social 
collapse. We must not let down our guard, for it is not 
acceptable that, on the pretext of the economic crisis, 
countries should be reducing contributions for the fight 
against hunger, for the protection of the environment or 
for the promotion of development. 
 And it is ethically untenable that, while this is 
happening, the executives of the investment banks that 
were at the centre of the current crisis, gambling 
irresponsibly with financial assets, should today be 
back to business as usual and awarding themselves 
huge bonuses which simply reward excessive risk-
taking in their bets. They are even considering 
establishing companies to place their bonuses in tax 
havens. 
 The world simply cannot function in this way. 
Resignation is not an option. It is possible to construct 
fairer, realistic, sustainable and pragmatic models to 
  
 
09-52179 36 
 
ensure progressive advancement for all peoples. That 
requires recognition that the economic crisis was not a 
casual occurrence or, still less, a cyclical event in the 
capitalist economy that will correct itself on its own, 
solely through the workings of the invisible hand of the 
market. 
 What happened here was much more than a 
chance occurrence or a cycle. What happened here was 
the crisis of a paradigm, the crisis of a certain kind of 
globalization, the crisis of a conception of the State and 
the public sector in which the State is seen as the 
problem and not the solution. In this conception, it is 
thought that the more the economy is deregulated, the 
better it is. In this conception there are misgivings 
about democratic discussion as to which goods should 
be public and should therefore enjoy efficient 
protection and government guarantees. 
 It is this extreme and dogmatic neo-liberalism 
that has unfortunately erupted into crisis, unfortunately 
leaving in its wake a trail of hunger, unemployment 
and, above all, injustice. 
 And it is at times like this that action by the 
public sector has proved to be essential. Thanks to 
decisive action by States, it has been possible to avoid 
a widespread and fatal economic collapse with 
unexpected political consequences — which could 
have been another Great Depression. 
 The whole dogma of laissez-faire was forgotten 
when the time came for the State to save the 
international financial machinery and implement 
financial stimulus plans. 
 In some countries — including my own — State 
action proved crucial in mitigating effects and 
protecting the most vulnerable in crisis situations. In 
my country, we were careful with commodity wealth 
some years ago and saved resources for more difficult 
times, resisting political pressure to spend that money 
but confident that this was the responsible thing to do. 
We were proved to be right, and this has allowed us to 
offset the effects of the international crisis while 
increasing social benefits for people, raising pensions, 
protecting workers, building hospitals and investing 
more than ever before in education and housing for 
those most in need. 
 Countries such as Chile learned the lessons of 
past crises and are facing this crisis with solid 
macroeconomic foundations, with far better capitalized 
banking systems and with stricter and more effective 
regulations. 
 But this was not the case everywhere. It is worth 
recalling that after the Asian crisis a decade ago, there 
was much talk about financial system reforms, better 
oversight mechanisms and early warning systems. But 
none of this happened. Political laziness prevailed. 
Private interests prevailed over the public good. That is 
why today reform cannot wait, either domestically, 
with better regulations in the capital market, or abroad. 
 We hope that General Assembly resolutions and 
the forthcoming meeting of the Group of 20 will make 
progress in this direction because — I insist — 
resignation is not an option. We know that at this stage 
neither rhetoric nor populism can be of help. There 
must be no flights of fancy, and we must remain open 
to the opportunities that well conducted globalization 
can provide. 
 We must find effective mechanisms to safeguard 
the public interest in the world of national and 
international finance. We must find solutions to unlock 
a world trade agreement that will thwart protectionist 
designs. And we must return multilateral dialogue to 
the centre of international policy, abandoning 
unilateralism. 
 While unbridled globalization in the financial 
sphere provoked the crisis we are experiencing, 
unilateral action and disdain for institutions resulted in 
conflicts that must not be repeated. Military or 
economic might cannot be the norm in international 
relations. Institutions and the rule of law must prevail, 
since this is the only way to ensure peace and 
development. 
 Thus, Chile strongly supports the reform and 
strengthening of the United Nations. We support the 
Organization’s recent efforts in the areas of human 
rights, development and climate change. We favour 
reform and enlargement of the Security Council. We 
welcome the important work being done by the 
Peacebuilding Commission to provide support from the 
outset to countries emerging from conflict — support 
that is comprehensive, not only military. 
 That is the logic that should prevail in all spheres. 
We want the United Nations to spearhead a new global 
social covenant, we want the Millennium Development 
Goals to be attained by 2015 and we want to see 
 
 
37 09-52179 
 
forceful and decisive involvement to mitigate climate 
change. 
 We have spoken about climate change at special 
meetings during this session. Today I wish simply to 
sound the alarm. Unless we coordinate efforts at the 
highest level, the forthcoming Copenhagen Conference 
will not attain its goal. We risk failure on what is the 
most urgent cause to be taken up by the world at this 
time when the scientific forecasts made by the 
Intergovernmental Panel in 2007 already seem to fall 
short of the mark. 
 Climate change is not a theory; it is a tangible 
reality that we are witnessing in unusual storms, floods 
and droughts. My country, which is so close to 
Antarctica, is watching in amazement as melting of the 
glaciers and ice platforms on that continent accelerates 
at an inexorable pace. 
 The industrialized countries must adopt 
quantifiable goals for more ambitious emission 
reductions than those that now exist. If they assume 
their historical responsibility with deeds, and not only 
words, and if they undertake to provide the necessary 
technological and financial support, then the 
developing world will be able to make an even greater 
effort to meet this challenge. 
 We thus have the possibility to correct the course 
of our future. Let us not use the economic crisis as an 
excuse for not reaching an agreement that all our 
citizens are demanding. Let us today ensure the future 
of our descendants. We have a huge responsibility. For 
this reason, let us lay the foundations this year, in 
Copenhagen, for a new economy that will allow the 
twenty-first century to be an era of progress. 
 If there is one lesson that we can learn from the 
economic crisis and from the environmental crisis, it is 
that the quality of policy matters. Neither the world nor 
countries are governed on automatic pilot, trailing 
behind the market, trailing behind globalization, 
trailing behind social changes. The policy of quality 
has a positive impact on the well-being of individuals. 
 The rule of law, civil liberties and respect for 
human rights are all prerequisites for a democracy of 
quality. There is no longer any justification for 
violating the principle of liberty and democracy in the 
name of justice or equality. Procedural democracy is 
part of the ethical and political common property of the 
international community in the twenty-first century. 
And little by little, we have started to reinforce this 
principle at the level of nations. 
 My region, Latin America, has been able 
gradually to build a single vision, which has enabled it, 
for example, to come rapidly to the aid of any 
threatened democracy, as was the case in Bolivia one 
year ago, or to strongly condemn democratic setbacks, 
such as occurred in Honduras a few months ago. For 
this reason, today, with President Zelaya — who has 
peacefully returned to Honduras — I wish to reiterate 
our appeal for immediate acceptance of the San José 
agreement promoted by the Organization of American 
States. Honduras deserves free and democratic 
elections, with the constitutional President leading this 
process. 
 It is thus clear that policy is now more important 
than ever. Let us make an effort to restore it to its 
rightful place, but, of course, with the quality that 
citizens deserve. 
 What has happened with the crisis, with the 
environment, with hunger, with conflicts, is the result 
of a lack of adequate leadership and political dialogue. 
It is for us, leaders of our countries, to change this 
situation. It is within our power, first, not to resign 
ourselves to the market or to force and, secondly, to 
avoid demagogy by trying to construct a fairer order 
for our peoples through serious and responsible public 
policies, in an environment of full democracy and 
respect for human rights. 
 This can be the basis for a global social covenant, 
which the world is insistently demanding at this 
difficult time. We must not fail the world.

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====

I wish to begin by conveying our heartfelt 
congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election 
to guide the work of the General Assembly at its sixty-
fifth session. Your human and professional qualities are 
a guarantee of success in the Assembly’s important 
tasks. 
 I come to this rostrum as the representative of 
Chile, a country that is far away on the map but that is 
inhabited by a people that is close and that is in 
solidarity and brotherhood; a country geographically 
narrow but with a big and generous heart; a country 
physically surrounded by an arid desert to the north, 
majestic mountains to the east, a huge sea to the west 
and the magnificent Antarctica to the south. Despite 
that, it is a people with a permanent and steadfast 
commitment and calling to integration in the world. It 
is a country that like many others has experienced 
division and discord among its children but that is 
today fully united and reconciled; a country with a 
fearless and earthy character but possessing 
indomitable determination and valour; a country of 
warriors and heroes but that has enjoyed uninterrupted 
peace for 130 years. It is a young country but with age-
old institutions, and it views the present with 
confidence and the future with optimism. 
 Chile is a country that today is living through 
times that are historic and dramatic and offer enormous 
opportunities. I say historic times because only five 
days ago we commemorated our two-hundredth 
anniversary of independence and opened the doors to 
our third century of republican life. We did so as one 
big family saluting the same flag, honouring the same 
heroes and singing the same national anthem 
irrespective of our political ideas, religious beliefs, 
ethnic origin or economic situation. 
 But Chile is also living through dramatic times of 
adversity and sadness. A few months ago our country 
suffered one of the five worst earthquakes in human 
history, followed by tidal waves on our coastlines. Five 
hundred and twenty-one of our fellow citizens lost 
their lives and many are still missing. More than 
2 million Chileans were affected. Entire cities and 
villages were demolished. Hundreds of hospitals, 
clinics, bridges and ports are still unusable. One of 
every three children — 1.25 million — were unable to 
return to school because the schools had been 
destroyed or badly damaged. Total losses amounted to 
about $30 billion, equivalent to about 18 per cent of 
our national product. Without doubt, it was the largest 
catastrophe with the biggest damage ever suffered by 
our country in the history of its 200 years of 
independence. 
 But from those ruins rose a people united in 
solidarity. After a mere 45 days all children and young 
people had returned to school. In only 60 days we were 
able to restore proper health-care services in the 
affected areas. In only 90 days we had built more 
emergency housing than we had built throughout our 
country’s prior history. In 100 days we had entirely 
restored connections, providing full or partial services 
to airports, ports, roads, bridges — everything the 
earthquake had destroyed. In 120 days our economy 
had recovered the capacity to grow and create 
employment with greater strength than ever. 
 Certainly, reconstruction has only just begun and 
will require years of effort. But to that end we will 
continue to work tirelessly until we have rebuilt the 
last school, the last hospital or the last home that had 
been destroyed. Because for a country such as Chile, 
which has been shaped by adversity, determination and 
hard work, however difficult a crisis may be or how 
painful its consequences, it always represents an 
opportunity — the opportunity to build a better country 
together. 
 In addition to being historic and dramatic, these 
are times of enormous opportunities. That is because 
this generation of Chileans — the bicentennial 
generation — is in position to fulfil the dream our 
parents and grandparents had always cherished but 
never achieved. That dream is to succeed in making 
Chile, before the end of this decade, a country able to 
  
 
10-54833 26 
 
defeat poverty, to defeat underdevelopment and to 
create opportunities for material and spiritual 
development for all of its children, which Chile has 
never before known. 
 How will we do this? First, by strengthening the 
three basic pillars so that development germinates and 
opportunities flourish. At the political level that 
requires a stable, participatory, transparent and vital 
democracy; at the economic level, a social market 
economy open to the world and trusting unreservedly 
in the economic entrepreneurship and creativity of its 
citizens; and at the social level, a State that is strong 
and effective in the fight against poverty and in 
promoting greater equality of opportunities. 
 But we will build upon rock, and not upon sand. 
What was done before is insufficient. We must 
strengthen the pillars of society, knowledge and 
information. I am thinking about the development of 
our human capital, which is the greatest wealth we 
possess. We must encourage innovation and 
entrepreneurship, which are the only truly renewable 
and inexhaustible natural resources that we have. We 
must invest in science and technology, which will 
create unimaginable opportunities for the future we all 
face, and we must promote more dynamic and flexible 
markets and institutions in order to confront the 
changes and opportunities that have become the 
challenges of the modern world. 
 For those reasons, almost 65 years ago, Chile, 
together with 50 other countries, attended the 
formation of this United Nations, whose goal was to 
maintain peace, security and international cooperation. 
That was the post-war period, when our planet was 
crossed and divided by two walls. One was the iron 
curtain running from north to south, dividing the world 
for a long time into two irreconcilable blocs, each with 
sufficient war-making capacity to annihilate our planet 
several times over. But there was another wall, the one 
running from east to west, which separated the rich and 
prosperous countries of the North from the poor and 
underdeveloped nations of the South. 
 Both walls fell before our eyes as the sun set on 
the twentieth century. The first wall was in Berlin, in 
Central Europe, and the second one in Silicon Valley, 
Bangalore, Singapore, New Zealand and in the main 
technological centres throughout the world. But the fall 
of these walls uncovered a third wall, less visible than 
the previous ones but equally or more harmful and 
damaging. That wall has existed in our countries and 
peoples forever, separating the older souls who live in 
nostalgia and fear the future from the young souls who 
are creative and entrepreneurial and embrace the future 
fearlessly and always believe that the best is still to 
come. 
 That wall prevented many of our nations from 
joining the Industrial Revolution in the nineteenth 
century. That explains why there are still 
underdeveloped countries while others, fewer in 
number, managed to demolish that wall in time and to 
join that revolution. 
 But today we are confronted by a new revolution, 
more powerful and more significant than the Industrial 
Revolution: the revolution of knowledge, technology 
and the information society. It has been knocking at 
our doors for several years. It will be very generous to 
the countries that want to embrace it, but tremendously 
indifferent and even cruel to those that ignore it or 
simply let it pass. And in order to deepen our 
integration and to govern globalization better — lest 
globalization should end up governing us — the crisis 
must be addressed differently. 
 The financial crisis has ceased to be a national 
problem and has acquired regional and often global 
implications. The evils of modern society such as 
terrorism, drug trafficking and organized crime know 
no frontiers or territories or jurisdictions. And any 
attempts to effectively tackle global warming, natural 
disasters, health emergencies, hunger or extreme 
poverty are going to require action that is much more 
attentive, concerted and effective on the part of the 
community of nations. 
 So the United Nations and other institutions 
deriving from the Bretton Woods consensus, such as 
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, 
urgently need to modernize and adapt to the new times 
if they want to play a leading role and not be mere 
spectators of events to which we will be witnesses and 
principal actors. Those new times are the changes 
already taking place in this new century. 
 As in 1945, when Chile participated in the 
creation of this Organization, and with the authority 
conferred on us by the fact of having actively 
participated in each one of its forums — peacekeeping 
operations and humanitarian missions — today we also 
want to participate in encouraging and promoting the 
great reform and modernization that the United Nations 
 
 
27 10-54833 
 
and the international order require. That must be done 
by creating a much more demanding and efficient 
institution in terms of goals and expectations, one more 
flexible and effective in structure and more determined 
and committed in the defence of the ideals for which it 
was created. 
 In other words, we need a United Nations able to 
meet the challenges and needs of the twenty-first 
century, which we all know are genuine peace, 
sustainable progress and respect for the dignity of all 
those who inhabit our planet. Such reforms require 
modernizing the Security Council so that it is more 
pluralistic and representative of the new global reality. 
In this regard, we reiterate our appeal for the 
incorporation of other emerging countries, such as 
Brazil, on our own continent. 
 I should also like to take this opportunity to offer 
my very sincere congratulations to my predecessor as 
President of Chile, Michelle Bachelet, on her recent 
appointment as Under-Secretary-General for Gender 
Equality and the Empowerment of Women, and to 
express my pride and that of my whole nation at the 
fact that a compatriot will be head of a global effort to 
achieve greater equality between men and women. I am 
sure that, given her human and professional qualities, 
she will lead the new gender entity brilliantly and 
effectively. 
 I also wish to reaffirm our commitment to the 
principles that have always governed and guided our 
foreign policy, including full respect for international 
law, the inviolability of treaties, the juridical equality 
of States, the peaceful settlement of disputes and the 
self-determination of peoples, which are unquestionably 
essential foundations of international stability and 
peaceful coexistence among nations. 
 I also stress the importance of the promotion of 
democracy and respect for human rights at all times, in 
all places and in all circumstances, and our lasting 
commitment to multilateralism and open regionalism 
that promote constructive and more cooperative 
economic practices among the countries of the world 
and of our region. Chile will never cease to raise its 
voice in all international gatherings and forums to 
defend these principles. 
 Here at the United Nations today, I also wish to 
sincerely recognize the aboriginal peoples who 
inhabited our lands thousands of years before the 
European explorers and conquistadors arrived. We are 
very proud to be a multicultural nation, but we 
recognize that we failed for centuries to give our 
aboriginal peoples the opportunities they deserved and 
needed. That is why we in Chile are promoting the 
constitutional recognition of all our aboriginal peoples, 
abandoning the strategy of assimilation and moving 
towards that of integration. Such a strategy respects, 
values and protects their languages, culture and 
traditions, which are part of our deepest national 
wealth. Along with this constitutional recognition, we 
have established a dialogue involving the Government, 
civil society and our aboriginal peoples, in particular 
the Mapuche, to strengthen the agenda for historic 
rediscovery with the most powerful initiative ever 
launched in Chile on this subject — the Araucanía 
Plan. 
 I would also like to recall that only weeks ago my 
country was shaken by an event heard around the 
world. A rockslide of more than 100 million tons left 
33 miners trapped deep under a mountain in the 
Atacama desert. From that moment, our Government 
and country committed themselves body and soul and 
made their very best efforts to launch a search-and-
rescue operation. Seventeen anguishing days later, we 
were able to reach the trapped miners. They sent up a  
message that filled all my compatriots’ hearts with joy: 
“We are okay, we are safe, the 33”. This represents the 
whole paradox of our country. We have struggled so 
hard to save the lives of the 33 miners, and yet at the 
same time we have 34 Mapuche herders who are on a 
hunger strike that is killing them. 
 I wish to conclude by telling those assembled 
here that the example of courage and perseverance set 
by our 33 miners will light the path to the future. The 
future is always an adventure. For pessimists, it means 
fear; for sceptics, it means doubt; but for all men and 
women of good will, it always means challenges and 
opportunities that we must meet together in order to 
build a better world than the one we inherited from our 
parents, and which we have a duty to bequeath to our 
children. That challenge, my friends, is for us, and it is 
now, because if it is not now, when, and if not for us, 
then for whom? 

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====
I wish at the outset to congratulate Mr. Ban Ki-Moon 
on his recent reappointment as Secretary-General, and 
  
 
11-50865 12 
 
you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the 
sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly.  
 In this meeting of the United Nations, a 
multiplicity of countries and ethnicities, cultures and 
languages, religions and creeds converges. All are 
increasingly connected in this globalized world, 
because over and above our legitimate differences, we 
all live on the same planet, all breathe the same air and 
are all warmed by the same sun. As inhabitants of 
planet Earth, we share the same future. We share 
similar challenges and opportunities. All of us have the 
same desire for peace, freedom, justice and prosperity 
for our peoples and nations. 
 I come before the Assembly to express, with 
humble conviction, what my country has to say to the 
international community. But I have also come to 
listen, carefully and respectfully, to what other 
countries have to say to our country. Chile is, and will 
always be, proud to defend and promote dialogue as 
the best mechanism for dealing with and settling 
disputes. Chile profoundly believes that all nations, 
cultures, traditions and creeds have something to teach 
us. But we also believe that we all have something to 
learn from others. 
 There is no doubt that we are facing a new 
world — very different from the one we, or our 
parents, have known and which emerged forcefully 
during the past decades: a new world born of the 
revolutions of knowledge, technology and information 
that has created, and will continue to create, enormous 
opportunities for material and spiritual progress for 
billions of people throughout the world — 
opportunities the world has never known.  
 It is also certain that this new world presents us 
with new risks, challenges, threats and opportunities 
that exceed any Government’s individual potential and 
can only be addressed successfully through joint 
action. For example, financial crises, in addition to 
becoming more frequent each day, have increasing 
regional and global implications that cannot be 
ignored. The evils of modern society, such as terrorism, 
drug trafficking and organized crime, have for a long 
time ceased to heed borders, territories or jurisdictions. 
Any attempt to deal effectively with global warming, 
environmental protection, natural disasters, health 
emergencies, hunger and extreme poverty will most 
certainly require greater concerted and effective action 
from the community of nations and international 
bodies if we truly want to begin to change the course of 
history.  
 Consequently, today it is urgent that we 
reposition ourselves and reshape each international 
organization, many of which emerged in a very 
different world, during the post-war period. Today, as 
we all know, they lack the ability to provide the 
necessary effective responses to the realities, 
challenges and opportunities of the present, as well as 
those of the future that are beginning to emerge. There 
is no doubt that we have achieved significant progress, 
but we understand that it has been too slow and 
insufficient. We cannot pretend to lead this new world 
with old institutions. One day our children will ask us 
how to face these challenges. In the end, these are our 
challenges and we must deal with them now. If we do 
not, then who will? If not now, then when? 
 While it is true that this revolution of knowledge, 
technology and information is not the first revolution 
the world has faced, all of us know that it is the most 
far-reaching in magnitude and breadth, both in terms 
challenges and the opportunities it has provided. But 
like the revolutions of the past — of metals, agriculture 
or the industrial revolution — this twenty-first century 
revolution will be very generous vis-à-vis the countries 
with the desire to embrace it enthusiastically. But the 
revolution will continue to be indifferent, and even 
cruel, to those countries that decide simply to ignore it 
or let it pass by. It will therefore depend on us whether 
it will become a factor for freedom, unity and progress 
and a bridge to span the gap between developed 
countries and emerging nations or, on the contrary, a 
new factor of division and a new wall further 
separating those countries in the world of opportunity 
from those in the world of frustrations. 
 Certainly, the primary responsibility for rising up 
to greet this revolution that is already knocking at our 
doors lies with each country. But it is also a 
responsibility for the international community. In the 
case of the emerging countries, which include all those 
in Latin America, including my country, Chile, this 
signifies, in addition to a huge responsibility, a unique 
opportunity to re-identify with our past. Most 
important, it is an opportunity to meet up with our 
future. It is clear that Latin America — now 
celebrating 200 years of independence — has 
everything it needs to overcome poverty and 
underdevelopment. We have a large and fertile 
territory, abundant natural resources, two closely 
 
 
13 11-50865 
 
related languages and, most important, peoples who 
have demonstrated, with solidarity and vigour, their 
ability to overcome any obstacle placed in our way by 
nature or by Providence. We have not had wars such as 
those experienced by Europe in the past century, or 
ethnic or religious conflicts such as those affecting 
other regions of the world.  
 Nevertheless, because we did not know how to 
join the industrial revolution in time, our continent 
remains underdeveloped, with more than one third of 
its population living in conditions of poverty. However, 
Latin America has learned the lesson and is today 
becoming integrated with enormous conviction into 
this new revolution of modern society, science, 
technology, knowledge and information. This 
integration will be successful only if we are able to 
promote and expand what has been, and continues to 
be, the inexhaustible source of progress for 
humankind — freedom. 
 Freedom is an integral concept that cannot be 
divided or compartmentalized. Freedom must be 
expressed in all spheres of human life. In the political 
sphere, it requires us to revitalize and deepen 
democracy and the defence of human rights to the 
farthest corner of the planet and at any moment in time. 
In the economic sphere, this means fostering creativity, 
entrepreneurship and innovation among human beings, 
who are the only truly inexhaustible and renewable 
resource we possess. We must demolish all of the 
obstacles that are preventing many emerging nations 
from fully integrating themselves into the newly 
emerging world. In the social sphere, freedom means 
promoting peace and helping States to become ever 
more efficient and effective in the fight against poverty 
and in the creation of real societies that provide equal 
opportunities for all. 
 Chile has undoubtedly made, and will continue to 
make, important contributions to each of those areas. 
As well as strongly supporting the cause of democracy 
and defending human rights in all countries of the 
continent and of the world, where necessary, Chile has, 
at the regional level, been a tireless and steadfast 
advocate of improving the Inter-American Democratic 
Charter and of finalizing a protocol on the preventive 
protection of democracy within the Union of South 
American Nations. 
 In addition, we continue to actively participate in 
the negotiations on the reform of the Security Council 
to increase its permanent and non-permanent members 
in order to make it more representative of the realities 
of the new world order. We have also supported the 
reform of the Human Rights Council, to which Chile 
was recently re-elected. 
 With regard to economic issues, Chile is a 
country that has integrated into the world and has 
concluded free trade agreements with more than 58 
countries on all continents, representing more than 
80 per cent of the world’s population. However, our 
commitment to free trade does not stop there. We have 
been strong supporters of the Doha Round of the World 
Trade Organization so as to make progress, once and 
for all after decades of stagnation, towards the 
liberalization of world trade, because protectionism is a 
poor response and is even worse when we face the 
threatening crisis conditions that we are experiencing 
today.  
 Moreover, with regard to the promotion of world 
peace, Chile has recognized the Palestinian State, a 
country that we hope to welcome to the Organization 
very soon. We have resolutely supported all 
international efforts to achieve a just, legitimate and 
lasting settlement in the Middle East. Chile is firmly 
convinced that the Palestinian people have the right to 
a free, sovereign and democratic State and that the 
State of Israel has the right to have recognized, secure 
and respected borders. Only thus will Palestinians and 
Israelis be able to coexist and move forward in peace 
and harmony.  
 With regard to social development and the fight 
against poverty, hunger and pandemics, we are 
strengthening South-South cooperation. Such 
cooperation is certainly triangular, but it neither 
replaces nor substitutes the need for North-South 
cooperation. We have set up and are implementing a 
Chilean fund to combat hunger and poverty in Africa. 
We have also made significant contributions to the 
United Nations International Drug Purchase Facility in 
order to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, 
which still wreak havoc in many parts of the world. 
But we wish to go even further, and we are 
implementing mechanisms that will enable us to 
unilaterally reduce duties in order to promote our 
imports from relatively less developed African 
countries. 
 We were also very proud to strongly support 
UN-Women, an entity headed by our compatriot 
  
 
11-50865 14 
 
Michelle Bachelet, whose principal goal is as strong 
and as far-reaching as to ultimately ensure that, as 
women and men, we have the same rights and the same 
opportunities in this world, which belongs to us all. 
 However, in this new century and this new 
knowledge and information society, as well as relying 
on robust democracies, with open, competitive and 
integrated economies, and effective States to combat 
poverty and for greater equality of opportunity, we 
must recognize that those are merely old pillars that are 
necessary but completely inadequate today. As 
emerging countries, we must commit to building new 
development pillars. Those are investment in science 
and technology; the promotion of innovation and 
entrepreneurship; the building of more flexible 
societies that can adapt to a world in which change is 
the only constant; and, above all, making a huge effort 
to improve our human capital, the education of our 
young people and the training of our workers, as that is 
surely the major source of wealth and primary resource 
for leaving behind underdevelopment.  
 There is no doubt that we must win the race for 
development and the battle for the future in the 
classroom by giving each and every one of our children 
quality education. We have said it many times: 
education is the true mother of all battles. 
Unfortunately, it is also the Achilles heel of many 
emerging economies. In my country in recent weeks, 
thousands of young people have taken to the streets to 
demonstrate for a noble, great and fine cause, namely, 
giving all children and young people quality education 
that enables them all to be actors in, and not mere 
spectators of, their own destiny and participation in 
this knowledge and information society. 
 Our Government has shared, and consistently 
shares, that goal. It is ready for the greatest reforms 
and has committed the largest economic, human, 
professional and technical resources in order to bring 
about fundamental change in our education system that 
seeks to substantially improve the quality of education 
and to increase coverage, in particular in the education 
of children from minorities and the most vulnerable so 
that they participate in education soon, not when the 
years have made it irreversible. We must also 
substantially increase funding and access at all levels 
of education in order to ensure something as simple as 
quality education for all, free education for all those 
who need it and adequate funding for all others in 
order to realize the dream that no bright child or young 
person remains excluded from higher education owing 
to the socio-economic situation of their family or to 
scarce resources.  
 We want to appeal to all Latin American 
countries, in the context of the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States, to establish a true 
strategic partnership that will engage the heart and soul 
of our Governments in that extensive reform of our 
educational systems, which will be our greatest 
possible contribution to the overall development of 
people to enable them to utilize their talents to the full, 
and to the growth of our economies, while enhancing 
peace and strengthening our democracies.  
 That is why I would also like to mention what the 
President of Bolivia said yesterday when he referred to 
his country’s claim to obtain sovereign access to the 
Pacific Ocean through Chilean territory (see 
). In that regard, I wish to reiterate that 
there are no territorial issues pending between Chile 
and Bolivia. They were settled once and for all by the 
Treaty of Peace and Friendship of 1904, that is to say, 
concluded more than 100 years ago now. That Treaty 
was lawfully negotiated more than 20 years after the 
end of the conflict between the two countries. 
Moreover, the parties agreed to it; their Parliaments 
ratified it; and, as Bolivia itself acknowledged, the 
Treaty was the outcome of free and consensus-based 
negotiation. Therefore, in accordance with 
international law, both Chile and Bolivia are obliged to 
respect and implement it in good faith.  
 Chile has fully implemented in a timely way each 
and every clause of that 1904 Treaty of Peace and 
Friendship. Furthermore, the facilities that Chile 
granted exceeded the Treaty provisions, including 
going far beyond those that the United Nations itself 
established in the Convention on Transit Trade of 
Land-Locked States. Our country has been, and always 
will be, willing to engage in dialogue with Bolivia on 
the basis of full respect for the treaties and 
international law. We are sure that, through such 
dialogue, we will have the best possibility of agreeing 
with Bolivia concrete, feasible and useful solutions for 
both countries.  
 All of us here have not only the right but the duty 
to speak and act in defence of the interests of our 
respective countries and peoples. However, we cannot 
fail to note that, for that to be fruitful, requires that we 
work on the many things that unite us rather than on 
 
 
15 11-50865 
 
what legitimately divides us. When all is said and 
done, whether we like it or not, responding to the risks 
and the storm clouds that we see looming on the 
horizon — but also the challenges and the 
opportunities that we are getting ready to confront, and 
the responses and the solutions that together we shall 
have to implement, will only be fruitful and efficient if 
we do so with unity and goodwill. Some might believe 
that, acting alone, they will be able to move forward 
faster, but history will never cease to remind us that it 
is only when we act with unity and goodwill that we 
will be able to build on solid bedrock and not sand; 
only that will allow each country — and the world as a 
whole — to go far in fulfilling our tasks, achieving our 
goals and overcoming our challenges.

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿Allow me to convey to Mr. Jeremić our warmest
congratulations on his election as President of the
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to
once again extend to him our fullest cooperation. We
would also like to convey our gratitude to Mr. Nassir
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his significant work during
the previous session. We also congratulate Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon on his leadership at a time
marked by the immense scale of the challenges that we
face.
Chile’s foreign policy is based on principles such
as the defence of democracy, respect for human rights and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Among others,
those principles form part of the Charter of the United
Nations. Their observance provides for coexistence
among States at the international and national levels,
and thus preserves, for nations and their peoples,
the most precious asset of national societies and the
international community, namely, peace.
Peace is the basic value at the root of this body.
However, despite the efforts made, serious problems
persist internationally, as well as nationally in some
Member States. We have witnessed the Arab Spring,
which, by channelling the legitimate expression
of its peoples for greater freedom, democracy and
respect for human rights, resulted in some cases,
without prejudice to the difficulties that remain to be
overcome, in processes that have led to democratic
changes. Regrettably, in other cases, it has given rise to
repression and violence.
The repression of their people by dictatorial
regimes and the inability to peacefully forge democratic
transition processes are the result of a mistaken way of
engaging in and understanding politics. Confrontation
has prevailed over tolerance, violence over dialogue and
conflict over understanding, as we see now happening
in Syria.
From this rostrum, we reiterate the call to all
parties, in particular the Government of that country,
for an immediate end to the violence, respect for
human rights and the establishment of the foundations
for a dialogue that can lead to a political solution of
the current crisis, in which justice and the rule of
law prevail. The international community bears the
responsibility to support that process, while respecting
the principles of non-intervention, territorial integrity
and, above all, human life.
We must condemn the intolerance that shows a lack
of respect for different cultures and beliefs and has
given rise to outbreaks of violence. Nothing justifies
the criminal act committed in Libya against United
States diplomats. We vigorously condemn that event
and any other act of violence, which, in that particular
case, negates the essence of the diplomatic function,
which this forum must specifically seek to defend with
the utmost resolve and determination.
In addition, we have resolutely supported all
international efforts towards a just, legitimate and
lasting solution of the problem between Palestine
and Israel. We recognize the Palestinian State — a country that we hope very shortly to welcome to the
Organization. We strongly believe that the Palestinian
people have the right to a free, sovereign and democratic
State. However, we also note that the State of Israel has
the right to recognized, safe and respected borders.
Only in that way will Palestinians and Israelis be able
to coexist and move forward in peace and harmony.
The leaders of the States members of the Assembly
have the moral obligation and enormous responsibility
of seeking to harmonize interests in order for reason
to prevail. The United Nations is the sole international
forum with the necessary capacity to address the
maintenance of peace, security, the protection of human
rights and international development cooperation. It is
therefore our responsibility to strive to find the means
for consensus to enable us to cooperate in resolving
current conflicts, averting future ones, preserving
peace and launching a cycle of development for the
benefit of our peoples.
Chile, through a sustained effort, has enjoyed more
than 100 years of peaceful international coexistence
on the basis of understanding and dialogue, as well
as legally and politically respected border agreements
and treaties, as borne out by our peaceful vocation.
Nearly 40 years ago, however, my country experienced
a crisis that shattered its institutional order and divided
our society, leading to a confrontation with tragic
consequences. Thanks to a united effort, an exemplary
peaceful transition was possible. Despite the deep
divisions that were a hallmark of that time, we were
able to move forward in building a solid foundation
owing to the willingness to reach an understanding that
prevailed among political forces that previously held
irreconcilable positions.
Moreover, despite its differences, Latin America
has learned to live in diversity and has progressed more
than other regions in the past decade. In our region,
various kinds of Governments that propose different
political and development models coexist. However,
through dialogue, understanding and reason, we have
reached consensus on establishing regional integration
mechanisms that have enabled us to move forward
with common goals. That policy, based on respect
for differences and the pursuit of mutually beneficial
integration, is at the heart of our foreign policy.
Just as mutual respect and human understanding are
ground rules of our national policy to achieve freedom,
progress and social justice, the same should occur in the international political arena. This is the best forum
for the leaders of nations to debate ideas, free from
absolute, exclusive or discriminatory positions, which
inevitably lead to confrontation. Many of the problems
facing us are due to the fact that the virtue of dialogue,
which is the only means for our mutual understanding
and civilized coexistence, is increasingly undermined.
However, countries alone cannot always find
the basis for understanding in order to achieve the
political stability that makes solid institution-building
and economic and social development possible. The
international community also has a responsibility.
We believe that it is crucial not only to help countries
emerge from crisis situations, but also to support them
in peacebuilding and development in a comprehensive
way. That means support for the rebuilding of political
institutions and for internal reconciliation processes and
social and economic development, which are tasks for
which the Peacebuilding Commission was established.
We strongly support its work.
In that context, with regard to the United Nations
Stabilization Mission in Haiti, we believe that the
required modifications to its composition and size
must be offset by strengthening the presence of the
development component of the United Nations system
through its agencies, funds and programmes. That
is fundamental to helping the reconstruction and
development of Haiti.
In that spirit of cooperation in peacebuilding,
we also welcome with satisfaction, a sense of
responsibility and enthusiasm the invitation of the
Colombian Government to assist in the negotiations
process launched to put an end to the internal conflict
that has affected that brother country for more than 50
years, causing so much suffering. We commend the
willingness and readiness of the parties and the courage
of the Government of Colombia, which, building on the
circumstances brought about through its efforts and
patience in recent years, took the decision to initiate
a peace process that, we trust, will end successfully to
the benefit of all Colombians.

We have conveyed our vision of what we believe
to be the most profound purpose of politics. On this
occasion, we would also like to address the issue
of Security Council reform. In order to strengthen
its capacities and legitimacy, a more representative

and democratic organ that is in line with the new
international reality should be formed. Chile reiterates
its support for a Security Council reform that envisages
the expansion of its membership in the permanent and
non-permanent categories, thus ensuring due regional
representation and enhanced transparency of its
working methods.
We also wish to reiterate our opposition to the veto
power. However, given its existence, Chile supports the
call for the veto not to be used in situations of crimes
against humanity, war crimes, genocide or ethnic
cleansing. The countries with the veto power have a
great responsibility and the obligation to use it with
moderation and transparency in seeking to resolve
crises, putting aside national or ideological positions
that hamper the system and render it ineffective.
In that context, our commitment to the main themes
on the international peace and security agenda has led
us to submit our candidature for Security Council for
the period of 2014-2015. As part of that effort, we wish
to help strengthen the effectiveness of the multilateral
system based on democratic values and principles,
namely, equality and individual freedoms and solidarity,
which are substantial aspects of our foreign policy. We
also wish to contribute to that from the perspective of
Latin America and the Caribbean.
Democracy demands respect for, and the promotion
of, human rights, which requires full implementation
of the rule of law. Chile is firmly committed to that.
Our own experience regarding a shattered democracy,
with tragic consequences for the rights of individuals,
which I have already mentioned, underscores for us
the importance of developing public policies. It also
highlights the need to implement the instruments
made available to us by the international system, with
particular emphasis on those that support the most
vulnerable, namely, children, women, young people,
indigenous peoples, people with disabilities and the
elderly. In that regard, we support strengthening the
functioning of the human rights treaty body system
and the work undertaken by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights.
In addition to the issue of peace, another acute
problem for nations today is the international financial
crisis. It has wrought havoc on markets, trade, finance,
investment and, worse still, employment. As in the case
of politics, where confrontation and the lack of dialogue
impede solutions and compromises, in economics the improper practices of excessive spending, a lack of
fiscal tightening and the absence of adequate regulatory
frameworks triggered the crisis that currently affects us
and whose end is not yet in sight.
The experience of our country and our region has
taught us harshly in recent decades that progress and
true development require measures that are not populist
or short term. Governments must act responsibly and
control public spending without turning to that as
an easy solution to artificially promote an economic
boom. The current crisis blatantly shows the painful
consequences of such policies. A rigorous fiscal policy
and the establishment of stabilization funds, like some
countries have created, such as Norway on the basis
of oil and Chile on the basis of copper, are examples
of efficient mechanisms for economic stability and
balancing global cycles.
Similarly, in seeking solutions to the crisis, we
must avoid the temptation to resort to artificial and
short-term measures. There are voices clamouring
for the imposition of protectionist practices to boost
the economy. Such practices may benefit a specific
economic sector in the short term. However, they have a
f leeting effect. Let us not fool ourselves. Protectionism
protects inefficient industries and provides citizens with
poor quality and more expensive products. Worse still,
it undermines productivity, eliminates competition and
entrepreneurship and hampers real development.
Our experience shows us that we must take the
opposite path, namely, greater openness and more free
trade. Threats to democracy are thereby overcome
through greater democracy. Economic growth is boosted
by greater openness to markets and fewer obstacles to
global trade. Years ago, our country launched trade
liberalization by, first, unilaterally reducing its tariffs
and, subsequently, through free trade agreements
that today extend to more than 60 countries and that
represent more than 85 per cent of world gross domestic
product. Chile has the most free trade agreements and
has the world’s eighth-lowest tariffs, at less than 1 per
cent on average.
Despite external difficulties, that policy has enabled
us to increase our growth by 6 per cent in the past two
years and to achieve the region’s highest per capita
income. In turn, it has made it possible to reduce the
level of unemployment, poverty and extreme poverty
by creating new jobs and social protection programmes.  Real and effective integration goes beyond trade.
We are also pursuing shared projects with other nations,
such as the recent Pacific Alliance initiative, launched
together with Peru, Mexico and Colombia. It focuses on
the integration not only of goods and services, but also
the free movement of people and capital, thus sharing
the full potential of our economies. Such initiatives
with Pacific Rim countries are not new. In 1994,
we were already part of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation, seeking to accelerate trade liberalization
in a broad region that unites the largest economies on
both sides of that ocean. Subsequently, in 2005, along
with Singapore, New Zealand and Brunei Darussalam,
we launched a process to forge an ambitious free
trade agreement. Today, that project, known as the
Trans-Pacific Partnership, aspires to create the largest
global free trade area with the accession of new
members, including the United States.
Two years ago, only days after the Government
that I represent assumed its duties, a natural disaster of
global proportions, namely, the fifth-largest earthquake
registered in the world since such disasters were
recorded, caused destruction and death in our country.
Chile recovered thanks to the solidarity and unity of
its people and as a result of the generous assistance of
friendly nations and organizations. Recently, President
Sebastian Piñera Echeñique affirmed the announcement
that he made at that time, pointing out that, by the end
of his term in office, all material damage would be
fully rebuilt.
In recent years, we have seen an increase in the
number of natural disasters — f loods, tornados,
typhoons, earthquakes and mudslides. There is no place
on the planet that is not either suffering or has suffered
from a natural disaster. No country has the capacity
to deal with disasters of that scale alone. There is
therefore a need for the assistance and solidarity among
nations that we saw not only during the earthquake in
2010, but also at the time of the collapse of the San
José mine, which affected 33 miners. The lives of
those miners were saved thanks to their courage, to the
determination of the Government of Chile to rescue
them and to international cooperation.
In Chile, we have strengthened disaster
preparedness and early-warning systems and have
enhanced the national civil protection agency in
order to ensure greater coordination at the national,
regional and local levels. However, the occurrence
of some of those natural phenomena is also linked to environmental protection. Preserving the environment
is another topic that merits the attention of the
international community and means that we should act
responsibly to safeguard for future generations a clean
environment and sustainable development that respects
nature. The recommendations of the United Nations
Conference on Sustainable Development, namely,
sustainable development goals, financing mechanisms
and a mechanism to transfer and distribute clean energy,
should now be implemented.
Chile assumed the position of the first pro tempore
presidency of the Community of Latin American and
Caribbean States (CELAC) with great satisfaction. The
33 member States of Latin America and the Caribbean
agreed the Community’s guiding principles and
purposes, including the promotion and protection of
democracy and human rights, political coordination,
integration, the fight against poverty and inequality
and stronger global engagement. Among the issues
of interest to CELAC that I would like to underscore
in this forum is support for the legitimate claims of
the Argentine Republic in the dispute for sovereignty
over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia Islands and
South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime
areas. We call for a resumption of negotiations with the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
in order to find a peaceful and lasting solution to that
dispute. CELAC also wishes to underscore the need to
put an end to the economic blockade imposed by the
United States of America against Cuba. The General
Assembly has adopted important resolutions on both
matters.
We live in a world of great opportunities, but also
significant challenges and global threats that require the
coordinated action of the international community in
order to ensure an appropriate response. Only through
effective, efficient and inclusive multilateralism will
we find the best way to respond to those great global
challenges.
The United Nations system has the capacity to
exercise leadership in pursuing international peace and
security, in promoting sustainable development and
cooperation and in protecting and promoting human
rights. Also, in seeking to resolve the global economic
crisis, in environmental protection and in the rapid
international response to prevent and provide assistance
in the case of natural disasters, we, as Member States,
must demonstrate the political will to make that capacity a reality and thus ensure that the politically
correct action is also morally correct.
The President of Bolivia mentioned, in terms that do
not comply with the norms of good coexistence among
nations, that country’s maritime claim (see A/67/PV.11).
Along with the formal note of reply that was submitted
to the President of the General Assembly, in addressing
this debate I feel obliged to categorically reject the
position, affirmation and charges made against my
country. It is timely to reiterate to the Assembly that
there are no outstanding border issues between our
States. Those matters are clearly set out in the 1904
Treaty of Peace and Friendship, and are fully respected.
Chile has fully met its obligations under that
Treaty, allowing the most extensive free transit through
its territory by means of high-quality infrastructure,
as acknowledged by the Bolivians themselves. Bolivia
has no right to claim access to the sea. The respect of
border agreements between neighbouring countries is
one of the cornerstones for coexistence among States
and is the guarantor of international peace, as prevails
between our countries.
Before this Organization, Chile reaffirms that
the Constitution of the Plurinational State of Bolivia,
adopted in 2009, introduced provisions that contravene
the framework of international law, which governs the
peaceful coexistence among nations. Those provisions
are therefore not enforceable with regard to our country.
As declared by a committee of lawyers appointed by
the League of Nations in 1921 and as acknowledged
at the last session of the General Assembly of the
Organization of American States, held in the Bolivian
city of Cochabamba, this is strictly a bilateral matter.
Chile has continued to convey to Bolivia its readiness
for brotherly dialogue, based on full respect for the
treaties in force, which provide significant benefits for
both peoples. It is in the hands of Bolivia to accept that
invitation.

===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
I 
should first like to congratulate you, Sir, an outstanding 
public servant from our region, on his recent election 
to preside over the General Assembly. I would also 
like to express my heartfelt solidarity with the people 
and Government of Mexico in the wake of the storms 
that have seriously affected their country, and with 
the people and Government of Kenya, after the acts 
of terrorism that have had such a terrible impact. I 
would also like to emphasize that during this period of 
meetings, Heads of State and Government from almost 
all corners of the planet will have the opportunity to 
exchange views, share experiences and, most important, 
generate the momentum essential to building together a 
future commensurate with the ideals, dreams and hopes 
of the men and women represented here.

The fundamental inspiration behind the founding 
of the United Nations, almost seven decades ago, was 
the desire to be able to depend on a place designed to 
bring into harmony the actions of every nation aimed 
at attaining peace and development, a place where all 
individuals, nations and peoples of the world — whatever 
flag they pledge to honour, whatever god they worship 
and whatever ideas they embrace — can feel part of one 
big family, the human family.

That requires many things of us, but none so 
important as holding an open, free and respectful 
dialogue among ourselves, a dialogue that, far from 
fearing dissent, values it and is nourished by it, because 
it understands that only when the various nations and 
cultures join forces will we also see our opportunities 
expand.

We are living in a world that is very different from 
the one that witnessed the birth of the Organization and 
of other agencies such as the International Monetary 
Fund and the World Bank after the end of the Second 
World War. This new world is not the result of war or 
of the ideological struggles waged during the second 
half of the twentieth century; rather, it is the child of 
a revolution in knowledge, science, technology and 
information that has been taking place for some time 
and that is now knocking at our doors and creating 
opportunities for material and spiritual progress for 
millions of men and women around the world that many 
of us could not have imagined even a few decades ago. 
This new world is no longer divided by walls or iron 
curtains, but is connected and integrated by the bridges 
of increasing globalization and the massive exchange of 
goods, services, capital and people. 

In this new world we certainly face dangers, 
challenges and opportunities that are also new, and which 
in many cases transcend the borders and jurisdictions 
of individual countries, demanding to be tackled by 
distinguishing where the responsibility of some people 
ends and where the responsibility of others begins. 
Such challenges and problems can be successfully 
dealt with only by harnessing the force of the unity of 
all and the responsibility of each. However, although 
we know we are living in a world that is undergoing 
enormous transformations, many of our international 
organizations often seem resistant to the change that 
such an evolution demands, allowing themselves to fall 
behind instead of leading the process.

Article 1 of the Charter of the United Nations 
states that the principal purposes of the Organization 
include to maintain international peace and security, 
to develop friendly relations among nations and to 
promote international cooperation in the economic, 
social, cultural and humanitarian spheres, as well as 
respect for human rights and the permanent protection 
of human freedoms without distinction as to race, sex, 
language or religion. But let us be clear. None of those 
desires is exclusive to one nation, one era or one specific 
organization: they all emanate from the depths of our 



souls and of each human heart. For that reason, we are 
not here only to proclaim their value and existence 
but to ensure their enforcement and application. We 
therefore appeal not for those values to be changed or, 
still less, to be forgotten. Quite the contrary: we appeal 
for the will and the courage to put them into practice. 
In order to do so, we must perfect our democracies and 
strengthen grassroots participation, but we must also 
modernize our regional and global organizations. In 
that task, as we all know, there is a long road ahead of 
us.

A good first step in that direction is to move 
towards real and far-reaching reform of the Security 
Council, including the enlargement of its permanent 
and non-permanent membership to ensure proper 
regional representation, as well as to strengthen its 
transparency. working methods and decision-making, 
all aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and legitimacy 
of its activities.

In that regard, Chile, which was present at the 
creation of the Organization in 1945, supports the 
inclusion of Brazil, Germany, Japan and India as 
permanent members of the Security Council, as well as 
the African continent’s request for fair representation 
in the Organization. And we join in the appeals to the 
five countries with the right of veto to refrain from 
exercising that right in situations of crimes against 
humanity, war crimes, genocide or ethnic cleansing, 
since the use of the veto in such cases prevents or 
undermines the Council’s efforts to effectively defend 
the most fundamental values that enable humankine to 
advance. 

However, Security Council reform is not limited 
to changes in its membership and organization. It also 
means abandoning the logic of vetoes and replacing 
it by a logic of special quorums, so that the most 
important decisions concerning international security, 
which inevitably affect all countries sooner or later, can 
be adopted in a way that is truly representative of the 
community of nations that make up the United Nations. 
In the end, if we advocate democracy, dialogue and 
participation when we govern our own countries, we 
should advocate for those same principles when we 
address the form in which the United Nations governs 
itself. 

I should like to take this opportunity also to express 
my gratitude for the many expressions of support for 
Chile’s candidacy as a non-permanent member of the 
Security Council in the next two years and to reaffirm 
our strongest commitment to the principles and values 
that have for decades governed and guided our foreign 
policy. I mention in particular our full, unconditional 
respect for international law, the inviolability of 
treaties, legal equality among States, the peaceful 
settlement of disputes and the self-determination 
of peoples — all values that provide the essential 
foundation for international stability and peaceful 
coexistence among nations. In our opinion, however, 
those values should be complemented by the principle 
or notion of the responsibility to protect. That concept 
holds that it is the primary duty of each State to protect 
the population within its borders. And if a State cannot 
or does not want to comply with that primary duty, then 
the international community can and should intervene 
on the basis of three universally recognized pillars, 
namely, prevention, support and the proportional use 
of force in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations, but only as a last resort and when strictly 
essential to prevent, avoid or deter genocide, war 
crimes, ethnic cleansing or crimes against humanity.

In addition, my country once again reaffirms its 
strongest commitment to democracy and respect for the 
human rights of all persons, from their conception to 
their natural death, at all times and in all places and 
all circumstances, as well as our ongoing endorsement 
of multilateralism, of a regionalism that is open to 
the world, and of fair and constructive economic 
competition among all countries. 

In that regard, we reiterate our appeal not only to 
end the proliferation of nuclear arms and weapons of 
mass destruction but also to dismantle those that already 
exist. We strongly condemn the use of the chemical 
weapons in Syria, as well as the indiscriminate use 
of force against the civilian population, which has to 
date produced tens of thousands of innocent victims, 
including women and children, and has caused a 
serious humanitarian crisis that represents a wound 
to our universal conscience and seriously threatens 
international peace and security. 

We therefore welcome and strongly support the 
framework agreement for the elimination of chemical 
weapons in Syria, concluded recently by the United 
States and Russia, as well as the efforts made by the 
Secretary-General and the Joint Special Envoy of the 
United Nations and the League of Arab States to reach 
a peaceful and lasting solution to this prolonged armed 
conflict as soon as possible.



Similarly, Chile has always defended and will 
continue to defend the cause and rights of the 
Palestinian people to have a full, free and democratic 
State — a State that, like the State of Israel, enjoys 
agreed, recognized and secure borders with all its 
neighbours, allowing its inhabitants to live and develop 
in stable and lasting peace and security. We therefore 
recognized Palestine as an observer member of the 
United Nations and hope very soon to welcome it as a 
full Member of the Organization.

With regard to regional matters, in March 
2012, Chile ratified the Protocol on Commitment to 
Democracy, adopted by the member countries of the 
Union of South American Nations, and we hope that it 
will enter into force as soon as possible. In addition, we 
have reiterated our commitment to the Inter-American 
Democratic Charter and shall work tirelessly for the 
cause of democracy, freedom and the full respect for 
human rights in all the countries on our continent and 
throughout the entire world.

Chile has also assumed the presidency pro tempore 
of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States and hosted the first summit of its 33 members, 
at which we signed the Santiago Declaration, in which 
the entire region stated its commitment to democratic 
values and respect for human rights. In addition, we 
headed the first joint summit of the Heads of State 
and Government of Latin America, the Caribbean and 
Europe, at which nations on both sides of the Atlantic 
Ocean undertook to promote sustainable development 
policies in order to encourage high quality investments 
of both social and environmental value.

In the social sphere, although two years still remain 
before the deadline set at the Millennium Summit, we 
can announce with great satisfaction that Chile has 
attained practically all the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) set by the Organization in 2000. We 
are nevertheless redoubling our efforts to attain the 
remaining goals by 2015, and working to ensure that the 
countries that have requested our help can also achieve 
them. We are also participating actively in the efforts at 
the United Nations to define a new global sustainable 
development agenda beyond 2015 that follows on the 
MDGs and establishes specific, measurable, bold 
and feasible responsibilities, both for developing and 
developed nations, with special attention being given 
to ensuring that economic development is compatible 
with social development and the protection of the 
environment.

In addition, Chile, together with Mexico, Colombia 
and Peru, took part in co-founding the Pacific Alliance, 
one of the most far-reaching integration initiatives in our 
region, designed to promote an area for the free flow of 
not only of goods, services and capital but also of persons, 
thus allowing higher growth rates and development and 
greater opportunities for our countries and peoples. We 
are delighted to see that the Pacific Alliance, which 
represents a population of over 210 million, one third 
of Latin America’s gross domestic product and more 
than half of its foreign trade, has, despite its recent 
emergence, already achieved significant results and is 
increasingly attracting the interest of the international 
community, which can be seen in the fact that it has 
attracted more than 20 observer countries, including 
Australia, Canada, China, Spain, the United States and 
Japan.

Lastly, I should like to mention the recent approval 
by the National Congress of my country of legislation 
submitted by the Government that abolishes tariffs on 
imports from the least developed countries, as defined by 
the United Nations. That is an important demonstration 
of the Chilean people’s solidarity with and commitment 
to the development of almost 50 countries in Africa, 
Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean.

A few days ago, Chileans marked the fortieth 
anniversary of the most far-reaching and lasting 
upheaval ever to affect our democracy in our two 
centuries of independent life and which ushered in a 
period characterized by hatred, division and exclusion 
not only in Chile but also in a world torn apart by the 
Cold War. However, in a few days’ time, on 5 October, 
we shall be marking another anniversary in Chile — the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the start of the peaceful 
recovery of our democracy by the free and sovereign 
will of a vast majority of Chileans, which has allowed 
us to recover our democracy in a wise and peaceful 
manner and with the advice and consent of all sectors 
of our country. From both experiences, Chileans have 
learned lessons that I should like to share with the 
Assembly today because I humbly believe that they can 
shed light on how to resolve conflicts that are negatively 
affecting other nations of the world today.

The first lesson is that we must acknowledge 
without reservations of any kind that even in extreme 
situations, including external or internal warfare, there 
are moral and legal rules that must be respected by all 
and that can never be ignored without falling into a 
serious and unacceptable moral vacuum. Among those 



rules, there is the strict respect for the human rights of 
all, in every time and place, under all circumstances. 

The second lesson is that the values of democracy, 
peace and civil amity are much more fragile than we 
usually think, so we cannot, and should never, take 
them for granted. They are somewhat like a tree that 
needs to be watered every day in order not to wither and 
dry up. Such care must be provided not only in deeds 
but also in words, gestures and formal actions, because 
all of them can and must be placed at the service of 
truth, justice, reconciliation and peace. 

The third lesson is that there is a very close 
relationship among the quality of democracy, economic 
progress and social justice, since all of them are mutually 
reinforcing and since the decline of one of them would 
sooner or later have an adverse effect weakening the 
others. Our task, therefore, is not only to strengthen our 
democratic institutions but also to promote economic 
and social policies based on freedom, responsibility, 
justice, equality of opportunity and the fight against 
poverty, and based on uniting the forces of both private 
and public initiative and respect for fundamental 
rights, because such policies are the main engines of 
development of our nations and peoples.

The fourth lesson that we have learned in our country 
is that the past is over. We can discuss it, interpret it 
and, of course, remember it, but we cannot change it, 
and therefore we have no right to remain prisoner to it, 
because when the present is anchored in the past, the 
only thing we lose is the future. For that reason, our 
generation, which is celebrating the bicentennial of our 
country, has no right to bequeath to future generations 
the same hatreds, quarrels and divisions that caused so 
much harm and suffering 40 years ago. The challenge, 
then, is not to forget but to overcome the past with a new, 
positive and hopeful outlook, trying to learn from past 
experience in order to avoid making the same mistakes 
and letting it illuminate the way to the future, and to 
face with greater resolve and efficiency the problems 
and opportunities of the present and the future.

Those and other lessons painfully learned by Chile 
enabled us to recover our democracy peacefully and to 
move forward over the past 25 years on the paths of 
truth, justice and reconciliation among all Chileans. 
But that was an old transition, one that, I believe, we 
accomplished successfully. Today we Chileans are 
facing another transition. This is a new, young and 
forward-looking transition that, before the end of this 
decade, will allow us to turn Chile into a developed 
country that overcame poverty and became fully 
integrated into the community of democratic and 
developed nations. Those are the commitments that the 
Government that I have the honour to lead made to all 
Chileans almost four years ago. We are deeply gratified 
to observe the solid and sustained progress of Chile 
towards their fulfilment.

Despite the devastating earthquake and tsunami 
that struck us in 2010 — at the time, the fifth most 
serious in the known history of humankind — and the 
global economic crisis that began in 2008 and is not 
over, Chile has resumed its leadership, momentum and 
ability to create jobs and strong growth. For example, 
our per capita gross domestic product, which four years 
ago was about $15,000, now stands at $20,000. Poverty 
and inequality are declining and real wages are rising 
rapidly. All indicators show that in key spheres such as 
quality education and health, we are making progress in 
the right direction, further stimulating innovation and 
entrepreneurship and better protecting our consumers, 
workers and the environment. 

At the same time, we have rebuilt virtually 90 per 
cent of everything destroyed by the earthquake and 
tsunami. Obviously, our Government is very proud 
of the contribution that its policies have made to 
the attainment of those goals. But we have no doubt 
that most of the credit goes to all Chileans, men and 
women, who have made enormous contributions to 
arrive at this point. If there is something that we 
in Chile have learned it is that in order to be able to 
grow and to reduce poverty and excessive inequalities, 
nothing works better than to rely on the skills of people 
themselves, expanding their freedoms and unleashing 
the forces of imagination, creativity, innovation and 
entrepreneurship that lie within the hearts of each of 
my compatriots and also — I am sure — the hearts of 
every man and woman around the world.

Those are some thoughts and lessons that I, both as 
President of Chile and as a citizen of the world — wanted 
to share with Heads of State and Government. Those 
are the lessons and thoughts of a country that may be 
small on the international stage and remotely located 
on the world map, but that today enjoys a stable and 
consolidated democracy, broad and guaranteed public 
freedoms and an economic system that, after two 
centuries of republican life, has finally brought us to 
the threshold of development.


===== Session 69 - 2014 =====
At 
the end of the twentieth century, we imagined that the 
twenty-first century would bring greater progress and 
peace for all and that it would be free of the tragedies 
that had convulsed the world. Indeed, we have seen 
hopeful signs of development in many dimensions. Yet 
paradoxically, we see all around us the symptoms of 
crises that, while they may be more localized, have 
more devastating humanitarian consequences. These 
challenges include regional wars, ethnic and religious 
tensions, humanitarian crises, the trampling of human 
rights, the break-up of several States, climate change, 
deepening inequality, cross-border terrorism and the 
spread of terrible pandemics such as Ebola, all of 
which require a firm, urgent response on the part of the 
international community.

That instability, along with a lack of social 
cohesion, poses a threat to peace, security, human 
rights, development and democracy. This affects not 
only countries or States, but the actual men and women 
who inhabit them. In other words, it is a threat to all we 
believe in — everything that constitutes the basis of the 
agreement on which the United Nations was founded 
and everything that is our raison d’être as leaders of 
our societies. That is why the United Nations remains 
irreplaceable as an institution for addressing global 
challenges and for agreeing on the actions needed to 
resolve them, even if some of those actions have not 
produced the desired results.

The Security Council has contributed to addressing 
and preventing crises. One response has been the 
design of robust peacekeeping operations with a strong 
emphasis on the protection of civilians. However, on 
many occasions Council members have been unable 
to act with unity. That undoubtedly undermines the 


legitimacy and credibility of the principal organ 
responsible for international peace and security.

This year has seen a significant rise in the number 
of humanitarian crises around the world, in particular 
in the number of complex emergencies with regional 
impacts that indirectly affect already-fragile States. We 
are concerned about the 3 million refugees created by 
the crisis in Syria; about the actions of terrorist groups 
such as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant; about the 
cruel violence that the world has witnessed in Gaza. We 
express our solidarity with the victims and categorically 
condemn the use of violence. Any action in this area 
must be taken within the context of international law. 
We believe that the international community should 
seek political solutions and inclusive negotiations 
to facilitate action by the Security Council. For our 
part, we are prepared to increase our humanitarian 
commitments and shall consider accepting refugees 
from those conflict zones.

We are also concerned about the situation in 
Ukraine. Here the position of Chile is clear. We 
believe that the principle of territorial integrity must 
be respected and that, at the same time, the rights of 
minorities must be protected. We believe that a solution 
can be found to prevent an escalation of violence, 
sanctions and tensions that may well spread throughout 
the planet.

Generally speaking, we wish to reaffirm our belief 
in the need to respect the integrity of State borders. 
International law is clear and unambiguous. Any 
action designed to affect existing boundary treaties 
creates room for legal uncertainty and could jeopardize 
international peace and stability. In that context, we 
continue to believe that reform of the Security Council 
is a pending issue requiring political decision and swift 
action. We reiterate our support for the enlargement of 
the Council and for the aspirations of Germany, Brazil, 
Japan and India to become permanent members. In 
addition, Chile favours a serious debate on the French 
proposal to limit the right to veto in the case of crimes 
involving the responsibility to protect.

We acknowledge the Secretary-General’s efforts to 
achieve a more inclusive global governance in which 
the post-2015 development agenda and the sustainable 
development goals occupy a central place and require 
the political support of Governments and societies in 
all regions. The post-2015 process provides a great 
opportunity to tackle the social and development 
issues common to all societies and regions, using 
a comprehensive approach, through specific and 
measurable goals. Women and peace and security is an 
item on the agenda of the Security Council to which 
Chile, as a member of the Council, attaches priority. 
Since the adoption of resolution 1325 (2000), the world 
has made progress in the protection of women and girls 
in armed conflicts.

Our efforts to empower women and promote 
initiatives to combat violence against women and girls 
have been tireless. Thanks to those efforts, today women 
are at the centre of the new development and peace 
architecture. We believe that the full incorporation 
of women in every area of society — including the 
economy, politics, and culture — is a prerequisite for 
their full development. It, therefore, should also be a 
priority in the post-2015 development agenda, as should 
early childhood development, which is something that 
has to do with the future of our societies.

I come from Latin America, a region of 
middle-income countries that has its own dreams, 
challenges and tasks. For us, sustainable development, 
security, the quality of governance and, above all, 
inequality and social cohesion are the most pressing 
problems. We want those challenges to appear in the 
post-2015 development agenda, which must be inclusive 
and reflect the situation in all regions of the world.

We believe that inequality is one of the greatest 
threats to countries’ development and international 
security. It fosters social unrest and prevents us all 
from moving towards inclusive development and 
ending exclusion and poverty, which in turn can lead 
to resentment and violence. Therefore, overcoming 
inequality, with its many faces, must occupy a central 
place among the post-2015 development goals. We also 
believe that the United Nations system should have the 
tools for measuring specific progress in a universal 
agenda to combat inequality.

Chile is dealing with the challenge of inequality 
decisively and over the long term. Today in Chile, there 
is a common belief in the need for change — change 
specifically designed to substantially improve equity 
and inclusion. Having made great progress, Chile would 
like to consolidate and move ahead but recognizes that a 
society that has undergone profound and rapid changes 
faces new challenges.

Public opinion and political evolution tell us that 
the time has come to take meaningful steps through 


substantive reforms providing the essential basis 
for moving towards a more dynamic, inclusive and 
equitable development. That is a basic condition for 
moving towards a better society for all. To that end, we 
have recently adopted a tax reform to ensure greater 
equity, fiscal sustainability and the resources necessary 
to carry out an education reform that will ensure a 
quality education, free of charge, and opportunities for 
all. Chile will not achieve development while dragging 
the burden of inequality. We all know that, which is 
why the tax reform has received cross-cutting support.

We are also introducing long-awaited political 
reforms to enhance our democracy and institutional 
legitimacy. We have already adopted a law allowing 
Chileans residing abroad to vote. Progress is being made 
on the reform to alter the electoral system by eliminating 
the existing bias and motivating citizens to participate, 
since now every vote will count. And we want to move 
towards a new Constitution with fully democratic 
foundations and content. We launched a productivity 
and growth agenda to stimulate the economy, promote 
sustainable development and create decent jobs, as a 
basic prerequisite for achieving a lasting reduction in 
inequality and enhancing opportunities. Ultimately, we 
want to broaden the scope of rights to bring them into 
line with our enhanced capability as a country.

Climate change exacerbates inequalities and 
intensifies threats. There is a collective duty to act, 
and Chile is convinced that Latin America has a big 
contribution to make in this debate. Climate change 
aggravates inequalities because it has the greatest 
impact on the most vulnerable. Chile has only a marginal 
effect on the problem, since it accounts for only 0.25 per 
cent of carbon emissions, but it undoubtedly suffers the 
consequences of climate change, as do many others. 
Therefore, we want to be part of the solution. Since 
we understand that this entails a global commitment, 
differentiated actions and binding obligations, we 
voluntarily made a commitment to reduce our emissions 
by 20 per cent by 2020. Several other Latin American 
countries have made similar voluntary commitments. 
We should like to propose here that there be some type 
of accountability, which would facilitate compliance 
and would help to set an example for the countries that 
are lagging behind.

The Organization must ensure the efficiency and 
consistency of multilateralism as a special forum 
for tackling the major global issues in an inclusive 
manner, creating international regimes and promoting 
cooperation arrangements in priority areas for our 
peoples. Our country trusts multilateralism, and 
we believe that participating in the system involves 
both rights and responsibilities. Because we want to 
contribute to the solution of global problems, we are a 
member of the Security Council and the Human Rights 
Council, we aspire to membership in the Economic 
and Social Council, and we are contributing to 
peacekeeping operations, including the United Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti. That Mission, in which 
a number of Latin American countries are engaged, is 
a tangible action of solidarity to support the democratic 
consolidation of a sister country.

We believe, therefore, that it is a political imperative 
to strengthen multilateralism in three fundamental 
ways. The first is by enhancing the Secretary-General’s 
ability to take initiatives. In the context of the functions 
envisaged in the Charter, it is essential to continue 
support for the political leadership of the Secretary-
General to take preventive action and respond to urgent 
situations that jeopardize the dignity of people and 
international peace and security.

The second relates to fieldwork. The ability of the 
system to take action in the field is a basic prerequisite 
in order for the Organization to be relevant to people’s 
demands and real problems. As the former Executive 
Director of UN-Women, I had the privilege of seeing the 
conviction, solidarity and dedication with which United 
Nations staff help to promote the ideals, principles and 
mandates of the system.

The third area of focus is development and 
cooperation. The process of constructing a post-
2015 development agenda requires renewed efforts to 
provide official development assistance and to promote 
innovative financing mechanisms, encouraging 
partnerships between countries, international bodies, 
civil society and the private sector.

Chile is interested in a greater coordination of 
initiatives and instruments to facilitate South-South 
cooperation between middle-income countries while 
seeking out ways in which their essential contribution 
can be made effective. I would also like to note that 
in Chile we have enacted legal provisions to open our 
economy fully to imports from the 48 least developed 
countries, without duties or quotas.

I would like to conclude by reiterating the irrevocable 
commitments made by Chile’s successive democratic 
Governments to the work of the United Nations. Those 


commitments reflect universal principles and values, as 
they promote the protection, dignity and fundamental 
rights of all individuals and contribute to crisis 
prevention, dialogue, reconciliation and post-conflict 
management. Our convictions and efforts will always 
be aimed at enhancing the legitimacy of collective 
action to meet people’s concerns and demands. We 
believe that, with an effective and real effort on the 
part of the international community, we will be able 
to deal successfully with exceptional crises and, first 
and foremost, build a world in which all inhabitants live 
together in peace and dignity.


===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
Today’s world is faced with both challenges and tasks. We are witnessing a plethora of serious international crises in various parts of the world, crises that have impacted international peace and security, most notably in the Middle East, but also in Europe and Africa. Those crises affect, in particular, huge segments of the civilian populations, who, in desperation, are fleeing in order to save their lives and forge a better future.
As an international community, we are dutybound to react with solidarity to restore peace and deploy a response that will enable us to minimize the suffering of both the victims of war and those who are fleeing from war. We commend the efforts that many countries are making to take in the refugees, but we must do more. That is why my Government has decided to take in refugees from the civil war in Syria, and it is also why Chile will expand cooperation with Africa. As of 2016, for example, we will be participating in United Nations peacekeeping operations in that region.
In addition to facint the most urgent challenges threatening peace, our planet has yet to stem growing inequality or reach an agreement that would halt global warming. It is for that reason, against the backdrop of such serious international challenges, that this seventieth session of the General Assembly will go down in history as a momentous occasion on which the international community succeeded in forging an agreement, namely, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). That Agenda is replete with hope and is binding in nature. It focuses on addressing various aspects of inequality, which is the main challenge to be found in Latin America, and of course, it goes without saying, in Chile as well.
In this new phase of our economic and political development the new Agenda is broad and ambitious and is commensurate with the pressing challenges and long-term goals of fair, creative and peaceful human coexistence. It does not sweep aside the commitments that have already been entered into whose fulfilment is still pending, but rather incorporates new goals and targets, integrating them multidimensionally into the concept of sustainable and inclusive development. It is, in other words, an Agenda of change.
That is an approach that we share and vigorously support — equality within and among countries, equality
between men and women, growth, industrialization and inclusive and sustainable consumption, the protection of the environment in its various facets, and social peace, to name but a few of the Agenda’s Goals. They are the face and indeed the foundation of a mode of coexistence based on very deeply held values.
We have an opportunity to address the feelings of despair and hopelessness about the future and the lack of trust in institutions that permeate some of our societies. The chief responsibility for sustainable and more equal development rests with each individual country. Chile is wholeheartedly committed to delivering on that responsibility. However, success in that endeavour requires a propitious environment, since many of the targets are affected by global dynamics and most of the challenges that we face today cannot be resolved by any single country acting in isolation.
Only if we can deliver on an agenda of change at the global as well as the national levels will it be possible to promote more inclusive and sustainable societies. When international trade does not act as an engine of growth, when financial flows are asymmetrical, minimal and volatile, if there are no fair and effective mechanisms for dealing with sovereign debt, if there are not enough predictable flows of official development assistance, then emerging countries, especially the poorer ones, will have great difficulty in attaining the Goals contained in the 2030 Agenda.
Similarly, it is clear that international financial, monetary and trading systems must operate more democratically, effectively and fairly in relation to the interests of developing countries. That is not always the case at present. Consequently, a basic prerequisite for making the Agenda a reality is to strengthen the system of global institutions and multilateral cooperation with broad representation, clear mandates and effective tools. We are calling for an architecture of multilateral institutions that will provide backing for the national policies proposed under the 2030 Agenda.
Chile has strengthened the role it plays in the multilateral system. In 2014 and 2015 we have served as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. In the light of that experience we wish to reaffirm our belief in the need to reform the Council by increasing the number of its permanent members and by reducing the use of the veto, at the very least in cases involving crimes against humanity. Such a reform is necessary, reflecting the considerable change and progress seen
in the multilateral system, and it would undoubtedly confer greater legitimacy on that most important organ of the United Nations.
We as a country are aware that we are all responsible for ensuring that the international system works properly. One essential element for bringing that about is the principle of adherence to international law, which includes strict respect for treaties, as a means of guaranteeing peace and international stability. That requires respecting what has been agreed on and refraining from misusing the mechanisms that have been designed for peacefully resolving any differences that may exist.
From its home at the southern tip of the American continent, Chile is looking forward, full of hope, to the outcome of the 2015 Paris Climate Conference in December. We have one of the longest coastlines in the world. We will soon be hosting the second Our Ocean Conference, at which countries will be asked to make voluntary commitments to reducing pollution of the seas, combat illegal fishing and protect the diversity of marine resources.
As for its intended nationally determined contribution, my country committed to reducing its CO2 emissions by 30 per cent by 2030, compared with 2007, and by up to 45 per cent if we can count on robust international support. Moreover, we are determined to restore 100,000 acres of forest and to reforest an additional 100,000 acres of land.
Agenda 2030 gives us a shared horizon, a shared destination. Now we must act. Each country must act individually, of course, but at the same time we must cooperate with each other in the various North- South and South-South forums and must tackle global challenges jointly in the multilateral forums that we have available to us.
I should like to conclude this statement by congratulating two Governments of our region that have resumed diplomatic relations recently, namely, Cuba and the United States of America. That is an historic step for our region and for the world. Chile applauds the use of dialogue and respect for international law as the civilized way for countries to resolve their differences.
I should also like to say that we are extraordinarily pleased to see that there have been numerous other agreements reached as well, for instance between the Government of Colombia and the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia. We believe that is also proof that where there is a will, there is a way to come to an agreement. Colombia and its people can count on our active support in that process, which we are confident will lead to a lasting peace.
We have reason to be proud of our joint achievements and also, let it be said, to be concerned about and attentive to our collective future. But there are grounds for hope as well. Those beliefs should guide our action and our commitment to build a better world, a world in which there is better balance between development and the preservation of our environment, a world in which we see more justice, cohesion and equality in our societies and among our peoples.


===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
We are living in times that show us the necessity of shifting our perspective with regard to addressing development. Our world is in the midst of a crisis that extends back years, and which, far from being resolved, has only worsened, generating criticism of political institutions that do not seem capable of representing their citizens. At the same time, economic growth has given way to a global slowdown and has not been able to provide the world’s population with the well-being that it seeks.
It would appear that the far-reaching dynamics that caused the crisis some years ago were not superseded but merely superficially retouched. But citizens today are more aware and empowered. Thanks to new technology, they have new means of expression. They are showing us that in their daily lives, at their places of work, at their children’s schools, in the health of their families, in the security of their cities, in the pensions of their mothers and fathers and in the relations between men and women, the negative effects of inequitable development are still being felt. This is the main basis for the citizen discontent that we have seen in various parts of the world.
At the same time, we are facing an unprecedented environmental crisis that threatens life on earth, has medical, clinical, economic, climatic and environmental impacts and mostly affects the most vulnerable. These are combined with violence and armed conflict in many parts of the world, which increase precariousness and exponentially expand forced displacement and major migratory movements.
Citizen discontent is the expression of disillusionment about the promised development that they desire and for which they have fought valiantly but which is still beyond their reach. We are witnessing a growing schism between the representatives and the represented. There is a lack of trust in national Governments as well as in multilateral forums. They appear not to be tackling the priorities of the common citizen in a timely manner or with the required depth. Now is not the time for taking the easy but ultimately destructive route of populism. Now is the time for action inspired by an ethically motivated and civically oriented pragmatism.
The Sustainable Development Goals that we are committed to achieving by 2030 demonstrate that the international community knows that it must embark on far-reaching changes and implement them with concrete measures. Now we must summon up the political will in multilateral forums and in each of our countries. There is inertia to be overcome and there are interests to be dealt with. The political and development crisis that we are facing has global dynamics. Nobody, no nation or social group can do it alone. We need to engage in multilateral dialogues at the regional and global levels, assuming realistic but demanding commitments. I insist that we must act now. At home, the citizens are waiting for us, asking us to transmit their demands and return with decisions and determination. I hope that we can do that.
Chile is a mid-sized country that is not yet fully developed. However, its rapid modernization in recent decades has placed us squarely at the frontier of the challenges of modernity, with the tensions inherent in democracy and economic growth. I am speaking at this rostrum today having had this experience. I am also speaking from experience of having embarked on the changes requested by the citizens of my homeland. I know how difficult it is to make changes, but I also know the hope of seeing a new horizon gradually emerge. This is the course on which we have embarked as a nation, but also as a part of the international community.
At the regional and international levels, our country has advocated convergence in diversity in Latin America, seeking a common agenda that, despite our differences, gives us strength as a bloc and as a region. And we have made progress. We are working on integration with Mexico, Colombia and Peru in the Pacific Alliance, which already has 49 observer States and which is growing stronger decisively and pragmatically. Today, two integration mechanisms — the Pacific Alliance and the Southern Common Market — are aiming to promote a better Latin America, strengthening cooperation and making clear that national development and international relations cannot be seen as separate subjects.
In Latin America there are significant differences, but we are working together in spite of them to meet the new challenges. We are doing that within the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, where 33 member States are seeking to confront the new political, social and economic environment. In addition, within the Union of South American Nations, South American countries consult each other to address common political problems.
Our nation’s principles are immutable and include a call to peace, democracy and respect for human rights, respect for international law and the treaties, sovereignty and the obligation to cooperate. The promotion and protection of democracy and human rights at the international level are not contrary to the principle of non-intervention. In fact, today that is a global achievement.
I believe that Colombia has given us one of the greatest pieces of news this year. At the regional and international levels, there is hope for peace. Next Monday, the agreement to end the hostilities of a civil war that has been raging for more than 50 years will be signed. Chile, a country that also had a difficult transition to democracy, would like to continue supporting its Latin American brother in handling its post-conflict situation, including with military and police observers in the United Nations political mission, working with it in solidarity as we have done in other brother countries such as Haiti.
We have committed to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development Goals. Similarly, we signed the Paris Agreement — the most ambitious and robust agreement in the history of multilateral negotiations on climate change. Together with Monaco and France, we proposed the Because the Ocean Declaration to stress the need to pay special attention to the way in which environmental degradation affects ocean waters. It has been signed by more than 30 countries.
Protecting the oceans is vital for our common future, and today they are under threat. Chile has therefore decided to take action by creating the Nazca- Desventuradas Marine Park, which is the largest of its kind in Latin America. We are also engaged in a South- South cooperation project to assist Caribbean countries in combating marine pollution.
Outside of this building and in the most diverse corners of the world, people, their leaders, civil society and the media are expecting the States Members of this Organization to provide cooperative, creative and tangible responses to the problems of the twenty-first century. That is why I raise my voice again in favour of Security Council reform to reflect today’s new realities. I raise my voice in favour of an effective management of the United Nations and greater openness in its procedures, including the election of its new Secretary-General. I ask him or her to be committed to the principles that serve the people who founded the Organization. We know that successfully meeting challenges requires joint, consensual efforts. We need more multilateralism, cooperation and dialogue. This is an irreplaceable forum for debate and adoption of agreements. It is a platform for coordinated action.
Ms. Kasese-Bota (Zambia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Chile is a country open to the world, which promotes clear-cut rules and political and economic agreements in order to move forward. The United Nations must play its role as a place of consensus in opposition to inequality and the discrimination against religious, ethnic and gender minorities, a place to which the most vulnerable may turn. Let us make the United Nations the Organization that our peoples need and call for.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
I want to begin by sending a fraternal greeting to the people of Mexico, and especially to the relatives and friends of the victims of the terrible earthquake that struck that fraternal country yesterday. I also convey my sentiments to the victims and all those affected by the hurricanes that in recent weeks and days have caused enormous damage in the region and, in some cases, irreparable losses.
Those most recent catastrophes, caused by hurricanes more frequent and violent than usual — largely due to the warming of the oceans — remind us that we are at a key moment in the history of humankind, a defining moment that will have repercussions on our lives and on the lives of our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. While the challenges we face today are different from those that gave rise to the Organization 72 years ago, they are as relevant and as defining as those faced by the postwar generation.
On the one hand, the notion of development that has prevailed until now has been shaken by the relentless reality of climate change. We can close our eyes and deny a reality whose devastating effects will become more frequent and intense, or we can assume our responsibility. Beyond reducing carbon dioxide emissions, that implies daring to transform our production models and rethinking the type of growth we wish to promote.
On the other hand, at a time when there is democracy in so many countries as never before, we see a citizenry that has grown impatient with institutions whose legitimacy has been called into question by corruption, inequality and inefficiency with regard to citizens’ most urgent demands.
Finally, in an international scenario marked by uncertainty, another definition is required. We either let each State attempt to impose itself and take the greatest advantage of its position, or we work actively for common peace and stability by strengthening the multilateral instruments and cooperation. The fact that we are here today in this Hall, where so many have touted the strength of peaceful and collective work, requires us to look at the risks we face and take on individual and collective tasks, weighing the consequences of inaction.
Today I bring the voice of Chile — a country that has learned from its history, a country that has known pain, but also hope. Beyond its geographical location in the extreme south of the American continent, my country is in fact not far from the world. Quite the contrary, it is fully within it. We therefore know that many of the great local challenges are, and will continue to be, global challenges, and that each global challenge must also find a local response. There is no room for fatalism in the face of those challenges. Today I bring the message of realistic optimism. It is possible to reverse past decisions, overcome inertia and correct our path. That is true for small and large countries, be they in the centre or on the periphery.
The enormous strength of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is precisely that they not only propose a new approach to improving the living conditions of people, they propose that we do it together, based on the strengths of each country. Our commitment to national tasks is bolstered by contact with others. Faced with the choice of whether or not to join the fight against climate change, we have not doubted — simply because there is no room for denialism or selfish postures.
In line with SDG 14, on the oceans, and the Paris Agreement, my country has launched a national action plan for climate change. Among the measures already under way are the green tax on carbon dioxide emissions from fixed sources and the transformation we have made in the energy sector. Since the start of this Administration, non-conventional renewable energy has gone from 6.3 per cent to 17 per cent of our matrix, and our goal is to reach 90 per cent by 2050. That is possible, because we have already started the energy transition.
In addition, we have been active in the Our Oceans initiative. We have created new marine parks and marine-protected areas. Almost half of our exclusive economic zone is protected today, reaching the historic figure of 1,329,000 square kilometres under marine conservation.
While we have made significant progress in that direction, we are aware that we must address another threat to marine ecosystems — plastics. Year after year, 8 million tons of plastic make their way to the ocean, remaining there for hundreds of years and making a huge negative impact. To tackle that problem, we participate in the Clean Seas campaign of the United Nations Environment Programme. Meanwhile, at the local level, we will present a draft bill to ban the use of plastic bags in coastal cities within 12 months. That law will permit citizens to contribute to the protection of the oceans. We will thus be the first country in America to implement that type of law, and we call on other countries to assume that responsibility.
Additionally, it is now 30 years since the adoption of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, which enabled the ozone layer to recover. On this thirtieth anniversary, I would like to announce that my country has just deposited its ratification of the 2016 Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, which aims to prevent 0.5°C of global warming. Chile thereby becomes one of the first countries to ratify that new agreement. But that is not all. With the creation of a network of parks in Patagonia, we have also added 4.5 million hectares of green areas, rich in biodiversity, which will now be protected by the State for public use.
That shows that it is possible to move forward when there is will, when the public and private worlds join forces. Sustainable development is not a desire impossible to finance. On the contrary, it is the best way for economic activity to be sustained over time.
But as I said at the beginning of my remarks, this is not the only dilemma. We also share pressing challenges in terms of democracy and inclusion. International experience has helped us and alerted us to the need to take charge of improving our democratic institutions, as well as transparency and probity in both politics and business, putting a brake on corruption.
In that connection, we substantially modified the electoral system that we inherited from the dictatorship, making it more proportional and inclusive and guaranteeing a minimum quota of 40 per cent for female candidates. Along with that, we made changes to the regulations that govern the financing of electoral campaigns and political parties so that money does not define the outcome of elections. And we are in the process of a participatory drafting of a new constitution that is more modern and democratic.
But we understand that strengthening our democracy is not enough if we do not respond to the demand for greater individual liberties and rights for people. That is why we have made decisive progress in expanding sexual and reproductive freedoms and rights. Of course, that movement towards higher levels of individual freedom must be accompanied by social policies that promote equality and solidarity and expand people’s capacities. That is why education is at the heart of our reforms.
In less than four years, we have implemented important changes to ensure, on the one hand, that people will have the education they need and deserve, regardless of their socioeconomic situation, and, on the other, that Chile can count on professionals and technicians in the most important areas for its development. We have done that by enacting reforms from nursery school to higher education, and we have put public education at the centre of that movement. We are gradually increasing access to free education, first for lower-income families — next year, 60 per cent of our students will be have access to higher education free of charge — and then for the entire population.
That is our way of promoting the idea that there can be no individual progress without collective progress, that there can be no lasting well-being where a few privileged groups become disconnected from the most disadvantaged. That is our way of realizing that well-being must be founded on a common link and universal values in order to become a reality.
Lastly, with regard to the third definition we are called upon to understand, I unreservedly state that Chile maintains an unchanging strategic understanding of peace, democracy, human rights and the rights of migrants, and free trade. For that reason, I cannot help but mention the situation of our brother country Venezuela. Chile, together with 11 countries in the region, has called for credible dialogue between the Government and the opposition. We are prepared to play the role that Venezuelans deem appropriate in order to achieve good results in a peaceful, political and democratic manner.
In the same vein, we are not the only ones to express our concern about the threats to peace in different parts of the world, such as the Middle East and areas of Africa and Eastern Europe, in particular with regard to the insistence on the use of nuclear weapons, which tests the very limits of peaceful coexistence. As we have publicly indicated, we hope that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will stop the nuclear tests, comply with the resolutions of the Security Council, contribute to guaranteeing lasting stability in North- East Asia and agree to resolve the situation through peaceful diplomatic and political channels.
In that context, we actively participated in negotiations for the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which we signed this morning. That historic act creates a standard that sets the basis for future negotiations, making it possible to completely eliminate nuclear weapons in a verifiable, irreversible manner.
Along with that, I wish to express our pride and satisfaction at having participated for 13 years, with more than 12,000 men and women, in the troop and police contingents of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. We have renewed our commitment to continuing to participate in cooperation with our specialized police in the United Nations Mission for Justice Support in Haiti. Furthermore, as part of our policy on cooperation for development, Haiti has been made a priority partner, like the Caribbean and Central America, in programmes to improve institutions, security, enterprise and professional training.
Along the same lines, I also wish to highlight the participation of Chilean observers in the peace process in Colombia, who are wrapping up the first special political mission and initiating the transition to the second. Chile also participated in the first stage of the process with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, and we are now participating as a garantor in conversations between the Colombian Government and the National Liberation Army.
We do not believe only in the peaceful resolution of conflicts and disputes, but also in the enormous opportunities opened up by trade. We have worked intensely with our bilateral partners and with the Pacific Alliance to create what we call convergence in diversity. Latin American countries should come together on the basis of that which unites us instead of dwelling on our differences. That is to say, on each and every issue that pertains to international coexistence, we have affirmed, and will continue to reaffirm, our commitment to multilateralism and the existence of rules that guarantee the fair treatment of each country.
Like other middle-income countries, my country faces major short- and medium-term challenges. That is why we value the multidimensional vision for development set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, which recognize the differences between countries and gaps in development that are obscured when the only measurement of development is per capita income.
Yet it appears that we are facing a contradiction. Middle-income countries, including many small island developing States in the Caribbean, are being graduated by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development solely for having passed the per-capita income criterion. Where, then, is the multidimensional criterion of the 2030 Agenda?
Faced with that situation, Chile, together with other countries in the region, has spoken out and requested that a serious dialogue be initiated regarding the incorporation of multidimensional criteria in the definition of development. Together with Jamaica, we are launching a new initiative, the Resilient 20, which seeks to create an alliance to promote resilience in countries that are vulnerable to natural disasters, with a focus on middle-income countries but not limited to them.
Faced with the challenges presented by governance of the international community, I reaffirm the value of this Assembly and this Organization. That is why we support the transformations promoted by Secretary- General António Guterres for managing the Secretariat, which will facilitate decision-making in key sectors in both policy and administrative issues as well as promote confidence between Member States and the Organization. We have also supported the readjustments to the process of selecting and appointing the Secretary- General so as to make it more transparent and inclusive of all Member States. The long-awaited reform of the Security Council, to make it more democratically representative and fitting for the realities of the world today, is still pending.
The world is seen differently from the South. While we still see vast sectors of our countries without access to the most basic public services, and when there is still hunger, segregation, precarious work and enormous inequality, there is only one conclusion: we have a long way to go for the agenda of solidarity to overcome the agenda of selfishness and indifference. It is true that some of those challenges are not exclusive to emerging countries — advanced democracies are also experiencing them. But the demands continue to be far more basic in the South. Chile has made major progress. In several areas we have reached standards that near those of developed countries, and we are proud of those gains.
However, there are still many countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia that are facing histories of pain and frustration. We share with them a history of effort and hope that bonds us together in the present and the future. Because we have known scarcity, we know what it is to fight to break free of underdevelopment, as well as the fear of falling back into its grasp. We also know what it is to be a middle-income country with a healthy, solid economy yet with dramatic gaps in equality and opportunity for its inhabitants.
We therefore know at first hand the need to make changes, but also that change must come about through solidarity, which we claim not only for individuals but also for peoples. To share, cooperate and collaborate is the first step in societies caring for themselves, to regard the present and the future with greater certainty. Today it is true that the needs of the global scene are different, but they are urgent and require historic efforts from one and from all. We must cooperate on the level of each country on projects coordinated between nations and guided by a clear agenda that inspires us all and to which we can all contribute.

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
Twenty years ago, in this very Hall, Kofi Annan set out the three great challenges facing the international community at the time: first, the challenge of security and the need to replace the post-Cold War world order with a new one, governed by peace and freedom; secondly, the challenge of development and the need  to ensure that globalization benefited all peoples and countries, leaving no one behind; thirdly, the challenge of human rights and the rule of law, and the need to protect the dignity of all without distinction as to race, colour, gender, language or any other discriminatory factor (see A/53/PV.7).
Twenty years have now gone by, and the challenges bequeathed to us by Kofi Annan — security, development and human rights — remain just as important and are still key challenges to our world order. These challenges, of course, come under new guises and take on various forms. We are no longer divided by the mistrust, fear and prejudice that were the legacy of the walls and iron curtains that emerged in the wake of the Second World War. The truth is that many factors unite us in terms of human dignity and freedoms, and we are connected by a knowledge- and information-based society that has enabled those who embrace it to reap the benefits but is indifferent and cruel to those who turn their back to it. We are living at a time of vast global transformation, which means the emergence of tremendous new opportunities as well as major new dangers.
Some believed that the end of the Cold War also meant the end of history, and that we had at last found our way and were approaching an era of peace, freedom and prosperity, based on democracy and the social
market economy. However, history will never meet its end as long as there are still free men and women who think for themselves. Accordingly, a new world order has emerged that has given rise to new divisions and tensions in many parts of the world. States are no longer the only main players in international relations.
In the area of security, we have not yet been able  to overcome serious threats to international  peace  and security such as terrorism, drug trafficking, armed conflict, organized crime, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and illicit trafficking in weapons and persons. Furthermore, as never before, today we are compelled to face one of the biggest challenges resulting from these threats to international peace and security — large-scale migration around  the world, which is a significant challenge for the entire international community. We are aware of its causes — terrorism, war, ethnic and religious conflict, hunger and totalitarian regimes, all of which have recently caused the largest displacement of people in the history of humankind. The figures are stark and speak for themselves. There are currently 260 million people who have had to leave their countries of origin. Every year more than 1.3 million people abandon their countries for the reasons I have mentioned.
In the light of that situation, Chile’s commitment is categorical and clear. We are designing a safe, orderly and regular migration policy, in line with the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants and the global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, which raise the need to establish migration policies that guarantee safe, orderly and regular migration. We want to receive and welcome all who enter Chile seeking new and better lives, who do so with the intention of obeying our laws, committing to the development of our country and to integrating into our society. With equal strength and conviction, however, we want to keep  order  in our country and bar those who enter illegally, break our laws, come to commit crimes or have committed serious crimes in their countries of origin. By doing so we can prevent and impede the entry of drug traffickers and people involved in organized crime, because all Presidents and Heads of State and Government are responsible for their citizens’ safety, which is of course a key concern for any Government.
Our migration policy seeks to strike a balance between the State’s sovereign right to regulate the manner in which migrants enter and remain in our country, on the one hand, and its duty to respect
 
and guarantee the fundamental rights and duties of migrants, on the other, by putting a stop to irregular immigration, punishing criminal acts and welcoming those who come to integrate legally into our societies in accordance with the law.
The second great challenge is development. Six months ago, when I  embarked  on  my  second  term as President of Chile, I pledged to undertake a great mission — transforming Chile into a developed country without poverty and with greater equality of opportunity and solidarity by the end of the next decade. Genuine development is much more than economic growth. We are therefore talking about comprehensive development that encompasses all aspects of our lives, an inclusive development that reaches all families, individuals and regions, and a sustainable development that protects and is in aligned with nature and the environment. That is the genuine development that all peoples and countries need and that we almost all ratified through our previous commitment to the Millennium Development Goals and now through the 17 Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, to which we are committed under the auspices of the United Nations.
For that reason, the importance of defending and strengthening multilateralism and free trade, to which many have alluded this week, is now severely under threats from such things as trade and tariff wars, the consequences of which we felt as long ago as the Great Depression of the previous century. The economic dimension is, of course, very important. More than ever, we need to promote and bolster an international system that is predictable and based on clear and agreed standards, fosters free trade and enables mechanisms for settling disputes peacefully rather than through conflict, confrontation or tariff wars.
However, we must also think about creating a culture and an international community that are built on the principles and values of freedom, human dignity, full respect for human rights, gender equality and the fight against climate change and other new emerging threats, such as those related to cyberspace.
Such comprehensive, inclusive and sustainable development compels us to implement robust measures aimed at ensuring full equality in terms of rights, dignity and opportunities for both women  and  men, as well as a culture of zero tolerance for violence or discrimination against women. Our true development
can be measured by the way in which we treat our societies’ most vulnerable members, such as children, women, elderly people, those suffering from disease and the poorest. In many of  those  areas,  many  of our countries still have a long way to go.
Today our planet faces major threats and challenges, such as a deteriorating environment, global warming, growing desertification, the destruction of the ozone layer, the depletion of natural resources, the loss of biodiversity, as well as air, water and soil pollution and deforestation, to name just a few.
Some time ago, major and well-regarded magazines published photographs of the Earth with the caption “Save planet Earth”. But  that should not  be our greatest concern. Planet Earth has existed for more than 4 billion years and has survived all kinds  of catastrophes — flooding, glaciation, warming and earthquakes. What is actually at risk is the survival of the human race on planet Earth. During its long history, 99 out of every 100 species that have ever existed have now disappeared. Naturally, we do not want to add human beings to that sad list of extinct species.
We know that the environment is changing and that global warming is occurring faster than our efforts to understand, halt and stop it. The alarm bells continue to sound and our citizens continue to march, and we cannot claim to be ignorant about it. We have  a  duty to respond immediately to nature’s desperate cries for protection, so that in turn it can protect us. There is  no time to lose and no reason to procrastinate about this, because time is no longer our ally. It is our enemy. Our generation’s response to this great challenge will undoubtedly be judged by our children, grandchildren and other generations to come. The threat of climate change and the way we address it will define this and future centuries and requires a vast multilateral effort. We are aware that we are dealing with a truly serious, urgent and growing threat that we can no longer ignore, delay or downplay.
No nation is immune  to  that  threat,  but  Chile  is especially vulnerable. My country is a veritable observatory and natural laboratory, as it contains very diverse land, maritime, coastal and glacial ecosystems, among many others, as well as unique island ecosystems that are home to more than 30,000 species of plants, animals, fungi and bacteria. In addition, Chile is geographically unique because of its natural barriers, the Andes range to the east, the Pacific Ocean to the
 
west, the Atacama desert to the north and the Antarctic to the south, which means that we are home to species found nowhere else in the world. For example, almost 90 per cent of fish species — the highest percentage  in the world — on Robinson Crusoe Island in the Juan Fernández archipelago are endemic; in other words, they are unique to that environment.
However, that virtue is also our Achilles heel. Chile, as a natural observatory, is greatly exposed to the risks and threats of climate change  and  global  warming. In fact, seven of the nine major vulnerability factors listed in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change apply to Chile — low-lying coastal areas, arid and semi-arid areas, large forested areas, areas prone to natural disasters, areas prone to drought and desertification, urban areas with atmospheric pollution problems, and mountainous ecosystems.
That compels us to seek urgent and effective solutions in order to adapt to and address the threat of global warming. As President of Chile, I am especially committed to sustainable development, in other words, environmentally friendly development that respects nature. A threat that was once remote is  now  upon  us, and we are currently witnessing the lethal impact of those changes and their possible future impact on present and future generations. There is no time to lose. We must take the bull by the horns and do whatever is necessary to change the course of history.
What has Chile done in that regard? First, we are committed to creating protected areas that preserve crucial biodiversity. Chile has been a regional and world leader in creating protected areas since the beginning of the last century, starting with the Malleco National Reserve. Today, there are 180 marine and land-protected areas in Chile covering more than 120 million hectares.
We are also firmly committed to conserving our oceans, their biodiversity and the sustainable use of their resources. We  have  already protected more than
13 per cent of our exclusive economic zone, which stretches along Chile’s approximately 4,200 kilometres of coastline. And we are on our way to achieving 40 per cent protection, with the largest marine protected area in Latin America, one of the largest in the world, on wondrous Easter Island, or Rapa Nui.
In addition, the energy path that we are following towards a cleaner, safer, more cost-effective and more diversified energy matrix that strongly promotes decarbonization has enabled us to make significant
headway in developing clean, renewable energy, particularly volcanic energy — Chile has 25 per cent of the world’s active volcanoes — as well as wind and solar energy, since Chile is home to a desert with the highest solar radiation levels in the world. We are also making great advances in removing fossil fuels from our transport system and moving towards electromobility, with a more definitive solution that is more compatible with those objectives.
Moreover, we are addressing the threat to our planet posed by plastic. We understand how important it is for all Governments to act in time to prevent 12 billion tons — a figure we have almost reached — of plastic waste from ending up in natural environments, meaning that there would be more plastic bags than fish in our oceans. I am very happy that the first piece of legislation to be adopted during my current term in office has banned the use of plastic bags in Chilean shops. Chile is the first country in Latin America to restrict the free distribution of any kind of single-use plastic bag. The fact is that one plastic bag takes seconds to produce and is used, on average, for 15 minutes on the journey back from the supermarket, but then takes 400 years to biodegrade, which means that for a few minutes of use, nature and humankind must suffer the harmful effects of one plastic bag for more than 400 years.
Once and for all, we must address many of those problems with a new attitude and abandon the idea that the goals of economic growth and the protection of the environment are incompatible. The fact is that if growth is unsustainable, it will simply cease to exist. We must also abandon our throwaway culture and return to embracing one of recycling.
Pollution has struck very dramatically and close to home in my country, Chile. Over the past few weeks, the two communes of Puchuncaví and Quintero, which have long been overpolluted, experienced serious episodes of environmental pollution, affecting the health of many citizens. In view of the seriousness of the situation, I immediately visited the areas concerned to meet with the authorities and the communities and to see and experience, with my own eyes and senses, the dramatic effects of that environmental disaster. During my visit, I made a promise to Chilean citizens to rewrite the future for those two communities and many others. To that end, we are  implementing  a plan to resolve the emergency situation and protect  our citizens’ health. We are also developing a long- term solution to enable us to better protect the quality
 
and health of our water, air and soil through ongoing monitoring with the highest available technological standards and the implementation of extraordinary emission standards for polluting companies, as  well  as a comprehensive pollution plan that will enable us to permanently resolve such situations and achieve a definitive solution, putting an end to the so-called sacrificial zones in our country.
We know that nature is not a gift inherited from our parents, and that we therefore cannot use it as we like. Rather, it is a loan from our children, grandchildren and future generations. We must nurture it and return it to them in better condition. That challenge must involve all stakeholders in society. Channelling collective and multisectoral efforts requires the commitment of us all. That is the aim of the framework law on climate change that we are implementing in Chile and that by 2030 will enable us to reduce our greenhouse-gas emissions by 30 per cent compared to the base year.
To do it, we must incorporate the climate-change perspective into all public policy and private-sector commitments. We are doing just that by incorporating environmental and climate-change policies into our national investment system and our evaluation systems for public  expenditure  and  environmental  impact. In addition, we are including those concerns and commitments in both bilateral and multilateral trade agreements, such as the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, which unites 11 countries on both shores of the vast Pacific Ocean, as well as in the ways in which we are addressing the process of adding new members to the Pacific Alliance.
Without doubt, those developments have reduced our carbon emissions and will continue to significantly reduce them while strengthening our economy. The challenge is extremely demanding and requires great determination and ambition. In that regard, we have two important allies, the first of which is technology. Today, the scientific imagination and innovation and the scientific and technological advances that have emerged from the freedom and creativity  of  free men and women have equipped us with new tools to combat this relatively new and serious threat..We must therefore continue to boost and foster our technology and scientific entrepreneurs so that they will join this fight and not repeat the errors of the past. In recent days we learned of an initiative that can clean the rubbish and plastic out of our oceans more efficiently. In our efforts
to fulfil our commitments, those are the technologies that we are using in my country.
Moreover, we have a multilateral system that enables us to act in a coordinated manner. That is precisely the point of the Sustainable Development Goals. However, we are aware that bureaucracy often slows down United Nations efforts. We must therefore improve coordination and be able to generate more delivery and accountability, while also focusing more on the results and less on the process. As a great United States President once remarked, our generation is in a unique twofold situation. We are the first generation  to feel the impact of climate change and also the last generation that can do something about it.
I shall now turn to human rights — the third challenge raised by the late  Kofi  Annan  20  years ago in this Hall — and the challenge of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. Five years ago, from this very rostrum (see A/68/PV.5), I was able to share the lessons and teachings of Chileans 40 years after the collapse of democracy in our country, and after its subsequent recovery. The lessons we have learned have specific relevance.
The first and most important lesson is that there are always moral and legal norms that should be respected by everyone: combatants and non-combatants, civilians and soldiers, leaders and subordinates, with the result that atrocity crimes such as torture, crimes against humanity, terrorism, political assassination and forced disappearances can never be justified in any context, time, place or circumstance. Freedom, democracy, peace and civic friendship are much more fragile than we tend to think, which means that we must never take them for granted. They must always be valued, taught, fostered and protected, because they are like air. When we have it, we take it for granted, but when we do not, it is often too late to get it back.
In Chile we are now a few days away from marking
30 years since the referendum of  5  October  1988  that paved the way for us to regain our freedom and democracy. I would like to take this opportunity to recall the two major transitions that our generation has had to face in Chile. The first of them enabled us to regain our freedom and democracy, which we achieved in an intelligent and exemplary manner. Normally such transitions take place amid political crisis, economic chaos and social violence, none of  which happened in
 
our country. We were able to restore our freedom and democracy in an admirable manner.
However, that transition is now history. The new transition, our transition, that is currently under way and depends on us consists in transforming Chile, once the poorest of Spain’s Latin American colonies, into a developed country, without poverty and with greater social justice and equal opportunities, in which we can all develop our talents and life plans and live fuller and happier lives, by the end of the next decade. We must complete that transition with the same unity, generosity and intelligence with which we carried out the transition that allowed us to regain our democracy.
On human rights, I want to clearly and strongly state today that human rights, freedom and democracy know no borders. I would  therefore like to bring to the General Assembly the voice of the Venezuelan people, which President Maduro’s regime has silenced. Venezuela is a sister nation that for many long decades was a democracy that brought great progress and well- being to its people, generously opening its borders to many Latin Americans so that they could find shelter, work and opportunity there that were not available in their own countries.
Unfortunately, today  Venezuela  is  governed  by a regime that respects none of its principles, neither freedom nor democracy nor human rights. It is a society that is being torn apart by a moral, political, social and humanitarian crisis — a  moral  crisis,  because the basic values of human rights are not respected; a political crisis, because there is no democracy, rule of law, separation of powers or freedom of expression, and there are hundreds of political prisoners; and an economic crisis, because Venezuela, once the richest country in Latin America, now has less than half the production capacity it had in its heyday.
Indeed, Venezuela is undergoing a tragedy. Its inhabitants are fleeing from a dismal and perilous existence. Many, too many, are literally losing their lives for lack of food and medicine. President Maduro, while denying the situation, is not letting in the humanitarian aid that many countries are willing to deliver. In recent years, more  than  2  million  Venezuelans  have  had to leave their country as a result of the crisis I have  just outlined. I ask myself how a President can be so ambitious and callous that he is willing to cause his own people such pain and suffering in order to prevail and cling to power.
However, Venezuela is not the only country in that situation. The same is  happening in countries such  as Nicaragua, in which more than 400 people have already died as a result of the violence fostered by the State and President Ortega’s Government. In fact, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, which has reported assassinations, extrajudicial executions, ill-treatment, torture and arbitrary detentions in that country, was expelled from Nicaragua a month ago. There are also  similar occurrences in Cuba, where for more than 60 years there has been no freedom, democracy or basic respect for human rights, as evidenced by its arbitrary detentions and, as in Venezuela and Nicaragua, its censorship of freedom of expression, which is guaranteed under article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
Chile does not recognize the legitimacy of the recent presidential elections in Venezuela, because they did not fulfil the basic requirements necessary for free, democratic and transparent elections, in accordance with international standards. We will therefore not recognize the legitimacy of the new Government that emerged from the election. Chile will continue to do all it can, in accordance with international law, to help the Venezuelan people to regain their freedom, democracy and human rights and emerge from the sad and tragic disaster affecting the country.
For that to happen, we need the support of the multilateral system, in particular the United Nations. We believe that the Organization, through  the Security Council, should address the democratic and humanitarian crises affecting those countries. As I have said before, in modern times, freedom, democracy and respect for human rights do not and should not recognize borders. Chile will therefore use all the mechanisms available under international law and work with all its strength and commitment to restore freedom, democracy and human rights in those countries.
I would like to end my statement with a reflection on the current state of the United Nations and the reforms and updates that many countries think the United Nations now urgently requires. The United Nations, which has contributed to the maintenance of international peace and security on countless occasions as the cornerstone of multilateralism, today has highly restricted and limited powers. We have lost the ability to prevent crises and to strengthen the institutions of Member States with the aim of generating a true culture of democratic resilience that is capable of surviving
 
breakdowns, like those suffered in some countries in our region. We therefore believe that the time has come for the United Nations to modernize, as has been suggested by many Member States on various occasions, in order to be able to act more quickly and effectively in the face of the challenges of the modern age.
The structure of the United Nations, and especially its Security Council, is a legacy of the victors in the Second World War, which ended more than 70 years ago, and it does not meet the needs and challenges of current times. In fact, we all know that some permanent members of the Security Council exercise or threaten to use their right to veto for reasons that are based more on their own interests or those of their allies than on their duty to preserve peace and security in every corner of our planet.
That behaviour has reduced and continues to reduce the effectiveness of a fundamental organ of the United Nations that not only holds enormous power but also has a tremendous responsibility, that of preserving peace and security on our planet. In addition, the current composition of the Security Council does not reflect today’s world and does not adequately represent entire continents, such as Africa or Latin America, or countries such as Germany, India and Japan.
I would therefore like to conclude by emphasizing that it is not only development that should be sustainable, but also peace. It is precisely at times like these that the values we share as an international community should guide and illuminate our actions and the path ahead. People must not be united by free trade alone. What should guide us is the maintenance of peace and security and respect for the basic values that led to the formation of the Organization, and it is therefore those same values that must illuminate and guide the path to its future.
Only by strongly and coherently reviving those values will the United Nations be able to fulfil its responsibilities and rise to the challenges of the new world we live in. Together with the formidable threats that we are confronted with, such as terrorism, global warming and mass migration, we also have magnificent opportunities that are generated by the freedom, imagination and unlimited creativity of the free men and women of this world.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
Every generation faces its own challenges but no generation has faced a challenge as urgent and formidable as that confronting us in climate change and global warming. This is the mother of all battles, because it is the battle for our very survival. The human being is the most intelligent creature living on planet earth. However, it is also the only creature capable of destroying — and, at times, it seems, ready to destroy — its own planet.
Recent months have seen many prestigious magazines publish photos of planet earth captioned “Let’s save the planet”. I believe they are mistaken: it is not planet earth that is at risk; what is truly at risk is the survival of the human being on planet earth.
Our planet is over 4.5 billion years old, and during this long history, it has suffered and endured all kinds of phenomena — such as hurricanes, glaciations, warming, flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, floods, asteroid strikes — and it survived them all. However, more than 99 out of every 100 species that once existed no longer exist today, and we do not want human beings to join that list of the extinct.
The scientific evidence is categorical and conclusive: the situation is now critical. In fact, the latest scientific report, United in Science, published just today, shows that the concentration of greenhouse gases and global temperature are the highest they have been in the past 800,000 years. The last five years have been the hottest in recorded human history. The report states that, even if we implemented the commitments made under the Paris Agreement, temperature would still significantly exceed the limit agreed, reaching an increase of almost 3.4 degrees, which is almost tantamount to disaster. We need to multiple comprises by five to meet the target of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
The consequences are not theoretical; they are plain for everyone to see. We are enduring heatwaves, major storms and floods, severe droughts, devastating hurricanes, and ice calving and melting, among other things. Sea levels continue to rise by the day, as do the acidification and deoxygenation of their waters. In fact, over the past 30 years, humankind has destroyed 50 per cent of corals, which are the backbone of all marine life. We have burned or deforested large areas of forests crucial to the life and health of our planet. The most serious aspect is that such changes, which once occurred over the course of centuries or millennia, now take place in less than a decade. Nature has long been screaming in alarm and anguish, pleading for the simplest of things — that we take care of her so that she in turn may take care of us.
The 2015 session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP), held in Paris, set the goal of limiting maximum temperature increase to 2°C, later stepped up to 1.5°C by the end of the century. But the commitments countries made at that Conference did not, as has just been mentioned, go far enough. They are not even being honoured!
We must urgently rise to the challenge. This means that we must prevent climate change and global warming from becoming truly catastrophic. This is not a matter of scepticism, faith, politics or ideology; it is a problem founded in science. And the overwhelming science is telling us loud and clear that we have less than a decade left to radically change the course of history and the way in which we treat our planet. We know too much to remain sceptical.
This challenge is not just environmental; it is also a moral challenge, affecting our children and grandchildren, and the generations to come. They too have the right to live on planet Earth. From this same rostrum yesterday, we listened to children and young people raise their voices, urging us to shoulder responsibilities and account not only for what we have done but above all for what we have not done. Those future generations will also want to live on a healthy planet and they will, of course, judge us, and judge us harshly, for the way in which we responded to the monumental challenge of climate change.
Therefore, if we are to avoid catastrophe, it is now imperative that we recognize that we are on the wrong track, time has run out and we must change course. Facing this scenario, we have heard two options. There are those who say, “Let us wait and see what happens” and accept the consequences; and those who believe that the time has come to tackle this challenge and change the course of history. The good news is that science and technology give us tools and instruments and that we still have time to change course in how we as humankind treat our planet.
Chile has chosen this second path, deciding to tackle the challenge. That is why we agreed to host the COP in December. What are the objectives of the COP to be held in Chile?
First, it is aimed to get countries to make much more ambitious and enforceable commitments than they have to date to combat climate change. There is good news on this front, too. Today, 66 countries, or one in three, have already committed to becoming carbon neutral, which means cutting net emissions of carbon and greenhouse gases to zero. This seemed impossible only weeks ago. We note and welcome this change in attitude, heightened awareness and the stronger commitment to tackling the problem.
The Secretary-General tasked us some months ago with leading the coalition for climate mitigation so as to ensure that more countries, business and cities commit to carbon neutrality. As I said at the Group of 20 Summit in Osaka, Japan, where six countries, including Chile, made this commitment, the movement is fast gaining momentum, with 66 countries, more than 100 cities and more than 100 major companies having committed to becoming carbon neutral.
Secondly, we also need to incorporate the protection and conservation of rainforests and their magnificent biodiversity and, of course, the incorporation not only of rain forests but where they grow, because when rainforests grow, they capture carbon and produce oxygen. This is why, together with the Presidents of France and Colombia, we created the Alliance for Rainforests, which will take the second step of its work at the December COP in Chile.
At the same time, we must also incorporate care for the oceans. Oceans capture 50 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions and absorb more than 90 per cent of the temperature increases generated by us human beings. However, they are suffering serious impacts. The United in Science report details the degree of acidification and deoxygenation affecting our oceans and killing marine life. This is why the Chile COP will be the blue COP, because without blue there is no green, and without green there is no life.
Thirdly, it will fully involve regional, municipal and city Governments, non-governmental organizations, businesses, civil society and communities at large in the cause of fighting climate change.
Fourthly, it will put into practice some instruments that were agreed in Paris but are yet to be activated, such as carbon bond markets, to generate more resources for and improve the efficiency of the struggle to reduce carbon emissions.
This is why Chile is today announcing the launch of the Alliance for Climate Ambition, which will bring together States and cities, business and civil society on all these fronts. Indeed, Chile committed a few months ago to becoming a carbon-neutral country. We are taking that commitment very seriously. We are implementing a plan to achieve that goal, based on four pillars: the complete decarbonization of our energy grid; the modernization of our public transport system, replacing fossil fuels entirely with electricity; energy efficiency in every sector; and an ambitious protection, conservation and reforestation programme for our forests.
We are pursuing all of this through a framework law on climate change, which identifies clear strategies, tools and timelines for upholding our commitment to carbon neutrality. In this great task, we will have to use all the tools that our great allies of science and technology put at our disposal. We must leave behind the culture of the disposable and embrace the culture of the recyclable. We must shift from the concept of a linear economy to one that is circular, repurposing its own waste.
Change will not be easy; it will require ambition. Ambition requires funding, but it is also true that funding always follows ambition. This is why I call on world leaders and all men and women of good faith to recognize that we have run out of time and must now go from diagnosis and debate to action, pure and simple. We must leave aside the false dichotomy between economic growth and sustainability. If development is not sustainable, there can be no development. The two concepts are not in competition, but complement one another.
Of course, we will have to significantly increase investment in innovation and technology to better tackle these challenges. Innovation and technology are the tools that will allow us to make crucially needed development compatible with urgently needed care for nature. We will also have to mobilize far more resources than those mobilized or pledged to date if we are to help the most vulnerable countries to join this noble struggle. From the edges of the Earth, the southern reaches of the world, we invite all Governments and all sectors of society to participate in COP Chile and commit to tackling the great challenge of our generation. This battle still depends on us, and we cannot therefore just continue to ignore it. This is the great challenge of our generation: to correct a decades-long course and treat our planet differently in order to guarantee the survival of humankind.
Last year, in this same Hall (see A/73/PV.10), I acknowledged certain errors and problems in my country and referred to what was happening in so-called sacrificial zones and the serious harm to thousands of people there (see A/73/PV.10). But acknowledgement is not enough; we must also take action. That is why I committed to address the pollution and poisoning endured by so many in the communities of Quintero and Puchuncavi decisively and with determination and urgency. I am pleased to say that a revamped and strict plan is now in place to decontaminate those communities. The plan includes emission standards as exacting as those in the European Union and provides for strengthening the health-care system and State oversight of a modernized monitoring network. In addition, we have obtained the collaboration of the Finnish Meteorological Institute, which is specialized in that area and has conducted an in-depth analysis and made a series of useful recommendations to correct the situation.
The same applies to our planet. If we do not do anything very soon, the whole planet might become a sacrificial zone. And that we cannot allow. Just a few days ago, the headline of The New York Times read that a quarter of humankind faces looming water crises. Chile, Mexico, India, North Africa and California are among the most vulnerable places. I want to mention the acute and extensive drought in our country, which has lasted more than 10 years and is reflected in sharp decreases in river flows, water levels in reservoirs and snow accumulation in the mountains, as well as across all other indicators. That is why we are tackling the issue with a sense of urgency, but also one of efficiency. We have issued water scarcity and agricultural emergency decrees with a view to ensuring the population’s water supply and assisting small- and medium-scale farmers, who are so adversely affected by the drought. We are incorporating modern technologies for better use of water in all sectors of our economy, including irrigation technology in the agricultural sector. We have adopted a construction plan that prioritizes 26 reservoirs and are moving forward with a plan to recharge the natural aquifers under our country’s soil. And, of course, we are improving the reuse of water through the treatment of grey water and sewage. However, it goes without saying, that it takes time to resolve those problems.
I would also like to refer today to a problem that affects the world economy as a whole. We are witnessing a worrisome weakening of the world economy. International trade and investment are stagnating. The trade and tariff war, which has gone on for too long, between the world’s two greatest Powers, the weakening of free trade, areas of long-term protectionism, the growing inefficiency and deadlock at the World Trade Organization, which is unable to prevent or sanction protectionist actions that harm the entire economy — these impede job creation and limit the quality of life of our peoples.
Today, at a time of enormous technological progress, we should more than ever advance on the road to integration. We need to rebuild a respected multilateral economic order that is based on rules known and respected by all and promotes free trade, integration and investment flows, combats protectionism, eliminates barriers to trade, harmonizes regulations and establishes universal rules to prevent and sanction unilateral acts that threaten the international order. To that end, it is necessary to modernize the World Trade Organization as soon as possible and to strengthen international collaboration.
In November, Chile will host the summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum, which brings together economies that represent two thirds of the world’s gross domestic product. We hope to achieve great advances on that occasion in the areas of free trade and anti-protectionism. But allow me to make a remark. Today, when the world is most in need of leadership on issues such as climate change, global warming, free trade and integration, it seems unreasonable that the two great Powers, instead of uniting to lead us in effectively addressing those issues, should be fighting each other, resulting in a grave and dangerous leadership vacuum. I would like to comment that there is no incompatibility or conflict between thinking about a global world and being a patriot. There is no conflict there; these are merely two sides of the same coin that enable the balance we want to achieve between integration and national identity.
Before turning to the topic of my own country, I would like to refer to a vital point for our continent, Latin America. We must put an end to the ignominious, cruel dictatorship imposed on the Venezuelan people. It is a corrupt and incompetent dictatorship that flouts human rights and freedoms and has undeniable links with drug trafficking. Under the dictatorship, Venezuela, which had been the richest country in Latin America, with the world’s largest oil reserves and a model of democracy for our continent, has become a country mired in a profound political, economic, social and moral crisis, where the very lives of its inhabitants, owing to a lack of food and medicine, are in jeopardy. The only avenue open to the people has been mass migration. More than 4.5 million Venezuelans have left their country because of a lack of prospects in order to seek better development opportunities. Without a doubt, this is a cause that engages all of Latin America.
I would like to end with remarks concerning Chile. Each generation has a mission to fulfil. Our country’s fathers achieved freedom and independence and bequeathed us a free homeland. The generation that preceded us was able to recover freedom and restore democracy in a very exemplary way. Our generation has a new challenge, that of defeating poverty and achieving development. That should be done in peace and unity, so that all my compatriots may have the opportunity to develop their abundant talents and be secure in their ability to live in dignity. In short, the goal is a homeland where everyone may pursue happiness and seek a fuller, happier life, together with their families and loved ones. That is our mission, and we are committed to it. It will be the yardstick against which the generations to come will judge us. Those generations, who are our children and grandchildren, we cannot and will not fail them.
I ask God to enlighten our paths and to bless Chileans and all the peoples of the world.


===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
Mr. President of the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations, ladies and gentlemen, Heads of State and Government, dear delegates,
Each generation has faced its own problems and challenges. It is up to our generation to face especially difficult and demanding problems and challenges. Some have emerged unexpectedly, such as the coronavirus pandemic and the global economic recession. Others already existed but have manifested themselves with greater force, such as climate change and global warming.
The challenges of our generation are the mothers of all battles, because they are battles to ensure our survival.
COVID-19
A year ago, nobody could have imagined that an invisible and microscopic virus was going to cause the worst health, social and economic catastrophe in 100 years. No country was prepared to face it, and, so long as there is no effective and safe vaccine, we will have to learn to live with this virus, which has changed our ways of working, studying, obtaining supplies and interacting — in short, the way we live our lives fully.
This means a tremendous challenge and a great opportunity.
How has Chile faced this formidable challenge?
Our first priority and task is to protect the health and lives of all, especially those of our elderly and of at-risk groups. That is why we launched a Health Protection Plan that has made it possible to triple the capacity of our health system and carry out more than 3 million PCR tests, covering about 15 per cent of our population.
But this task does not end with health protection. That is certainly necessary but not sufficient.
Protecting the health and lives of our compatriots also requires ensuring that families have supplies of basic goods and services and protecting jobs, incomes, small and medium-sized enterprises and the functioning of our economy.
Chileans have faced very tough and difficult months. For that reason, our Government developed a Social Protection Plan to protect the income and jobs of middle-class and vulnerable families that today covers more than 14 million Chileans. That means that almost three of every four Chileans are protected by this Special Social Protection Network, which we have built in these six months of emergency.
But it is not enough to protect our compatriots only during this emergency. We must be able to look to the future and move towards lasting protection. To that end it is vital to recover the almost 2 million jobs we have lost, relaunch our economy and get our country back on track. Therefore, two weeks after the first coronavirus contagion in Chile, we promoted an Economic Recovery Plan that mobilizes about 12 per cent of GDP.
We must prevent this transitory health crisis from turning into a serious economic and social crisis of a more permanent nature.
What must the world do to confront this pandemic effectively and emerge stronger? Only collaborative and multilateral solutions will allow us to overcome this crisis and emerge stronger.
This pandemic, which does not recognize or respect borders, nationality or ethnicity, has shown us the need to strengthen international collaboration and governance as well as the tremendous interdependence of the international community.
It is in these times of crisis that we most need leadership and multilateral cooperation. The great Powers, instead of permanently confronting each other in the economic and health fields, should lead the fight against this pandemic and global recession and not create a large and worrisome leadership vacuum.
With respect to health issues, this includes sharing diagnoses and knowledge, coordinating border closures and openings, joining forces for the development and availability of an effective and safe vaccine, and cooperating with the most vulnerable countries.
The trade war we are experiencing today has led to stagnation in international trade and investment, the weakening of free trade, sources of protectionism and a deadlock in the World Trade Organization. To promote free trade and integration, combat protectionism, eliminate non-tariff barriers to trade, harmonize regulations and rules, and prevent and sanction unilateral behaviour that contravenes the international order, we need to rebuild a multilateral economic order that is respected by all and rules-based.
Furthermore, we must unite to prevent this global pandemic and recession from strengthening the authoritarianism and populism promoted by those who have tried to take advantage of this crisis. We cannot sacrifice the freedoms that we have won at so great a price, as this would pose a tremendous threat to democracy and to the development of our countries.
What lessons and opportunities has this pandemic offered us?
First, to be more humble. Despite all the scientific and technological advances made, this virus has taught us the vulnerability and precariousness of human life and our societies.
Secondly, to learn to listen more attentively to the voices of science, local authorities and civil society, and always be ready to change course when necessary.
Thirdly, the value of the family, which has been the main sustenance in facing and overcoming the consequences of this time of adversity.
CLIMATE CHANGE AND GLOBAL WARMING
The coronavirus pandemic and global economic recession have shifted the spotlight away from climate change and global warming. But these serious threats continue to increase, and our best option is without a doubt to confront them simultaneously.
Human beings are the most intelligent and ingenious creatures on planet Earth. But they are also the only creatures capable of destroying their own planet.
Let us tell it as it is. The threat of global warming is real and imminent. Science has spoken loud and clear. Citizenship demands a change of course as a moral imperative, technology provides us with the necessary tools, and common sense urges us to action.
The scientific evidence is categorical — the concentration of greenhouse gases and the current average temperature are the highest in the past 800,000 years. We are being ravaged by intense heat waves, large floods, intense periods of drought and powerful hurricanes. In addition, we are suffering from severe landslides and melting ice at the poles, ocean pollution, sea-level increases, fires and forest destruction and many other worrisome phenomena. And the most serious thing is that these changes used to take millions of years. Now they occur in just decades. The time for diagnoses is over. The time for action is here.
Chile is fully committed to fighting climate change, which has inspired and mobilized millions of citizens. We were one of the first 10 countries to significantly enhance our nationally determined contribution, thereby fulfilling the commitments we undertook in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. We are moving forward with a framework law on climate change, already unanimously approved by the Senate, which sets the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050 and lays out strategies, plans and instruments to meet that goal.
We have assumed the commitment to transforming Chile into a carbon-neutral country by 2050, with zero net emissions, which we will accomplish through several actions. The first is the total closure of coal-fired plants before 2040. Today, 44 per cent of our energy sources are clean and renewable, and by 2030 we will reach 70 per cent. Secondly, we will focus on electromobility. We are replacing the fossil fuels in our transportation system with electricity or other clean fuels. By 2040, 100 per cent of our urban public transport will be electric. Outside of China, our capital city now has the most electric buses in the world. Thirdly, we will promote energy efficiency in all sectors and special tariffs to gradually replace wood heating with electric heating. Lastly, we will ensure the protection of our forests and promote biodiversity and reforestation, favouring native species and nature-based solutions. In order to successfully fulfil that mission we are building a true Climate Ambition Alliance, incorporating the State, the private sector, civil society and our citizens.
We are also replacing throwaway culture with the culture of recycling and are moving from a linear to a circular economy. We have eliminated plastic bags and have already prevented the production of 5 billion bags — used for only minutes — from polluting our planet for centuries.
This is the great challenge of our generation — to make up for lost time and change the course of history to ensure the survival and quality of life of human beings on planet Earth.
I want to share with the Assembly some reflections on our region of Latin America, which has all it needs to be a developed region — vast and generous territories and abundant and multiple natural resources. We have not seen the wars that destroyed Europe last century or the religious conflicts that have caused so much damage throughout history. And yet, despite the important progress made in many fields, we remain an underdeveloped continent, with almost one-third of our population living in poverty — a scourge that the coronavirus crisis will significantly worsen.
We have not been able to take full advantage of the talents and opportunities of our people. We have not been able to move towards true regional integration. And we are behind in joining the technological and digital revolution, which has ushered in the knowledge and information society.
We are undoubtedly making efforts to make up for lost time. Eight years ago, we created the Pacific Alliance, which is a regional benchmark for economic integration. A year ago, we created the Forum for the Progress and Development of South America, a body for coordination and collaboration among the democratic countries of South America, which has been very helpful in responding to the coronavirus pandemic.
However, we have also had setbacks that threaten freedom, human rights, democracy, the rule of law and our quality of life. One example of where those principles are constantly violated is the tragic situation in Venezuela — a country suffering the most serious political, social, economic and humanitarian crisis in its history. The best solution to the Venezuelan crisis is the establishment of a transitional Government and the holding of free and democratic elections so that the Venezuelan people may freely choose their rulers and the path to follow.
The whole world is being threatened by populism and irresponsibility, which always means the easy way — the path of rights without duties and achievements without effort, of progress without work, of asserting one’s rights without respecting those of others, and of promises of easy solutions to difficult problems. Democracies are founded on freedom, and freedom demands responsibility. That freedom and responsibility are especially needed in times of crisis, which tend to foment populism.
In recent times, our region, too, has seen social outbreaks and waves of violence. Chile is no exception. Thirty years ago, with the firm will and commitment of our people, we peacefully regained our democracy and gave life to a new and modern republic based on three basic agreements: first, a deep commitment to democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights; secondly, a strong commitment to a free, open and competitive market economy; and thirdly, the firm determination to defeat poverty and promote equal opportunity.
The facts show that these commitments were productive. During this period, we increased our per capita income fivefold. We reduced poverty from more than 60 per cent to less than 10 per cent, saving 8 million Chileans, more than half of our population, from the clutches of poverty. A large and diverse middle class emerged. Life expectancy increased, infant mortality decreased and the coverage, quality and access to education at all levels rose from 230,000 to 1.2 million students in higher education, most of them first generation.
These achievements are the result of the work of many Governments and various political movements, which committed themselves to the mission of defeating poverty and achieving development in democracy and peace.
However, over the past 30 years, we have not been able to leverage our growth potential to reduce inequalities, stop abuses, move towards equal opportunity or improve services in such important areas as education, welfare and health.
Late last year, important social movements emerged in Chile and in other countries of our region and the world. In Chile, citizens of all ages and sectors took to the streets to demand better pensions, better health and better education. They also demanded fewer inequalities, improved and more affordable public services, greater equality before the law and better control of abusive behaviour. Despite certain progress, those demands had been accumulating for decades.
The Government listened to those demands carefully, with sensitivity and with a sense of urgency, and quickly put in place a new social agenda to address them and promote solutions.
Unfortunately, alongside demonstrations, our country also experienced a huge and unexpected outbreak of violence, fires, riots, destruction and crime, which respected nothing and no one, and gravely harmed Chile’s body and soul.
In a democracy, we cannot tolerate any form of violence, be it physical or through social networks. Violence, threats and intolerance are incompatible with a democratic society, which must always be based on respect, dialogue and the peaceful resolution of disputes.
During these difficult and violent months, while exercising our duty to restore public order and safeguard citizen security, for which we had to resort to the States of Constitutional Exception provided for in our Constitution, our Government took all possible and necessary measures and precautions to guarantee respect for the human rights of all. We applied strict norms to regulate the use of force by the police, in full compliance with international human rights standards. We adopted a policy of full transparency to our citizens in terms of human rights-related information, and we strengthened the public defender system. To support and facilitate their task of autonomously protecting human rights, we granted our National Human Rights Institute and the Office of the Children’s Ombudsperson full logistical support and access, upon their request, to all police, hospital and prison facilities, inter alia. We invited the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Inter- American Commission on Human Rights to monitor the situation in the country.
All evidence of abuse or excessive use of force was placed at the disposal of the Office of the Prosecutor, which by constitutional mandate has the duty to investigate the facts and bring them, when appropriate, to the Courts of Justice so that they may be judged and sanctioned in accordance with the law, as befits a democracy and the rule of law. We will make every effort to ensure that there is no impunity in Chile, neither for those who violate human rights nor for the violators who attack society.
In these difficult times, when our democracy has been threatened, our Government proposed — and Chile opted for — an institutional and peaceful solution to the conflict through constitutional reform that gave rise to a process that will begin this 25 October with a citizen plebiscite. I am convinced that the immense majority of Chileans want to perfect, modernize or change our Constitution. In the 25 October plebiscite, the citizens will democratically choose the way forward.
This crisis is an opportunity to reach a constitutional agreement that will allow our Constitution to be a great framework of unity and stability and of projection into the future. It is also an opportunity to better connect with our citizens and move forward with greater strength and urgency towards a freer and more just society, with greater equality of opportunity, where everyone is equal in dignity and equal before the law, and where progress and development are more inclusive and sustainable.
We must learn from the lessons of the past that have taught us the value of unity, dialogue, collaboration and agreement. After all, a house divided cannot prevail. We must also act with a sense of urgency because we have no time to lose and because there will be no social justice without growth and development, and no growth and development without social justice.
Chile is a country proud of its history, traditions and identity. It is a country with a strong vocation for collaboration and international integration, a country where we always ask ourselves how we can, together with other nations, contribute to making the world a home with greater freedom, peace, prosperity and justice and where the environment is protected. That is why Chile contributes to the international community in many ways.
First, Chile contributes by caring for and protecting the Antarctic, which is the largest freshwater reserve in the world and plays a fundamental role in combating climate change and mitigating temperature increase and ice melt. It is also a true natural laboratory for science.
Secondly, Chile contributes to the development of astronomy. The unique combination of high peaks, low humidity and clear skies has meant that 70 per cent of the world’s astronomical observation capacity is located in our country.
Thirdly, we are creating marine protected areas. With pride and effort, more than 42 per cent of Chile’s sea is protected. Further, 21 per cent of our land areas is protected, through parks, reserves and national monuments.
Fourthly, we are developing the energies of the future. Chile was poor in fossil fuels and the pollutants of the past, but we are immensely rich in the clean and renewable energies of the future. The high solar radiation of our deserts gives them gigantic potential for generating solar energy. The intensity and regularity of the winds allow for high capacity in generating wind energy. In addition, we are making progress in the energies of tomorrow, developing green hydrogen, which, as a fuel that does not generate greenhouse-gas emissions, will benefit the whole world. The abundance of copper and lithium gives us great potential in terms of electromobility.
Fifthly, Chile is connecting South America with Oceania and Asia through the trans-Pacific fibre-optic cable, which will promote regional integration, innovation and digital society.
Sixthly, we are producing healthy and safe food to supply tables around the world with multiple products.
Chile and the rest of the world have just lived through the hardest and most challenging months in recent history. I am sure that Chile will once again manifest the noble and supportive soul of our country and prove the resilience and mettle of its people. Together we will continue to build a country where it is good to be born, grow, study, work, raise a family and age — a common home, the home of all Chileans, where we can think differently, respect each other and together build a country and a better future that we can leave with pride and hope to successive generations.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
We are living in times that will mark future generations. Those of us who are opening this General Assembly today have a mission to fulfil and a responsibility to those future generations. Today’s decisions or omissions will shape the course of humankind for decades to come.
We are in the midst of the most severe pandemic in the past 100 years. In addition, there is a serious climate crisis, a severe social and economic crisis and the undermining of democratic institutions. Added to that is a multilateralism under stress and the urgent need to reform the international architecture.
However, we cannot simply bemoan the situation. On the contrary, the times call for a calm analysis and, above all, the wisdom, will and courage to take the effective and urgent action that we need.
Coronavirus Disease Pandemic: Triumph of science, failure of politics
Mr. President.
Despite repeated scientific warnings that pandemics were potential threats, the international community and States chose to ignore them. The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic therefore took us by surprise, with no early warning mechanisms, no information-sharing systems and fragile health systems, even in the most developed nations, which could not always respond to all those who were ill, and, most seriously, without vaccines or drugs to combat COVID-19.
Medical personnel in Chile and around the world worked tirelessly, without hesitation, to deal with the emergency, putting their own lives at risk to protect ours. Today I want to pay a heartfelt tribute to them for their selfless and committed work and for their professionalism, perseverance and resilience.
The pandemic showed us that, when the forces of innovation, technology and creativity are unleashed, we can achieve unimaginable things. In the space of only 10 months, we went from facing a virus about which we had no information to having a range of safe and effective vaccines to combat it. That is an unprecedented achievement in human history. We should remember that the typhoid vaccine took more than 130 years to be approved, the tuberculosis and dengue vaccines came 45 and 110 years after the diseases first appeared. We have indeed witnessed a great triumph of science.
However, that triumph contrasts with a failure of politics, since even today, while some countries have doses to vaccinate their populations several times over, there are countries that do not have the vaccines or equipment to protect their populations.
Science triumphed, but politics failed. In science cooperation prevailed, in politics individualism. In science, information-sharing reigned, in politics secrecy. In science teamwork prevailed, in politics individual effort. We must also draw lessons from that failure.
The first is humility, as the world suddenly found itself on its knees before a microscopic enemy. The second is solidarity to accompany and support the most vulnerable. The third is collaboration, indispensable to solving global problems. And the fourth is the willingness to listen to the voice of science and expert opinion.
In Chile, applying those principles, we built the health protection network, which allowed us to integrate the public and private health systems, triple the number of available intensive care unit beds and look after patients according to their needs, regardless of their social and economic situation.
We also expanded our diagnostic network early on, now bringing it to 180 laboratories with a capacity to process approximately 90,000 polymerase chain reaction tests a day and more than 21 million in total.
An essential pillar of our strategy was the early identification of the most promising international laboratories developing vaccines. On the basis of scientific criteria and without political considerations, together with the firm decision to promptly reach agreements and contracts, we were able to secure the necessary vaccines to protect the lives and the health of our entire population.
Today Chile has almost 90 per cent of its target population fully vaccinated; and we have already started vaccinating children and booster doses for those who are vulnerable.
During the most critical moments of the pandemic and when supplies were scarce, we also collaborated by donating medicines and some of our vaccine stock to facilitate the inoculation of the medical personnel of other Latin American countries. In the same spirit, together with the World Health Organization and more than 50 countries, we are supporting a treaty for pandemic preparedness and response.
No one can guarantee that such pandemics will not happen again, but we must ensure that when they occur, we will be better prepared.
Social And Economic Crisis: Sensitivity to needs and responsibility for decisions
Mr. President.
The pandemic has also brought about an unprecedented social and economic crisis, which has caused a huge loss of income and jobs for families, the bankruptcy of many businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, an increase in poverty and the deprivation of the middle classes.
The crisis has also led to exponential growth in fiscal deficits and public and private indebtedness, which threaten macroeconomic stability. Those misfortunes have hit the most vulnerable countries and sectors hardest, particularly women, widening gender gaps.
Some of the causes of that situation were already present before the pandemic: a trade war between the major Powers, an upsurge in protectionism and a weakening of rules-based free trade.
With that clear diagnosis, it is essential that public policy decisions be based on serious and responsible macroeconomic, fiscal and monetary policies and that progress continue to be made in liberalizing trade, incorporating the new technologies of the digital revolution, which will make the difference between those who board the train of progress and those who watch it pass by from the station.
The pandemic and the digital revolution have built on each other. Advances in digital technology have undoubtedly enabled us to better cope with the pandemic. For example, it would be difficult to imagine how we would have dealt with the pandemic without recent advances such as the Digital Hospital, the Virtual Police Station and Chile Serves. At the same time, the pandemic has expedited the introduction of the digital society, which has changed the way in which we work, learn, inform ourselves and interact in society — changes that are here to stay.
Chile is doing its best to board that train. That is why we have free trade agreements with countries that account for more than 90 per cent of the world’s gross domestic product (GDP). That important integration network, coupled with years of fiscal and monetary responsibility, has allowed us to deliver one of the largest social aid packages in the world during the pandemic, amounting to 20 per cent of our GDP.
The social protection system that we built has channelled more than $35 billion in direct transfers, which have meant help and relief for small and medium-sized enterprises and for some 16 million citizens.
Such measures have allowed us to restore economic activity and investment levels to those prior to the pandemic. After a 5.8-per-cent downturn last year, this year our economy will grow by approximately 10 per cent. We have also managed to recover 1.9 million jobs, equivalent to 80 per cent of the total number of jobs lost.
Environmental Crisis: The environmental crisis has not been under quarantine
Mr. President.
The coronavirus disease pandemic has forced us to limit our freedoms and enact quarantines. But climate change has not been under quarantine. Its advance continues relentlessly, more rapidly and with more severe effects than expected. Most serious, some of its consequences are already irreversible. Indeed, it is no longer a matter of climate change; we are already facing a climate crisis.
Science, through the report of the United Nations panel of experts, has spoken loud and clear. Citizens demand, as a moral imperative, that we change the course of history. And technology gives us the tools to prevent an environmental catastrophe.
The time for analysis has passed. It is time for action, with a strong will and a sense of urgency. We have a historic responsibility to both present and future generations. We are the last generation that can prevent the current climate crisis from becoming an environmental catastrophe.
Chile is a small country, contributing less than 0.25 per cent of total greenhouse gas emissions. But we are determined to shoulder our responsibilities and do our part in this war against the climate crisis.
To achieve that, we have accelerated the decarbonization of our energy supply. By 2025, we will have closed two thirds of our coal-fired power plants and by 2040, 100 per cent. In addition, we are working to ensure that by 2030, 70 per cent of our energy supply will be based on clean and renewable energies, a figure that will increase to almost 100 per cent by 2050.
As proof of that commitment, I would like to share with Member States the fact that by 2021, we will have inaugurated more solar and wind energy capacity in Chile than we have ever built in our entire history.
However, it is not enough to reduce our carbon footprint. We must be more ambitious and ensure that our efforts to produce clean and renewable energy go beyond our borders and help other countries to meet their own decarbonization goals. To that end, we are developing green hydrogen, a clean and renewable energy whose production process harnesses the advantage of our geography: the high and consistent solar radiation of our deserts and the strong and constant winds of Patagonia. Nature therefore provides us with the potential to produce more than 70 times the energy that we need today, preventing the release of millions and millions of tons of carbon dioxide a year. Green hydrogen is the energy of tomorrow, which we are producing in Chile today.
In addition to those initiatives are:
First: the electrification of our public transport system. Today, outside China, Santiago is the city with the highest number of electric buses in the world.
Secondly: the protection of the oceans and their biodiversity, including the first marine protected area on the high seas and a marine protected area in the Antarctic.
Thirdly: the protection of forests, including the planting of more than 230,000 hectares of forests in 10 years, prioritizing native species.
And, fourthly: the circular economy, which includes banning the use of bags and other plastics and shifting from a throwaway culture to a recyclable one.
Each generation has its own agenda. Preventing the climate crisis from becoming an environmental catastrophe is our generation’s task. It is a matter of life and death because the survival of the human species on planet Earth is at stake. We cannot forget that 99 out of every 100 species that once existed no longer exist today. We do not want to add the human species to that grim list.
History, our children, our grandchildren and those to follow will judge us not by our good intentions but by our attitudes, actions and outcomes in the face of this challenge.
The Erosion Of Democracy: A new threat
Mr. President. In recent years, democracies have experienced a process of steady and progressive deterioration. All international benchmarks reflect that regrettable situation. The analysis is one and the same but the reasons for it are manifold.
In Latin America, in addition to the usual reasons — low economic growth, widespread poverty, persistent inequality and State corruption and inefficiency — there are the coronavirus disease pandemic and other equally deadly and lethal diseases for democratic and freedom-loving societies, such as the virus of populism, the cancer of polarization and the plague of political fragmentation.
The virus of populism functions by promising manipulative and fanciful solutions that it knows it cannot deliver. And, in exchange for short-lived present satisfaction, it always ends up sacrificing the future by weakening progress, democratic institutions and the rule of law.
There is polarization, which leaves no room for agreements and compromises. That true cancer contaminates the social fabric, infects institutions and feeds intolerance into all areas of societal life.
Finally, there is fragmentation, which is a trend towards the politics of individual or small-group identities and causes, rendering it impossible to coordinate and address different social visions and demands and hindering consensus and governability.
A new form of threat to democracy has also emerged in our region, which is no longer external but comes from within. For many years, the threats were military or subversive actions to wrest power from the legitimate and democratically elected authorities. Today the main threat comes from democratically elected Governments, that is to say, Governments enjoying constitutional legitimacy that manoeuvre to remain in power forever, suppress the independence of the other branches of Government, monopolize the bodies responsible for overseeing electoral processes and crush the opposition, thereby engaging in an openly unlawful exercise of power.
Thirty-two years ago, Chile witnessed an exemplary transition to democracy. During the past three decades, we have achieved high economic growth and human development, with a decrease in poverty and inequality, always respecting the freedoms and human rights of all citizens.
However, Chile has not been immune to such threats. The social unrest of 2019 included legitimate social demands, but also a wave of irrational, unprecedented and unacceptable violence.
Despite the difficulties, in accordance with its long and fine democratic tradition, Chile was able to channel that social unrest and its legitimate demands through a peaceful, lawful and democratic process within our Constitution and the rule of law because we are convinced that the cure for the above-mentioned misfortunes is greater and better democracy.
Today, after a transparent and participatory referendum, we have a democratically elected Constitutional Convention, made up of men and women on an equal basis and with the presence of representatives of our native peoples. The Convention will have to propose a new constitution to the citizens, which will have to be ratified or rejected by the citizens through a referendum.
The majority of Chileans hope that the Convention will propose the text of a new constitution, which, by improving and rectifying everything that needs to be amended, includes greater equity and social justice, protects our freedoms and reflects our national tradition and the values of our society.
International Architecture: The urgent need for reform
Mr. President.
Another challenge is whether the current institutions that make up the international architecture have adjusted to the new global reality and meet the current and future challenges.
Since the establishment of the current international organizations in the middle of the previous century, the world has radically changed. Globalization, the technological and digital revolution and the emergence of the knowledge and information society have drastically changed the way in which we live, work, learn and relate to each other. However, the strength of multilateral organizations has remained stagnant.
Today international institutions require major adjustments and profound restructuring.
International organizations must combine two principles: the broadest possible participation for their legitimacy and a decision-making system that is not distorted by opposition, vetoes, deadlocks or consensus that is very difficult to achieve. We must find new mechanisms to strike the right balance between those two values. Multilateral action is essential to protect democracy and security, to achieve the development and well-being of our peoples, to protect the environment and to deal with pandemics.
At the same time, public knowledge of its procedures, debates and decisions and clarity in the appointment of its officials are necessary for transparent functioning. After all, there is no better policeman than street lighting and no better disinfectant than sunlight.
Women/Afghanistan
I could not end these words without a reflection on what the triumph of the Taliban regime means for the women and girls who will have to live under its yoke.
Mr. President:
Afghan society is facing very difficult times. However, the women of Afghanistan are in a particularly dangerous situation: Today, now, at this very moment, those who in the recent past wanted to forbid them education, impose forced marriages, ensure impunity for those guilty of sexual abuse against them and deny them their freedoms and human rights have returned to power — those who believe that the world of women should be one of submission and resignation.
The aggression against women in Afghanistan is an aggression against all women in the world. Knowing that, we cannot, the United Nations cannot, stand idly by, paralysed by bureaucratic constraints or political divisions in the Security Council.
We must work together to protect them and restore their full freedoms and rights. The cause of the women of Afghanistan is the cause of all humankind.
Final Words: Chile’s contribution to the international community
I would like to end this address by expressing our satisfaction at Chile’s contribution to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the cornerstone of our civilization, and our active promotion of democracy, freedoms and human rights throughout the world. We are also proud of our contribution to the care of Antarctica, the largest freshwater reserve and the last pristine bastion of the planet, to the protection of the oceans and to the fight against climate change.
We are also proud to host more than 70 per cent of the world’s astronomical observation capacity and to be pioneers in the research and development of the potential of green hydrogen, a clean energy that will be essential to combat the climate crisis.
Chile is, and will continue to be, a free and welcoming nation, endowed with a noble and supportive soul, which will overcome difficulties and maintain its identity thanks to the wisdom, moderation, determination and courage of its people.
Chile will continue to honour all its international commitments and contribute to bequeathing a better world to future generations. Chile will also continue to be a good country in which to be born, grow up, raise a family, work and grow old in an environment of freedom, justice and peace.
Many thanks.


===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
It is an honour for me to be here among Member States at the General Assembly for the first time. I come from Chile, which is a beautiful country located in the extreme south of Latin America between the Andes Mountains, the backbone of our continent, and the majestic and imposing Pacific Ocean. It is a country that has a varied geography and stirring landscapes, where the clearest skies coexist with the stormiest seas and the driest desert with cities carved by rain.
As some of those present perhaps know, the Chilean people are hard-working and supportive. Thanks to their efforts, in just over two centuries we have gone from being Spain’s poorest colony in Latin America to being an independent, free, sovereign and thriving country, which today, with its tremendous opportunities, is on the threshold of comprehensive development, and we are working to ensure that this is for everyone and not just for a few. Chile has copper and lithium for electromobility and is a developing innovative corridor country, promoting clean energy to the world, with long coasts and protected marine areas to safeguard the environment and with top-level universities to foster and share knowledge.
I have come to tell colleagues that Chile needs the world, and that the world also needs Chile. But as Member States know and as has been clear in the addresses before mine, we live in a time of deep uncertainty and upheavals, in which it is clear that there is no nation among all those represented here that is isolated from, or immune to, shocks and what is happening globally. Our country is certainly no exception. The unfair war of aggression that Russia unleashed on Ukraine, with whose people we express our solidarity, pushed up fuel prices and caused shortages of grains and fertilizers, with a strong impact on our economy and that of many States. In addition, while it is harder to talk about, the trade war between the United States and China, unleashed under the Trump Administration in 2018, as well as the pandemic destabilized the global economy, affecting our economy as well as that of other Member States.
At another level, the humanitarian crisis in Venezuela, as a result of its already prolonged political crisis, has generated an unprecedented migratory flow in our region and our country, putting tremendous pressure on our institutions and society.
Finally, as many Member States are clearly experiencing, the climate crisis has a particularly strong impact on our Latin American continent, and especially the Caribbean, as well as the livelihoods of our people. In Chile, we meet seven of the nine vulnerability criteria established by the United Nations: low-level coastal areas, arid and semi-arid areas, forests, propensity to natural disasters, droughts, polluted urban areas and fragile mountain ecosystems. However, our country, no doubt like many Member States present and a large part of the global South, produces and is responsible for a tiny share — in our case 0.24 per cent — of global greenhouse-gas emissions, while the countries with the biggest economies, the Group of 20, as the Secretary-General recalled, produce 80 per cent of greenhouse-gas emissions. As is evident, these days no country, whether big or small, weak or powerful, can expect to save itself on its own.
While we were preparing this speech, I was thinking about how, among so many clearly interesting statements regarding the specific reality of each country, we could contribute a grain of sand to the building of the fairest possible world. Aware of the fact I am not the one to give lessons on each of the problems of the turbulent world in which we live, I thought that relating our recent experience as a country could help those who want to listen to learn from it.
Chile is currently undergoing an intense political process. Almost three years ago, we faced a serious political and social crisis. During those days, a great majority of Chileans expressed their unease about the inequality and mistreatment, their indignation at the long waits for public health care, their disgust at the millions of dollars in student debts and their rejection
of meagre pensions after long years of work. That is perhaps a familiar story for many of those here.
In a few months, it will be 50 years since President Salvador Allende, from this very rostrum where I have the honour to be today, gave an account of the important social and political changes that our country was undergoing (see A/PV.2096). We are a country that has long been searching for its own path to dignity. While poverty has been significantly reduced and there has been significant progress on social issues during the democratic Governments of the past 30 years, it is undeniable that the development model adopted in Chile has preserved a high degree of wealth, making us one of the most unequal countries in the world, which grieves us.
As clearly also happens in many developing countries, that inequality has not only hindered our path to development but is also a potential threat to democracy, since the fracture in society destroys social cohesion, thereby hampering our understanding of each other and our building together a freer and fairer future.
The social upheaval that Chile experienced in 2019 perplexed many observers, including some represented here, who were asking what had happened in the country, as well as actors in national life. Many were struck by the fact that a country that had achieved significant levels of economic growth and human development, showing significant improvements in the quality of life of its population, was at the same time faced with such a profound crisis.
Unfortunately, what happened in my homeland was not accidental, but the consequence of countless stories of pain and procrastination that were brewing and affecting the very heart of our society. I want to say that, even if it is not expected, that can also happen in the countries of other Member States. That is why I ask that we, together, be proactive in the pursuit of greater social justice. A better distribution of wealth and power must go hand in hand with sustainable growth. I am deeply convinced that, with the participation of Member States, it is possible, and it is an urgent need.
Regrettably, I must say this today because each of us cannot come and just talk about good things. That discontent also expressed itself in serious incidents of violence, such as fires in metro stations and the vandalization of civic buildings.
Meanwhile, we witnessed uncontrolled repression, which resulted in deaths, injuries and more than 400 people suffering eye injuries as a result of the State’s action, which, in the view of our Government and various international organizations, represents a serious human rights violation that must be redressed, and it will be.
It was that long history of injustice that manifested itself in our country from October to December 2019. But — and this is the good news — history lasts longer than those of us who today hold these positions and the long history of citizen mobilization and social struggles, which enabled the return to democracy and the reunion of democrats, as President Aylwin said at the end of the previous century, and which at the dawn of the twentieth century allowed progress in workers’ rights. In the peaceful protests of 2019, there were also women from the previous century who, despite everything, advanced women’s right to vote. The memories of the workers who achieved the right to rest and the settlers who fought, and continue to fight, for decent housing accompanied us. All those memories and social struggles were present.
The values behind that deep discontent — equality, justice and freedom — are not unrelated to a demand that we see increasingly frequently around the world and from this rostrum. The protection and promotion of human rights everywhere and by every Government, decent work, universal social protection and the fight against the climate crisis are today universal demands that are the focus of Our Common Agenda (A/75/982), led by our Secretary-General, Mr. Antonio Guterres, and the Sustainable Development Goals.
The way forward for a peaceful and democratic solution to the crisis in our country was an important agreement between the main political forces that developed a path towards the drafting of a new constitution, capable of laying the foundations of a new social contract. That path, driven by Chilean society from protest and social struggle and politically channelled by various institutions, was endorsed by a plebiscite, where 80 per cent of voters supported a new constitution, to be written by a specifically elected body.
The challenge is not a small one. It consists of achieving, as never before in our history, a democratic constitution, drafted with the participation of citizens and indigenous peoples and gender parity — a constitution for all, but also made by all.
A few weeks ago, the work accomplished by the Constitutional Convention between 2021 and 2022 was submitted to citizen consultation by means of a plebiscite, in which Chileans participated on a massive scale, with 85 per cent participation. In that electoral event, we citizens clearly rejected the proposal by 62 per cent versus 38 per cent. Today, as a country, we are therefore looking for new formulas to build this meeting place for all Chileans.
My personal decision in the plebiscite was to vote for the proposal for a new constitution, but the result was the opposite. Some saw the result of the plebiscite as a defeat for the Government. In all humility, I wish to say to them today at the United Nations that a Government can never feel defeated when the people speak out. In a democracy, the people’s word is sovereign and is the guide at all times.
Why am I talking about this? Because, unlike in the past, when differences in Chile were resolved by blood and fire, today we Chileans agree to overcome our challenges democratically.
I am talking about this because I am sure that one of the main challenges for humankind today is building democracies that truly speak and listen to the people and achieve the desired results. Those of us attending this Assembly have the duty to improve our democracies.
Ms. Kamina Johnson Smith (Jamaica),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
During the many days of mobilization, the word dignity resounded. The Chilean people expressed themselves, giving us a lesson in democracy, which we are learning. Chile has called on its democracy and its political actors to rise to their demands and the challenges of today, which we too must meet.
As a Government, we received the results of the recent plebiscite with our eyes and hearts wide open. We want to hear what the people are telling us because we trust in their judgment and their will. There are things that we understood very clearly, which I want to briefly share. The results are the expression of a citizenry that demands changes without jeopardizing its current achievements and that wants a better future, built seriously and without succumbing to new insecurities — a future of change with stability.
As a young person who not long ago was protesting on the street, I can say that representing unrest is much easier than providing solutions for it. Those of us devoted to the demanding work of politics often easily confuse our successes as spokespeople for citizen annoyance with our real capacity to be builders of better futures. The outcome of our country’s plebiscite has taught us to be humbler — democracy should be humble — and to realize that, in building the Chile of which we dream, no given sector has the recipe. Rather, it is a mixture, combining the best that each of us can contribute. In the twenty-first century, we govern by mobilizing the capacities and wisdom of our societies, not by trying to replace them.
As President of Chile, I am convinced that very soon Chile will have a constitution that satisfies us and makes us proud, built on democracy that brings together the contributions of all sectors of society and is able to reflect our aspirations for justice and liberty.
From the humble history of my country, I can say with deep conviction that the path to overcoming the problems that afflict our societies is paved with more democracy, not with less, encouraging, and not limiting, participation, fostering dialogue, never censoring it, and, above all, respecting those who think differently, including their points of view and understanding that having different opinions does not make us enemies. I rebel against the chasm that some try to dig around legitimately diverse views. We in Chile declare our will to be builders of bridges across such gaps, which prevent us from seeing ourselves as diverse societies.
That is the experience and learning that, from our small country, we want to share with the nations of the world. Deepening democracy is an ongoing exercise, in which we can only persevere and each learn from the experience of others.
In conclusion, I therefore call on Member States to work together to strengthen democracy in all spaces, in every country and in relations among us. In Latin America, we need a united voice and more common work by the global South. We need a modernized United Nations, where we all have the same goals,
Based on multilateralism, justice and peace at all times and in all places, we must commit to taking the necessary actions, not just making statements, so as to stop Russia’s unjust war on Ukraine and put an end to all abuses by the powerful everywhere in the world. We must commit to mobilizing our efforts to stop violence against women, be it in Iran in memory of Mahsa Amini, who died at the hands of the police this week, or anywhere in the world. We must
commit to not normalizing the ongoing human rights violations against the Palestinian people by upholding international law and the resolutions adopted by this very Assembly that support their inalienable right to establish their own free, sovereign State, as well as to ensuring Israel’s legitimate right to live within secure and internationally recognized borders. We must commit to continuing to work for the release of political prisoners in Nicaragua and to ensure that nowhere in the world can having ideas that differ from those of the Government in power end in persecution or human rights violations.
The whole world is calling for change and, like those before us, we, as part of the new generations, have the right and responsibility to think about and realize a different future. Citizens who suffer the most from the consequences of societies built on segregation and abuse demand rights and a safe life. We can achieve that world of greater well-being only through increased democracy. That is the call that today we must all heed. In Chile, we are ready to collaborate in every part of the world to that end.


===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
In the firm conviction that democracy is the memory of the future, nine days ago. Chile commemorated 50 years since the coup d’etat of 11 September 1973. an event that violently ripped apart our way of life, bringing death, persecution, pain and misery to my nation. The images of the bombing of the presidential palace. La Moneda. and the immolation of the constitutional president of Chile. Salvador Allende, as well as the evidence that the United States Administration, under President Nixon at the time, had conspired from the outset to promote the failure of the Chilean Government, shocked the democratic conscience of the world.
While some countries were betting at that time on the destabilization of both fragile and more robust democracies, there were also multilateral organizations such as the United Nations that played a fundamental role in the defence of human rights and democracy. From the outset, they were committed to defending those who were most vulnerable and suffering in Latin America, including in Chile and throughout the world. For that reason, we owe the United Nations, as well as several of the countries present here, an enormous debt of infinite gratitude. There were thousands who anonymously helped those persecuted and saved lives, demonstrating a solidarity with the victims of the dictatorship headed by Augusto Pinochet that still moves us to this day.
Since then, our country has come a long way. As Chileans, we are proud to have been able to unite to recover democracy, restore the Republic and rebuild the 
path towards the expansion of the rights and fundamental freedoms conquered by the founders of our homeland. Chile is a country that loves and promotes peace, and it is that characteristic of our identity that brings me to address the Assembly.
Fifty years after the tragedy I described, we have faced our pain head-on. confronting it with initiatives such as the Rettig Commission, the Valech Commission and now our national search plan. Chile is a country that is making progress because we have learned lessons from our past, reliving it in order to be able to build a better future. From the lessons we have learned, we are able to devote ourselves to the challenges of the present. I would say that the main lesson learned — as I am sure most of us would agree, having listened to the preceding speakers — is that issues pertaining to democracy must always be resolved with more democracy, never less, and that a coup d’etat is never inevitable. Democracy always offers alternatives.
We have also learned that human rights provide an inalienable ethical basis for political action, and that human rights have no political undertones and must be promoted and defended at all times and in all places. All violations of human rights must be unequivocally condemned, regardless of the Government responsible. That is a principle that we have upheld and will continue to uphold, especially as members of the Human Rights Council. We have also learned through our history that democracy is fragile — it is not guaranteed forever — and therefore we must take care of it; violence is not acceptable as a form of political action in democracy; and dialogue between those who think differently must always prevail, which also applies to relations between countries. That is why I wish to reaffirm Chile’s profound inclination towards multilateralism and mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
We have also learned something I deem important to stress in times of polarization, namely, that when we manage to unite in the pursuit of common objectives, we can move forward pluralistically for the benefit of our peoples. While it is true that, as anyone following the debate in our country can see. there is still great divergence in Chile, there is also great consensus. That is how the five living former Presidents — one of whom is a woman — and myself came to sign a commitment to the future for democracy and human rights. We also invited other State leaders to join us. Even in the most critical political moments, we are capable of coming together. Government and opposition, to find ways out of an impasse and to prioritize our people over our legitimate differences. That is how together — and I underscore, together — as Government and opposition we are building the path towards being able to meet the demands of our people.
The generations that came before us took on the responsibility of making our nations independent; establishing democracies, fundamental freedoms and universal human rights; and progressively advancing in the conquest of social rights. My generation — one that was not yet born at the time of the 1973 coup d’etat — has the no less difficult task of consolidating and defending many of those legacies, while at the same time facing new threats and challenges with optimism.
Today I wish to raise three urgent tasks to address that, in my homeland, we humbly believe coincide with much of what has been spoken about in this Hall today.
First, our most urgent task is to safeguard democracy. We must stop the advance of intolerance and authoritarianism, and we must resolutely confront, in an institutional and uncomplicated manner, the disinformation that is corroding our democracies. At the same time, we must defend the advances in the rights of minorities, as well as of those who are not a minority but the majority, such as women, whose advances and rights are threatened by sectarianism and fanaticism of various kinds.
We must address the root causes of the dissatisfaction that democracy generates, because we note with concern that the loss or fragility of democracy today may not be expressed in the coups d’etat of the twentieth century, but rather in new forms, some of which may even have the appearance of a majority. Why is democracy today not satisfying the yearnings of peoples who urgently want and need greater security, greater equality and a way out of poverty? Democracy must be able to deliver results — we must focus very strongly on that. When institutions are slow to respond or fail to do so in a clear and timely manner, the challenges of corruption, organized crime and multiple inequalities corrode our institutions, and therefore the population ceases to trust them. Therefore, caring for democracy means taking charge of the frustrations, desires and needs of citizens; channelling our resources to address the challenges of our time; moving forward with concrete actions for greater freedom, prosperity, social justice and sustainability; and always putting the collective interest 
ahead of individual ones, particularly the individual interests of those who have the most power — namely us. as leaders. In that sense, we also defend unrestricted respect for human rights as a means of civilizational progress, regardless of the Government in power.
That is why I feel it is my duty, as we have stated in other international forums, to denounce before this Hall and the world the persecution that anyone who thinks differently from the Government under the dictatorial Ortega and Murillo regime in Nicaragua is currently experiencing. In that country, not only are dissenters banned from taking part in elections, but they are persecuted and deprived of their nationality. Their homes are raided and they are stripped of their political rights.
Meanwhile, we all need to recognize that any solution must be arrived at as a result of multilateral dialogue. We must therefore state clearly that the imposition of unilateral sanctions does not contribute to a solution. From our standpoint, the sanctions imposed against Venezuela today do not serve to improve the living conditions of the Venezuelan people. We are convinced that the United States must lift the sanctions that it has imposed against Venezuela in order to ensure that free elections, with all the necessary safeguards for all segments of the population, can be held. The same must be said of the sanctions that have been in place for so long against Cuba. I want to be very clear: declaring that Cuba is a country that promotes terrorism is false, and we are angered by that. We urge the United States to take the line of the Obama Administration, which removed Cuba from that list. It has now been put back on that list three years in a row. and for all the years it has been on the list, it is not the Government of Cuba that has suffered but the Cuban people, who do not deserve it.
At the same time. I feel obliged to speak out on two conflicts, from two different times, that are tearing humankind apart. There are some present here who might legitimately wonder why Chile would discuss conflicts happening in countries so far from its own. It is because we feel the pain of humankind as a whole and we should not remain silent when we see. for example, the illegal occupation of Palestine and the denial of the opportunity for a Palestinian Government to be formed. There is a wall that divides its citizens. We recognize the right to exist of both States. Palestine and Israel, and that is why. from this rostrum, we call for respect for international law.
A more recent conflict in which we also see the ambiguities that tend to emerge when events of a geopolitical nature occur, and which we must clearly and explicitly condemn, is the illegal invasion of Ukraine by Russia. On that point, we are convinced that the invading Government and the invaded people cannot share the same level of blame or responsibility for a conflict of that nature. Peace can be achieved only guaranteeing respect for the territorial integrity of nations. We say that as a small, or rather medium-sized, country from the South. We know that countries such as ours have only international law on which to depend for our defence in potential future conflicts. Today it is Ukraine; tomorrow it could be any one of us. Knowing that, we cannot close our eyes. Neither can we allow ourselves to be ambiguous in the condemnation of what, from our perspective, is an illegal war of aggression.
The second topic that requires urgent action, and for which we also do not share equal responsibility, is the crisis of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss. We are all aware of the analysis and its conclusions. Almost all the leaders at this rostrum have spoken on the topic. These are the problems of today, not tomorrow. In my country, we have faced forest fires and floods. We know that many States here, in particular the most vulnerable — those that have contributed the least to global warming and have burned the least fossil fuels — are the ones that have suffered the most from the climate crisis. That is why we are making the same appeal that we made earlier this morning at the high-level panel on this topic. We call for rapid action to accelerate the energy transition, change our consumption patterns and establish new rules and institutions that will allow us to meet those demands. In our country, we have made progress in that direction under various leaders and Governments. We have 43 per cent protected marine areas and 22 per cent protected land areas. We have adopted a biodiversity protection law and have committed to reaching carbon neutral status by 2050 at the latest. We hope to reach that milestone even earlier.
Climate change means that we face increasingly frequent and more complex challenges. Right now. we are suffering from a very severe drought. At the same time, there have been rains that led to the flooding of areas no longer used to life-giving water, as well as forest fires. We are suffering a wide range of phenomena that have a direct impact on the most vulnerable. We understand that the same problems are happening elsewhere in 
the world. There were devastating floods recently in Libya, which the President and the Secretary-General both mentioned in their addresses yesterday. There is what happened in Pakistan last year. There was drought in Argentina. Central America and the Horn of Africa. Those are just a few examples that should move us to action now. We need to do more.
I call in a responsible way on the countries with the most industrial activity to assume their full moral responsibility — not just to be more environmentally respectful but also to show greater solidarity with those who are suffering most, such as the small Pacific island nations and those of Oceania. Central America and the Caribbean that are suffering the most devastating effects of climate change. We are not responsible for the damage caused by the climate crisis or its biases.
Chile is putting all of its weight behind environmental agreements. Among other agreements, last year we supported the Americas for the Protection of the Ocean coalition, and this year we signed the Agreement under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction. I reiterate to the General Assembly our willingness and commitment to having Valparaiso, the historic gateway to America and the pearl of the Pacific, serve as the headquarters for the secretariat of the Agreement. States can count on Chile for its proper development and contribution to a more sustainable, fairer and more equitable development.
I turn finally to the third challenge, which is related to technological change and can only be compared to the industrial revolution of the mid-eighteenth century. It will drastically change how we relate to one another and our ways of thinking, producing and working. Only a few days ago. a mother in a small town in Spain reported a group of young boys who used artificial intelligence to remove the clothing of their female classmates, harming their honour as well as their right to themselves, their integrity and their privacy. All technological developments throughout the history of humankind have been a major opportunity to create fairer societies; however, if we get it wrong, they can also be the source of new injustices. In that context, we are all obliged to create multilateral consensus and an ethical framework for the development and use of new technologies, such as artificial intelligence. We need a framework that takes the human rights perspective into account in technological research and development. with a view to protecting and promoting the dignity and the rights of peoples and individuals, as well as sustainable development needs.
There is no doubt that societies must make progress, but we must do it in a responsible way. That is why we must understand and better manage the opportunities offered by technologies for our benefit, before they become a threat and further entrench existing inequalities. That is. for example, what we have been doing in Chile since we established the Congress on the Future, and I am certain that everyone here has similar initiatives in their own countries. Humbly, but also proudly. I can say that my country today serves as a Latin American benchmark for the future of artificial intelligence, and we will work tirelessly in that direction. Democracy is memory and future. That underlies our view that technological development must be a tool for unity, not division, and one that promotes the empowerment of all of society, addresses the phenomenon of disinformation, supports the most vulnerable sectors and does not further entrench inequalities at the national and global levels.
I wish to conclude by saying that the challenges we face require audacious and collective solutions, because none of us — not even the most powerful country in the world — can tackle those challenges in isolation. The phenomena of the climate crisis, migration and pandemics have neither borders nor flags. Because they affect all countries of the world, this forum, the General Assembly, must rise to the challenge and honour the calls made yesterday by the Secretary-General. Mr. Antonio Guterres, with respect to reforming global governance in terms of its political and financial aspects. It is either reform or a descent into barbarism. We are for reform, and we can say to the Secretary-General that he has our support in reforming not only the Security Council but also the financial institutions that were born out of the Bretton Woods consensus.
I underscore that democracy is memory and future, and the role of the General Assembly will be decisive on the path to a better world. Because we have learned from our past, and in my capacity as a representative of new generations. I am optimistic about what is to come in our future, because throughout its more than 70 years of history the General Assembly has shown that, even in the most difficult moments, it is possible for humankind to strike agreements on the path towards civilized cooperation and coexistence. States will always be able to count on Chile to promote and to 
defend human rights, multilateralism and democracy, and to build together a sustainable future and a world free of poverty with greater social equality.


===== Session 79 - 2024 =====


**Mr President,**

In 2025, it will be 80 years since the day when 51 countries took the historic step of creating the United Nations. Chile has always been a proud part of this collective effort: we were one of its founding members, and today, 80 years later, we are still here, defending democracy, peace, and the full respect for human rights.

The world in 1945 must have been a complex one—full of hope for the end of the war, but torn apart by the poverty, destruction, and death it had left behind. Still marked by the infamy of colonialism, the unstoppable emancipations of peoples from their oppressors were just beginning to stir.

Much time has passed since then, and the world has changed radically. If a 20-year-old from that era were to wake up in 2024, they would not believe what they see.

The world has changed, but some things remain the same. One such example is the UN Security Council—and the world of 2024 is not that of 1945. This morning I heard the UN Secretary-General, President Lula of Brazil, and President Biden of the United States express their agreement on reforming the Security Council to reflect the realities of our time.

What—or who—is standing in the way? Is there anyone in this assembly who opposes such reform? From Chile, I propose that we set a deadline for this reform, and that by the time the UN turns 80, it does so with a Security Council that includes **Brazil** from Latin America, **India**, and **at least one African country**. Nothing prevents this except a lack of will. Human institutions depend on the will of their leaders, and those that cannot adapt to their times risk collapse. One need only recall the rapid fall of the League of Nations. There are moments when change is the best way to ensure the continuity of our shared history. This is one of those moments.

The same principle applies to **financial governance**. We value the efforts made by global financial institutions to modernise. But above all, Chile supports the proposal by Africa, led by Nigeria, to address **tax evasion**, **illicit financial flows**, and **inequality in tax collection** through the creation of a **Convention on International Tax Cooperation**—a more transparent and inclusive system of global taxation that helps fund the fight against the **climate crisis**, where countries and multinational corporations alike are held accountable and contribute fairly to the nations from which they derive their wealth.

We also support the **anti-poverty and anti-hunger initiative led by President Lula**. Hunger and poverty are not natural. They are not inherent to humanity. We—planetary leaders and civil society—are responsible for eradicating them.

To lead this reformist process, I am convinced it must be a **woman**, as established by the Convention of the Future, and she should come from **Latin America**, in keeping with the principle of geographical rotation. She would follow in the reformist footsteps of António Guterres.

---

**Mr President, leaders of the world,**

The international community is sometimes accused of applying **double standards** when it comes to human rights violations. We condemn what the adversary does, but when a so-called ally violates the UN Charter, we look the other way or remain ambiguous.

From Chile, we reject double standards in human rights. As a **young, Latin American, left-wing president**, I say clearly and firmly: **human rights must be respected at all times and in all places**, and we must demand this respect regardless of the political colour of the government that violates them.

Because the **Palestinian teenager murdered in Gaza**, the **Venezuelan worker forced to flee their homeland**, the **Ukrainian child abducted by Russia**, the **opposition member silenced in Nicaragua**, and the **woman expelled from school in Afghanistan simply for being a woman**, are—above all—**human beings**. And the voice of every nation, regardless of its political stance, must rise to defend them.

That is the principled position we uphold in Chile, beyond any geopolitical interest.

That is why I **refuse to choose between the terrorism of Hamas and the genocide being carried out by Netanyahu’s Israel**. **We should not be forced to choose between barbarities.**

**I choose humanity.**

We denounce the **illegal occupation of Palestinian territories** and the de facto denial of an independent Palestinian state.

From Chile, we call for an **immediate ceasefire in Gaza**, an end to the **suffering and slaughter of the Palestinian people**, and the **immediate release of the hostages held by Hamas**.

**Israel must respect international law**, cease the construction and expansion of illegal settlements in occupied Palestinian territory, end its occupation of Gaza, and stop its **indiscriminate attacks on civilians**.

As has long been Chilean state policy, we again insist on the urgent need for a **sustainable two-state solution**, with internationally recognised and secure borders based on the **1967 lines**.

The **Russian war of aggression against Ukraine** must stop. The United Nations is the forum that must put an end to this blatant violation of international law. We cannot allow the idea to become normalised that a country can invade another and keep part of its territory.

For medium-sized countries like Chile, demanding respect for international law is our best safeguard for **protecting our territorial sovereignty**. I emphasise in particular the situation of **Ukrainian children abducted by Russia** and taken to its territory. They must be returned to their families.

Before this Assembly, Chile reaffirms its commitment to **democracy** as the only system capable of maintaining peace, achieving sustainable development, and protecting the dignity, rights, and fundamental freedoms of people.

That is why we view with concern the **growing disaffection of citizens with democracy**, and the rise of **authoritarian leaders** who persecute or insult those who disagree with them.

We must raise our voices and stand against those who erode democracy—whether through authoritarianism or shameless disinformation.

At the same time, we must respond to the frustrations, hopes, and needs of our people, so they can once again trust in democratic institutions and mechanisms.

We observe these threats with particular concern in our own region. **Chile will continue building bridges between diverse societies**, seeking the integration of Latin American voices to promote peace and stability. This does not preclude us from firmly condemning **any violations of human rights**, **international law**, or **attacks on democracy** in neighbouring countries.

Chile is especially alert to the **critical situation in Venezuela**. We are facing a dictatorship that seeks to steal an election, persecutes its opponents, and is indifferent to the forced exile of not thousands but **millions** of its own citizens.

A political solution is urgently needed—one that acknowledges the opposition’s electoral victory and initiates a **peaceful transition to genuine democracy**.

At the same time, I must say clearly: the **unilateral sanctions imposed by the United States** are not helping to solve the crisis; on the contrary, they are **worsening it**. **Sanctions hurt the Venezuelan people the most**—the poor, the working class. The political crisis, combined with the economic crisis, has forced over **seven million Venezuelans** into exile—**800,000 of them in Chile**.

Let me be clear: **Chile is not in a position to receive more Venezuelan migrants**. To the U.S. authorities, I call on you to **lift economic sanctions** that, as we know in the Global South, only create more poverty among peoples—not among dictators.

---

**None of us—** not even the most powerful—can tackle phenomena like **climate change**, **pandemics**, **the digital revolution**, or **transnational organised crime** on our own.

We need one another.

We also need a **stronger, more active United Nations** and international community.

This is the vision we have advanced through our participation in UN bodies. I want to highlight in particular Chile’s recent presidency of the **UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC)**, where we promoted the integration of gender perspectives, the care crisis, human rights, territorial approaches in debate, and civil society participation in decision-making.

I speak on behalf of all Chileans in expressing our concern over the **rise of transnational organised crime** and its devastating effects on security, development, democracy, and people’s lives.

Our governments must act together, coordinating public policy, strategy, and operational capacity to combat **financial crimes, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and arms smuggling**.

This is why, during Chile’s rotating presidency of the **Brasilia Consensus**, we hosted its first-ever meeting of ministers and senior public security and organised crime officials.

**Security is now the primary concern of most people in Chile and Latin America**, and states must not surrender or normalise violence and organised crime. We must be **firm against criminality**, and **tireless in building community and social cohesion**.

Chile is also committed to developing **policies, ethical frameworks, and regulations** to steer the development of **artificial intelligence (AI)** in an ethical, transparent, and responsible manner—one that respects **human rights**, protects **personal data**, and promotes the **integrity of information** in the digital era.

Today, AI applications are **reproducing prejudices and stereotypes**, due to biases embedded in the datasets on which they are trained.

Can we trust corporations to regulate themselves? **History tells us otherwise.**

The international community must protect those **excluded from this new world in the making**. If we fail to act now—by requiring **algorithm traceability**, **data audits**, and **corrective human interventions**—we could soon witness a new kind of extermination: the **digital erasure of non-hegemonic cultures**, and with it, the **loss of humanity’s precious diversity**.

Let us not allow that to happen.

AI and new technologies can be an enormous asset to the world. Let us recall **Asimov’s Zeroth Law of Robotics**, written in literature as early as the mid-20th century: *“A robot may not harm humanity, or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm.”*

---

And I must issue a final call regarding **the most important challenge of our generation: the climate emergency**.

**Protecting and sustaining life on Earth is a task we must assume NOW.**

I say this from **Chile**, a country increasingly affected by **droughts, floods, and wildfires**. But borders are meaningless here—we grieve equally the **Idai cyclone in Malawi and Mozambique**, the **massive fires in Australia**, **floods in Bangladesh**, the **dry corridor in Central America**, the **rising seas threatening the Maldives**, and the **wildfires currently burning in Córdoba, Argentina**.

Let us not deny science. Let us not deny our collective responsibility for this crisis.

From Chile, we are doing our part: **transitioning our energy matrix away from fossil fuels**, **moving toward carbon neutrality**, **protecting our seas and wilderness**, **safeguarding Antarctica**, and **ratifying the High Seas Treaty (BBNJ)**. I invite all countries to do the same.

But **individual efforts are not enough**. We need everyone—especially **the major powers** and those who **benefited from decades of indiscriminate natural resource exploitation**—to take responsibility and support those now left behind.

Let us not forget that **many of today’s developed countries owe their wealth to centuries of plundering other peoples**.

There are many challenges ahead, but **no destiny is written in stone**. It is up to us to build a fairer and more dignified world for all.

A few weeks ago, **Elvira Hernández** became the second Chilean poet, after **Gabriela Mistral**, to win the National Literature Prize. Let me paraphrase one of her poems as a warning: *“We are birds of passage, but we have grown accustomed to behaving like monuments.”*

Let us not turn multilateralism or the United Nations into monuments. Let us make this historic achievement a **powerful, renewed force** to improve the lives of all humankind.

**Thank you very much.**