

===== Session 01 - 1946 =====
The Colombian delegation does not consider it necessary to reaffirm, in the general debate, its adherence to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, or its constant desire to participate in the joint effort to ensure peace and to create better living conditions for humanity. We have come to this Assembly in the same spirit which inspired our conduct in London, San Francisco, Mexico, Buenos Aires and in all the Pan-American meetings of this turbulent age. We come here now with the same interest which we brought to the Inter-American Conference for the organization of peace when we presented a plan for an association of the American nations, with that same ardour with which we helped to build the unity of our hemisphere in the Act of Chapultepec, with that same determination which we evinced at San Francisco to strengthen the Pan-American system, and with that same optimism we felt during all the initial stages of the organization of the United Nations; In the same way, we are now ready to support any initiative tending to establish once and for all throughout the world the triumph of reason over force, of right over arbitrariness, and of liberty over slavery in any form.
Nevertheless, we cannot refrain from expressing our great pleasure at the attractive prospects which we believe are before us with the inauguration of the meetings of this Assembly. There is a great diversity of opinions regarding the results of the Paris Conference. Many think that, in the course of the discussions between the representatives of the great Powers, the antagonisms which arose between them overshadowed the progress achieved in agreeing on peace terms for some of the defeated countries. Others think, on the contrary, that the negotiations marked a considerable advance toward the reorganization of continental Europe. For us, the principal fact, the most significant of all, is that from this Conference, at which the differences between the United States of America and the Soviet Union were so acute, seems to have emerged, strengthened, the will to peace which is finding such happy expression at this meeting.
The representatives of the United Nations have come to the Assembly with the same earnest desire to seek, in conformity with the principles laid down in the Charter, the pacific settlement of the world problems falling within their jurisdiction. None of them would wish to make irreconcilable the disputes between nations, whether they are of a political or economic nature. At the precise moment when the tension between the Soviet Union and the United States was so extreme that a serious and dangerous misunderstanding threatened the world, their most responsible spokesmen gave a necessary and timely respite to world opinion, by their declarations of peace and collaboration, both explicit and far-reaching. We not only welcome these statements with enthusiasm but we must remember them as a stimulus to strengthen our confidence in the success of our work.
Marshal Stalin was perhaps the first to try to dispel the fear of another war, stating clearly that he did not see how such a thing could happen.
The Soviet Foreign Minister, Mr. Molotov, upon his arrival in New York, ratified this declaration, expressing the assurance that any difficulty which might arise would be satisfactorily solved with goodwill and sincere intention to maintain mutual understanding.
Some days before, the Secretary of State, Mr. Byrnes, had explained to the American people how, after every great war, the victorious Allies have found it difficult to adjust their differences in the making of peace, and how those differences cannot be dispelled or reconciled by a mere gloss of polite words. But, added Mr. Byrnes, it is better that the world should witness clashes of ideas rather than clashes of arms.
“We must co-operate to build a world order, not to sanctify the status quo, but to preserve peace and freedom based upon justice. And we must be willing to co-operate with one another — veto or no veto — to defend, with force if necessary, the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Holding out his hand, figuratively, to the representatives of all peoples, great and small, Mr. Byrnes revealed his whole thought when he said:
“Any nation that abides by those principles can count upon the friendship and co-operation of the United States, irrespective of national differences or possible conflict of interests.”
As President Truman declared at the opening meeting of the second part of the first session of this Assembly, “the United States of America has no wish to make war, either now or in the future, with any nation in any part of the world”.
Neither the Soviet Union, nor United Kingdom, nor any of the nations represented here wishes to become involved in an armed conflict again. They are all sincerely and eagerly seeking peace.
This is as it should be, and as far as lies in our power it could not be otherwise. In the past, wars have been waged on a great variety of pretexts and with many different objectives in view; but whether it was territorial conquest, the defence of a religious creed, the maintenance of a status quo or the propagation of a certain political ideology which brought men to the battlefields, it is certain that the last war alone was indisputably a war to ensure world peace, a war in which the democracies were obliged, against their will, to take an active part.
But a war to bring about the millenium, the ideal of peace in a new world order, must, of necessity, entail obligations which the previous wars did not impose upon all the nations. This was the reason why, before hostilities had ceased, the San Francisco Conference was convened in order to lay the foundations and proclaim the Charter of the United Nations.
The representatives of States concerned were able to meet even before the unconditional surrender of Germany and Japan, because they knew what motives had led them to enter the struggle and the nature of the new order which they wished to see established for the common benefit of mankind. We may well say, once and for all, that the war was necessary in order that men and nations might adjust and resolve their differences, reconcile their interests and seek their welfare by peaceful means.
In open and firm opposition to Hitler’s and Mussolini’s new order, which made disagreement with official opinion an offence, the free nations went to battle for the right to dissent as one of the essential prerogatives of progress and human dignity. And they won the fight. That is why we are now engaged in the task of securing for all men the right to live and work in peace, regardless of their race, religion, language, or political ideology, within the organization which they freely elected as the body most likely to achieve these purposes; the right of the citizen to express his opinion about the Government’s actions without restriction; the right of the minority to profess a political or religious creed different from that of the majority; the right of all races to receive equal protection from the State.
Therefore, we must ask ourselves these questions: If we went to war in order to achieve the right to live together in disagreement, why do we not recognize it as a fundamental rule of international relations, with all its consequences? Why do we not offer and guarantee it general and universal acceptance?
It has often been said that the key to peace is to be found in the nations’ ability to live together in harmony notwithstanding their different criteria; it is to be found in the ability to give free expression to their disagreements until a satisfactory solution is found.
That is why we derive so much confidence from the fact that such matters as the regulation of the veto and the control of atomic energy, which many consider a threat to the stability of the United Nations, are brought before the General Assembly for discussion. Wherever there is a safety-valve, it is easy to prevent an explosion. In the world prior to 1939 these same forces, which we can now examine and utilize for our mutual benefit, lacked this opportunity which is now enjoyed in the Assembly of the United Nations, and were able to explode and create chaos without previously revealing their violence.
In reality, neither the vote of the majority nor the veto can, in itself, guarantee peace. The imposition of a decision obtained through a majority of votes may seem more legitimate than any other method of decision; but it is nevertheless the result of numerical force which is no more excusable simply because it is not exercised in a brutal manner. The stronger nations, which are fewer in number, are obliged to yield to the will of the weak nations which are numerous. This, in our opinion, creates the necessity to restrict, not only the use of the veto, but also that of the vote as the normal means for arriving at highly important decisions. Both prevent the settlement of differences in many cases where it might be easy to arrive at a compromise as an interim solution.
The experience of the Latin American nations in their continental relations has shown us that when giving effect to an international policy the right of a majority must be exercised with the utmost discretion.
Not once but many times the small nations could have carried points of view which were contrary to those of the stronger nations simply because they had a majority of votes in Pan-American assemblies. I should venture to say that inter-American relations have developed very happily partly because the small nations never did so; that is, nations never tried to adjust any of their major differences simply by conforming to the will of the majority. The fairness of the vote of the members of the Pan-American system was not achieved by hastiness, but rather by always allowing ample opportunity for the discussion of opposing points of view.
I firmly believe that it is precisely because none of our more serious disputes has been solved by the numerical force of the vote that there has not even been any thought of establishing the veto for any purpose in the association of the American nations. They all recognize, however, that the common interest naturally involves the veto right whenever the importance of the subject at issue, or that of the countries which are opposed to the taking of a certain decision, ought ultimately to carry more weight than the opinion of a fortuitous majority.
It may be that in this way the vote of the majority has in fact been limited, and that we have postponed matters of great moment for a longer time than is strictly necessary. On the other hand, we are certain of having better served the interests of peace in this part of the world and of thus having promoted co-operation between the American peoples more effectively than by adopting premature or precipitate conclusions, whereby voices of dissension or of discontent would have been silenced.
We, the members of the delegation of Colombia, believe that the task with which the General Assembly of the United Nations is now confronted could be accomplished in the same spirit, although on a larger scale, because we are not representatives conducting the individual defence of any country or of its particular ideology, but are seeking the common interest of everybody without reference to victories and defeats. The war which the United Nations fought under the banner of tolerance will not yield its best fruits unless we give this tolerance the fullest place in our deliberations and unless we make every effort to find an amicable settlement of all our differences. We must learn to differ without timidity, and with sufficient courage to discuss and make compromises boldly.
It would be very prejudicial to the permanent interests of peace if we representatives to this Assembly were to attend its deliberations as though we were the spectators of a sporting event and followed the practice, as do some press organs, of recording the points scored by each team. Fortunately for us the responsibility for negotiating the peace treaties does not fall on our shoulders. We have no other obligation now than that of solving or adjusting the differences which may arise from the peace settlements, and that of procuring for humanity as expeditiously as circumstances permit the benefit of the four essential freedoms laid down in the Atlantic Charter.
The separation established between the functions which were reserved to the Allied Powers and those devolving upon the General Assembly of the United Nations affords us the opportunity of debating the items on the agenda without fearing that we may prejudice the interests of peace if we do so in a generous spirit of compromise. It is not for the moment incumbent upon us to solve within a few days or weeks any question affecting the territorial integrity, the sovereignty or independence of any State, and consequently we have wide latitude to sink our differences or to postpone them when we consider it necessary.
I have more than once felt inclined to think that by a strange paradox it is possible that the two problems which, in the eyes of world opinion, constitute the bone of contention, namely the control of atomic energy and the right of veto, are serving more effectively than any other influences to invigorate the United Nations Organization and to strengthen the spirit of sometimes rough frankness, and the good faith which are beginning to dominate international relations in this new age of public diplomacy.
General disarmament will have no more sincere advocates in this Assembly than the representatives of Colombia. We belong to a nation whose army does not constitute any threat to its neighbours, nor is it an instrument of political oppression in the service of any cause. We have not yielded to the temptation of futilely sacrificing our resources by maintaining armed forces which our external defence does not require, but have entrusted the safeguarding of our rights to the international bodies which fulfil that function in our time. Our boundaries were defined by peaceful procedures and we hope to see them abolished for all practical purposes so that the citizens of the territories which once formed Greater Colombia may cross them without let or hindrance. A general limitation of armaments would not impose on Colombia any rectification of her traditional policy. It would serve to enhance the prestige of that policy and to consolidate it in the popular mind.
Within the framework of the present distribution of international forces, we believe that it is the duty of the great Powers, on whom the responsibility for maintaining the peace primarily rests, to indicate the course which will sooner ,or later have to be taken in regard to certain very acute political questions. It accordingly follows that in the particular case of Spain, for example, we have been and still are awaiting the directives of the Security Council regarding the manner in which the recommendations of Potsdam, San Francisco and London are to be fulfilled. We are still prepared to fulfil all our undertakings but we have refrained from taking initiatives which, in the normal course of events, remain in the hands of those nations which conquered nazism in its own strongholds.
The position of Colombia in regard to the veto was established at San Francisco, but the delegation over which I have the honour to preside considers it opportune today to make some brief comments in connexion with that matter.
The veto has always existed, in one form or another, as the privilege of the great Powers. It existed in the development of their policy and in their so-called spheres of influence. It existed in the Council of the League of Nations, where it was embodied in the rule of unanimity. The delegation of Colombia thinks it right to insist that the restrictions laid down in the Charter as regards the exercise of the veto should be respected, and that the conditions which the United States, Great Britain, the Soviet Union and China accepted at San Francisco, before the right of veto was granted to them, should be fulfilled. In addition, it wishes to express the real pleasure with which it noted the attitude adopted by the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union, Mr. Vyshinsky, in facilitating the discussion of Cuba’s motion on the veto, although he regarded it as inconvenient and inopportune for his Government.
As things are, the reasonable use of the veto might be interpreted as a right which small States have conceded to the great Powers to enable them to postpone the study of any subject at a given moment. It might, however, equally be regarded as a tremendous threat to the right of dissent which all peoples and their representatives should retain, particularly the weakest, if the strong claim to exercise it indiscriminately as though arrogating to themselves an unforeseen tutelage over the opinion of the contemporary world. The right to discuss it in the General Assembly is, in our opinion, inseparable from the right of veto in the Security Council; but our view is that whereas all nations, great and small, are equal in this Assembly, their responsibility for the preservation of peace is not the same.
For our part, we regard the General Assembly of the United Nations primarily as a forum where world public opinion can and must make itself heard. Our deliberations will help to create a conscience with regard to the problems of our time, which exceed national and continental boundaries and affect the interests of all peoples on the earth. They are problems of extraordinary proportions, without known precedent in history, just as the circumstances in which live the men who are called on to solve them are novel and extraordinary.
Only if we can count on the active co-operation of world opinion can we commit ourselves to the ambitious process of test and trial which we must carry out in the course of the years to come. The world scene has changed more in the last five years than in the four or five decades immediately preceding the war. We are witnessing a redistribution of forces such as has not been seen since the sixteenth century. New Powers have arisen. Others have lost a considerable part of their former importance. But we all go on thinking in terms of time, volume, space and velocity which do not correspond to existing facts, but to an epoch which has gone forever. Only thus can we explain the striking contrast between the attitude of Governments which have already achieved an international mentality and the attitude which the citizens of their countries hope, or demand of them.
The organization of democracy on a worldwide scale is not, as many imagine, a question of applying our experience to situations of greater extent or importance. The fact is that rules of democratic government, which have been so effectively tested within national jurisdictions, do not adapt themselves to international relationships with the facility which might be desired.
There is more than a problem of proportions in the change of fundamental principles which we representatives to this Assembly must bear in mind in examining the rules which must regulate the conduct of the nations here represented and guide their footsteps in order that they may attain future prosperity. We must recognize, in the first place, that we run the risk of making, and certainly shall make, many errors in all good faith. As President Roosevelt would have said, there is no chosen people and there are no prophets among us. Possibly there is no one who has sufficient knowledge and experience to avoid mistakes in the choice of methods and standards for the organization of world peace and co-operation. The United Nations is an organism which, as events develop, will take shape and assume functions beyond the anticipations of the Charter. Hence we must begin by watching its development as something new and more or less unknown. Hard facts will determine what the United Nations is to become —  certainly something different from what men originally intended.
Many of the representatives present here attended the historic San Francisco Conference and are able from their own experience to compare what has actually happened with what it was believed would happen two years ago, and derive from this comparison an unforgettable experience. What remains, for example, of the conflict between the large and small States regarding the relative importance of the United Nations and the Security Council? The former feared that the General Assembly would be an academic body in which the five great Powers would play the part of tutors of a paralyzed and silent assembly. Many representatives protested against the excessive powers entrusted to the Security Council as compared with the Assembly. Nevertheless, no one will venture to deny that the present General Assembly shows the clearest signs of being at least as important as, if not more important than, any of the sessions of the Security Council, and that the optimism which today is spreading throughout the world originated in the General Assembly after many memorable sessions of the Security Council and the heated debates at the Paris Peace Conference.
The delegation of Colombia will play its full part in the study of the proposals which are submitted for the consideration of this Assembly. It does not consider that it possesses, at present, sufficient information either in favour of or against many Articles of the Charter which have been the subject of more or less serious objections since it was drawn up at San Francisco. Nor does it believe that it has as yet a full understanding of the scope, the significance and the importance of the veto, apart from the actual terms laid down in the Charter. But it believes that the new debate on the question must begin where the San Francisco discussions left off. Only when we know quite definitely what the veto is and what it is not, shall we finally be in a position to advocate its abolition, without prejudice to our demand for its more careful and effective regulation.
I cannot conclude without mentioning with praise and gratitude the work done by the United Nations in all those spheres of activity which rarely attract public attention because by their very nature they do not give rise to heated controversy. Probably, owing to its nonpolitical character, the work of the specialized agencies of the United Nations, the Economic and Social' Council, UNRRA, the International Labour Organization and the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization has not received, in the press or in political speeches, the applause which it deserves; but it is only fair to say in effect that this work exceeds in importance the failures which some attribute to the United Nations.
Full of hope and faith in the future, let us pursue the task which God has entrusted to the men of our generation.

===== Session 02 - 1947 =====
Hopes for the success of the United Nations were running very high in the closing days of the first session of the General Assembly. Few of us, if any, left this hall last December in the belief, that six months later the United Nations as an instrument of peace and world security would appear to be failing, much as the League of Nations did. None of us imagined that we should come back to work here haunted by the fear of another war.
We gathered here in October 1946 under dense clouds of indifference and pessimism: pessimism arising from the disappointment of the Paris Conference where the great Powers had unsuccessfully tried to reach an agreement regarding the peace settlements with the totalitarian aggressors, and indifference, to a surprising degree, from this great metropolis.
There was no heartening enthusiasm to greet the representatives upon their arrival. On the contrary, Westchester and other adjoining counties made only too manifest their unwillingness to have the headquarters of our Organization located in their midst. But, fortunately, within a few weeks that outlook changed for the better. San Francisco, Philadelphia, and Boston very generously invited the United Nations to have its seat established within their boundaries, offering substantial contributions as an inducement to have their invitations accepted, in competition with the City of New York. By the time the Rockefeller family made known its readiness to make a gift of the site where the United Nations would be splendidly housed, we all felt assured that the Organization would enjoy here unsurpassed facilities for the fulfilment of its tasks.
In the meantime, the debates on the most controversial questions of our agenda had encouragingly spread the impression that through discussion and compromise we were achieving a very satisfactory measure of international co-operation. Optimism was well-nigh universal when Mr. Spaak, in his farewell speech, summarized, with pride which we all shared, the accomplishments of the General Assembly.
The Assembly did very useful work indeed. Some of its most important resolutions gave the world no small promise of a better future. Members will probably recall that the Security Council was invited to formulate for consideration at a special session of the General Assembly, according to their priority, the practical measures essential to provide for the general regulation and control of armaments and to ensure that such regulation and control, including the census of troops and weapons, would be generally observed by all participants and not unilaterally by some of them.
Thus far, however, no such measures have been agreed upon by all the permanent members of the Security Council on conventional armaments or on atomic energy control, or on the elimination from national armaments of all major weapons adaptable to mass destruction, or on the armed forces to be made available to the Security Council for the purpose of maintaining international peace and security, or on the evacuation of foreign troops stationed on the territories of Member States without their consent.
Months and months of constant and fruitless effort have elapsed without any prospect of a reasonably early agreement between the Soviet Union on the one hand, and China, France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America on the other.
The Security Council has held one hundred and thirteen meetings during the past eight months; but hard as all of its members have tried to come to positive conclusions, the Council has lamentably few results to show.
It has not been found possible to make a satisfactory start on the implementation of the General Assembly resolutions of 14 December 1946 owing to the everpresent conflict of opinion among the great Powers has expressed by their representatives, regarding the question of priority in the consideration of the various aspects of disarmament. In the opinion of the United Kingdom, international arrangements for collective security should be completed before any practical measures to regulate or reduce armaments and armed forces are actually adopted. The Soviet Union maintains that the general regulation and reduction of armaments is a prerequisite of collective security. The United States has consistently held to the view that only after peace is concluded and security is well organized will the reduction of armaments be politically feasible. The United States insists that strict international Control of atomic energy must be established before the prohibition or elimination of atomic weapons can be put into effect. Secretary of State Marshall, in no uncertain terms, reaffirmed this position of his Government in his address to the Assembly.
But it is not alone the work of the Security Council which has fallen short of our expectations. Very important resolutions of the General Assembly have gone by default, if I may be allowed so to express myself. Just as the will of the majority of the Security Council has too often been frustrated through the operation of the rule of unanimity among its permanent members, the will of the majority of the General Assembly has likewise been frustrated through the non-compliance of some States with its recommendations.
Not all the Governments of the United Nations recalled their ambassadors and ministers plenipotentiary accredited to the Franco Government of Spain, as they were asked to do. The General Assembly very solemnly recorded its opinion that the treatment of Indians in the Union of South Africa should be in conformity with the international obligations under the agreements concluded between the two Governments and the relevant provisions of the Charter. But in a document answering India’s complaint that the Government of the Union of South Africa has done nothing to carry out last year’s Assembly resolution, the Union of South Africa contends that the elimination of all racial distinctions in the Union would cause immediate chaos and disaster by upsetting conditions necessary for the beneficial development of all groups in the country.
Moreover, it is fresh in our memories that on 19 November 1946 the Assembly unanimously adopted a declaration that it is in the higher interests of humanity to bring about an immediate cessation of religious and so-called racial persecution and discrimination, and invited the Governments and responsible authorities to conform to both the letter and the spirit of the Charter and to take the most prompt and energetic steps to that end. But no steps of any nature whatsoever have been taken to that end. Religious and racial discrimination is rampant not only in the Near and the Far East, but also in the very heart of Western civilization. We should not have any Jewish problem if there were no such discrimination. We should not have displaced persons’ concentration camps in Europe. It is a sad fact that, two years after the cease-fire order was given in Germany, the four fundamental freedoms remain as distant as, if not further removed than, they were in 1939 from the lot of the common man. If anything, the common man can say that, with the passing of President Roosevelt, the four freedoms lost their most powerful and sincere spokesman. Neither peace nor security is yet in sight in the Old World.
In place of peace, liberty and economic security, as Secretary of State Marshall has been the last in high authority to remind us, we find menace, repression and dire want. Such, to our mind, is, briefly stated, the situation with which the General Assembly will have to deal in its second regular session.
But when we look back on so many disquieting developments, rather than feeling disheartened or exasperated, we are rather glad to remember a remark of former Secretary of State Byrnes in one of his radio addresses to the American people shortly after his return from Paris. “It is always an arduous task,” Mr. Byrnes explained, “to reconcile the opposing points of view of the victorious allies when the time comes to agree on the terms of peace; but it is better that the world should witness the shock of conflicting ideas than an armed conflict.”
The Colombian delegation firmly believes that the key to peace is to be found in the ability of nations to give free expression to their disagreements until a satisfactory solution is arrived at. In the general debate last year, we stated that we do not believe that either the vote of the majority or the veto can, by itself, guarantee the world’s peace. Colombia reluctantly agreed to-have the right of veto granted to the five permanent members of the Security Council, and from the very beginning has logically supported the proposals submitted with a view to solving the divergencies that have arisen in regard to the interpretation and application of Article 27 of the Charter.
We therefore readily concur in the suggested modification of the unanimity requirement with respect to recommendations under Chapter VI of the Charter and such matters as applications for membership in the Organization. But we continue to be strongly in favour also of regulating the vote as the normal means of arriving at the most important decisions. In our judgment, the vote of a majority should be exercised in international affairs as it has been done by the Latin American countries, with the utmost discretion.
Liberalization of the voting procedure in the Security Council, as well as in the General Assembly and other organs of the United Nations has become imperative for the successful development of the Organization. Both the numerical force of the vote undone right of veto should, be wisely regulated and restricted. If they are, we anticipate that our debates will succeed in narrowing, rather than widening as heretofore, the breach between the Soviet Union and the United States. We shall not have a showdown between them at every meeting of the Security Council or of the General Assembly, and the role of the small nations in bringing about an understanding between the East and the West will be seen to become more effective from day to day.
But whatever the voting procedures and practices that we may adopt to ensure the prompt and effective functioning of the Security Council and the General Assembly, we must bear constantly in mind that, veto or no veto, all major decisions in international security and policy call for unanimity among the great Powers. It would perhaps be more exact to say that they require it. And whether we like it or not, we must face, with a good deal of understanding, the fact that these. Powers generally follow the line of action that best conforms to their national interests, rather than to the principles of the Charter or to the prestige of the United Nations.
So far, the world has witnessed a continuing misunderstanding between the United States and the Soviet Union, and is anxious to ascertain the possibilities of active co-operation instead of systematic opposition between the two Government and their agents in every international meeting. If the membership of the Security Council cannot be enlarged, giving more adequate representation to the medium and the smaller countries, the Colombian delegation would welcome the creation of a standing committee of the General Assembly, such as has been recommended by Secretary of State Marshall, in order to discharge its responsibilities under Articles 11 and 14 of the Charter in the broad field of political security and friendly relations among nations.
We think that this Assembly should devise ways and means of letting the majority of the United Nations have a more determining voice in world affairs. Once that is done, we shall have to decide whether we want to work in accordance with the principles and purposes of our Organization, without regard to differences in national policies or conflicting ideologies.
We are committed to co-operate in the-establishment of a new world order, but the old remains less firmly entrenched in our mental habits than in the provisions of the Charter which enable all Member States, and more particularly the strongest, to invoke domestic jurisdiction in order to protect their colonial sovereignty rights, as they conceive them, against the threat of collective action, or to maintain racial or religious discriminations which we all should seek to see abolished.
While we are reconsidering our structure, it is timely to note that the prestige of the United Nations has been steadfastly deciding because leading European and American States have bypassed the Organization or disregarded the recommendations of its principal organs whenever their intervention has threatened to interfere with or prejudice their national policies or wishes. Not only the abuse of the veto, but the lack of binding strength which has made itself evident in the recommendations of the General Assembly and the Security Council, have helped to defeat the will of the majority, as dearly expressed in the Spanish question, the Greek case, and the Indian dispute with South Africa, the last two of which have already been placed on our agenda, and in the Indonesian affair, which gave the world such an unexpected example of solidarity among the colonial Powers.
According to our understanding, Member States are no longer free to enact legislation in contradiction to the principles and purposes of our Organization. The question arises whether they should bring their laws and administrative regulations into conformity with such purposes and principles, and if so, when and how they should do it,	 or whether they are at liberty to keep them on their statute books for an indefinite time without alteration. This is, unless we are very much mistaken, the heart of our problem. Are we really willing to comply with all the provisions of the Charter? Can any State overlook, obstruct or contravene any of its provisions, having freely accepted them, including Article 103, under, which “In the event of a conflict between the obligations of the Members of the United Nations under the present Charter and their obligations under any other international agreement, their obligations under the present Charter shall prevail”? Do we want to promote the change to a new world order or to preserve the status quo?
We all want change, of course, and some of us even look for it with eagerness. We know it is an essential condition of progress, and when we stop to reflect on the volume and speed of major developments in our time, we cannot fail to realize that both the speed and the volume are so unprecedented that our sense of proportion and perspective has naturally become confused and uncertain.
We demand and expect swift action in time of peace as we were accustomed to see it taken during the war period. We have a blurred vision of the changing world around us. We seem to think that the work of rehabilitation can be carried out nearly as fast as the work of destruction or that it can be as thoroughly completed in a few years. To be concrete, we are inclined to believe that France, for instance, can return to normal living conditions almost as quickly as it was overrun by the German armies; or that Belgium and Holland will soon recover from the effects of the invasion; or that Great Britain can regain its former economic strength as rapidly as it spent its energy and resources in four Continents meeting the challenge of the totalitarian aggressors.
Conversely, we are apt to underestimate the impact of the war on the international position of the United States and the Soviet Union, and
therefore, to start from mistaken standpoints when we attempt to examine their relative importance or their influence in world affairs. We do so much wishful thinking that we can seldom place full confidence in the soundness of our conclusions. More often than not, we find that we have unwittingly taken a very subjective view of Soviet Union policies, actions or intentions or that we have too readily fallen under an unwarranted fear of communistic domination. On the other hand, from day to day we find it increasingly difficult to grasp the extent and significance of the new responsibilities attaching to the United States as the leading democratic nation and central axis of the world’s economy.
Having made the above mental reservations, I should like to add, on behalf of the Colombian delegation, that we are labouring here under the impression that the economic consequences of the Second World War have outrun the political imagination of most of our contemporary statesmen, just as the economic development of this great country, from the outbreak of the First World War until the election of President Roosevelt in 1932, outgrew the training and understanding of the most experienced bankers, the best- informed professors and writers on economic and fiscal science, the most alert minds in public life.
And this is the more surprising to us when we look back into the origins and after-effects of the New Deal policies; for, unless we misread and misunderstand the course of progress in the United States, it appears to us that the Truman administration is evolving a peace-time lend-lease system which sooner or later will include in its operations not only the European countries which have already been invited to discuss plans for their economic reconstruction with United States aid under the so-called Marshall Plan, but also all the nations formerly allied or associated with the United States in the war effort.
This, in our opinion, is a logical development; one that we should welcome and that before long, we feel sure, will be found to have begun to take shape rather fortuitously last March, when the United States moved to take over United Kingdom obligations in Greece and emerged as the dominant voice in the Mediterranean.
It is still being debated whether the Marshall Plan is an extension of or a substitute for the Truman Doctrine. Some people claim that it is only a restatement of policy, emphasizing the constructive features more than the negative, ideological aims. “Our policy”, Secretary Marshall said, “is directed not against any country or doctrine, but against hunger, poverty, desperation and chaos. Its purposes should be the revival of a working economy in the world so as to permit the emergence of political and social conditions in which free institutions can exist. Such assistance,” Mr. Marshall added, “… must not be on a piecemeal basis as various crises develop.”
We prefer to think that in an early future the Marshall Plan will be recognized as the second and unforeseen stage of a great historical process whose economic and political objectives will command wider and wider acceptance as they are made to appear more and more consistent with the above declaration.
The Lend-Lease Act was primarily designed to provide Great Britain and its allies with war materials and foodstuffs which they could not continue to buy here under the cash-and-carry plan in the amount required to resist the German onslaught successfully. As active hostilities extended over the whole world, country after country applied to Washington and received liberal assistance; but it can be safely stated that not even after Pearl Harbour did any one anticipate that advances to allied and associated nations would ever approach the stupendous sum of fifty thousand million dollars, or that these advances would entail a monetary loss to the United States of forty thousand million. Yet, while they were being made, hardly anybody complained or objected. By common consent, help to win the war was freely given. It was universally understood and accepted that peoples fighting on the side of the democratic Powers should be furnished with arms and ammunition on easy terms.
Now we have been asked to appoint a commission, the main task of which will be to see that the Greek guerrillas do not receive outside aid. Such a commission is intended to take the place of the commission of investigation and conciliation which the majority of the Security Council was unable to set up over the will of one of its permanent members. We shall presently hear a repetition of the charges and countercharges which have become familiar to our ears, regarding border incidents, civil war and misgovernment in Greece. In all likelihood, the unilateral action taken by the United States will be debated again, and we shall be glad to be reassured of its unflinching determination to support and enhance the prestige of the United Nations.
But, most probably, before the new commission is appointed and it begins.to discharge its duties, preliminary credits, granted under the Marshall Plan, will be flowing to sixteen different European nations.
President Truman, in his message to Congress on the eastern Mediterranean situation, stated that the United States contributed 341 thousand million dollars towards winning the Second World War, and this he called an investment in world freedom and world peace. Rearing to the specific object of his message, President Truman very significantly added: “The assistance that I am recommending for Greece and Turkey amounts to little more than one-tenth of one per cent of this investment. It is only common sense that we should safeguard this investment and make sure that it was not in vain.”
Greece and Turkey were given, in accordance with this recommendation, 400 million dollars. Shortly afterwards, on 5 June, Secretary of State Marshall, in view of the increasing demand for addition loans for western European countries, declared at Harvard University that United States assistance, to be effective, must not be on a piecemeal basis and should be offered to a general plan for European recovery, initiated by the Europeans themselves.
Experts have been at work ever since, calculating the sums required for the economic rehabilitation of Europe, not including the countries inside the Soviet Union sphere of influence; and they have placed the aggregate amount in the neighbourhood of twenty thousand million dollars. Some estimates raise it above this figure; others try to reduce the assistance expected from the United States.
Assuming that the Congress of the United States is found to be willing to implement the Marshall Plan to this amount — and we should not be in the least surprised if it does — is it not pertinent to ask whether the benefits of the Plan, or more properly speaking, the benefits of United States help? cannot be as generously extended to other continents?
The Colombian delegation ventures to expect that when the matter is discussed in Washington, and perhaps before that, it will be clearly seen that the economic rehabilitation of the European manufacturing nations cannot be carried very far if the immense mass of consumers in the Austral Hemisphere, Africa, Asia, and the Americas remain in dire want and their purchasing power is not concurrently and considerably stimulated.
We are in the short line of those who believe that a bold and generous implementation of the Marshall Plan is essential to world recovery. Crises of lesser importance, but which, like the European, threaten the political and economic stability of many countries, are developing in different sections of the globe. The demands for development are quite often as pressing as the demands for reconstruction. The New World is as much in need of credit facilities, machinery, transport equipment and technical help as the Old. Granted that recovery in Europe must have precedence over rehabilitation or new growth in other continents, the fact remains that both are part and parcel of the world scheme of economic and political readjustments of the post-war era.
It is the privilege of those who have the means to give, and no country in history has been known to possess resources and accumulated wealth of comparable proportions to the United States. None has as generously demonstrated its readiness to share its fortune and advantages with other people. An investment of thirty or thirty-five thousand million dollars in world prosperity and peace would signal the transition to a new world Order under the leadership of the United States and give the United States an epoch-making opportunity to help mankind out of its present tribulations. We sincerely believe that the opportunity is worth the price.
The Congress of the United States, the American people, will most probably hesitate to grant the necessary authority for the implementation of the Marshall Plan, enlarged as we have made free to express. Collaboration in normal times moves more slowly than when the guns are roaring, and it is usually more restricted. It is easier to lend-lease ships, tanks and ammunition than foodstuffs, clothes or industrial and agricultural machinery. But it can be seen that a peace-time lend-lease can be put into effect at considerably less cost than the original lend-lease system for war purposes, not to mention that the results would be more revolutionary and far-reaching.
But we doubt very much whether the political implications of a proposal of this nature will not appeal very strongly to the intelligence and the feelings of the American people, who are coming so rapidly and forcibly to realize how much their attitude and the policies of their Government have to do with the future welfare of the world. The outstanding fact of our day is the astonishing growth of American influence in all human affairs.
We are very deeply impressed by the imposing proportions of United States economic power. The United States is producing sixty per cent of the entire output of the world. Moreover, the remaining forty per cent depends in no small measure upon the United States for credit, marketing and transportation, for raw products, mechanical equipment and technical skill. The dollar shortage in every corner of the earth arises from the almost universal inability to meet payments for United States goods and services. Importations have been reduced everywhere in order to relieve that shortage, and the scarcity of goods is driving prices up. Inflation is seriously undermining existing political and economic conditions.
When we see so many indications of an approaching depression abroad, we cannot help turning our eyes to the United States, not in a necessitous attitude nor trying to draw upon the good will of the American people, but with an encouraging belief in the wonderful changes that would be brought about in all the present International tensions, were the United States to give definite hope of aid to other continents in the investigation and solution of their problems.
In other words, if the United States decided to assert its leadership now, as it did during the war years, accepting the unparalleled responsibilities of such a great world undertaking, we believe that we should then have the most fruitful cooperation between great and small nations in building a new world order, and that we have the best guide to action by the General Assembly in President Truman’s words at the opening of our session last year. President Truman said on that occasion:
“The war has left many parts of the world in turmoil. Differences have arisen among the Allies, it will not help us to pretend that this is not the case. But it is not necessary to exaggerate those differences. For my part, I believe there is no difference of interest that need stand in the way of settling these problems and settling them in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter. Above all, we must not permit differences in economic and social systems to stand in the way of peace, either now or in the future. To permit the United Nations to be broken into irreconcilable parts by different political philosophies would bring disaster to the world.”


===== Session 03 - 1948 =====
Mr. URDANETA-ARBELAEZ declared that when the spokesmen of the smaller nations appeared on the rostrum before the Assembly, from where their voices could be heard throughout the world, they were imbued only with an ardent desire to tell the truth as they saw it, and fully determined to speak the truth with courage and frankness. Nations which did not have great wealth at their command and which could not back their opinions with material force did not constitute a threat to world peace. At the same time they did not have the means of saving humanity from the scourge of war. For example, all Colombia could do was to express its desire to play its part in international co-operation and to assume its responsibilities by making its voice heard in defence of justice, by warning the world of dangers wherever it saw them and by calling attention to any defects it might notice in the working of the institutions intended to safeguard the peace.
Two thirds of the inhabitants of the world possessed no armaments. They, however, formed the majority of public opinion, that opinion with which it was dangerous to clash, because, sooner or later, truth would out and selfishness and despotism, despite their power, in the end would yield to the weight of public opinion.
The present Assembly was meeting in an atmosphere of expectation and anxiety. The circumstances of the moment recalled in many respects those which had led up to the last world tragedy and, rightly or wrongly, the whole of humanity was hopeful that the United Nations would be able to find a solution which would mean peace for all men of good will.
Mr. Urdaneta-Arbelaez wondered whether that hope was really well founded, as some of the problems which had been submitted to the General Assembly had been turned over to it because the institutions most competent to deal with them had proved to be powerless to do so. Other questions on the agenda were in reality praiseworthy and interesting efforts to improve the structure and working of the United Nations if possible. Still others had to do with the improvement of the health and well-being of mankind, but the most urgent problem, the one of greatest concern to the world, was not to be found on the agenda of the General Assembly,
The speaker wondered whether it were necessary for that very important question to be submitted to the consideration of the United Nations or not, for, so long as it remained unsolved, all the efforts that body might deploy to ensure the peace of the world would be made in vain, and that fact confirmed what the Secretary-General had so convincingly said in his annual report; namely, that the existence of the United Nations presupposed agreement among the great Powers. That Organization had not been formed to establish peace but to maintain it once it had been established. If peace did not exist in fact, the task of the United Nations would seem to be an almost impossible one. There was no way in which a thing which had not yet come into being could be preserved.
The problem of Berlin was to be submitted to the Security Council, and probably to the General Assembly at a later stage. That meant that the United Nations was going to find itself confronted with reality. Its ability to acquit itself of its task would be put to the test and the world would thus learn just how sincere certain States had been when they had signed the Charter at San Francisco. It was going to discover whether they had signed it with a sincere desire to live up to its provisions or whether they had done so solely for the purpose of paralysing the work of the Organization or utilizing it for their own ends.
As regards the admission of new Members, the Colombian Government considered that the only principle which, under the terms of the Charter, applied to that question was the following: all peace-loving States which accepted the obligations imposed by the Charter, and which were ready and willing to carry out those obligations were eligible for membership in the United Nations. No other considerations should apply and it would be a violation of the principles of the Charter to refuse admission to a State on account of its social order or the political ideology in which such order was inspired. It would be even more serious if membership were refused a peace-loving State because it was on good or bad terms with one or other of the great Powers. The United Nations should have a universal character and, consequently, should be composed of the greatest possible number of States, so that all might co-operate in the task of safeguarding peace.
With regard to the question of the independence of Korea, the position of Colombia was clearly defined. At its 112th plenary meeting on 14 November 1947, by a vote of forty-three nations, the Assembly had established a Temporary Commission on Korea. The functions of the latter had been clearly defined. Despite the obstruction of the USSR, the Commission had faithfully carried out the task allotted to it. If then, under such circumstances, the General Assembly did not give its unqualified approval to the work of the Commission, it would in fact be renouncing its own authority and admitting the existence within the Assembly itself of the privilege of the veto, which existed only in the Security Council.
As for the voting procedure in the Security Council, it was quite evident that the manner in which that procedure had been followed, and the excessive use of the veto, had often rendered that body powerless, even on purely procedural questions. It was obvious that, if such a practice were to continue, the most important organ of the United Nations would lose prestige in world opinion and States would no longer have any faith in its action. On the other hand, it was easy to understand the arguments in favour of the veto, and to realize that the great Powers could not accept a situation in which they might be obliged against their will, at any moment, to take measures to their prejudice. The two aspects of the question could, however, be reconciled without necessarily amending the Charter, and for the moment it would be sufficient to try to find a correct interpretation of the text in accordance with the true spirit of the Charter.
Perhaps, when the case of the veto seemed imminent, it might be possible to make compromise between the permanent members of the Council easier, by avoiding its use at that meeting and deferring the final decision, in order to give the States parties to the dispute time to come to an agreement. Then again, when the differences were as to whether the question under consideration was procedural or not, it might be well to ask the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion, not in order that the views of that body might be enforced, which might have serious consequences, but in order to oblige the refractory State to declare itself against the opinion of the highest authority on the legal interpretation of the Charter. Such a method might perhaps lessen the drawbacks of the excessive use of the veto, while in no way detracting from its effectiveness. Colombia would ask for the adoption of some such formula.
As a member of the Security Council, Colombia had taken part in the discussions of the Atomic Energy Commission, and had been deeply disappointed to have to admit that its deliberations had ended in complete failure. Where such a serious matter was concerned, the world could not be left in a state of uncertainty and anxiety. The Assembly should take steps to settle the disagreement. The Colombian representative feared, however, that it would be impossible for the General Assembly to take any effective measures, since it was only the great Powers who could settle the problems separating them. From the very beginning Colombia had stated in the Commission and would reiterate again that it was not possible to begin by taking steps to prohibit atomic weapons and destroy those already in existence and after that to establish an organ of control. The reverse procedure would appear to be the logical one to follow. If that were not done, it was difficult to see who should decide which weapons were to be prohibited, which were to be destroyed, and where they were to be found.
With regard to the question of Spain, which the Assembly had referred to the Security Council in accordance with resolution 114 (II) of 17 November 1947, and which the Council had decided not to include in its agenda on 25 June 1948, the Colombian delegation concluded that the Council had implicitly recognized that the question did not represent a threat to peace, and that, in those circumstances, any recourse to Article 41 of the Charter would be based solely upon the character of the political regime in Spain, and would therefore be an interference in the domestic affairs of a State and hence a violation of the Charter itself.
Where freedom of information was concerned, Colombia adhered to the terms of its Constitution: freedom of information was ensured, but with due regard for the responsibility required by law in every country.
Such was the position of Colombia on certain items of the agenda. Its views on the other items would be made known at the appropriate time in the course of the discussions.
Finally, Colombia, faithful to its unshakable democratic tradition, was convinced that it was only under a system of freedom based on moral law that the world could regain balance and stability. Freedom must be ensured for the human person and for States, freedom of conscience, of speech and of association, freedom of work, freedom of movement and of trade. Every individual, as well as every State, must be able to profess and to practice those principles which he considered right, so long as he did not try to impose them upon others by force or guile.
By their very nature, man and all the institutions he had created tended towards freedom. Lack of freedom brought anxiety, quarrels, and breaches of the peace. Peace could only exist in the pure light of freedom and justice. Through its support of those ideals the United Nations would truly become «the conscience of the world», as a French writer had so aptly said.
The fact that the Assembly was meeting among the French people allowed the world to glimpse a ray of hope. The land of France had been the cradle of liberty; the United Nations must not dig its grave there.


===== Session 05 - 1950 =====
The practice of beginning sessions of the Assembly with a general debate should be recognized as affording the Governments represented here an opportunity to state early in the session their attitude on the most important items on the agenda; thus an idea may be obtained of the general outline of the proceedings of the most important organ of the United Nations, and the world, anxious to learn the views of the Assembly, can without delay, form an opinion concerning the objectives of the Member States of the Organization and the responsibilities each one of them is prepared to assume. Accordingly, and taking into account the pressure of time, I propose to outline briefly the Colombian delegation’s attitude to the main problems on the agenda.
149.	There can be no doubt that the bloody drama being enacted in Korea takes first place amidst the problems which face the world and on that account must take priority over all other matters before the General Assembly. This is not only because, in that distant land, the blood of heroic servants of the United Nations is being shed, but also because, there, the prestige of our Organization is at stake and the effectiveness of aggression against law and the predominance of right over force are being weighed in the balance,
150.	The position of Colombia in relation to such an important problem cannot be a matter for vacillation.
151.	At the first part of the third session, our delegation stated that it would support the conclusions reached by the United Nations Commission on Korea that had gone to study on the spot the situation that had arisen there. We defined our position on the question then, even though we were not unaware of the proportions to which any conflict brought about by disregard of the Commission’s conclusions might grow.
152.	The Government of Colombia has followed the invariable practice of respecting the decisions of organs of the United Nations and of obeying its decisions as expressed by the majority vote of the Member States. We believe that it is by the vote of the majority that the democracies can express their will and that, whatever may be the disadvantages which this principle may offer, there is no other way for peoples to attain self-government in accordance with their own freely- expressed will. I cannot but differ on this point with the views expressed here a few days ago by the head of the USSR delegation when he repudiated the moral weight of the majority vote of the Assembly. If the decision of the majority does not determine the course to be followed by states and peoples, then there remains but one alternative: to impose the will of the armed minority upon the unarmed majority. This course, far from leading to peace, leads to slavery.
153.	Colombia, accepting, therefore, the Security Council’s decision to come to the aid of Korea, even by recourse to arms as well as the recommendation that all Member States of the Organization should co-operate in this effort, replied to the Secretary-General’s telegram of 14 July by stating that it was prepared faithfully to fulfil its international commitments, whatever sacrifices might be involved. Consequently, Colombia has recently placed at the disposal of the Unified Command of the United Nations a frigate, the officers, noncommissioned officers and men of which are ready to proceed to the theatre of war and are prepared to give up their lives at the side of their comrades from other countries in the cause of the United Nations. It is with a heavy heart that Colombia sees her sons departing; but at the same time it is with a feeling of satisfaction because they are going to discharge their duty.
154.	Already in the opening meeting of this session of the Assembly, the question of the delegation of China was brought up and it was debated which of the two Governments, the People’s Republic or Nationalist China, should occupy a seat in our Organization. My delegation’s attitude to this important question is as follows: the Nationalist Government had been unanimously recognized, even by those who today oppose it, as the legitimate government of the Chinese people and no one ever questioned the legitimacy of the credentials of its delegation. Then there occurred a subversive movement which, with arms supplied by foreign countries, fought to overthrow that legitimate government and which, after a long and varied series of events, succeeded in winning the upper hand, although it cannot be said that the battle is finally over. What I should like to know is at what precise moment the legitimate government ceased to be the legitimate government and at what point the one which sought to overthrow it by force acquired a legal and moral right.
155.	I have heard it said here that the fact that the Government of the People’s Republic is now in control of most of Chinese territory and imposes its decisions on the majority of the Chinese people, provides it with sufficient credentials as a legitimate government which should be recognized and respected by the international community, and that the Government of Nationalist China, which was legitimate until quite recently, ceased to be legitimate because today it is confined by force of arms to the territory of Formosa.
156.	Nevertheless, I find that those who maintain this thesis have on many occasions applied different principles. To mention only a single case, I give the example of the present Government of Poland whose members; for a long time resided outside their country without even setting foot on Polish territory. Yet, that was the Government which was recognized as legitimate and which later imposed its authority by force of arms. Nor is it idle to recall that in the case of Spain there is a government which for many years has completely and peacefully ruled the entire territory of Spain and is obeyed by all of its inhabitants. Nevertheless the legitimacy of this Government is not recognized by the very people who here advocate the immediate recognition and admission of the People’s Republic of China.
157.	We must not forget in this instance that the maintenance of peace is the primary objective of the United Nations and that the first duty of the Organization is to strive for peace. But the internal peace of states is an integral part of international peace and it does not seem to be conducive to the strengthening of internal peace to promote from within or outside this Organization revolutionary movements designed to overthrow legally constituted governments. To expel from the United Nations, without careful consideration, the delegation representing the government which heretofore was unanimously recognized as the legitimate government of China, and which is still struggling to maintain its authority, and to invite the representatives of the subversive movement would, in my opinion, be tantamount to inciting people to sedition everywhere in the world and thereby weakening the foundations of international peace.
158.	In the case of Jerusalem, the position of the Colombian delegation is well known. As the representatives of an overwhelmingly Catholic people, we desire a regime which will offer complete safeguards for the Holy Places and ensure free access for the faithful of all religions. The General Assembly resolution providing for the internationalization of the Holy City is still in force and Colombia respects it. We hope that in its application an attempt will be made to find a solution which can be supported by the inhabitants of both nationalities. We are prepared to exert our efforts to that end.
159.	Colombia has no links and no direct interest in the territories of the former Italian colonies. This fact has enabled my country to take an impartial attitude during the discussions of their future status and our sole preoccupation has been to ensure respect for the general principles for which my country has always striven.
160,	When the government of Mussolini invaded Ethiopia, Colombia was one of the first countries to vote in favour of the sanctions ordered by the League of Nations, and although the great Powers later accepted the fait accompli of annexation, Colombia always refused to recognize it. The countries of America regard as unacceptable any annexation carried out without consultation of the people and against their will.
161,	One year ago there was some doubt concerning the possibility of setting up an independent state in Libya within the brief period stipulated in General Assembly resolution 289 (IV). It now appears that despite the numerous problems which will have to be faced, it will be possible to convene in the coming year a constituent assembly, and that before 1 January 1952 Libya will enter the family of nations as a sovereign, free and independent state.
162.	The report of the Advisory Council on Somaliland shows the wisdom of the General Assembly in making Italy responsible for that territory’s administration during the three years which were considered necessary for its preparation as an independent state.
163.	It remains for the Assembly to solve the problem of Eritrea. Annexation to Ethiopia, carried out against the wishes of large sections of the population, would be a violation of principles on which we can brook no compromise. On the other hand, in view of the special characteristics of the territory and the division of opinion which has been reported by the United Nations Commission for Eritrea, it would be premature to consider the establishment of an independent state and dangerous to postpone a decision on the fate of so important a territory,
164.	Perhaps a solution might be found in the proposal for federation which is supported in some quarters, but only provided that the statute of such a federation respect the sovereignty to which each member State of a federation is equally entitled. There can be no federation if the essential attributes of domestic sovereignty are vested in only one of the member States.
165.	Colombia is particularly interested in the success of the programme of technical assistance to economically under-developed countries which was initiated, with wisdom and foresight, by President Truman in Point Four of his inaugural address. The struggle against poverty and the determination to raise the standard of living of those who have been less favoured by fortune are, in our opinion, essential prerequisites to the establishment of peace with justice, In my country, at the present time, a long-term programme is being initiated under the auspices of the United Nations and its technical organs, an undertaking which may be called the first experimental step in the comprehensive humanitarian programme of assistance to under-developed countries; if it is successfully completed, it will reflect immeasurable credit upon our Organization. My Government is resolved to collaborate to the limit of its resources in carrying out this important plan, in which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a group of experts, headed by the distinguished economist Lauchlin Currie, have participated and taken an interest.
166.	The representative of Chile [281st meeting] has already spoken at length on the development of Point Four of President Truman’s programme, a statement with which my delegation heartily concurs,
167.	Finally, I should like to comment briefly on the trend of opinion which exists here to give greater flexibility to the action of the General Assembly in the solution of international disputes, particularly in cases where the Security Council is paralysed owing to the rigidity of its rules of procedure. My country feels that this is a wholesome tendency. It coincides with the views we have held since the San Francisco Conference; and we have often expressed the opinion that under its rules the Security Council would frequently be found lacking in effectiveness. Events have confirmed our prognostications, but we cannot agree that this deficiency will lead to the complete collapse of our Organization. We feel that the Charter should not be looked upon as a dead or Static instrument, but as one imbued with life and capable of development to enable the organs of the United Nations to carry out their functions and meet the exigencies which may arise.
168.	I should like to conclude my remarks by expressing my delegation's heartfelt hope that this session will be a successful one, and that the great Powers will reach an understanding despite the differing principles which govern the lives of their peoples. They all, surely, seek the happiness of their peoples, but it is inconceivable that they should contemplate the destruction of man in order to attain that goal.


===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
It is a great pleasure for us to be meeting in this capital of France, the country of generous hospitality, brilliant culture, noble and majestic monuments and the country which, for all Latin delegations, has the incomparable merit that through its ideas the light of Mediterranean civilization has radiated through time and space. I pray that France may be able to continue its mission to mankind in peace and that neither the people nor the shrines of France may ever again face the threat of destruction.
2.	The function which is the true raison d’être of the United Nations is the preservation of peace. We might well reduce the agenda of this sixth session to the single but all-important item: ensuring world peace. For if our efforts result in a step forward in that direction they will be amply justified. Mankind, having endured in one generation enough suffering to suffice for centuries, and being now threatened by a new flood of barbarism, only looks to us to achieve peace.
3.	To accomplish this purpose, a number of proposals are being put forward, such as limitation of armaments, collective security measures and the improvement of the standard of living of all peoples. I should like to explain my delegation’s views on these important subjects.
4.	It is obvious that the limitation of armaments reduces the chances of war. When the nations in their armaments race reach their peak effort they are exposed to a temptation to use in actual war the resources marshalled for the purpose of preventing it, as the only possible way of putting an end to continuous privation and of substituting for permanent fear and sacrifice what they believe will be a tragedy of short duration. That is the real source of the danger of the competition in means of destruction. Colombia is in favour of any action or proposals for the limitation and control of armaments.
5.	Mr. Acheson has made a concrete suggestion for the limitation of armaments [A/1943], To reject it out of hand and to consign it with scorn to the waste-paper-basket is obviously neither an act of practical common sense nor a manifestation of good faith.
6.	My delegation also thinks that agreements should not be limited to the control of new weapons such as the atomic bomb or chemical or biological means of warfare, but should cover armaments generally. It is true that nuclear fission and bacterial warfare are more effective and far-reaching methods of destroying human life, but the basic fact remains that ordinary explosives can and do achieve the same fatal purpose.
7.	My country’s attitude in these matters is, of course, that of a small nation with no military power, prepared to give moral support to the work of limitation and control, but incapable of exercising any material influence on limitation.
8.	With respect to collective security measures, my delegation is of the opinion that they are the essential feature of the United Nations. If their adoption were not possible, this Assembly would be nothing but a literary academy whose praiseworthy purposes would be quite without any real influence on human destiny. This is clear from the unhappy fate of the League of Nations. Ideas are very powerful and can penetrate far. In time, the idea prevails. But where political realities are concerned, facts are more directly decisive. To leave the United Nations without the weapons enabling it to intervene effectively and decisively at times of crisis, would only add one more to the many disappointments which the world has suffered in its unavailing search for peace.
9.	Colombia is anxious to co-operate actively in a policy likely to ensure to the United Nations prompt, effective and genuine means of action. Not only that, my country has, as far as it is able, participated, and continues to participate, in the collective effort to restore peace in Korea. Colombian blood has been freely mingled with that of the champions of freedom, and my country’s respect for international agreements, accepted in good faith, has always been true and indisputable.
10.	My delegation is of the opinion that, in order to obtain sound practical results in the organization of collective security measures, it is surely desirable that such measures should be negotiated within the framework of regional agencies, allowance being made for the true capabilities of each country. Owing to the similarity of problems, geographical proximity and the hopes and dangers common to nations bound together by real ties, regional agencies are bodies with an intrinsic reason for existence, fit to be the first links in the chain of the universal defence system.
11.	Clearly, the small countries cannot take the decision for peace or war at the crucial moments. Interests, concepts and responsibilities of a magnitude far beyond our command must finally turn the balance, but once it is turned, the small countries must inevitably suffer the consequences. That is one obvious reason why they should be given a particularly careful hearing and if the problem is to be considered impartially, the opinions of the small countries should receive most attention because it is precisely their lack of world power which enables them to be impartial.
12.	In the western hemisphere our experience with the Organization of American States has shown us that regional associations are conducive to agreement and of proved efficiency as peace organizations. In America, the Organization of American States has succeeded in substituting good faith for distrust, and true friendship for suspicion.
13.	The fact that better standards of life for the peoples and improvement in the general condition of underdeveloped countries are major factors in attaining world peace has been repeated ad nauseam. This is true enough, always provided that a general war does not destroy even the possibilities of improvement. It is obvious that peoples suffering from ignorance and want fall an easy prey to war and thus constitute a permanent reserve of explosive material. It is a matter of the utmost urgency to raise them to the status of truly human dignity. On this subject I venture to make two comments.
14.	First, a limitation of armaments would be the best contribution to the development of under-developed countries; secondly, as Mr. Acheson has rightly said, the possibilities of improving the lot of mankind are very great and, in many cases no very revolutionary techniques need to be applied.
15.	The first of these statements is self-evident. If a minute part of the vast sums now being spent on death dealing devices were applied to the effective promotion of human advancement, the means of life would be unbelievably multiplied. With the money spent on the equipment of a modem division, which becomes obsolete after a few years, Colombia’s fundamental transport problems could be solved. Hospitals could be provided for a whole region with what it costs to build a battle cruiser. The equivalent of the cost of a heavy bomber would endow a university; and, to follow Mr. Acheson’s line of thought, we reflect upon the millions of metal ploughs and sacks of seed that could make land productive and so assuage the hunger of the peoples, if the enormous technical and industrial capacity of our century were turned to constructive uses instead of to the preparation and consummation of a catastrophe.
16.	I do not subscribe to the materialist philosophy that holds world wars inevitable and regards them with the icy detachment of the geologist surveying a delta. I still believe in the practical possibility of action by men of goodwill, and I am one of them. If we were not convinced of the possibility of peace-making action, this Assembly would fee a deplorable farce. We must, therefore, work for a system of international relations in which peoples can live together and man’s efforts may be directed to constructive ends.
17.	The work of civilizing the world, which means nothing other than raising the general standards of life of the peoples, is not a Herculean task beyond the bounds of practical possibility, but a mission relatively easy of fulfilment and, in any event, less formidable than the tremendous sacrifice demanded by warlike preparations. Technical assistance is already, by itself, producing positive results, as has been witnessed in Colombia, where experts if the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and of the United Nations, in close and cordial collaboration with the competent national circles, have effectively contributed not only to the preparation of a reasonable and feasible programme but also to facilitating its early execution.
18.	I should now like to digress for a moment and turn to a matter with which my country is also concerned. Colombia would like to see the doors of the United Nations thrown open to admit Italy, and, in fact, all those nations which, like Spain, are truly desirous of acting in accordance with the fundamental principles of the Charter: “...to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war..., to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights..., to establish conditions under which justice... can be maintained..., to promote social progress and better standards of life..., to practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours..., to unite our strength to maintain... peace In a world so desirous of applying the rule of law for settling disputes, a nation would surely be welcomed which centuries ago laid the legal foundations for human relationships so soundly that they are still the source of half the laws of mankind.
19.	Our agenda speaks of methods which might be used to maintain and strengthen peace. That, I repeat, is the fundamental task of the United Nations, the only one that justifies its existence, the task for which it was created and on which its future depends. Limitation of armaments, the fight against hunger, ignorance and poverty, collective security measures, friendly mediation between peoples — all such action must be tried and applied for the achievement of that vital objective. But all these efforts will be unavailing unless there is the will to peace. A world war to prevent another war gives a moral purpose to the awful holocaust but does not make it less calamitous. Destruction remains destruction, the abyss continues to be an abyss, and culture and civilization will suffer untold damage, whatever the reasons for the disaster. In the final analysis, peace or war will depend on the conscious will of the few, the very few men who, by virtue of their position in the world, bear the tremendous responsibility of deciding. If it is their will, we shall have peace; if it is not, we shall have war and any measures we might devise to prevent it will be as naught in the face of the crushing reality of events.
20.	There is still time for the great leaders of mankind to pause and reflect. Positions cannot be regarded as irreconcilable so long as the desire for conciliation exists. The fact that proposals have been made makes it clear and indisputable that there is material for study and room for negotiation. In the normal course of events, a war ends by the conclusion of a peace treaty. Would it not be more wise and less fatal to conclude the treaty without waging the war?
21.	But there is more to it than that. The whole world desires peace and the war with which it is threatened will bear little resemblance to former wars. Its political consequences can so outstrip military possibilities that the only possible outcome would be world chaos. It is to avoid such a situation that the peoples of the world have been summoned to Paris.


===== Session 07 - 1952 =====
At the outset, may I discharge the pleasant duty of expressing to each and all the representatives of Member States of the United Nations the gratitude of my country, and particularly of the delegation which I have the honour to lead, for the election of Colombia to the Security Council. We shall endeavour, in the Council, to further the aims which justify the existence of the United Nations, and we shall also try by all means within our power to promote agreement among the members of the Council and to see whether the iron system which sometimes paralyses it by the frequent use of the right of the veto may in this way be eliminated.
2.	I must also express to the Secretary-General, Mr. Trygve Lie, my delegation’s appreciation of the invaluable service he has rendered to the cause of the United Nations and our hopes that the problem which has arisen as a result of his resignation may be satisfactorily settled.
3.	At the fifth session of the General Assembly, the head of our delegation, Mr. Roberto Urdaneta Arbeláez, now President of Colombia, expressed our ideas on the nature and scope of the general debate in terms which I shall, if you will permit me, repeat in the belief that they are most timely. I quote : “The practice of beginning sessions of the Assembly with a general .debate should be recognized as affording the governments represented here an opportunity to state early in the session their attitude on the most important items on the agenda; thus an idea may be obtained of the general outline of the proceedings of the most important organ of the United Nations, and the world, anxious to learn the views of the Assembly, can without delay, form an opinion concerning the objectives of the Member States of the Organization and the responsibilities each one of them is prepared to assume”.
4.	Following this trend of thought, I think that statements in this kind of debate can be made with the utmost clarity and simplicity if we examine the items on the agenda in the light of the principles which inspired the establishment of the United Nations in 1945. A cursory glance at the first few pages of the Charter suffices to show that its postulates comprise what may be called without exaggeration the first code in the world with respect to human rights, moral principles and principles of good relations among nations for the purpose of ensuring universal and lasting peace. There are to be found all the standards which, if dispassionately and sincerely applied, could easily lead to the attainment of the aims upon which the Organization rests. These principles, with which you are all familiar, can be rapidly summarized as follows: to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, as the creature of God, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small; to uphold justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law; to promote social progress and better standards of life for workers in larger freedom: to encourage peoples to practise tolerance and to live together in peace with one another as good neighbours; to unite the strength of the nations to maintain international peace and security; to institute methods to ensure that armed force shall not be used save in the common interest; to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples; to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace; to suppress, by armed "force, if necessary, any acts of aggression or breaches of the peace ; to settle by peaceful means any situation which might lead to a breach of the peace; to develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples; to encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion; to fulfil in good faith the obligations arising out of the United Nations Charter; to settle all international controversies by peaceful means; to refrain from the threat or use Of force against the integrity of independence of any State; to give assistance in any action in accordance with the Charter, and to refrain from giving assistance to any State against which the United Nations is taking preventive or enforcement action.
5.	We shall not easily find a nobler, stronger or simpler statement of a body of international principles capable, if applied, of preserving mankind from the tragic and disturbing threat of war, When we consider the work so far accomplished by the United Nations, the enthusiasm engendered by the excellence of those principles must inevitably be darkened with some degree of scepticism in view of the patent fact that many of the previous declarations of nations have been forgotten, and even in some cases violated, by their conduct. The Colombian delegation has of course, no intention of taking advantage of this general debate to make specific criticisms of particular countries, but it is a fact that wherever we look we find that one or more of these fundamental principles have been flouted.
6.	In the Far East, a peaceful country is the victim of unprovoked aggression. Elsewhere we hear the protests of an oppressed minority. In other parts of the world there are peoples demanding that the principle of self-determination shall be respected. Everywhere there is a cry for more effective economic and social technical assistance while, as time goes on, the limitation of armaments and subsequent disarmament seem to be impossible. Does this mean that we have lost faith in the great mission of the United Nations? It does not! As far as my country is concerned, my delegation can say, without false pride, that Colombia continues to have unwavering faith in the United Nations and in the great future it will enjoy if we are prepared, in the words of the Charter, to fulfil in good faith the obligations we assumed on signing it at San Francisco.
7.	Disheartening as these facts may be, the United Nations has achieved one thing which in itself compensates for all the failures and discouragements and sustains our confidence in the future of the world under the guidance of the Organization. The old secret diplomacy, in which only a few States participated, in which public opinion played no part and the peoples were ignored, has, thanks to the United Nations, disappeared and been replaced by what may be called an “open-door diplomacy”, in which the whole world participates, with the peoples of the world as spectators to judge our every action. The discussion of great international questions in meetings open to all has the inestimable advantage that our work is accompanied by the building up of world public opinion, which is an imponderable element of enormous importance for the satisfactory progress of world history. That fact alone, even if there were no others, would of itself be enough to confirm our unshaken faith in the efficacy of our Organization and our confidence in its dazzling future.
8.	Turning to the specific items on the agenda, I propose to select and to say a few words about those which the delegation of Colombia considers to be most important and timely, since for practical reasons it is impossible to review the whole of our heavy programme of work. I propose, therefore, to glance briefly at the following: economic and social measures; admission of new Members; the question of the Union of South Africa; Tunis and Morocco; Korea and collective security; the limitation of armaments.
9.	I shall start with economic and social measures, I should like to explain the Colombian delegation’s views with regard to the application of Article 55 of the Charter in connexion with the economic development of the under-developed countries to promote “higher standards of living, full employment, and conditions of economic and social progress and development”. Colombia considers that these goals which the United Nations seeks to attain by means of international co-operation are essential to the maintenance of a genuine spirit of international solidarity, understanding and co-operation. The experience gained in the economic development of Colombia which is now proceeding provides striking proof of the value of international co-operation in this matter. At the same time, the anticipated results of the full development of our national resources show how desirable it is that such co-operation should be substantially and steadily increased.
10.	The economic development of Colombia is being carried out along the lines recommended by the United Nations, since our efforts to develop our economy are being backed by financial assistance from both international bodies and private foreign investors and by external technical assistance. I refer to the execution, which is now proceeding, of Colombia’s programme of national economic development, which was prepared on the basis of the studies undertaken by the mission sent by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and reviewed by a non-political committee of Colombian economists. This programme is being put into effect with the help of foreign loans and foreign experts, which help has been obtained in conformity with the spirit of the United Nations, The most important loans are those made by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the reconstruction of trunk highways and the construction of the river Magdalena railway, an undertaking of special economic significance to Colombia, and the loan granted by the Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas to the Paz del Rio iron and steel works, another undertaking of the greatest importance. We have also received constant assistance from the Export-Import Bank. As regards technical assistance, many experts whose services have been secured under agreements between my Government and the United Nations and specialized agencies are in Colombia co-operating in the execution of the plan. Experts furnished by the Organization of American States and the United States Government are also co-operating, In its present development programme, Colombia has thus received assistance from three different international programmes of technical assistance — the Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, the programme of the Organization of American States and the Point Four programme.
11.	From the outset, the economic development programme in Colombia has produced positive results contributing towards the improvement of economic and social conditions. For example, we have achieved real economic and monetary stability and a steady increase in agricultural and industrial production. These results are the outcome of a great many co-ordinated measures, including monetary control, exchange reform, selective credit measures, rationalization of the budget, the freeing of foreign trade and the provision of export incentives. To carry out the plan, a national planning committee, consisting of qualified statesmen belonging to the leading political parties, has been set up. A very important aspect of our economic development plan is the encouragement of private foreign investments. With this end in view, legislation was recently enacted approving new regulations regarding foreign capital and providing the broadest guarantees in regard to non-discriminatory treatment, complete freedom of investment in all sectors and the right to export capital and profits at any time. In view of these regulations and existing conditions in Colombia, it is reasonable to hope that foreign private capital will make an increasingly important contribution to our development.
12.	At the present time, foreign investments in Colombia amount to over $400 million, and a great many United States and European companies have started operations in Colombia in the course of this year. Since capital is by nature cautious and retiring, the figure affords a striking indication of the social stability enjoyed by Colombia. Of course, the increase in foreign investments also depends on factors beyond the control of my country, such as the taxation imposed in the United States and other countries on capital invested abroad, which we should like to see reduced in the interests of international economic co-operation. Given the satisfactory results of the collective assistance furnished to the Colombian economic development programme, my delegation wholeheartedly supports any action to strengthen such co-operation in the form of financing from public and private sources and the provision of technical assistance.
13.	As one effective example of international co-operation for economic development, I must mention the success of the Expert Working Group on Iron and Steel Industry in Latin America convened by the Economic Commission for Latin America at Bogota last October. Twenty American and European countries sent delegations of the most distinguished persons in the realm of science, and there was a fruitful discussion of eighty-five papers on conditions and prospects in this basic industry.
14.	As regards the admission of new Members, the Colombian delegation can only affirm the theory that, under Articles 4 and 27 of the Charter, the Assembly can admit a new Member even after a veto in the Security Council, if the other members of the Council, whether permanent or not permanent, voted for the recommendation for the admission of the new Member. My delegation which has just received the high honour of being elected to the Security Council by one of the highest votes on record, felt bound to express its opinion on this subject. We cannot accept an interpretation of those articles in accordance with other criteria than those which they themselves define in language which is crystal clear. In the same way, we believe that when the Security Council, owing to the circumstances already referred to, fails to reach agreement on this subject, the General Assembly acquires competence to deal with it. One of the primary purposes of the United Nations should be to achieve absolute universality, which is impossible unless all countries meeting the requirements of Articles 4 and 27 can be admitted. Such countries as Italy, Portugal, Spain — though this last has not applied for admission — Austria and others, which have made so outstanding and decisive a contribution to human progress that the history of mankind could not have been written without them, are excluded from the Organization.
15.	With regard to the question of the Union of South Africa, I have no intention of dealing with the substance of this thorny problem, since there will be an opportunity to do so in the committee, but I should like to refer to it because the solution found is of the utmost importance to respect for the dignity of the human person and the right of men to live in freedom which allows them freely to shape their own destiny. I do not wish in any way to criticize the illustrious South African nation, whose citizens have some most excellent qualities. I wish only, without criticizing or slighting anyone, to place on record my delegation’s hope that with the co-operation and consent of that nation, we shall find a just formula which will in no way impair another principle of equal importance, that of non-interference in the domestic affairs of countries, to which Colombia has faithfully adhered since the first days of its independence and to which it will continue to adhere,
16.	The questions of Tunisia and Morocco are similar. Here we are concerned directly with the so-called colonial policy, concerning which Colombia, as a result! of its own history, has ideas and views which I need; not repeat this afternoon. But although this historical reason may seem inadequate to some, I should also recall that the settlement of this problem is directly related to another fundamental principle of the United Nations. I fully realize, and I should like to say as clearly as I can, that it is one thing to formulate principles in the abstract and another to apply them in practice to concrete cases, many of which present complications that cannot easily be dealt with. As in the case of South Africa, my delegation is ready to co-operate in any solution which may meet with the approval of the parties concerned, because we are convinced that only thus can we achieve lasting settlement and preserve the essential principle of noninterference.
17.	As for the Korean situation, we may regard it as the crucial question facing the Assembly at its seventh session, since it is a sad fact that in that question every principle of the Charter has been violated; at the same time, we can console ourselves with the thought that there is no question in which the future of the United Nations is so much at stake or in which the principal machinery for the preservation of world peace is being so thoroughly employed. This is not a case of imperialist war or of war for purposes of conquest. It is not a case of one national army fighting another. In Korea, perhaps for the first time in the history of mankind, the principle of collective security and defence against aggression is being put to the test. The soldiers of the United Nations, under the Unified Command, are engaged, not in an international war, in the old meaning of that expression, but in what should rather be called a police action, to defend a State against unjust aggression and to engage in open warfare for the victory of the principles which guide and inspire the United Nations. It is this moral fact which confers upon the United Nations in its battle in Korea an authority which should in itself have been sufficient to bring the conflict to an end.
18.	Since, as the States which are now closing the door to any possibility of concluding an armistice admit, the treatment of prisoners of war is the only remaining obstacle, the Colombian delegation can state its opinion on this point briefly and precisely. We consider that the prisoners should be released and repatriated, not by force, but in accordance with their wishes. We should like to express our earnest hope that in the debate now proceeding on this matter in the First Committee, a satisfactory formula may be found to answer the prayer of all the peoples of the world that this tragic bloodshed may be brought to an end.
19.	I come now to the question of the limitation of armaments. The intervention of a country like Colombia in a problem of such immense complexity as the limitation of armaments and the resulting disarmament may seem somewhat out of place, because it is not the small countries which decide whether there is to be peace or war. But the fact that Colombia is a Member of the United Nations and one of the seventeen countries whose troops and warships are serving under the United Nations Unified Command and fighting the Korean war to defend collective security against aggression qualifies me, I believe, to make a few comments on this item on the agenda. Furthermore, the fact that Colombia is a small country places it in the happy position of being able to act with impartiality and without passion.
20.	It has been said many times that if the great Powers were to devote to the organization and maintenance of peace the energy they devote to preparing for war, the destiny of man would be changed and the primary objective of the United Nations would be much nearer attainment. Consider for a moment how many social and economic schemes to raise the standard of living of the under-developed peoples could be successfully completed with even a fraction of the sums now being spent by the great Powers for war-like purposes. It is in the light of these considerations, of these arguments, that mankind must face the most tragic and terrible of questions — the alarming development of modern armament technique since science succeeded in harnessing nuclear energy.
21.	Man is the only animal in creation endowed to some extent with the highly dangerous power of freeing himself from the laws of nature and even modifying them. The use of that power for good or evil sets his greatest moral problem. For the first time, man is in a position to make a weapon of such destructive power that he can not only instantly destroy his enemy, but may even end the history of mankind upon the earth by annihilating the human race. It is tragic that not even that prospect can make the great Powers regard with awe and fear the employment of a weapon of destruction which may not only endanger the temporal life of men but even threatens the spiritual destiny of mankind.
22.	My excuse for this digression is the profound anxiety with which the peaceful peoples of the earth regard the present frenzied armaments race. Only the implementation of the recommendations of previous sessions of the General Assembly regarding the limitation of armaments and disarmament can deliver mankind from this horrifying prospect.
23.	In conclusion, my delegation wishes to express its most sincere wish for the success of the seventh session of the General Assembly. We promise other Member States to co-operate with them by complying unfalteringly with decisions validly taken by the Assembly and by the representative organs of the United Nations.


===== Session 08 - 1953 =====
98.	The United Nations Charter establishes the general debate in the Assembly as a means whereby governments can keep in touch with world opinion. Like all the machinery of the United Nations, however, the general debate, which is so truly democratic in character, was provided to help nations to achieve mutual understanding, using the language of peace, and not as an occasion for the utterance of angry, warlike words.
99.	 Nevertheless, since the close of the splendid San Francisco period, when nations, still stirred by the emotions of war and flushed with the victory over the dark forces of hate, met together and concluded a pact of peace and good will, our debates have proved to be occasions for suspicion and mistrust and for reckless moves towards fresh disasters rather than instruments of conciliation and agreement.
100.	Year after year, in the face of the anguished hopes of mankind, the international temperature has risen to fever pitch, providing a frightful warning of impending danger. And it is now, in these closing months of a year that has brought with it so many vain hopes for peace, that tension between the great Powers has become intensified to the point of obliterating from the horizon any prospect of universal peace. We seem to be reaching the climax of the crisis, a crossroads where nations must stop and choose either the road to peace or the highway of adventure. This is the end of a journey which has lasted approximately eight years; this is an appropriate time to reflect, to think, to look many times before we leap, as Mr. Vyshinsky, the USSR representative, advised us to do a few days ago [440th meeting], with such fine oratory but so little connexion with the facts. Look before you leap; but is there any government that would rashly destroy the spontaneous, human friendship of the peoples and subject the world once again to the clenched fist of hate?
101.	The year 1953 has witnessed, in rapid chronological succession, a series of events of deep historical significance which seemed to open up a new prospect to the world and to herald a relaxing of international tension. The Soviet peace offensive — which an American statesman has termed the peace defensive — succeeded in creating a new atmosphere, favourable, as never before, to the study and adjustment of the world situation. But the world expected deeds to follow words, and the deeds have not yet appeared. The Korean armistice, the end of that terrible episode of bloodshed, strengthened the belief that we were approaching a solution of the tragic problems facing the peoples. It seemed that 1953 would become, if not the year in which peace was achieved, at least the year in which the first steps were taken towards peace. Why then do we find ourselves today confronted with this dire alternative, hearing the old, bitter words of recrimination and contemplating the frightful possibility that the course of oppression will become irrevocably fixed and that the lines of battle will again be drawn in Korea?
102.	The reply to this great question, which hangs threateningly over us and increases indescribably the burden of our responsibility, is now on all lips, for it is the elementary, simple, common-sense answer: we are passing through this period of strife because governments have forfeited our confidence, because the great Powers of the world are suspicious of each other, because words serve only to mask intentions and because international life, the daily communion between nations, is carried on without confidence, in an atmosphere of mutual distrust and prejudice.
103.	All the machinery of the United Nations, all its agencies for international co-operation and all its security measures will recede from the foreground and will be relegated to a subordinate, secondary place until confidence is restored among the nations. Our primary and most urgent task is to restore confidence among nations and governments, and even more so among the governments of the great Powers, which, with their material strength and moral influence, should establish new, hopes for peace in the world. To restore confidence and to establish an atmosphere of trust are common-sense phrases, elementary concepts, simple principles which are today buried beneath a veritable avalanche of words.
104.	Although we have reached the most acute stage of the crisis, and while no fine oratory, no matter how polished or biting, can conceal the fact that a struggle for world domination is taking place, the very fact that the problem has become so acute leads us to hope for an unexpected solution. Barely three days ago, the Soviet Union representative hurled an indignant challenge at the democratic countries which refused to include the question of the composition of the political conference on the agenda. We were certainly not surprised to hear Mr. Vyshinsky’s threat, and later we admired the moderation, the intelligence and the calm open-mindedness apparent in Mr. Lodge’s reply, when he declared that the United States was ready to meet the other side half-way in achieving a compromise.
105.	After the last eight years of conflict, it is time we paused for reflection. Why should we devote careful consideration to the items on the agenda of this eighth, session of the General Assembly, which may be a turning-point in the history of the United Nations, if what we say and agree upon here is built upon unreality, distrust and suspicion?
106.	We cannot allow ourselves the luxury of political manoeuvring, to use the apt words of Mr. Lodge, nor can we surround the Korean peace conference with the same atmosphere of distrust which envelopes this Assembly’s debates. We should concentrate less on the composition of the conference than on the desire for peace of those attending the conference.
107.	Colombia will take part in the political conference in accordance with the same legal considerations and in the same spirit which promoted it to send its troops to Korea. We had nothing to defend in the war, nor shall we sign the peace, as a belligerent nation. Just as yesterday on the battlefield we carried out the mandate of the United Nations, so we shall continue to do tomorrow, in the peace talks, with no interest of our own save to comply with our international obligations and to respect the provisions of the Charter in their entirety.
108.	May I be allowed at this point to recall, on behalf of the Colombian armed forces, as a tribute to our dead in Korea, the words of admiration with which the United Nations Command recorded the heroic behaviour of the Colombian battalion, its legendary courage, its indomitable fortitude and the proud simplicity of its military life. Ours is a peace-loving nation, but a nation which knows how to employ force in order to honour its international undertakings.
109.	Eminent jurists and high authorities on international law occupy a place of honour in this Assembly. What a vast work is theirs, what a wide range of subjects and arguments lies before them if they can work free from the stress and strain of international tension. Laws are sanctioned by unanimous acceptance, but, before they can be thus sanctioned, the common will must be strengthened.
110.	Once confidence has been restored among the great Powers, we could, for example, take up the question of disarmament and set up some kind of progressive jurisdiction which would start by prohibiting the use of certain weapons, and in particular atomic weapons, on open cities, and could gradually be extended to all weapons of war. We could likewise consider the revision of the Charter, with a view to making flexible, more adaptable, less oligarchical in respect to the veto and more democratic by providing a greater role for the Assembly, without, however, going so far as to introduce the preponderant vote, which would be a perversion of the spirit of the United Nations. And we should of course declare universal respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. But this work, like so many other projects, depends upon the restoration of international confidence.
111.	The Latin-American nations are young, and it is their bounden duty to be optimistic. They are not prepared to stand as dumb spectators, before calamity. They have placed all their enthusiasm and all their hopes in the United Nations, and they are awaiting the advent of peace.
112.	Colombia has already demonstrated its willingness to serve by its action in the Korean war. The same attitude guides us now during this phase which is still one of conciliation and agreement; but should war again be unleashed upon the world, Colombia will again, with the same resolute will which led it to choose its battle station in Korea, range itself on the side of the nations of the world which yesterday fought for justice and freedom and which will fight for those ideals again tomorrow.

===== Session 09 - 1954 =====
I wish first of all to associate myself with the other representatives who have congratulated you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of this General Assembly and to express to you my sincerest wishes for the success of your work. I should also like to take this opportunity of telling Mrs. Pandit how much we appreciate and admire the tact and efficiency with which she conducted the discussions of the last session of the Assembly.
116.	For the first time in the nine years of the existence of the United Nations, the General Assembly is meeting without having to consider problems of armed hostilities in any part of the world. This apparent calm, however, rather reminds us of a temporary lull before a storm, since it is, unfortunately, true that never has there been such a cleavage of opinion or such a clear-cut assumption of positions in the ideological conflict which divides the peoples of the world.
117.	Every day we are drawing nearer to that culminating period of crisis, to that parting of the ways when the inescapable choice must be made between the way of peace and the way of adventure. It is the duty of the United Nations, by discussions like this, to take stock and to reflect whether it has been able to fulfill the primary duty with which it was charged at San Francisco, the duty to maintain peace.
118.	I personally share the Secretary-General’s anxiety and concern over the fact that in recent months many countries have preferred to seek solutions of their problems outside of the United Nations and I think that we must investigate and remove the causes which have led them to adopt procedures different from those originally provided by the Charter.
119.	I also agree with my old and valued friend, General Romulo, on the points which he has just raised. I think it would be absurd for us to close our eyes to the facts or to harbour illusions. The problem is there and if we are to solve it we must face it openly and seek its causes, so that we may remove them.
120.	It is an over-simplification to ascribe the paralysis of the Security Council entirely to the matter of the veto or to delude ourselves that the political inertia of the United Nations is due only to that paralysis. I believe we must now recognize that that is not the only cause of our failures.
121.	We may say of the United Nations, what Dr. Alberto Lleras said a few months ago in Caracas when he resigned his office as Secretary of the Organization of American States. The Organization is what its Members wish it to be. They can help to strengthen it or they can undermine its prestige in many ways, either by bringing before it questions which by its very nature it is not fitted to- consider and which it is consequently unable to solve, or by not bringing before it problems which can and should be solved in accordance with its Charter. Thus, we cannot lay the success or failure of our Organization at any particular door. We must realize that we are all to a greater or lesser extent responsible for what happens to the United Nations. The Organization reflects our conduct as States.
122.	An organization of this kind easily tends to become a new state-like entity, a super-government with powers greater than those conferred by its constitution, and it must not be forgotten that such an arbitrary assumption of power has repercussions which could culminate in the extinction of the international body, with all the consequences attendant on such a failure, nor must we forget that because of this inordinate assumption of powers we have to witness a struggle for control of the organization which, with its extended powers, might be an effective instrument of intervention or of peaceful penetration.
123.	Let us examine more closely how individual States, by their conduct, may wittingly or unwittingly help to undermine the authority of the United Nations.
124.	An international organization is but the culmination of the general process of integration of social groups throughout history. If we had a clear understanding of our task, we could hasten the achievement of the fundamental unity of mankind. We could not expect that in ten years nations would organize themselves into a perfect international society, but we all feel that we might perhaps have better directed our efforts.
125.	It would be entirely unjust, however, to say that in the process of integrating international organization the United Nations has not helped towards the rapprochement of the various countries. Year by year the bases for an improved international organization are becoming clearer and firmer, although we often come up against the embarrassing fact that some nations, probably because of a laudable striving towards human solidarity, require of our Organization a course of conduct of which it will only be capable when all its constituent parts are firmly co-ordinated.
126.	For example, the United Nations has been entrusted with the task of drawing up conventions on such problems as respect for human rights or the right of peoples to self-determination; but until those conventions have been signed the international Organization cannot be asked to intervene in the same way as it would if they had already been ratified. We must not confuse ideals with positive legislation. We cannot ask the United Nations, to intervene in problems unless it has previously been given sufficient authority to deal with them. Recourse to the United Nations in such cases is one of the main factors impeding the progressive development of that body towards the ideal international organization to which we all aspire.
127.	Another hindrance arises not in the Organization itself but in the Foreign Ministries of Member States. In the present century foreign relations are extended to fields which were not previously held to be within the competence of foreign ministries or state departments. Whether we call them state departments, chancelleries or ministries of foreign affairs, however, it is none the less true that they have not been given the powers which they should have within the framework of the administration of each. country if they are to steer their way through the problems for which they bear responsibility.
128.	An international body is not the product of a capricious desire on the part of nations to establish communication with one another, but the logical consequence of a more compact and homogeneous world, in the sense that there are very few matters which are still strictly and absolutely of national concern. No country could enact legislation today without taking into account the standards which govern the other nations of the world. Isolation is regarded now only as a sanction to be applied against countries which try to ignore the rules of international co-operation. Present-day civilization cannot tolerate any such obstacle in its path as might be caused by a nation claiming the exclusive use of its air, land and sea territory. Public health, for example, must be administered with reference not merely to the individual but also to neighbouring States. The United Nations has been unable to deal, as it would have wished, with those and many other problems, not owing to any deficiencies in its Charter but because delegations receive instructions from foreign ministries which lag behind progress and whose own organization has not developed to the same extent as that of international organization. The narrow official channel constituted by the sections formed in many chancelleries or state departments to handle matters connected with international organizations, and through which passes the stream of reports and documents of all kinds, cannot deal with any matter thoroughly and is consequently unable to direct a policy in harmony with the march of progress. Hence, such ministries often instruct their delegations to avoid as far as possible any decision in the international body which they might later have to defend in their national parliaments. While the foreign ministries show paralysing inaction and indecision in the political sphere, the technical experts, without any regard for the views of their ministries, become the only channel through which the foreign relations of nations are conducted: the technical experts meet at international assemblies and endeavour to pledge the policies and resources of States; they speak for their countries and accept obligations for which in most cases the ministries are unable to obtain ratification by national parliaments. Sometimes the reverse is the case. In economic matters, for example, ministries have realized the futility of envisaging any political cooperation not supported by full economic co-operation. Yet, unfortunately, it has been impossible to ensure that the technical ministries, those, for example, concerned with finance, the exchequer or commerce, particularly among the great Powers, would uphold the suggestions or recommendations of those foreign ministries or state departments which have realized that the desire of nations for justice and economic and social security must be achieved as well as their aspiration towards international peace and security.
129.	The consequence of all this has been timidity and indecision on the part of delegations to the United Nations regarding the solution of the great economic and social problems which confront the so-called underdeveloped countries. The study of economic development as a means of endowing peoples with worthy living conditions, better adapted to the preservation of ethnic and national interest, has been carried over from one General Assembly to another without our having taken any important decision on a matter of such supreme significance for the destiny of our countries. We can therefore state that the firmness with which our Governments pursue their policy towards this international Organization, in accordance with their position in the far-reaching ideological dispute of the present time, has not always kept pace with the collective feeling of our peoples who believe, and perhaps with reason, that it is of fundamental importance to make an all-out attack on the complex problem of their economic development.
130.	Failure to understand the necessity for greater economic co-operation has resulted in an anomalous situation in which governments, chancelleries and state departments have reached an understanding among themselves, but at the price of being obliged to run counter to public opinion in their own countries, while that public opinion, surrounded by evidence of dire poverty, cannot understand why international diplomacy is powerless to forge an instrument for the solution of its economic problems.
131.	To quote one example, the question of a special fund for economic development and an international finance corporation has been included in our agenda for the last three or four years. The Latin American States have felt that bodies of this kind would greatly assist their Governments in carrying out projects of supreme importance for the increased well-being of their peoples. Yet at every session a definite decision on this matter has been postponed and consequently, as Mr. Maza, the Chilean representative, so brilliantly pointed out last Thursday [475th meeting], the Latin American countries have now decided to study the matter on a regional level, that is to say outside of the United Nations.
132.	These observations lead me to conclude that our present frustration is due to the fact that Governments have lost confidence in the United Nations, because they have not had the ability or skill to use the Organization for the purposes for which it was founded. They have been unable to use the United Nations because they have not succeeded in granting their foreign ministries sufficient authority.
133.	Having heard General Romulo’s excellent speech I ask: what would we gain by a reform of the Charter if in future years foreign ministries still did not understand how to make use of it? Why seek representation for Asia on the Security Council, as General Romulo suggested, when he himself said that the Security Council is now useless? It is my belief, that the problem does not lie within the United Nations but in our own Governments and our own foreign ministries.
134.	All the organs of the United Nations, all its bodies for international co-operation, all the measures for security will fade into the background and become subsidiary and secondary until such time as the authority which the foreign ministry should hold in every country has been re-established. Such authority is essential in order to re-establish the confidence of the nations in the authority of the United Nations; armed with that trust, we can regain the confidence of all the peoples of the world in our Organization.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
The twelfth session of the General Assembly is opening in a calmer atmosphere and with more favourable prospects for world peace than those immediately preceding it. It will be possible to examine the items on the provisional agenda and deal with them in a manner that will satisfy the interests which prompted their inclusion, provided those interests are subordinated to the high purposes of the United Nations Charter. The items of a political nature which disturb public opinion and seem likely to provoke a clash of opinions, the items which raise the question whether the conduct of certain countries is consistent with the principles of justice and good-neighbour relations by which they are bound under the Charter, have been debated at previous sessions without consequences that seriously threaten peace; indeed, the discussions have pointed to possible solutions which, although not immediately feasible, are nonetheless reassuring.
78.	Essentially optimistic in their outlook, the young countries are animated by a determination to advance towards those goals of civilization which will enable them a perfect their social systems and play a due part in the development of friendly international relations. The Colombian delegation therefore attends the session of the Assembly with real confidence that the goodwill, good faith and wisdom of the representatives of all countries will always succeed in finding appropriate solutions to the problems that must be faced.
79.	It is obvious that the eighty-two nations which have joined together in this Organization have done so to discuss interests contrary to their individual aspirations and ideologies and not to discuss interests and aspirations with which they are in agreement. Controversy is their natural field of action and the weapon they use to solve their problems, with the common ground furnished by the principles of the Charter. Diversity of opinion does not preclude coexistence. On the contrary, nations can live together even in disagreement; it is for that purpose that international law was created and is being steadily improved. As the former Secretary of State of the United States, Mr. Byrnes, once said in this Assembly: "It is far better for the world to watch the clash of opposing ideas than of opposing armies". Disagreements should be aired in the United Nations, the natural forum for their expression, until such time as they can be satisfactorily settled.
80.	We recently had a remarkable example in the Assembly of the application of these ideas. Last year, France agreed to the inclusion of the question of Algeria in the agenda. The great French nation realized that any misunderstanding of its problem that might exist would not be dispelled by opposing the inclusion of the item, but by informed study which would lead to its solution. "Let there be no misunderstanding", Mr. Pineau said "on that point." [589th meeting, para. 401. Making a democratic gesture which does honour to his country, he preferred an open debate, and announced that his Government’s efforts to restore peace in Algeria would be followed by free elections which would enable the Algerian people, to decide their own future.
81.	When Colombia and the other Spanish-American countries became politically mature, they too aspired to self-government and after a bitter struggle obtained their independence. Only a few years later the deep-rooted friendship between Spain and the young Republics of America was as strong as ever, and since that date the ties between them have become increasingly close and cordial. In the light of that example, we are certain that as humanity continues its dynamic evolution, men will always be able, given the co-operation of all concerned, to find means of satisfying their desire for independence by methods which do not injure the countries which have done so much for them and with which they have, and will always have, so many ties.
82.	In connexion with my reference to the recent case of France, I should like to comment on the, in my opinion, mistaken and improper manner in which votes for or against the inclusion of items in the agenda have on occasion been interpreted. A State voting against inclusion is regarded as "colonialist" while a State voting for inclusion is "anti-colonialist". The result is either that the problem is settled in semblance without ever being discussed, or that, if the item is included, the vote for inclusion is interpreted as prejudicing the issue and as condemning in advance the country which does not want the item included. A procedure which lends itself to misinterpretation both inside and outside the Assembly cannot be regarded as satisfactory. The essential purpose of any parliament - more especially a world parliament like this Assembly - is to provide a forum for the exchange of ideas, for debate, so that it is possible to live together, even in disagreement.
83.	The Article of the Charter which prescribes absolute respect for the sovereign right of each State itself to settle through its own institutions all matters essentially within its domestic jurisdiction has from the beginning been a barrier to the inclusion of "colonial" questions in the agenda, even for purposes of information and discussion. No State is prepared to tolerate outside interference which violates its constitution and impairs its authority. But the difficulty lies not in that sacrosanct and unchallenged principle but in the procedure whereby the Assembly is to elicit sufficient information to judge whether a State's inalienable sovereign rights are being curtailed by the other States in this Assembly when they exercise their right to examine the conditions of the populations of territories which have not yet attained a full measure of self-government or to ascertain whether the Member Governments which have or assume responsibility for the administration of such territories are carrying out their mission by the means provided in Articles 73 and 74 of the Charter, or whether human rights are being violated in such territories or in the territories of any sovereign State.
84.	It would appear that a mere investigation of such a situation does not constitute the intervention so categorically prohibited by Article 2, paragraph 7, of the Charter. Similarly, the investigation and study of situations which may affect international peace does not constitute intervention. As past experience has shown, it is a duty of the Assembly to reconcile the scope of that Article with that of the Articles concerning assistance to Non-Self-Governing Territories.
85.	Article 73 of the Charter declares that Governments which assume responsibilities for the administration of Non-Self-Governing Territories recognize that the interests of the inhabitants of those territories are "paramount". It tells them that they have a sacred trust and imposes duties and obligations on them "to this end"; that is, for the purpose of promoting the "paramount" interests of the inhabitants and "as a sacred trust", they must undertake, inter alia, "to develop self-government, to take due account of the political aspirations of the peoples, and to assist them in the progressive development of their free political institutions, according to the particular circumstances of each territory and its peoples and their varying stages of advancement". My delegation does not believe that a provision of such great humanitarian significance, so clearly directed towards social improvement and progress, which establishes such binding obligations towards the world community through the United Nations, can continue to be regarded as a mere declaration of principle on the ground that it is so described in its title, its only purpose being to elicit the world's theoretical admiration.
86.	I consider that the Assembly has sufficient experience to realize the need for altering the approach to inclusion of an item in the agenda- which, in itself, implies no prejudgement of the substantive issue - with a view to securing a more comprehensive and uniform interpretation of the provisions of the Charter which establish, on the one hand, the principle of nonintervention in matters essentially within a State's domestic jurisdiction, and, on the other, the right of the peoples in whose behalf Article 7 3 was written, and the principle of respect for human rights, prescribed in the Preamble and in Articles 13, 55 and 62 of the Charter.
87.	A study of all the information in each case would enable the Assembly to determine whether a given people's problems concern the United Nations or come exclusively within the competence and sovereignty of a State. My delegation accordingly reserves the right to consider such information when it comes before us before giving its views on substance. On that point - information - and on disarmament, I listened with keen interest to the speech made a few days ago by Mr. Pella, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Italy [681st meeting].
88.	With regard to questions involving "colonialism", a distinction should, in my view, be made between genuinely and traditionally colonial questions and questions which are concerned with promoting the education and culture of the peoples which have not yet attained a full measure of self- government as a step in preparing them for political independence. It is that last objective which should guide the countries administering Non-Self-Governing Territories in giving full effect to the mandatory provisions of Chapter XI of the Charter.
89.	My delegation attaches special importance to questions involving the investigation of violations of human rights and respect for the integrity and dignity of the human person, regardless of the organization or political structure of the State concerned. The entire legal organization of a State based on law should be directed towards guaranteeing the individual's enjoyment of those rights. A system of political philosophy is valid and workable when it centres on the human person. The human person is the be-all and end-all of all legal orders and values. Law and freedom, which are joined together in the State, stem from the human person. Political freedom, the legal order and State structure have substance and meaning only because they derive their being from the human person as such; from the human person, and not from the State, society or history. Without the human person, the rest is words. The human person is the true subject of law, of morality, of religion, of economics, of all the disciplines which go to make up our culture. Nations which, like my own, share in Western culture, are at one in recognizing this supreme and absolutely fundamental quality.
90.	The State based on law is the medium through which we guarantee freedom. Freedom may, I believe, be thought of as the condition in which law is fulfilled in the political and social order. Thus, freedom and law stand in the same relation as function and organ. And as the State is the supreme legal entity and the political function is related primarily to the State, it follows that law, State and freedom constitute a substantial unity. These principles are, of course, true and obvious only under a democratic system, for only in a democracy are they given effect and exemplified. What distinguishes democracy from other political systems is the basic affirmation that the State is essentially a State based on law, whose supreme function and purpose are the exercise and fulfilment of all the forms in which genuine freedom is possible or attainable.
91.	For the Colombian delegation, these principles are enshrined in the National Constitution of the Republic, by which its actions are guided, and we regard it as evident that, in both political and economic matters, respect for the dignity of the human person is and must be fundamental to the well-being of peoples.
92.	Of course, in interpreting freedom as we conceive it, account must be taken of all the moral factors, all the elements of action, interdependence, order, religion and economics which will, with the progress of mankind and civilization, make it possible to perfect the practice of freedom.
93.	The work of the United Nations in the economic, social and cultural fields is therefore no less important than its work in the political field. Progress must be maintained. There must be no turning back. Assistance to the less developed and under-developed countries must be increased, and we must all realize that aggravation of the economic problems of any one of them would have a serious impact on the level of living of a portion of the world's population with consequences no less grave than those of an international conflict. It must therefore be realized that such problems, even though they may be local in. semblance, cannot be a matter of indifference to the United Nations, in view of the humanitarian principles on which it is founded.
94.	At the recent Inter-American Economic Conference held in Buenos Aires, a number of regional problems were studied in the light of those principles, including over-production, primary commodities, international co-operation to promote monetary stabilization, regional markets and the financing of economic development. It is regrettable, however, that no economic agreement providing for genuine co-operation through inter-American integration has yet been concluded.
95.	In the light of experience at the recent Buenos Aires conference and the impression it left on the delegations of most of the participating countries, it is clear that no scheme of international co-operation is easily feasible unless it is based on effective economic integration. And it is extremely difficult to achieve complete unity in approach and policy between nations with a high level of living where freedom can prosper and nations where the growth of broader freedom is hampered by innumerable obstacles stemming primarily from the ignorance and poverty of the mass of the population, conditions which it will be impossible to correct rapidly until the highly-developed countries are able and willing to play a decisive part in the advancement of the less developed areas.
96.	These considerations are given added weight by the fact that the Organization of American States constitutes a regional system which cannot be described as an aggressive bloc or as a threat to anyone. On the vast stage of the United Nations, the Latin American countries occupy a special place, not so much because of their great human and economic resources as because of the value represented by the steadfast adherence of a whole continent to the principles of the United Nations Charter. In our opinion, world political and economic stability cannot be achieved if the desires and decisions of Latin America are not taken into account,
97.	As one of the greatest believers in the United Nations, Colombia, true to its policy of strict compliance with its international obligations and of observance of the treaties binding it to other nations, did not hesitate to send military forces to Korea to play an active part in that emergency, and in the Suez crisis responded without hesitation to the Secretary-General's request for military co-operation by furnishing troops which are still serving with the United Nations.
98.	My delegation will support any steps to promote the economic welfare of nations and to solve the problems which may, frequently for reasons beyond the control of the countries concerned, threaten the domestic economies of one or several countries, thus reducing their ability to secure the economic freedom of their populations.
99.	It will act in consonance with those ideas, particularly in matters affecting the safeguarding of the freedom and the fundamental rights of the human person. However, out of respect for the opinions of others and of the right of peoples to self-determination, it will not, on the basis of those ideas, take up the defence of any single country or its particular ideology, or be influenced in its voting. It will act solely in the common interest, to further the ideals which have brought all the peoples of the world together for the purpose of attaining a state of reasonable and friendly coexistence and international peace and security.
100.	The outcome of earlier discussions shows that there is some resistance to any revision of the Charter, although on various occasions the original procedures and provisions have plainly proved inadequate or ineffective for the solution of major problems. The public is puzzled by the continued opposition to revision of the Charter when past events have shown the weakness of the existing provisions. It is considered incomprehensible, for example, that decisions representing the view of the majority of Member States should not be binding on all, while the opinion of a single Member State can be forcibly imposed on all the others. Nor is it a good thing for international justice to have a more limited field of application than the political power of the States which organize it. Unperturbed by the opposition, my delegation will continue to press the policy it advocated at San Francisco, and will support any reforms which tend to give the United Nations a universal right of examination and decision based on the legal equality of all States.
101.	My delegation continues to believe that the groups of countries recently admitted to membership are inadequately represented in the councils and organs of the United Nations and will continue to support measures to increase the number of seats in those bodies in order to ensure proper representation of those new human groups.
102.	All efforts to achieve efficiency in the administration of international organs, to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy and to ensure the effective functioning of those various organs for the purposes for which they were established will be firmly supported by my delegation, which views with concern the financial burdens the less developed countries are assuming in order to support the various branches of the Organization.
103.	The Colombian delegation wishes to express its admiration and appreciation of the remarkable work done by the Secretary-General and his immediate staff in seeking fair solutions to the grave problems entrusted to their diligence, their competence and their high sense of responsibility. We are certain that their efforts will be most effective in achieving security, harmony and loyal co-operation among nations.
104.	We believe in the United Nations. We have faith in its civilizing influence and in its dynamism, which is steadily perfecting international law and protecting future generations throughout the world by the power of intelligence and through respect for law and justice.
105.	We were pleased to hear the Foreign Minister of Japan, in his speech last Thursday, [680th meeting! refer to a matter of special importance. He said that the United Nations should serve as an intermediary between countries which have reached the limits of their possible internal development and countries which have land and unexploited natural resources and wish to receive immigrants. Those are precisely the countries which have insufficient investment capital to develop their land and exploit their natural resources. One of the most important tasks for the United Nations would therefore be to provide means to enable such countries to prepare the unused land for settlement by immigrants from the over-populated countries, including the capital investments required to ensure the success of such an enterprise.
106.	To the extent permitted by my delegation has followed with lively interest the limited information available, the work of the Dub-Committee of the Disarmament Commission which was meeting in London until a few days ago. We have taken careful note of the recent statements in this Assembly by the United States Secretary of State, Mr. Dulles, [680th meeting] and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union, Mr. Gromyko [681st meeting]. Their statements strengthen our conviction that concrete steps can be agreed upon to initiate the process of disarmament with the blessing of all peoples.
107.	Despite the pessimism of those who would like to see the world's great problems solved overnight, my delegation is optimistic. We believe that the United States and the Soviet Union, with the co-operation of the other great Powers and all the medium-sized and small countries, will succeed in devising appropriate solutions. We support disarmament, disarmament of the mind and the gradual and progressive reduction of armaments. Our approach is the same whether we are dealing with the armies of the large countries or those of the less developed countries. My delegation will present its views on the substantive issues in the Disarmament Commission, of which Colombia is a member.
108.	If compliance with and the development of international law one day permitted the nations to invest what is now being spent on preparations for war and the organization of defence in education, culture, public works and the production of goods that would promote the health and welfare of nations, what a broad and clear road would be open to mankind!
109.	Mr. Gromyko, in his speech also mentioned a number of interesting points concerning world economic relations. The Colombian delegation will present its views on them in the various committees; I should like merely to emphasize the importance of international trade and economic integration for the establishment of peace through the gradual elimination of unduly nationalistic measures in all countries of the world and through the proper distribution of investment capital to permit the exploitation of the natural wealth of the various continents for the benefit of all peoples.
110.	My delegation is gratified to find that the idea of holding another general conference to review world economic problems, similar to that held shortly after the Second World War, which has now been put forward by the Soviet Minister of Foreign Affairs, coincides with the campaigns which have been going on for some years in Colombia with a view to the organization of another special conference to bring the ideas and plans of the last world conference into line with the experience into line with the experience of recent years and with the technical, political and economic realities of the modern world. As always, the Colombian delegation will work towards those objectives with enthusiasm and with firm belief in the mission of the United Nations.
111.	In conclusion, I should like to express to you, Mr. President, the great satisfaction with which the Government and people of Colombia welcomed your election, in view of the friendship which binds our two countries and your great ability. I am sure that, thanks to the lofty qualities you bring to the service of the United Nations, your term of office will be a highly successful one.
112.	I should also like to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Prince Wan Waithayakon, for the wisdom and tact with which he discharged his office, and once again to reaffirm our faith in the final triumph of civilization, based on the high principles of freedom and justice which are the keystone of the United Nations, and which will one day secure the welfare of all mankind.


===== Session 13 - 1958 =====
1.	I realize that the general debate is losing its first impetus, and that everything that can be said about world peace, as well as about matters of lesser importance, has already been said. As spokesman for Colombia I cannot claim that my speech will contain anything strikingly new. I shall confine myself to giving a brief account of my Government's views on certain aspects of international policy.
2.	Colombia believes that the most effective way of serving the interests of peace is not merely to speak about its inestimable benefits, which in theory are recognized by all, but to take positive action to reach the desired goal.
3.	The word "peace" must not continue to be used as a mask to cover other purposes and disguise the warlike intentions of certain States. It often happens that in the name of peace we find ourselves in danger of becoming involved in disputes which can have the effect of impairing friendly relations between peoples. In the name of peace, congresses and conferences are held that constitute the best psychological preparation for war. Mankind is now watching the reckless progress of a feverish arms race conducted by the great Powers in the name of peace. The banner of peace has been raised in such contradictory causes that if we continue to act in this manner the day may come when the human race will destroy itself to an accompaniment of hymns and hosannas to peace.
4.	We have been impressed by the fact that the world situation has led scientists and technicians to concentrate mainly on the production of diabolical weapons of war, while there has been a deplorable neglect of scientific projects that could lead to positive progress in raising the level of civilization and human welfare. If the campaign against the deadly effects of cancer, for example, had been able to dispose of the economic and scientific resources made available for the production of nuclear weapons, mankind might now be free of one of its greatest scourges, at the cost of not being able to destroy itself quite so rapidly and effectively as it can today.
5.	At the present time such observations may seem somewhat romantic and not likely to lead to any practical results, but they may serve to illustrate the ideals of a Latin American nation which believes that mankind will benefit more from progress in literature and the arts, from the fight against illiteracy, from advances in medicine and the raising of the standard of living of God's noble creature, man than from mere excursions into outer space. In the final analysis the great problem of the world is the problem of the individual human being, who has gradually become over- shadowed by the pagan deity of the State, and whom we must restore to his true place if we sincerely believe in spiritual, values.
6.	Technological progress can be achieved, and has been achieved, by different systems, but that which forms the very basis of Western civilization, which we advocate and which corresponds to our deepest convictions, is the equal partnership of freedom and science, in which the spirit is not subordinated to or valued less than technology.
7.	It would be indeed foolish not to recognize the extraordinary progress achieved by those peoples who put their faith in the State rather than in man. The materialistic societies can certainly point to an impressive record of technological progress; in this field their achievements have equalled those of the Western world. It is in the broad realm of the spirit that they have nothing to offer us, and they disclaim the heritage of spiritual values which for us is as vital as life itself.
8.	Peace is the result of a compromise between States, and the reward of tolerance, and its preservation clearly depends on the efforts made even by those most diametrically opposed, to permit the coexistence of two forces differing greatly in their philosophies. Colombia's position in defence of Western civilization is based not merely on its geographical position but also on feelings that are deeply rooted in its fundamental beliefs.
9.	My country believes that it is only through tolerance and mutual understanding that we can achieve the peaceful coexistence of peoples. I say this as the result of my country's own experience. The hostility which divided the two major political parties in Colombia made possible the triumph of a dictatorship, claiming to have military backing, which not only destroyed our liberties but also ruined our economy. In fact of this grave danger the political parties united and agreed on a system of government by joint responsibility which won the full support of all shades of: opinion and especially of the armed forces themselves. This agreement brought about the overthrow of tyranny and made it possible to rebuild our legal institutions and to strengthen peace. I can therefore speak today as the representative of a democratic and law-abiding nation, a republic entitled to preach tolerance because, as a result of its internal struggles, each of the two great political parties that reflect public opinion has renounced the idea of governing exclusively. Democracy in Colombia is based on public opinion and is practised with the support of the armed forces, which defend these ideals of democracy not only within our own borders but also, as in Korea, in the service of freedom under United Nations command.
10.	Those nations which can never be considered as military Powers and which are conscious of their strict limitations, can nevertheless serve the interests of peace, not only within the United Nations where, thanks to recognition of the juridical equality of States, they can bring their influence to bear in the most vital decisions, but more especially in the sphere of public opinion, by refusing their support to dangerous measures and by fully endorsing measures that contribute to the cause of peace and promote closer understanding and harmony among States.
11.	We believe in the tremendous power of public opinion, in the decisive impact it can have on the historical destinies of nations, and in the influence it can exert to avert the harmful effects of the war of words that characterizes the era of armed peace through which the world is now living.
12.	Any nation which cannot make itself either feared or courted, owing to its insignificance from a military standpoint, and which therefore cannot indulge in the pastime of sabre-rattling, has a special duty to help create, through its peaceable views, an atmosphere of peace and harmony in which the futility of any extreme measures would be obvious. I speak on behalf of a country whose views have strength only in that they reflect the nation's purity of purpose and its devotion to the principles of law.
13.	Perhaps I am indulging in wishful thinking, but certain trends in public opinion seem to me to indicate that the spectre of another war is receding, in spite of the tension which seems to exist between the two societies into which our world is divided. The reasonable way in which the effective help of the United Nations has been used to resolve highly critical problems, the realization by all the Powers that another armed conflict would lead to total destruction, the weariness resulting from the protracted cold war and the obvious human desire for concord, all appear to be bringing States around to agree on the establishment of the long period of peace that mankind needs for its development, and for which it longs in order to find rest.
14.	The preservation of peace requires special preventive measures, since in some cases situations arise which, if not brought under control in their initial stages, may lead to undesirable and dangerous developments. In this connexion, and in order to prevent the frequent occurrence of unexpected situations that might lead to conflicts, Colombia warmly endorses the proposal that the Secretary-General should send United Nations observers to those regions and countries where it is thought advisable to have direct representatives of this Organization.
15.	We are gratified to note that the United Nations is making great progress towards universality. A comparison of the number of countries represented at San Francisco with the list of States which are now Members of the Organization justifies the assertion that the United Nations has followed, as far as possible, an open-door policy. There is reason to believe that before many years have passed, and following the principles which have guided us so far, the Organization will receive new Members until the day comes when all nations will be able to express their views here. When that day comes the Organization will be further strengthened, and we believe that its decisions will carry more weight and find wider acceptance.
16.	Colombia knows that its duty as a Latin American country is to foster continental unity, and it pointed out at the Foreign Ministers' Conference in Washington that the Latin American countries will carry more influence in world affairs if they work in concert and consolidate their unity, instead of breaking up into an archipelago of separate opinions. The Washington Conference strengthened the bonds of solidarity of the hemisphere and emphasized the common destiny of the Latin American nations. Those countries, far from seeking to establish a threatening alliance, have joined in the common purpose of serving the cause of peace and reaffirming their unshakable faith in the principles of the Charter.
17.	At the Foreign Ministers' Conference we laid the foundation for a fruitful policy of economic co-operation that will promote continental harmony, since any measures to eliminate inequalities among nations and peoples are certain to produce sound and promising results. We wish to reaffirm that in this democratic continent all nations can achieve standards of living which will enable them to put their trust in the soundness of the principles they proclaim, and show that economic independence can go hand-in-hand with political freedom.
18.	In the regional sphere we wish to give our unwavering support to a policy designed to save the citizens of Latin America from the bondage of disease, illiteracy and poverty. This is an undertaking which demands a continuing effort and requires the unity of the whole hemisphere and the active co-operation of the United States, whose new stand towards Latin America gives us confidence in a happy future. As Latin Americans we are also very grateful to the great Republic of Brazil for the notable efforts it has made in helping to develop this new policy.
19.	Colombia would like to put on record one happy result of the new attitude of the United States: the signing of the Latin American Coffee Pact on 27 September 1958 in Washington. This agreement covers the fifteen coffee-producing countries and regulates prices in a market whose total value amounts to some $2,000 million per year. For us coffee is not merely a commercial product but is the very basis of our economy and the mainstay of our currency. Life other basic commodities in other Latin American countries, coffee is the principal factor in our economic prosperity and thus in our political stability and social solidarity.
20.	After this necessary digression on exclusively continental affairs, I should like to return to the world situation, not to weary the Assembly with further observations but to voice the optimism of the young nations of Latin America with regard to the future of mankind. Colombia does not believe that any action it may take can have a decisive influence in the development of world events, but our material weakness does not relieve us of the responsibility to servo the cause of peace and to reaffirm our faith in democracy and the eternal spiritual values.

===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
19.	Mr. TURBAY AYALA (Colombia) (translated from Spanish): Both as the representative of a democratic Government and as spokesman for a Latin American country, I am proud that a statesman from our continent should preside over this year’s session of the General Assembly. I wish to congratulate both Peru and Mr. Belaúnde on the honour which has been bestowed on them.
20.	The debate which annually takes place in the General Assembly is a living and eloquent example of the juridical equality of nations. Regardless of the intrinsic importance of the countries taking part in it, this debate enables all nations to place their views on the scales of world destiny. My country thus takes part in the consideration of the international situation solely by reason of its simple and worthy credential as a State Member of the United Nations.
21.	Conscious of its technological and military limitations, Colombia does not intend to overstep the bounds of discretion by presenting plans or programmes that would be more appropriately set forth by those Powers whose arsenals contain the destructive weapons placed in their hands by the scientists.
22.	The views which I voice here are designed solely to express the desire for understanding of a country which believes that it can best contribute to the cause of peace by conforming, in its conduct, to the principles of the Charter.
23.	In our opinion, it is particularly important that, when hopes for peace and freedom are voiced, what is said should be supported by the example set by the countries on whose behalf they are expressed. The internal conduct of nations cannot be separated from their external attitudes. It is unreasonable, to say the least, to advocate the international application of standards which are not enforced at the national level.
24.	Fortunately, my country has no problem of conscience, and can speak in this Assembly with full moral authority on the subject of respect for the basic principles of this world Organization. In Colombia, the Government is genuinely popular and democratic in origin, and freedom of expression is curtailed by no abusive limitations. Not only do the political parties exist peacefully together, but there is wholesome and harmonious co-operation between them, which has helped the Republic to reconstruct its traditional institutions and to create an atmosphere conducive to peace.
25.	Colombia, however, has a problem which is common to twenty countries in this hemisphere and to at least 1,500 million human beings living in various parts of the globe. It is a serious situation, which should be faced with courage and determination. Its treatment, unfortunately, is not dependent solely on action by the countries which suffer from it. I refer to economic under-development, the disruptive potentialities of which none would presume to deny,
26.	Other measures adopted to ensure peace will have little effect if the peoples’ distress, and social difficulties, cannot be quickly relieved. Colombia has no hesitation in stigmatizing economic under-development as the most formidable enemy of political stability and international peace, and in regarding want as the most deplorable and repulsive dictatorship ever experienced by man. The explosive power of want is comparable to that of nuclear weapons themselves, and therefore calls for immediate and effective solution. No less urgent and important than a policy of disarmament is action to avert the series of disasters which economic underdevelopment brings in its train,
27.	The United Nations cannot, of course, at any time neglect political problems or the situations arising from the overwhelming pressure daily exerted by developments in the fields of nuclear energy and the knowledge of cosmic space; but no less certainly must it pay special attention to the study of formulae for economic co-operation and technical assistance that will enable the backward peoples to raise their levels of living.
28.	Colombia, which has drawn its spiritual sustenance from the springs of Christianity and resolutely adheres to all the values which go to make up Western civilization, appreciates that within the system of private enterprise and political freedom it is feasible to work towards objectives of justice which will avoid inequalities and the possibility that poverty may create social problems leading to unimagined consequences. We do not propose any change in the present system, but we suggest, rather, some rearrangement which will enable it to continue along the civilizing, path of its destiny. It has been stated — and these are no empty words — that the concept of peace is inseparable from the concepts of freedom, Security and well-being,
29.	The greatest contribution which can be made to the ultimate victory of democracy is -undoubtedly that which can be made to economic development, so that the peoples may be brought to enjoy the benefits of civilization and maintain a level of living commensurate with the supreme dignity of the human being. The cause of peace will always be better served by those peoples whose paths to the future are not obstructed by insurmountable economic obstacles.
30.	At the risk of being repetitive, I would like to stress Colombia’s view that the battle against poverty is an urgent necessity for the purpose of strengthening social peace. It may be worth stating that the effort to change conditions in the economically backward and socially dissatisfied countries calls for less financial investment and technical endeavour than has been put into service in order to place within the peoples’ reach, as a cursed legacy of science, the terrible weapons of destruction controlled by certain nations at the present time.
31.	We are aware that the United Nations is assigning due importance to economic problems and has already taken certain steps along a road which must be covered in its entirety. It might be possible to consider some resolution which would commit countries to provide for economic development sums at least equivalent to those that they are investing in the mad race for armaments.
32.	It is clear that the American countries as a whole are making heroic and self-sacrificing efforts to equip themselves for the battle against economic stagnation. Certainly the establishment of the Inter-American Bank, which will begin operations next year, is a step in the right direction from the standpoint of our prosperity. Naturally, we do not believe that its capital will suffice to effect a complete transformation of living conditions in Latin America, although it is our firm conviction that this institution, gradually receiving greater contributions, is destined to produce good results. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development must be regarded as one of the many possible sources of help for Latin American countries.
33.	We need technical assistance and economic cooperation in order to achieve social tranquillity and to make a better contribution to international peace. Therefore, the concept should be clearly established that nations in the position of mine seek and accept, not charity, but assistance. Latin America is able to return, in ample measure, the help which is being given to it at the present time. We are convinced that the countries of this continent, if timely aid is provided, will be able to fulfil their historic mission and render unflagging service to the basic principles of freedom and peace.
34.	Brazil, which is fully aware of the grave problem constituted by the contrast between the rapid growth in population and the slow economic progress characteristic of most countries in this hemisphere, has reappraised our needs and proposed a programme of achievement known as “Operation Pan-America”.
35.	We cannot be indifferent to the fate of this salutary initiative, which we are all interested in promoting and seeing fully implemented. On behalf of Colombia I proclaim our support of the idea which the President of Brazil, Mr. Kubitschek, has expounded so ably and in a spirit of service which the rest of vs deeply appreciate.
36.	It might not be out of place to stress the importance which the peoples of America attach to spiritual values and to respect for the dignity of the human person. In this connexion we would mention, as a step forward, the conclusions reached at the meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs at Santiago, Chile, where we affirmed that the support of peace in America required an active combination of democracy, respect for the principle of non-intervention, the defence and application of human rights, and the economic security of the individual. As can be seen, we, the nations of the Western Hemisphere, have used our regional organization to surround our peoples with an atmosphere of genuine spiritual independence and unbreakable political security.
37.	Obviously, my country fully supports the Powers responsible for maintaining and defending Western civilization. We have no difficulty in committing ourselves on this matter and stating that such a stand is in line with long-established doctrinal convictions, which fortunately enjoy abundant support from public opinion in our nation.
38.	Colombia has always believed, and has so stated on other occasions, that if the Latin American countries decided to co-ordinate their efforts they would undoubtedly be able to play a historic role of very extensive proportions in the United Nations. The numerical importance of these countries enables them to play a more significant part in major international decisions. We are the greatest combination of nations linked together by the ties of a common language, united by the same religious beliefs, and defending the same spiritual and political values.
39.	The opportunities which language, geography and history have extended to the Latin American nations are exceptional factors making for the achievement of political unity on the international plane. But we have not made adequate use of these advantages and have preferred to act on the basis of an individualistic outlook, instead of being guided by the principle of continental understanding.
40.	It is far from Colombia's intentions to propose to the other American countries an exclusive type of alliance or a plan in anyway limiting their full freedom of action. Its proposal is simply that the countries of this hemisphere be asked to tighten their international links, to improve their sources of information, to bear their own importance well in mind, and to exercise a more active and direct influence in the consideration of world problems. It depends entirely on us whether we act as a force capable of decision or proceed on an individualistic basis, supporting the plans of others without making any decisions of our own. In the last analysis, it is a question of which of these two verbs —  “support” or "decide" — the Latin American countries prefer to conjugate.
41.	Nobody can deny that we are peace-loving peoples and that we therefore seek to settle disputes by reasoning, persuasion and other peaceful means. Perhaps this policy arises from our conviction that this is the Held in which we can make our maximum contribution towards harmony among the nations.
42.	Colombia has growing confidence in the effectiveness of direct contacts between statesmen, and does not conceal its satisfaction at those now being established between the representatives of the two greatest world Powers of all time. Undoubtedly, the exchange of visits between Mr. Khrushchev, Mr. Eisenhower and Mr. Nixon represents a happy step in the path towards cordial relations, in that it does something more than merely provide evidence of the antagonism between the two countries, which are quite rightly regarded as giants in the fields of science, economy, peace and war.
43.	It would be naive to assume that these actions alone can bring order to this turmoil-ridden world of ours; but it would equally be foolish to deny that such contacts relieve the international atmosphere and create a better psychological climate for understanding.
44., Many benefits can flow from a better mutual understanding between two worlds, which have remained closed to each other by the will of one of them, and which are only now, at the highest level, seeking once more the "rapprochement" which was interrupted lifter both had battled memorably against the combined forces of Nazism and Fascism.
45.	May these conversations be as successful as those which took place between Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Stalin, and may they serve to shield the world from the unspeakable dangers of the atomic war which the monumental loser of the Second World War had himself planned!
46.	It is to be hoped that the talks which have begun may be extended to include the leaders of the other nuclear Powers, since the latter bear inescapable responsibilities and must make a decisive contribution to the maintenance of harmony among the peoples.
47.	The unarmed countries, like the one I represent, have placed great hope in the new and promising phase of relationships between East and West. Our concern is understandable because the small nations, like the big ones, nearly always experience all the horrors of any war.
48.	It may be well for me to record Colombia's conviction that the world must in no circumstances consent to a third world war. If nuclear weapons were employed, the world would revert to the first night of Genesis, and the few survivors — if indeed there were any at all —  would merely serve as witnesses of the apocalyptic tragedy which it is incumbent upon every one of us to prevent.
49.	Colombia is convinced that, on the American continent and throughout the rest of the world, the principle of non-intervention should be respected by all countries. We have seen that intervention does not always take the clear-cut form of a frontal attack, but often, as the Argentine Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Taboada, has observed, proceeds by diplomatic infiltration. Good relations between nations must undoubtedly have, as a prime feature, genuine respect for the peoples' domestic affairs; in regard to these, diplomatic or consular agents may be spectators, but not actors. When the bounds of discretion are overstepped and the systems devised by countries to strengthen their friendship are used for other purposes, diplomatic relations are thwarted in their very nature and become superfluous in cases where such offences are detected.
50.	Colombia has maintained a policy of friendship with all countries, and of consistent, respect for all Governments. Accordingly, and to the extent which it deemed necessary, it has extended its diplomatic and commercial relations. To protect our economy, we have had to reach understandings with the countries which also produce our main export commodity; and this fact makes us realize that we cannot take a narrow view of any problem, but that all questions must be examined in the light of their international implications.
51.	My country knows that discriminatory practices are not conducive to the expansion of foreign trade, and has therefore stated that it is prepared to sell its products to any who wish to buy them, on a basis of equality for all and favouritism for none.
52.	Colombia has also expounded and given effect to a policy of international co-operation for the purpose of protecting the prices of its basic products, and it is therefore prepared to examine, with the representatives of the countries concerned, effective plans for checking over-production in these commodities and for regulating the world market.
53.	We have always believed that the influence of the United Nations should be felt throughout the widest possible area of opinion, and we therefore trust that before long conditions will be created such as will enable the maximum number of States to join the world Organization. Matters are gradually moving in this direction, and everything suggests that this favourable trend will continue until the day comes when all countries are in a position to serve the cause of peace within the framework of the United Nations.
54.	We have faith in a prosperous future for humanity; and, within our limited capacity, we wish to serve the interests of peace, so that the coming generations will have no cause to disown the leaders of the present generation and will have opportunities of enriching the world with the invaluable gifts of their intelligence and their knowledge. Fortunately, the threat of war is receding, and everything seems to indicate that reason will triumph in its present contest with brute force.
55.	These are the views of a country which respects law, has faith in spiritual values, trusts in democracy, and is equally attached to freedom and to peace.

===== Session 15 - 1960 =====
Mr. President, you represent a country whose cultural traditions, desire for peace and political maturity we all admire. The task of conducting the debates of this world forum has thus fallen to expert, impartial and steady hands. I congratulate you, Mr. Boland, on the signal honour bestowed upon you by the Assembly, and I congratulate the Assembly on its wisdom in electing you to the Chair.
214.	World opinion, which has always followed the progress of the Assembly’s work with interest, is understandably devoting the closest possible attention to the events that are taking place how in this hall which so many distinguished leaders are honouring with their presence.
215.	Obviously, my country cannot share many of the views which have been expressed here and which have imparted an unnecessarily acrimonious note to the general debate. This does not, however, prevent me from greeting all those who come here as genuine representatives of their peoples with the same respect as I shall show when I am forced to dissent from many of their opinions.
216.	I believe that I am not mistaken when I single out as the greatest advantage of the United Nations the permanent opportunity which it affords to all countries to make their views heard from this rostrum whose echoes are undeniably world-wide. The way in which the great Powers and the small nations follow each other as their turn comes to speak is a noble and encouraging example of democracy. It is also, of course, a valuable experience for countries to witness the simplicity with which the voice of reason usually speaks. There can be no doubt that the debates of this Assembly have an active and effective educational impact on world opinion. For my own part, I may say that I am now more than ever wary of all oratorical excess.
217.	Mankind is entitled to trust in the sense of responsibility of those who can, if they will, guide the world along paths of peace and social well-being. It is well-nigh inconceivable that this Assembly, which is attended by the Heads of Government of the greatest Powers as well as other eminent statesmen and distinguished international leaders, should not decide to convey to all the peoples of the world a message of confidence in the present and faith in the future. It would be unfair to increase still further the world's burden of anxiety and to undermine its hope in the success of this meeting, which could hardly be at a higher level. May I be allowed to say that this is a real summit meeting, and that an agreement can be reached here on the healing formulae which we had all hoped would emerge from the Paris Summit Conference of May 1960.
218.	We are convinced of the infinite danger which lies in the failure of the great Powers to agree on the question of disarmament. There can be no doubt that this is the key point on which many very vexatious problems to a great extent depend. The world's yearning for peace would be satisfied in large measure if, through a joint effort by all peoples of good will, the great Powers could succeed in agreeing to resume negotiations on disarmament. To this end, my country makes a sincere appeal to the principal actors in the world drama to put forward formulae for agreement which will make it possible for mankind to live, as President Roosevelt proclaimed, in freedom from fear.
219.	The armaments race has been consuming the energies of the Powers with the greatest technical and economic potentialities. In this respect, science has turned away from its worthiest goals in order to place itself at the service of tremendous experiments that can exert a destructive power capable of thrusting mankind back into the first darkness of creation. What was once regarded as the fantasy of a few dreamers is today indisputable reality. At the present moment, man possesses instruments of war which can increase his power of destruction still further, and, for peace of mind, and above all for survival, mankind must be assured that these diabolical weapons will remain unused.
220.	Although the very power of nuclear weapons to destroy would seem to remove the likelihood of atomic war, it is by no means out of the question that man, whose rashness has been attested to in history by many examples, may, in a moment of pride or despair —the results of which would in this case be the same— light the fatal bonfire that will consume the world. We still have time to press the vital urgency of a resumption of negotiations on disarmament by the great Powers. My country does not, of course, claim to possess any magic formula that could ensure a happy solution of this complicated problem. Our attitude is not prompted by brash self-conceit but by a legitimate aspiration that mankind should be preserved and live on.
221.	If progress is made towards disarmament, there will be, no war, for unarmed peoples do not usually engage in armed conflict. On the day when nations have no power of intimidation, their disputes will be settled by peaceful means, and mankind will attain undreamed-of heights of progress. Similarly, disarmament will enable nations to live together in peace, and peaceful co-existence will emerge spontaneously and set the international tone. My country realizes that the world is living through one of the crucial moments in history and that here in this memorable Assembly the peoples have an opportunity of rebuilding the hopes that were frustrated by untoward events. I know full well that in an objective analysis of the world situation it is of no great importance when a country like mine, with only fifteen million inhabitants, proclaims its desire for concord and its decided preference for the methods of persuasion and understanding. Colombia can state with pride that it has never constituted a threat to its neighbours and that within its own limited possibilities it has never been a cause of international tension. My country, which like most Latin American countries has already celebrated 150 years of independence, has a long tradition of pacificism and a firm democratic discipline. We repudiate an armaments mentality in all its forms. We are a country ruled by law. We have confidence in our lawful authorities, and we have no need to arm our people in order to surround them with safeguards and serve their interests.
222.	I have listened with particular interest to the speeches that have been made here and, despite the fiery tone of some of them, I must confess that my country continues to have faith in the possibility that the United States and the Soviet Union may find a reasonable common ground for the settlement of their differences. The speech of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the USSR, Mr. N. S, Khrushchev, obviously contained much propaganda material, but despite its polemical tone it did finally recognize the need for an understanding between the United States and the Soviet Union. All of us, perhaps without exception, regard such an understanding as the primary requirement for strengthening world peace.
223.	In the circumstances, everything calls upon us to be discreet and reminds us that our role is not to intensify disagreements but to encourage closer understanding among nations. That is why the voice of my country is raised in this hall not to deliver insults but rather to staunch wounds. We wish at all times to keep our feet on the firm ground of reality and to work sensibly and dispassionately. Because of our restricted possibilities of action in the field of international conflict, we feel free of responsibility for submitting plans to this critical audience on the control of outer space and the use of nuclear energy. We are sure that the Assembly will forgive and understand our moderation and our determination not to play the part of a great Power when we are not one. We believe in our own simplicity, and our conduct in national and international matters is appropriate to our recognized limitations. It requires as much maturity to manage weakness as it does to know how to be strong.
224.	We proclaim our democratic status with pride; We uphold all those values which ennoble and dignify existence, and we continue to regard freedom as the supreme good of all people. Our solidarity with the nations of the free world is well known, as is our zeal not to jeopardize that unify which we regard as essential for the defence of the democratic system, under whose banner we have always fought to achieve our goals of well-being and dignity.
225.	It is obvious that mere political freedom cannot become the sole objective of nations, but it is no less certain that we can never renounce it on the pretext of safeguarding material welfare. The concepts of security and freedom must be combined so as to produce a constructive plan in which the development of nations can proceed within the framework of liberty.
226.	There are, to be sure, two systems for achieving material progress, and both have given positive results. Both East and West have made admirable technological progress, and both sides can quote convincing statistics. The spokesmen of the East in this Assembly have told us, for example, how many kilowatts of power are produced per caput, but they have not told us, and I fear that they will never be able to tell us, the amount of freedom enjoyed per caput under their system.
227.	Peace will necessarily be threatened as long as government does not serve the general interest and does not ensure the same respect for its own views and those of other systems. We believe in spiritual values and in intellectual controversy, and that is why we do not hesitate to disapprove and system which prohibits opposing views and regiments thought. Rebellion of the spirit is better measured by refusal to accept any type of imposition than by slavish obedience in putting into effect the slogans of foreign revolution.
228.	Freedom, however, cannot be an end in itself; it must be a means for developing the creative energies of man and encouraging the people's constant dreams of improvement. A free people is not one which blindly follows the will of a single man but one whose conduct is governed by law, and, above all, one that finds in free elections the means and the opportunity of establishing a government in keeping with its desires and needs. A people is also free when it surrounds with safeguards the supreme dignity of the human person and respects the rights of the citizen,
229.	At the Fifth Meeting of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American States, held at Santiago de Chile in August, 1959, and the Seventh Meeting, held at San José, Costa Rica in August, 1960, the characteristics of American democracy were clearly and unmistakably defined. I had the signal honour, at both meetings, of presiding over the General Committee, as the representative of Colombia, and I am thus particularly well acquainted with what took place.
230.	In August 1959, the Foreign Ministers of the twenty-one American States met together in the Chilean capital and, after a detailed study of the causes of international tension in the Americas, concluded unanimously, or in other words without a single dissenting vote, that it was essential to stress that the conduct of the Governments of the hemisphere must conform strictly to the provisions of the Charter of Bogota of 1948, which is the basic instrument of our regional organization. Thus it was that, in furtherance of the basic principles of the inter-American system, we adopted the Declaration of Santiago de Chile in which the political aspirations of our peoples are enumerated and summed up. In this Declaration we restated the democratic concept of the separation of powers and reaffirmed our conviction that the Governments of this continent should be the result of free elections. We condemned perpetuation in power. We proclaimed freedom of information and the unrestricted exercise of freedom of the Press, radio and television. We asked for respect for human rights and stressed the urgency of effectively combating economic underdevelopment in order to strengthen democratic institutions.
231.	In August 1960, the American Foreign Ministers met again at San José, Costa Rica, where we had occasion to study the problems posed for the unity and solidarity of the hemisphere by Mr. Khrushchev's proposals to use his guided missiles to intervene in the dispute between two American States, and the acceptance in various forms, each more compromising than the last, which the Cuban Government gave to that offer.
232.	America possesses a regional system that is older even than the United Nations and offers abundant resources for the peaceful settlement of any dispute. We have outlawed aggressive war in our hemisphere and have laid down that conquest confers no rights. An armed attack by any American State against any other American State shall be considered as an attack against all the other countries of the continent. In this way we have been able to cheek the arms race that was consuming a large part of the economic resources of the Latin American countries.
233.	In the field of continental solidarity, we are bound by existing treaties which are surely a model of what a regional organization can do when it is established for defensive and not for aggressive purposes. We Latin American countries believe in the effectiveness of the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance of Rio de Janeiro of 1947, which grants us specific rights and imposes upon us necessary responsibilities. That Treaty, which we regard as the highest achievement of inter-American co-operation, specifies that any extracontinental armed attack against an American State is to be regarded as an armed attack against the whole continent. It is, of course, this Treaty — and not the Monroe doctrine, which we regard as definitely superseded — that enables us to mobilize the energies of all the American States to ensure the defence and solidarity of the hemisphere.
234.	United States Secretary of State Herter was emphatic in declaring at San José, Costa Rica, that the United States has no intention of committing aggression against Cuba, and he confirmed the declarations previously made by Ambassador Cabot Lodge in the Security Council. All of us representing the other countries of America affirmed in clear and categorical terms that Cuba does not need the protection of the Soviet Union or of any other extra-continental Power, since its freedom of action is guaranteed by the principle of non-intervention which is the backbone of the inter-American system.
235.	To the very best of our information and knowledge there does not exist any threat of aggression against Cuba on the part of the Government of the United States or of any other American State. We therefore consider all attempts by the Soviet Union at political and military intervention in American affairs to be unjustifiable and inadmissible.
236.	America not only believes in the necessity of peaceful coexistence but also desires that mankind should be able not only to coexist but to live together in a civilized manner and to co-operate in planning for the benefit of all. Peaceful coexistence is not, however, helped, but is rather undermined, when countries violate or encourage the violation of the principle of non-intervention. The position which we American Foreign Ministers adopted at San Jose consisted in rejecting and condemning every such attempt at extracontinental intervention in the problems of America.
237.	Within the framework of peaceful coexistence, peoples of the most varied political, philosophies and the most incompatible systems of government can have diplomatic, commercial and cultural relations. Some nations of this continent have relations with the Socialist countries and even with the Soviet Union itself. We must, nevertheless, emphasize that under the guise or pretext of such relations, we American peoples are not prepared to accept any act of extracontinental intervention in our continent, even should such an attempt be accompanied by the threatened use of guided missiles.
238.	At San José, Costa Rica, we reaffirmed the principle of non-intervention by any American State in the internal or external affairs of the other American States,, and we reiterated that each State has the right to develop its cultural, political and economic life freely and naturally, respecting the rights of the individual and the principles of universal morality.
239.	This example demonstrates that in rejecting extracontinental intervention, America is not applying to outside Powers a procedure different from that which it has applied to itself. We have the moral authority and the political authority to act in harmony with the proposals and the spirit of independence that were made evident at the Seventh Meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs held at San José, Costa. Rica.
240.	We declared at San José, and we reaffirm today in the United Nations Assembly, that any attempt to intervene in the affairs of another State for the purpose of imposing upon it one's own ideologies or one's own political, economic or social principles is unlawful. We have no desire to be either the importers or exporters of revolutions. We wish to bring about the evolution of our peoples within an American framework, using methods and procedures which are in keeping with our civilization and our customs. We are not prepared to renounce our autonomy in order to prove that we are revolutionaries. We frankly cannot accept as a criterion the anarchic policy of renouncing the principle of non-intervention. In the sense of continuing to uphold the international rule of fair play, I am afraid I would not be wrong in affirming that all States are very conservative. Some States, however, tend to be more categorical in defending their own rights than in recognizing those of others.
241.	Allow me to dwell further on the position adopted by the American Foreign Ministers at San José, Costa Rica, in order to underline the positive attitude which we followed there. We declared at that time, and we now affirm it once more, that Cuba, as well as every other American State, can be assured that its independence, integrity and sovereignty are fully guaranteed and protected by the safeguards which our regional organization provides. The heroic people of Cuba need not rely on the Soviet Union for protection which can never be more effective or more fitting than that which we, her American sisters, have offered her not once but many times.
242.	Latin America need have no fear of advanced ideas or of social justice. We who today hold the reins of government in America are fully alive to our obligations to pursue vigorously the economic development of our nations. The era has gone in which it was possible to restrain the longing for social renewal which is to be found today in every land of the earth. Our rural masses need their own land and adequate tools, and we must therefore introduce just agrarian and technical reforms without delay. Our people require decent dwellings, and we must provide them with the means for building such dwellings. They also need schools and hospitals, and we cannot refuse them these. The time has come for the great social evolution which, as the English statesman said, will give to the people by peaceful processes all that it longs for and does not always attain through bloody revolution.
243.	For many years we have been stressing the need for reinforcing all the means that can be used in the vital work of technical and economic assistance which the great Powers, in a free spirit of co-operation, must offer the under-developed nations. Where the United Nations has failed in its work of rehabilitation has undoubtedly been in the insufficiency of the economic aid which it has been meting out in tiny drops to the most needy countries.
244.	Within the American system, we have long been calling for a more active participation by international institutions and by the Government of the United States. In this sphere we can say today that important advances have been made. Last year we founded the Inter-American Development Bank, which has already begun its activities and is destined to become the most effective of all instruments for continental assistance. At the beginning of this month, the representatives of twenty American States met at Bogota to study, in the framework of "Operation Pan America”, the problems connected with the economic and social development of our peoples. I would be unjust not to state that that gathering constituted the most decisive step forward yet taken in the field of inter-American co-operatiom
245.	The economic Act of Bogota, of 1960 clearly reflects the determination of the nineteen signatory Governments to fight against under-development until victory is won. We committed ourselves to an ambitious programme of social measures which we considered of the most vital importance. Land reform, housing, education, health and small industry will now receive the benefit of external credits which were formerly reserved only for programmes certain to be profitable.
246.	It would be a wrong interpretation of the Act of Bogota, to suppose that the needs of economic development were overlooked. On the contrary, we reaffirmed our conviction that the prime need of our peoples is the reinforcement of economic programmes. Yet it would be hardly fair to tell our people that until we have constructed all the hydroelectric plants and all the irrigation canals and all the railways and roads that are included in the Latin American development programmes, they have no right to own their land, or to live in decent dwellings, or to have adequate education or medical services. The programmes of economic and social development are complementary, and both constitute the natural basis for peace and well-being.
247.	It is obvious that in the struggle against underdevelopment, the peoples who live and produce under conditions of poverty must contribute the main effort themselves. We accept it as our task to devote to the work of recovery an indomitable will to act and an ordered planning of public expenditure. Since, however, the question at issue is the defence of democratic values, it is clear that peoples professing the same principles and having the same systems as we do ought to come to our aid, the cause of freedom being indivisible. These are the circumstances in which we. have gratefully accepted the economic cooperation offered us by the United States, which many countries in other continents have long been receiving in abundance and which only now is beginning to reach Latin America in a systematic and sustained form.
248.	In the Act of Bogota we pointed out that the European countries which have now overcome their post-war economic difficulties would be well advised to co-operate more fully with the countries of America, which have given them so many proofs of their solidarity. Not only could they intensify their technical assistance and make larger investments in our continent, but they could also consume a greater volume of our products and eliminate many of the obstacles in the form of tariffs and taxes which today impede the access of our products to European markets. We feel sure that the countries of Western Europe will not be backward in making the contribution which they could today offer Latin America in every sphere. Just as for several years we declared the urgent Necessity for a radical change of attitude towards our peoples on the part of the United States Government, we today make the same appeal to the European countries and express in anticipation the gratitude which we would all feel in Latin America for a change in their position with respect to the nations of this hemisphere.
249.	The United States has no need for any country to come to its defence, but in the name of justice I must express Colombia's appreciation for the way in which the United States representatives conducted themselves at the Bogota economic conference. They gave ample proof there of their familiarity with Latin American problems and of their willingness to cooperate. We feel convinced that this is not a passing attitude but a permanent policy which the United States will not abandon until we have finally won the battle against poverty.
250.	The United Nations was instituted in order to keep alive contacts between the representatives of Member States and thus to ensure that peoples would not adopt unilateral positions which might easily lead them into war. The effectiveness of this world Organization has been put to the most gruelling tests and has fortunately triumphed over them. The balance-sheet which the United Nations can present to the world is fully satisfactory and justifies the efforts of its founders and the trust placed in it by mankind.
251.	The signatories to the San Francisco Charter were careful to endow the Organization with sufficient powers to act speedily and effectively in every situation in which peace might be endangered. My country considers that the world Organization can better fulfil its vital task when all Member States back up its authority and support its decisions. Colombia identifies itself wholly with the purposes of the United Nations and the Organization of American States and believes that the interests of peace would suffer great harm if, to the prejudice of all, the authority of these two bodies should decline. Any weakening of the world Organization would mean the destruction of the one barrier which has been effective in holding back war.
252.	I would be most loath to conclude this speech without stressing the feeling of solidarity of our continent with the nations of Africa. Africa and America have many problems in common. Malay of our experiences may be useful to them, and we are anxious to co-operate with them since, to a certain extent, their cause is one with ours. We might well meet frequently with the African representatives to agree on plans for mutual assistance and for defending the prices of our common products on the international market.
253.	I am sure that I am speaking on behalf of all my colleagues from Latin America when I express to the peoples of Africa, through their illustrious representatives at this Assembly, our sentiments of esteem and solidarity. We are their allies in the fight against economic under-development and in the endeavour to ensure peace on foundations of liberty and well-being.
254.	May I be allowed to emphasize the necessity of taking full advantage of the presence here of such authorized spokesmen of the great Powers as we have among us, to beg of them earnestly to agree at least on the bases of procedure for the resumption of disarmament negotiations. May I also once more remind Cuba that within the American system it will find all the peaceful processes necessary for resolving its differences with the United States of America, and the due protection of its integrity, independence and sovereignty. Let me also reiterate that harmony and good relations between States can only be achieved if the principle of non-intervention is rigorously observed and respected.
255.	Let me likewise reaffirm our growing faith in the Organization of American States and in the United Nations.
256.	I wish to thank the Assembly for the indulgent attention which it has given to my remarks. They reflect the views of a country which loves peace, extols the benefits of social justice, proclaims the values of liberty and respects the rule of law.


===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
﻿On taking the floor in this great world forum, I am overwhelmed by respect and awe — respect for the distinguished and able representatives of 100 countries assembled in this hall, and awe at the magnitude and gravity of the problems which demand the attention of the United Nations and are a source of concern to all the peoples of the world
28.	I come to this world rostrum to reaffirm Colombia's faith in the structural principle of the San Francisco Charter and the American regional organization, since those principles coincide in the will to ensure the rule of peace founded on social progress, freedom and justice.
29.	Because of its long legal tradition going back to the origins of its nationhood, Colombia must always speak the clear and honest language of harmony. This unalterable rule of our domestic and external conduct is imposed by our way of thought, our convictions of principle, our political customs, and the influence of our Christian culture. My country also understands that a nation which obviously is not a military, industrial or economic power must act in the international area with the simplicity and/discretion dictated by its! own limitations. I come to bring to this Assembly a message of peace from 15 million Colombians who have confidence in the good sense of their fellow men, and to voice our faith and hope in the prosperous future of our peoples.
30.	I do not deny that in international affairs, on exceptional occasions, insuperable problems not open to reasonable solution may arise but may I be permitted to say that, in Colombia's opinion, all the problems which today threaten world peace can and must be settled by peaceful means. The questions of Berlin, German reunification, Laos, Cuba, South Viet-Nam, the suspension of nuclear tests and general disarmament do not properly belong to an exceptional category of insoluble problems. They can all be settled through the application of political remedies. Some are more explosive than others, but all are manageable within a certain order of priorities.
31.	Naturally, Colombia is aware that often the best of peaceful intentions are frustrated by the barriers which States themselves have erected in their path in their dangerous and unrestrained conduct of the cold war. It is well known that, under the laws of the cold war, any act indicating a will peace may be taken as a sign of weakness or vacillation; and it is not impossible that, through the vain desire of States to demonstrate that neither weakness nor vacillation exists, the world may be plunged into the maelstrom of inevitable destruction.
32.	The United Nations is capable of finding common ground between the Powers and of advocating fair and reasonable solutions which will smooth the stony road which mankind is travelling. Surely, through the machinery of the United Nations compromise solutions can be found to restore mankind's faith in its destiny and in its survival. Within the United Nations many countries that have been mere spectators or victims of the world drama may become actors and the creators of a new era of peace and progress.
33.	Bat since in the struggle to free mankind from-the scourge of a new military conflict we have necessarily to use the forum of the United Nations, let us begin by strengthening and facilitating United Nations action and not by obstructing or weakening it. Problems of the magnitude of those which now beset us cannot be easily resolved if the crisis of the office of the Secretary-General resulting from the tragic death of its distinguished and able incumbent, is allowed to continue. We must and an expert collaborator who, like Mr. Hammarskjold, will help us to overcome the difficulties in the way of peace.	'
34.	My country has examined the Soviet proposal for a plural Secretary-General and considers it undesirable because it would introduce an additional disturbing element into the functioning of an organization which must work more speedily and with absolute unity of action. The interpretation of an order from the General Assembly or the Security Council on the basis of three different criteria will obviously result in the 

paralysis of the world Organization. The principal objection to a plural Secretary-General is that, if it were adopted, She office of Secretary-General would lose its executive capacity and would be transformed into another deliberative organ of the United Nations.
35.	My country believes in the world Organization and realizes that it is the last guarantee for peace. In the sixteen years of its existence the United Nations has performed extraordinary services and has prevented the outbreak of general war. This alone would justify its existence, even if there were not many other weighty reasons to acknowledge the magnitude and the efficacy of the work it has accomplished.
36.	The economically less developed countries have already begun to profit from the technical and financial aid of the specialized agencies and hope to receive more intensive and significant assistance when the great Powers allocate aid for under-developed countries even a small percentage of the huge sums now diverted to a break-neck armaments race.
37.	The United Nations may not serve interests other than the cause of peace, nor acknowledge a discipline other than its own. It was not established to regiment thought but rather to stimulate debate and to seek the truth through the calm consideration of opposing positions. But debate must not become an obstruction that would weaken the raison d'etre of this great Organization.
38.	At the same time the United Nations while serving as a bulwark against war, affords the small countries an opportunity to share unique and tremendous responsibilities with the great Powers. If this forum did not exist, it is probable that the world would be conquered by a few countries and mankind would be subjected to appalling tyrannies. In the United Nations we find solutions for our problems, satisfaction of our needs, and a platform on which we may express our concern.
39.	In the belief that all the machinery of the United Nations should be strengthened, my country will support the proposal for an increase in the membership of the Security Council and of the Economic and Social Council. This increase will enable the new countries to obtain the representation to which they are justly entitled, without reducing the representation on these bodies now allotted to the various regional blocs. The doors of all bodies must be opened to our new colleagues. They have demonstrated their ability and have won the respect of the General Assembly, which is honoured today by the presence in the chair of Mr. Slim, a distinguished African possessing outstanding human and intellectual qualities.|
40.	The international conduct of my country is based on clear principles derived from its undeniably democratic character, its respect for the law and its veneration for freedom. My country cannot remain silent in the face of any violation of human rights, and must therefore raise its voice in protest against the inhuman racial discrimination which although expressly prohibited by the United Nations, has long been practised in South Africa. It is inadmissible in the present age that this bitter racial conflict should afflict the world. The coexistence of sons of the same country must precede the coexistence of nation^ My country is determined to support any positive United Nations action which will radically correct these acts which are repugnant to its humanitarian conscience.
41.	Similarly, our republican heritage compels us to recognize that the self-determination of peoples is obviously inconsistent with colonialism. The indefinite prolongation of the colonial system is not in keeping with the spirit of freedom which now determines the destiny of the world, and is undoubtedly a factor disturbing the peace.
42.	The noble example of the United Kingdom, which won the war and dissolved its empire, is further evidence of the political maturity of a great people, We are in favour of plebiscite arrangements to provide peoples with a means of exercising the right of self- determinations.
43.	We believe that the same criterion must be employed to promote the reunification of those peoples whose division is persistently encouraged; for example, those who assert the principle of self- determination in the case of some peoples while denying one part of the German people the right freely to decide its own future cannot escape the charge of demagogy.	
44.	The Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic have indissoluble links. A long common past, going back to the dawn of history, must inevitably outweigh the artificial division of the last sixteen years. Hence, when Mr. Gromyko describes the Federal German Republic as revenge-seeking, in order to justify his country's unwillingness to permit the self-determination of a people divided against its will, he is being completely arbitrary.
45.	This year the General Assembly has seen fit to place the item of representation of China on its agenda, My country accepted this decision, but it has not changed its view of the qualifications that should be possessed by States seeking to enter this Organization. In Colombia's view, it is essential that every new Member of the United Nations should prove by deeds rather than by words its intention to serve the interests of peace and to abide by the principles of the Charter.
46.	The question of the representation of China, Which the Assembly will discuss at this session, is not an ancillary or procedural matter, for it implies a substantive decision. We believe that this is a question which under the provisions of Article 18 of the United Nations Charter , must be resolved by a two- thirds majority, since it involves more than a mere decision concerning credentials.
47.	The most recent nuclear tests have produced a worldwide reaction, of which the resolution approved by the Belgrade Conference of Non-Aligned States is a good example. All peoples feel that they are now closer than at any other time in their history to the inexpressible horrors of general war. The continuation of nuclear tests might create an even greater state of alarm and fear , which would necessarily affect our proceedings. There seems to be every indication that world anxiety would be greatly relieved, and the United Nations would be able to work with greater confidence, if priority were given in the Political Committee to the elaboration of an immediate treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons tests.

48.	On the question of general disarmament, Considered independently of that of nuclear tests, pessimism would be out of place since the joint statement of the United States and the Soviet Union, which has been widely circulated in this Assembly, indicates that there is a welcome area of agreement. The reaffirmation by the two greatest world Powers of their desire to initiate a programme of general and complete disarmament, guaranteeing that States will maintain only the conventional arms needed to maintain internal order and to protect the lives of their citizens, is in our judgement one of the most promising pieces of news the people could receive. We cannot conceal our enthusiastic hope that this encouraging declaration will be endorsed by this Assembly. My country trusts that in the very near future agreement will be reached regarding the body through which these negotiations, which the world awaits with understandable anxiety, will be undertaken.
49.	Like the other twenty countries of this hemisphere, Colombia is a member of the Organization of American States and has subscribed to the agreements and conventions that constitute the regional system. My country has undertaken multilateral commitments which bind it to the complex of political, economic and legal norms which serve as rules of international conduct for the continent. We have undertaken to assure the peace and to defend the freedom and sovereignty of the American nations against any dangers that threaten them. And we have agreed that respect for human rights and the political organization of States on the basis of the effective exercise of representative democracy are essential to the attainment of the purposes of our regional systems.
50.	Similarly, in the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance of Rio de Janeiro, we undertook to repel extra-continental or intra-continental intervention directed against any American State, and to consider an attack against an American state as an act of aggression against all the American States. We do not belong to the "neutralist" category of countries; on the contrary, we are among those who have definite commitments to America and to the free world. However, none of the commitments we have assumed and which we are determined to fulfil is incompatible with the high aims of the United Nations; on the contrary, they are complementary. The Inter-American system was created to seek peaceful settlements to controversies that might arise among the American countries before such disputes were referred to the General Assembly or the Security Council. The regional organization, like the world Organization, is primarily a safeguard for weak peoples, for nations that cannot enforce their rights by themselves.

51.	The effectiveness of the political and legal rules of the Inter-American system has been amply proved and recourse should be had to that system to ensure that our regional problems do not unnecessarily take up the; time of the General Assembly and the Security Council when there are still positive means of redress in the regional organization. When such problems are brought up prematurely for consideration in the United Nations, they only serve to encourage debates which inevitably involve the American continent in the cold war. This may well have been the case with the Cuban question, which Colombia desires to see dealt with and, we hope, resolved within the limits of the Inter-American conventions in force, with the participation of the regional organs best qualified to take specific measures whenever there is a threat to the peace and security of the hemisphere.

52.	The principle of non-intervention is common to the American Organization and the United Nations, and the peace and security of nations are dependent on the faithful observance of this principle. The principle must be strengthened and surrounded by essential safeguards so that no country can cross its fragile frontiers with impunity. In order.* to ensure that this international precept may not be violated with dangerous impunity, my country considers it essential that the appropriate organs of the system 'should define all the acts of intervention which constitute aggression.
53.	I am in a position to state that I do not know of any plan to harm Cuba; but I can also state that many countries of our hemisphere are agreed that they will not permit the Government of Cuba or any other Government to intervene directly or indirectly in the affairs of the other American States. We cannot accept a unilateral interpretation of the principle of non-intervention. International coexistence can be achieved only through mutual confidence and respect among peoples.
54.	The countries of America have resolved to carry out a true social revolution in order and freedom. We know that many archaic social and economic structures must be transformed and adapted to the needs and requirements of our peoples. We will eliminate poverty and wipe out ill-health and illiteracy without having to pay for these gains with the inestimable treasure of freedom. Our revolution is a democratic revolution, which respects human rights and is eminently American. We want to give the people concrete and positive plans, and we shall resist the attempts of demagogues and reactionaries to poison the spirit of our revolution and to turn it in the direction of a bitter and irreconcilable class struggle.
55.	To accomplish this urgent plan of economic and social development, the nations of American have committed themselves to the historic experiment in collective action, known as the "Alliance for Progress". President Kennedy, to whom Latin America owes a debt of gratitude, has been the chief architect of this new form of international co-operation which will make available to the peoples of this continent the wide benefits of progress and well-being. In order to give the men and women of America a better life in which the exploitation of poverty will be impossible, we are going to bring into action all the credit resources and technical machinery agreed upon at the Punta del Este Conference. Our decision to maintain democratic institutions in Americas been taken and is irrevocable.
56.	If it strengthens its unity and co-ordinates its action, Latin America encompassing twenty countries and a population of 200 million inhabitants will be in a position to give a new and decisive assurance to the cause of peace, by promoting peaceful settlements and making its weight felt in the balance of world affairs. Today, when mankind is organized in ^powerful blocs, the political atomization of the nations of a particular geographic area may reduce them to impotence or make them incapable of fulfilling the lofty purposes of the world Organization. Happily, that is not our position nor will it be in the future, because we are united both by common interests and by the overriding need for common defence.
57.	After assuring Mr. Slim once more of my country's satisfaction at his well-deserved election as President of the Assembly and congratulating Sierra Leone on its admission to membership in the World Organization, may I express once more Colombia1 s hope that the United Nations may in the next decade find adequate solutions to those questions which, As President Kennedy said [1013th meeting], will decide the fate of man for the next ten thousand years. 












===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
Mr. President, on behalf of Colombia and as Minister for Foreign Affairs I have pleasure in congratulating you on the honour which the world Organization has conferred upon you in electing you President of this Assembly. Because of your outstanding qualities, you are exceptionally well fitted to direct our debates at this grave juncture.
74.	I wish also to extend my warmest greeting to the other distinguished delegates and to thank them most sincerely for electing my country, by an almost unanimous vote, to one of the Vice-Presidencies of the General Assembly.
75.	The impressive spectacle of this august Assembly, in which outstanding personalities from every corner of the world and from every country are taking part, suggests that mankind, whether feeling itself to be powerful or puny, is Impelled to make open confession of its disquiet and to seek, in its perplexity, a solution that will alleviate the uncertainty which assails us all in these troublous times.
76.	Two cataclysmic wars resulted in the founding, first of the League of Nations and then of the United Nations.
77.	The purposes of this vast international effort could not have been better: the statements of principles, and the precepts of the Charter, constitute a volume of wisdom which is truly to be treasured.
78.	Despite these noble efforts, however, the international scene is not a bright one. After the Second World War, there was an almost instinctive banding together of most nations, to defend human freedom and democracy against the nazi-fascist ideology which the great leaders of that period felt to be the most harmful for the free and peaceful existence of peoples.
79.	In their eagerness, men usually believe that, once the Immediate difficulties are overcome, all problems have been solved. However, the antagonisms which caused the last great war and which were thought to have been eliminated by an agreement between the countries opposed to the nazi and fascist ideologies were later replaced by a violent clash between two new and even more radically conflicting groups of Ideas and interests: on the one hand a materialistic and atheistic, and on the other a spiritual, concept of man and the world. Under the materialistic concept, all human difficulties and aspirations can be reduced to economic terms; under the spiritual concept, while economic problems are not underrated, it is held that man has other nobler and more imperative interests, inasmuch as he was created by God and not by or for economics,
80.	This conflict of ideas has led to hatred between social classes and between peoples, to absorption of the human personality by omnipotent and tyrannical State, to the urge to subjugate other peoples and impose political domination upon them by force, and to the proclamation of a false democracy in which the minority dictates to the majority. Another result of the first-named ideology is the thirst to possess new territories, to govern great masses of men and subject them to the absolute sway and domination of an idol, temporarily represented by some man but actually embodied in a monstrous State.
81.	This dreadful panorama of slavery and denial of human dignity is perhaps the greatest political error that man has ever conceived or engaged in. Thank God that the spiritual forces in the opposite camp have so far been able to counterbalance that destructive force.
82.	But the world balance resulting from the titanic struggle between these two forces is not really a balance of peace and calm. As the Supreme Pontiff, Pope Pius XII, once said, what we have is "a peace of fear”. Neither nations nor individuals enjoy real peace, the peace which, according to our philosophy, lies in an ordered tranquillity. Without tranquillity there is no peace, even when there maybe apparent order; and without order, or with an order which is not governed by right, all there can possibly be is a false and precarious tranquillity, which is not peace.
83.	We must admit that the United Nations, despite the high purposes and wise principles enshrined in the Charter, has not been able to solve this problem of an ordered tranquillity. This is partly due, so far as the history and provisions of the Charter are concerned, to initial errors when that instrument was drafted and signed.
84.	In his magnificent speech [1125th meeting], the United States representative, Mr. Stevenson, made an encouraging evaluation of the United Nations. He recognized the existence of problems, difficulties and perils which we have not yet been able to solve or overcome; but on the credit side is the Organization's effective action to avert international conflicts, to end existing wars, and to strengthen peace by the application of law, together with the valuable help which the specialized agencies have given to the less developed countries.
85.	But Mr. Stevenson admits that, despite all the good which has been done by the United Nations, very gloomy prospects face the world, because there can be no certainty of peace while the arms race and nuclear tests for war purposes continue.
86.	I should like the United Nations to have greater powers of decision. If the General Assembly, or the Security Council, or the International Court of Justice, or a "Court of Safeguards" had adequate powers of decision, and if all States, from the smallest to the biggest and strongest, had decided or were to decide to submit to that supreme authority, the world would not be in that state of anxiety which has afflicted it for so many years.
87.	But when they discussed and finally agreed on the San Francisco Charter, five great Powers of that time established what has come to be known as the "veto", which gives any of those States the power to prevent the world Organization, through any of its bodies, from enforcing peace.
88.	At the risk of being tedious and repetitious, I would recall that Article 2, sub-paragraph 1, of the Charter states; "The Organization is based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all its Members". It might have been more correct to say "the juridical equality" of all its Members, the expression used by Mr. Stevenson in his speech. But whichever concept is adopted, the equality of States is considerably diminished by the decisive predominance of the "permanent members of the Security Council", which are popularly called "the great Powers" and which, not even in enforced unanimity but by the sole decision of one of them, can stultify any action by the Security Council to discharge its "primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security", as Article 24 of the Charter describes it. On the other hand, Article 2, sub-paragraph 7, provides that; "Nothing contained in the present Charter shall authorize the United Nations to intervene in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State or shall require the Members to submit such matters to settlement under the present Charter"; and this sub-paragraph, although it continues: "but this principle shall not prejudice the application of enforcement measures under Chapter VII", obviously leaves each State free to decide what matters are "essentially within" its "domestic jurisdiction".
89.	I am aware of the almost insuperable difficulty of finding a perfect formula which would give the United Nations all the necessary powers to impose peace and order while leaving the sovereignty of each State intact.
90.	For this reason I shall merely point out that, if we had wanted to safeguard peace effectively, it would have been necessary for States, without abandoning their sovereignty, to agree to submit their disputes, their armed power and their ambition to dominate, to an entity above the interests of any nation or group of nations.
91.	And while there was the drawback that the General Assembly and the Security Council were essentially political in nature, nonetheless with the establishment of the International Court of Justice, as a body dedicated to the study and exercise of the highest juridical disciplines, the Court could have been designated as the great arbiter and ultimate court of appeal competent to settle the problems of peace with impartiality and integrity, after receiving and hearing the parties which were in dispute or whose security was threatened.
92.	I know only too well that the Members of this great Assembly are thoroughly familiar with these problems and these difficulties. I also know that it may be useless and even out of place to raise these matters; but I wished to do so for two reasons. First, I take pride in the fact that Colombia, as early as 1945 and at the San Francisco Conference, opposed the establishment of the veto and urged the advisability of vesting the main power in the International Court of Justice. Secondly, in the present circumstances of the world it is a moral duty for anyone representing a nation to state his thoughts with complete frankness, however humble or ignorant of the subject at issue, as in the present case, he may be.
93.	Now that the two greatest war potentials in recorded history are arrayed against each other, we must try out every possible means of preventing the world situation from worsening. Either every country must impotently look on while the two colossi threaten each other, or they must join in seeking some means, some formula, to prevent disaster.
94.	Colombia, as a nation wholly law-abiding and peaceful in its way of living, has the right to propose, proclaim and urge solutions of this kind.
95.	We are deeply concerned that the United Nations should be preserved and its prestige increased; and we believe that its prestige will increase if we give it tools better and more effective than those which it has had so far, not to wage war but to maintain peace and safeguard the rule of law.
96.	With all the fieriness characteristic of a tropical people, the two major political parties in Colombia fought bloody civil wars in the nineteenth century, and after that there were bitter clashes between them. However, in 1957 and agreement was reached between these two great traditional movements which had fought with such violence and stubbornness.
97.	Under our Constitution, we have a presidential system in which the Chief of State is also Head of the Government, as in the United States. In accordance with a recent amendment to the Constitution, however, the President of the Republic has to form his Cabinet in such a way that it reflects, proportionately, the representation of the political parties. In this way, although we do not have a parliamentary system, any Government that is formed reflects the make-up of the Congress as constituted as a result of the free and honest democratic elections which are the rule in Colombia, as anyone, whether a Colombian or a foreigner, can testify. This system has yielded very good results; it led to the election of a liberal President for the four-year period 1958-1962, and subsequently to that of a conservative President for 1962-1966. Both were elected by an overwhelming majority of, and with complete agreement between, the two parties.
98.	This political system of government shared by the two major political groups in our country shows the Colombian people's determination to live in domestic peace. It is not surprising, therefore, that Colombia should also be- resolutely pacifist internationally.
99.	Moreover, as well-known journalists from Europe and America have found, Colombia is one of the States which have Instituted as perfect a constitutional control of legislation as possible.
100.	Under our Constitution, the three branches of public authority — legislative, executive and judicial — are independent of each other but work together to achieve the high purposes of the State. Despite this relative autonomy or "sovereignty", however, the Congress (although possessing legislative powers) and the Government yield to the Supreme Court of Justice when the latter hands down decisions on petitions, which may be submitted by any citizen, alleging the unconstitutional nature of laws.
101.	It is perhaps because of this attitude of Colombia that I have ventured to suggest that the United Nations might consider the possibility or finding new formulae for the revision of the Charter.
102.	I am of course aware of the drawback, under the Charter's Articles 108 and 109, that if one of the great Powers vetoes any relevant proposal the proposal will be blocked. But we should not despair. To make such and effort would show our longing for peace; otherwise, we should have to resign ourselves to keeping up the "cold war", with all the perils and evils which it entails and with the risk of seeing it become a real war, which would last but a short time and would result in the annihilation of us all.
103.	In connexion with the administration of Trust and Non-Self-Governing Territories, Colombia has maintained an attitude of constant support for United Nations action to eliminate colonial systems. Our position on these questions is in keeping with the traditions of our own independent life, and with our Government's policy. We believe in justice and in the need for perseverance by the Organization in the calm, balanced and objective implementation of principles laid down in Chapters XI to XIII of the Charter.
104.	Colombia favours the autonomy and independence of peoples and supports their right to self-determination. It does not wish, however, to offend or condemn friendly nations summoned, by the world Organization, to liberate territories under their administration. Nevertheless it assists in this action by the United Nations, in so far as these territories attain to a standard enabling them to govern themselves.
105.	If countries which are not tyrannical are asked and even required to free such of their Territories as can be self-governing, it is unjust to allow modern imperialism to turn ancient nations into new colonies.
106.	On this occasion, as in the past, Colombia is exceptionally pleased and happy to welcome to the United Nations the new Member States which the General Assembly has admitted upon the recommendation of the Security Council. These are now Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Rwanda and Burundi. They bring to the august precincts of our Organization the generous promise and impulse of peace-loving peoples, and represent continued reaffirmation of its universal character and the hope, shared by all men and women of good will, that the United Nations will continue to seek, with ever-increasing success, the achievement of its lofty purposes for the benefit of all mankind.
107.	The preservation of peace, the fulfilment of the juridical and political tasks of the United Nations, and the improvement of international co-operation through the Organization in the economic, health, cultural and scientific fields, are enthusiastically supported by Colombia and are explicitly stated as objectives of its Government's policy.
108.	Economic development, as an essential condition for the achievement or maintenance of social well-being, is an objective of paramount importance for the preservation of peace. Together with the other free American Governments, the Colombian Government is taking a full part in implementing the programmes, instituted under the regional system for the expediting of economic development and hence for the raising of levels of living. It has co-operated and will continue to co-operate sincerely and resolutely in the Economic Commission for Latin America, whose branch we hope, soon to see established in our country in accordance with the Commission's own decision.
109.	We also fully support the measures to promote economic development, recommended by the Economic and Social Council. These measures in themselves constitute a balanced and harmonious plan designed to meet the tremendous needs of the world in this field; we are, in fact, convinced that the reform of social structures, so as to improve the health, educational and housing conditions of the broad masses of the people, will contribute decisively to the creation of conditions favourable to the maintenance of peace.
110.	Colombia has gladly welcomed financial aid from the competent international organizations. Under its economic and social development plan, whereby operations have been planned with a view to the improvement of the country's economy, Colombia is actively co-operating so that the maximum benefit shall be obtained from international financial assistance received either from international organizations or on a bilateral basis.
111. Colombia is very pleased to tell the world, so generously represented here, that the development plans which we prepared and submitted to the International Committee of Experts not only met with the experts' approval but resulted in Colombia being chosen as a pilot country in the plan of the Alliance for Progress, and that the Bankers' Conference recently held in Paris likewise concerned itself exclusively with the Colombian plan in connexion with investments in our country.
112.	At the same time, in order that these cooperative efforts may not be blocked, Colombia contends that it is necessary to continue to adopt international measures calculated to improve the terms of trade of countries which export primary commodities. In this connexion, we have enthusiastically welcomed the results of the United Nations Coffee Conference, 1962, recently held in New York, which with the approval of the International Coffee Convention constitutes a first step forward and a satisfactory measure to protect the coffee-producing countries against further declines in prices and to raise prices gradually to the equitable levels which are essential for monetary stability and social tranquillity.
113.	The United Nations Coffee Conference was one of the most important economic events of our time. It was attended by both producer and consumer countries — within the producer group, by countries which are natural competitors; but an agreement was reached, to which, it is only fair to say, the Colombian delegation contributed very effectively. The world's largest producer is Brazil, and coffee is our principal product, with other Republics of the hemisphere following in order of production; it has therefore rightly been said that the world coffee plan is an expression of the solidarity of the American continent, and that competition can be replaced by co-operation.
114.	Colombia's foreign policy is guided by its traditional principle of good faith in the fulfilling of its obligations, including those which form its status as a loyal Member of the United Nations and of the Organization of American States. Within the framework of these obligations, we proclaim our unalterable will to struggle constantly in the defence of law, order, justice and freedom, as the present President of the Republic, Mr. Guillermo León Valencia, said when his Government took office fifty days ago.
115.	It is only natural therefore, that Colombia should practise in its foreign relations the principles which it sincerely professes and which are reflected in the letter and spirit of the United Nations Charter and in the rules of the American regional Organization. As a peace-loving nation, it has throughout its history demonstrated its lasting attachment to the ideals of justice, human solidarity and peaceful agreement in the international sphere.
116.	We advocate democracy and liberty for ourselves and for others. This political stand, which has become a part of Colombia's very being, explains and justifies our constant concern for the universal implementation of the Purposes and Principles of the United Nations, conceived by the peoples of the world as leading to the attainment of the supreme objectives of international peace and security. They constitute the ever-recurring "leit-motiv" of the Charter; they give expression to what the peoples insistently demanded at the end of the world conflagration which gave birth to our Organization; they are a mandate for its Members and represent the aspirations of all men of good will, everywhere in the world; and upon their application may depend the future of mankind.
117.	It is a noble and arduous task which the United Nations is performing in defence of these principles, in the achievement of these aspirations and in the discharge of this sacred mandate: Colombia has helped and will continue to help in the fulfilment of that task, to the best of its abilities, as it has been able to demonstrate at difficult junctures of struggle and sacrifice in the combating of aggression. With the moral authority which this confers, and in keeping with the principle of the equality of Members of the Organization — an equality which the Charter calls "sovereign" but which should rather be called "juridical" we consider it our duty to point out, in a friendly but unambiguous manner, the dangers which in our view beset the maintenance of international peace and security, a cause which all Member States have constantly to further and for which our Organization has to work effectively,
118.	Present events and situations of undeniable gravity seem, indeed, to indicate that we should reflect objectively upon the causes of the major tensions throughout the world. Colombia wishes to express the conviction, to which the vast majority of its people recently gave voice in a free and democratic election campaign, that the international turmoil of today Is not the result of spontaneous reactions alone. We cannot fail to note, in the bellicose atmosphere which surrounds and sustains the present malaise, contrived elements which do not reflect the freely expressed will of the peoples.
119.	We believe that justice and law, the two warders of peace, can be protected and reinforced only by truth. For this reason, all proceedings which imply subterfuge or deceit, deception or intentional distortion are inimical to peace. And just as the "cold war” is not peace and slavery cannot be presented as freedom, so we cannot accept that certain concepts such as "self-determination of peoples ”, "democracy", “peaceful coexistence” and "neutrality” should be identified with their opposites.
120.	We cannot accept, for example, a tranquillizing idea of the "self-determination of peoples" unless this comprises the necessary democratic means to enable the peoples themselves to express their true ideas and their true will. There can be no democracy or democratic processes without representative government set up through comprehensive suffrage, a plurality of parties, and responsible freedom in the dissemination of ideas.
121.	The right of each State to enjoy self-determination cannot include the right to renounce self-determination in favour of another Power or State which wishes to reduce it to slavery, especially if such renunciation is prejudicial to other members of the international community.
122.	The concept of non-intervention — a principle laid down in the Charter of the United Nations, and taken up and stressed by the Organization of American States in its own Charter — has also been distorted or set at naught, primarily through subterfuges whereby interventionist forces seek to lay hold upon Governments in order to subjugate their peoples, craftily avoiding a frontal attack so as to avoid bringing into play the machinery for collective security and for defence of the true principle of nonintervention. The events in Hungary can shed much light on these subtle interventionist practices, as will be seen from a careful study of the report of the United Nations Special Representative on the Question of Hungary, a question which is on the Assembly's agenda,
123.	Colombia has always upheld the principle of non-intervention, but for us this principle does not imply an attitude of indifference of tolerance towards those who violate it.
124.	Intervention must be understood to mean the abusive act or acts which one State undertakes in order to impose its authority upon another State. It is not an opinion or a decision or even collective action by the world body for the purpose of ensuring collective security or safeguarding the human rights proclaimed in the Charter. Intervention implies the commission of some kind of assault and it is inconceivable that the international community would be guilty of assault.
125.	It is quite natural that in attending this world gathering Colombia hopes that the boundary between truth and error may be clearly marked out, that a true order of ideas and a genuine sense of values may be restored, and that there may be no more false invoking of principles which a nihilistic philosophy seeks to rob of their high moral sense: order without justice, coexistence without freedom, social harmony through the class struggle, law used for the a posteriori sanctioning of abuse, free self- determination solely for the purpose of changing masters, non-intervention as a safeguard for those who have committed intervention, anti-colonialism for those who have shown their eagerness to colonize, pacifism behind which lurks aggression, neutrality for those who are already prepared to take sides and to become satellites. These are the props that support this scaffolding of co-existence without equity and peace without mercy which threatens us daily with annihilation simply through the unforeseen explosion of an atomic bomb. It would appear that man in our atomic age, having disintegrated matter after rejecting the soul, having freed the blind energy of the elements after shackling the restraining force of morality, still confides his illusion of life to the uncontrollable workings of an atheistic science and conscience, as though between the lowly entity of the atom and the supreme entity of the universe there was no such thing as the human soul; as though above man himself, above this august forum on which his hopes and fears are centred, above the heads of you great men of the earth, there was no Deity. It is in rising to contemplate Him or bowing to invoke Him that, in the view of my Christian country, the fundamental road to salvation lies.


===== Session 18 - 1963 =====
Colombia, and the delegation which represents it, are particularly gratified by your election as President of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We feel proud that our proceedings will be directed by a son of Venezuela, a country with which, needless to say, we have fostered a brotherly friendship rooted in the past and in our common devotion to our founder and liberator, Simón Bolívar, which with the passage of time will grow ever stronger and will inevitably ensure the prosperity of two sister peoples in a future that will, we know, be a glorious one. Mr. President, please accept our Government's warmest congratulations.
115.	On behalf of my Government, I should also like to offer a cordial greeting to the representatives of the countries of the world seated here. I hope that they will convey to their respective Governments, the admiring tribute which Colombia pays to all their peoples and our good wishes for their progress and happiness.
116.	Despite the gloomy predictions made my many, the world Organization is today stronger and more self-confident. It may be said that, now that the first stages are past, it has got strongly under way and there is daily less possibility of its collapse or attenuation. Its influence on relations between peoples is undeniable. The admission of newly independent countries has injected new blood in its veins. Its existence today is protected by the affection of all nations which place their trust in it as vital to their own survival and which, above all, believe in the immortal principles set forth in its Charter and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. A body founded upon so lofty a doctrine, upon such high philosophical principles, can scarcely die. If that should happen, in the age in which we live, mankind itself, or at least its culture and civilization developed over thousands of years, would surely die with it.
117.	Those who lack confidence in the Organization's work do not fully appreciate the magnitude of its achievements. It has been in existence for eighteen years, and already the percentage of mankind not represented here, not claiming its rights, achieving its aspirations and asserting its interests in a profound feeling of equality, is very small. The gravest crises of international politics, many of which could plunge us into a new world conflagration, have here been resolved. Technical assistance; economic aid; contributions to the spiritual development of peoples; exchanges of ideas between the leaders of the International community —all this has been of the greatest benefit to this generation and has brought to the world such progress as was never dreamt of in the past. Therefore we must feel gratified and optimistic. But it would be unjust not to pay a well-deserved tribute to those who have directed the administrative work of this Organization; to the members of the Secretariat at all times, and in particular, with special gratitude, to our distinguished Secretary-General, U Thant, whose actions have fully justified the confidence placed in him by the Assembly when it appointed him to a position of such grave responsibility.
118.	Yet the achievements of the world Organization thus far offer it no release from the challenge it faces daily in the enormous tasks which lie before it. There is more, much more, and every day there will be still more, to do than has already been done. In the evolution of man, throughout his stormy history, more has been achieved, and is still being achieved, by dint of a gigantic struggle against the most adverse circumstances. The important thing, however, is to have shown that there exists the will to overcome any obstacles and the moral and intellectual capacity to succeed. We must, of course, consider what tools we have at hand for the tasks of the future and must determine the defects in our Organization in order to correct them. Steps have been taken in that direction and we must persevere with them, despite the difficulties facing us in this vital task.
119.	There is perhaps no Member State which does not consider a reform of the United Nations Charter desirable or necessary. Some may be undecided as to the timing, but the fact is that there are points of substance which should be amended and others which, although procedural, are equally important and therefore should also be amended. Even at San Francisco, for instance, several of the countries which helped to found the United Nations, including Colombia, had comments to make on the privileged power of veto granted to the victorious Powers —that is, to the five permanent members of the Security Council. The misgivings they expressed at that time have been confirmed many times over. Some day, the General Assembly will have to abolish this system, which is contrary to the most elementary principles of juridical equality and international democracy. We ourselves realize, however, that this would not be possible while we live in such an atmosphere of distrust and tension as has filled our lungs for over a decade, all through this period of cold war. We realize, too that in this environment of mutual fear and mutual mistrust the United Nations, without the veto system, might many times have begun to disintegrate. The desire now is that this atmosphere may be lightened, that in the future it may be more propitious to a judicial reform, that mistrust may be dispelled, and that we may reach a profitable agreement on this question.
120.	There is one amendment, however, which should not give rise to any major controversy and which is necessary from every standpoint. My delegation wishes here and now to support the recommendation made by both the Security Council and the Committee on Arrangements for a Conference for the Purpose of Reviewing the Charter that the number of seats in the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council should be increased, in order to give adequate representation on those bodies to all geographical regions. In our opinion, this reform should be considered and, we hope, approved at this session, in accordance with the terms of Article 108 of the Charter. My delegation hopes, that, If we confine ourselves to the simple goal of adjusting the composition of those organs to constant growth of the Organization, those Members which have shown reluctance, not because of the substance of the reform but on purely circumstantial grounds, will set aside their reasons in a spirit of understanding and join in with a will to settle a problem that cannot be postponed without an inexcusable lack of fairness to the African States, which constitute a very large proportion of this Assembly.
121.	Colombia gladly signed the recent Moscow Treaty banning nuclear weapon tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water [see A/5488], Humanity, with some exceptions which can be explained but not excused, greeted this long desired and hard-won achievement with delight. The statesmen who concluded it were united in declaring that this agreement is, or could be, but the beginning of other more important steps to end international tension and the so-called cold war. The world trusts that this maybe so. Those in whose hands the destiny of the human race lies will bear a grave responsibility before history if they fail now and betray this anguished and earnest hope. However, the circumstances under which this agreement was signed, the statements in which it was announced to the world at large and the original moves which led to its preparation, all encourage optimism. May it not prove illusory!
122.	After tremendous efforts had been made by the United Nations, and by the Eighteen-Nation Committee which met at Geneva to consider general and complete disarmament, for the cessation of nuclear weapon tests; after humanity had been stricken with terror by the accumulation of the weapons of annihilation in the arsenals of the Powers and exposed to the lethal effects of radio-active pollution of the atmosphere and to the aggressiveness which in recent years has characterized relations between the socialist and capitalist worlds, there came a voice, the voice of the leader of the most powerful group in the history of man, President Kennedy, calling eloquently and solemnly for peace in one of the most important documents of recent years —the speech given at American University, Washington, on 10 June 1963. There, he announced the agreement with the Head of the Soviet Government, Mr. Khrushchev, and the Head of the United Kingdom Government, Mr. Macmillan, for the initiation of high-level talks in Moscow with a view to producing this Treaty. The talks later came to a successful conclusion. The significance, the transcendent importance of the agreement flows from that historic message, which at the time was probably not recognized as having the import which we now perceive and acclaim.
123.	We are trying to achieve peace, to consolidate peace, to preserve peace, and to make peace fruitful. The Moscow Treaty, which offers such hopeful prospects for this great endeavour, must in the world of today lead to demonstration of rapprochement and understanding which will for ever abolish mistrust, soften the harsh language of war, and replace fears and misgivings by security and confidence. To achieve this we must start, as President Kennedy said, by reviewing our positions, by looking into our consciences to see whether we, who have enrolled on one side against the other, are really keepers of the truth or whether we may be to some extent swayed by error. We have to clear our minds; in short, we have to seek and find a true understanding. If we can do that, all the happiness that we desire for mankind will one day be possible.
124.	But if that is to be, we cannot be satisfied merely with peaceful coexistence. Life in a disarmed world will require not only coexistence, but genuine living together. Peaceful coexistence, as it has been understood and practised, has meant an armed peace, violence in word and deed, and underground warfare. As long as we think that only our own systems of government and ways of life are good and others evil, there will always be a desire on both sides to destroy what is considered bad. The communist leaders loathe capitalism; they see in it the root of all human afflictions, of slavery, of the keeping of great masses of people in despair and ignorance, and they want a different life, modelled on their systems and their philosophy. Tor many in the West, on the other hand, communism is something ominous, reprobate, and profoundly disturbing —the blind force of materialism challenging the forces of the spirit. If the two sectors of humanity continue in these entrenched positions, annihilation will one day be inevitable. What we vitally need is a brainwashing, a review of such attitudes, a quest for their replacement, in the minds of political and cultural leaders all over the world, by a sober and analytical outlook. Peaceful coexistence among nations must be transformed into harmonious and constructive living together.
125.	Within the two systems —which some people regard as irreconcilable— there are, we know, powerful trends distorting their essential patterns and driving them closer together. I refer to the spread of some forms of socialism in the capitalist countries and the unquenchable thirst for freedom in the communist countries. This is an indisputable fact in the world of today. In each camp there are fanatics and reactionaries who strive in vain to arrest those trends. Why not, then, take from the two systems whatever is best suited to the needs of contemporary society and to man's spiritual being?
126.	There are many difficulties in the way, however. Marxist orthodoxy considers "revisionism" —that is to say, the mere possibility that its own leaders might undertake a review of its doctrine— as the greatest threat-to the future of communism in the world. Errors of procedure can be, and are, accepted by the communist leaders, but errors of basic principle, never. Any public, or even private, debate on Marxist philosophy is impossible in the so-called socialist countries, and anyone who disagrees with the communist hierarchy, whose duty it is to explain and interpret that philosophy, or who even ventures to suggest some modification or improvement, stands condemned by the whole system. There have been many cases of persons imprisoned, exiled or executed simply because they spoke the truth as they saw It. Something similar occurs in the Western camps, though with less rigour, severity or cruelty. In some Western countries, intellectual freedom and the expression of certain ideas are even now curtailed, and anti-communist propaganda is often laced with exaggerations or misrepresentations that are not easily dispelled or refuted. History has shown that totalitarianism of the right is as ruthless as communism in its repressive methods.
127.	Nevertheless, fact and truth are Inexorably coming to light. The emergence of the masses into community life, the growing needs of great aggregations of people, and the obligation to satisfy those needs, have led to rapid advances by the State and to ever-increasing subordination of purely private or group interests to the overriding public interest. Thus the "gendarme" State has become the welfare State; untrammelled freedom has given way to intervention in private affairs and finally to socialism, which has gradually prevailed in the constitutional reforms of many States now called democratic. Probably no one in the non-socialist countries could now oppose what used to be the banner of communist parties, namely, the need to end the exploitation of man by man, to give everyone a fair and decent share of the national income, to extend wealth to areas which had never known it hitherto, to do away with privilege, and to consider vain any democratic system which has not eliminated inequalities due to economic chance and in which wealth confers power, the workers are not protected from oppression of every kind, and human beings cannot assert their rights and their demands for a life of endeavour without heart-break.
128.	While this is taking place in the free world, however, the yearning for freedom is quietly spreading in the communist countries. The tremendous errors of communism, and the fact that they could not be rectified when they should have been, could not but open the eyes of thousands of men and women who, after all, are not sheep incapable of realizing their disastrous plight. Those who are shut away behind the Berlin wall, men who have lived under the blind rule of freedom enchained, understand that there can be no decent, happy society unless the right of dissent, the right to criticize and even depose the rulers, the right to express ideas openly and to defend them without the slightest fear for personal safety, are guaranteed.
129.	That force which wells up from the depths of the being will one day have to find expression, before it erupts and sweeps away the orthodox leaders of communism, the enemies of reform; people with open minds must emerge to channel that force, to soften its impact, to open sealed doors, to let in currents from outside. Little by little the Berlin wall, that symbol of a closed society, will crumble. Just as in the democratic world today crude individualism has been buried and replaced by new notions of society, so in the communist world the aspirations of the masses for economic betterment, national independence, and material and intellectual freedom cannot be suppressed Indefinitely, much less transformed into conscious acquiescence.
130.	At this session, as at previous ones, the most important debates of the General Assembly will be on disarmament, which is now being discussed with renewed optimism. If, as the world believes and hopes, the great Powers are sincere in their desire to modify their stand on international problems, this is the time and place to prove it. The efforts made by the United Nations, both in its ordinary committees and at the Geneva Conference, have succeeded to a certain degree in reducing the great differences between the draft treaties for general and complete disarmament in a peaceful world, submitted by the United States and the Soviet Union. Our delegation will put forward its views on the current situation in the appropriate Committee, and for the moment I would simply express our ardent desire that substantial progress may be achieved this year as a consequence of the Moscow agreement. The world cannot now or ever feel confident or at ease, so long as huge arsenals are being continually built up and refined. Disarmament is a complex process, because it must take into account the defence requirements of States; and in the planning of the various stages and phases of disarmament, fear and mistrust can open up unbridgeable gulfs. But if there Is a determination to achieve it some day, there will be no difficulties that human ingenuity cannot overcome in a manner satisfactory to all.
131.	However, the great Powers, which manufacture arms, supply them to their allies, and store them in arsenals of their own already full to overflowing, can and must make a start now in cutting back this ominous output, or at least they should stop flooding the world with such dreadful destructive power. What need of arms have the developing countries? What they do need, urgently, is machinery and equipment, ploughs and tools, means of transport. To acquire all those things with the resources at their disposal is practically impossible; yet it is relatively easy to obtain arms because of ample stocks and over-production, and because they often grow obsolete in their vast storage depots. Why cannot the great Powers resolve, by agreement among themselves, to suspend deliveries of arms and all military aid, and to make them available only for defensive action in cases of flagrant aggression?
132.	Arms deliveries to countries that are not at war with their neighbours, and are not even threatened in any way, often serve merely to keep undesirable Governments In power against the will of the people. This has happened in the past and it is happening now. Latin America has experienced such an unwarranted state of affairs time and again. This means that arms manufactured in good faith for the defence of world freedom have many times been used to suppress freedom, to subjugate and victimize peoples. There are more powerful and convincing weapons which Governments can use to retain power —their achievements in the social field, and efficient and disinterested service to the governed. Of course, there are legitimate, democratic and progressive Governments which yet have to combat forces of disorder and which undoubtedly must be given the policing instruments they need to protect their Institutions; but that does not mean that they need to have a formidable war machine, ready to go into action at the slightest sign of dissent. It should be a vital concern of the great Powers —and a very potent factor In safeguarding peace— to exercise care in the distribution of arms, to scrutinize most carefully every situation where change Is sought through the use of arms, and to be certain that the arms supplied will never be used to satisfy a gross lust for domination and against unarmed masses of people.
133.	A very important part of the disarmament problem is the question of the denuclearization of various geographical regions. The General Assembly has already taken such action with regard to the continent of Africa, and since last year the United Nations has been studying the Brazilian proposal, later supported by Bolivia, Chile and Ecuador, that Latin America should also be declared a denuclearized zone. Since the Brazilian proposal was submitted, the Presidents of Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador and Mexico, in a letter to the other Heads of State of the continent, have invited them to conclude a treaty to ban nuclear weapons in Latin America. The matter will be considered at the current session and will no doubt receive the greatest attention and consideration by delegations.
134.	Without prejudice to my delegation's right to express its views in greater detail at the appropriate; time, I should like to say briefly, in anticipation, what the position of my Government is on the subject.
135.	First of all, my Government thinks that the lofty humanitarian spirit which prompted these proposals should be stressed and applauded. My Government agrees that the adoption of defence measures and the reduction of the threat of nuclear weapons is the most pressing need of the world today.
136.	There are two aspects of this question to be considered: first, the General Assembly's wish to recognize Latin America as a denuclearized zone and, consequently, its recommendation to the Latin American nations to reach an agreement on that point; secondly, the drafting of the treaty itself which, as the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs said here, is the objective of the statement by the five Heads of State already mentioned.
137.	Inasmuch as peace is today an indivisible concept linking all the peoples of the international community, it is most logical that declarations of this kind should be conceived and brought forth in the United Nations. It would be desirable, however, to conclude an agreement covering all regions of the globe, since the use of nuclear weapons in one region would inevitably affect the whole face of the world, and it would be even more desirable that it should be accepted by the nuclear Powers themselves.
138.	As regards the drafting of a treaty between the Latin American nations, my Government considers that the general policies of our continent should reflect not only Latin American feelings, but also a common political purpose. These policies have not been devised in isolation, but are based on legal precepts binding also upon the United States of America —as, for example, those of the Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance signed at Rio de Janeiro. It would not be possible, therefore, to promote a continental defence policy or to conclude new agreements on the subject without the participation of all States solemnly bound by this defensive alliance. It would be curious, to say the least, and perhaps futile to boot, for the Latin American nations to enter into an agreement in the absence of the one country which is non-Latin but which alone possesses the object of the proposed ban —nuclear weapons.
139.	As Colombia has been a member of the Economic and Social Council since 1962, it has had a special opportunity to participate in United Nations economic development activities. Our desire to play our part in the Council is evidence of the importance my Government attaches to the urgency of improving the deplorable conditions of great masses of humanity in our continent and of ensuring that all countries attain economic levels now enjoyed by only a few. As has already been said here, the economic advancement of the underdeveloped areas is now the primary objective of the United Nations, so that the most glaring and serious factor of unrest in the world, human despair, may be eliminated. Without accelerated economic advancement in those areas it would be very difficult, and indeed almost impossible, to ensure peace. Despite the great effort being made to find solutions to the formidable economic problems of the day, it must be acknowledged that thus far the outlook is discouraging. In spite of so many expert groups, so many agencies for economic co-operation, such splendid advances in science and technology, so many studies and surveys, such mountains of documentation on development, the world economic situation has not improved, because the gap between the wealthy countries and the countries with low per capita incomes, instead of narrowing, has been widening year after year. Unless the developed countries resolve to contribute decisively, and with a high sense of solidarity, to solutions capable of immediate application, all the theoretical plans we make here will be of no avail.
140.	Among the most significant methods devised by the world Organization in its efforts to achieve economic equilibrium, there are two to which my Government has wished to devote preferential attention: one is the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which is to be held in Geneva in the spring of 1964, and the other is that concerned with the promotion of industrialization. We have no hesitation in asserting that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development must, and can, be the most important international event of this decade. The whole world already realizes that it is essential that a "new international trade and development policy", as is stated in resolution 963 (XXXVI) unanimously approved by the Economic and Social Council, should be adopted and accepted by all nations. A revolution in this field is an imperative necessity of the times. The developing countries can no longer submit to the tremendous injustice brought about by the progressive deterioration of their terms of trade. The low incomes of the developing countries have delayed the implementation of their programmes, and international financial aid, when it does materialize, is not even sufficient to make up for the heavy losses which that deterioration constantly entails. The conditions of international trade must undergo a fundamental change and the time has come for the industrialized countries that have achieved a high degree of development to realize that the economic imbalance between different countries is the outstanding problem of the hour and that its prolongation will entail the most serious dangers for them too. Colombia hopes that the Conference on Trade and Development will lay solid foundations for a new relationship between the nations, for a system of true, constructive, creative and fruitful international cooperation, which will indubitably involve great sacrifices for some but will in the final analysis be of tremendous benefit to all.
141.	It must also be admitted that the imperative need of the developing countries for industrialization has not aroused an adequate response in the United Nations. Some countries, including Colombia, have consistently advocated the establishment of a specialized agency for industrial development, but that project has not found support among many delegations. Nevertheless, the Advisory Committee of Experts established pursuant to Economic and Social Council resolution 873 (XXXIII) has proposed the creation of a United Nations Industrial Development Agency, an idea which has reconciled the conflicting points of view. We consider that this proposal represents a satisfactory compromise and we are therefore prepared to support it. It is undeniable that the United Nations will have to intensify its activities in the field of industrialization, as it has already done, for example, in the fields of education, agriculture and health.
142.	It is obvious, too, that if the objectives proclaimed in the resolutions on the United Nations Development Decade are to be attained, new and bold measures will be required to increase the capital available for the development programmes of the low-income countries. For that reason, my delegation considers that there is an urgent need for the establishment of a United Nations Capital Development Fund, or at least, as a compromise measure, for an immediate increase in the resources of the Special Fund, in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee concerned. In this connexion we welcome the increase in the capital of the International Development Association which according to the announcement made yesterday in Washington by the Chairman of the Association, has just been decided upon.
143.	Colombia has constantly and emphatically proclaimed its anti-colonialist position and it is therefore glad to see the great work the United Nations is carrying out in this field. We could hardly fail to recall that our own independence was described as premature by leading statesmen at that time and it may be that this view is still held despite our century and a half of self-government and our consistent adherence to apolitical system with profound philosophical roots. Consequently, we do not believe that lack of preparation of a people for independence can be a valid argument for delaying the recognition of their intrinsic right to manage their own affairs. Nor do we accept the theory that possessions in distant continents, having ethnically distinct populations, and which are held under no legal title save the right of occupation or of conquest —the latter often accompanied by bloodshed— can be deemed to form an integral part of a territory for purposes of nationality and submission to sovereign authority. We consider that the United Nations Declaration on the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples, which Colombia supported wholeheartedly, in full awareness of its purposes and its scope, should be applied immediately and unconditionally. In our own continent we have problems of this type which we trust will be satisfactorily settled in the near future. It is accordingly our hope that all peoples may have complete freedom to choose their own leaders and the type of government that suits them best. We consider it inadmissible for any other State to attempt for any reason whatsoever to exercise control over peoples and territories that have just become independent, and that only the United Nations could be justified in intervening in certain countries in order to restore law and order when circumstances clearly make this imperative. We reject so-called neocolonialism, that is to say, the enforcement on ideological grounds of certain ways of life or systems of government against or in the absence of the clearly expressed will of the people. In our view, colonialism imposed for economic purposes is just as odious as colonialism imposed for purely political reasons.
144.	We must also express our satisfaction that the widespread efforts being made to put an end once and for all to the abominable practice of racial discrimination are making appreciable headway, and it is only fitting to acknowledge the determination with which the United States Government has confronted this problem in order to bring the realities of present-day life in its country into line with the concepts that shaped its emergence as an egalitarian State, with the precepts of such great American statesmen as Jefferson and Lincoln and with its status as a leader in the struggle now being waged for freedom.
145.	We could never tolerate acts of State which by the use of force impose the will of minorities, purely on account of the colour of their skin, thereby denying the inalienable rights of their fellow-men whom they deem to be inferior. We have never accepted such discrimination and we respect all human beings whatever their colour or origin. Nor could we conceal our disapproval of the acts of discrimination and religious persecution which the world is witnessing in an important region of Asia. All these are forms of backwardness, of spiritual blindness and of barbarity which are inconsistent with either cultural enlightenment or scientific progress. My country hopes that the United Nations will take vigorous action to condemn such outbreaks and to suggest effective remedies at the appropriate time.
146.	The public conscience appears to be profoundly aware of the need for substantial changes in the political, economic and social structure of the Latin American nations. In recent years it has become almost a commonplace for statesmen and commentators in our continent to invoke revolution as the sole means of achieving the level of development that our peoples are urgently demanding. The only point on which there has been disagreement is the procedure to be followed. Can the desired objectives be attained within a reasonable time by a process of gradual evolution, or would it be necessary, at least in certain places, suddenly to cast aside all the long-established forms of servitude that have been perpetuated in a feudal type of organization? The efforts to improve the situation made by the Governments and peoples of Latin America, with international assistance, cannot be overlooked. Unfortunately, however, the problems are of such magnitude that the means available always fall short of the minimum requirements. Yet there is no doubt that the ills of our continent cannot be cured by economic means alone, not even with outside assistance however great that assistance may be —and it is far from being so. Its great afflictions can, in the last analysis, be remedied with international assistance, but thanks also to the will, the resolution, the persevering efforts and the mutual co-operation of the Latin American peoples themselves.
147.	In any event, we find ourselves at the outset of a process of transformation which is already characterized by certain distinct features. The poorer classes, the professional men, the workers, the peasants, the students and the middle classes all suffer from the effects of economic backwardness, and in their precarious political situation are resolutely trying, either overtly or covertly, to find a way out of their sad plight. That way, however, will assuredly not be the one that led to such tragic consequences in the Caribbean area when the victorious revolution betrayed its initial ideals. Indeed, the chorus of admiration and enthusiasm which the achievements of the Cuban rebels excited in our countries, and the hatred and resentment that the tyrannical practices aroused among our masses could have given rise to movements designed to bring about through a fundamental change the improvements which had been vainly awaited for so many years. It is certain, however, that the initial admiration and enthusiasm gave way first to mistrust, and then to disapproval and utter rejection, when it was seen how that revolution was diverted towards the brutal suppression of freedom and the introduction of bloodthirsty totalitarian methods. Faced with the danger or prospect of falling a prey to the same treatment, the peoples of Latin America reacted vigorously and will continue to do so. As the Foreign Minister of Brazil stated in this Hall, freedom is the one thing on which we cannot compromise. Any attempt to curtail freedom by imposing a single-party system or the practices of contemporary Marxism is utterly futile. Those who advocate such a course, that is to say, the members of the Communist parties of our hemisphere, represent only tiny minorities in our countries and have never carried any appreciable weight in elections, as has been made evident even in the most purely liberal circles.
148.	It is even less likely that they will achieve their aims by resorting to the criminal acts of terrorist bands, whether acting on their own account or supported and directed from outside. Apart from the destruction, death, cruelty and horror brought about by their sinister activities, they are doomed to total failure. Such at least is the position in my country and I think it is the same in other Latin American countries. As far as Colombia is concerned, I can state that their activities do not dismay us and that our Government and people are determined to preserve their freedom, democratic traditions, legality and peace.
149.	On the other hand, we realize that the ancient moulds must be broken and that is why reforms are under way in some of our countries. We welcome the step taken by Costa Rica in proposing the study of agrarian reform as an item on the agenda of the General Assembly. Very few people would today dispute the fact that the misery and poverty afflicting large sections of humanity in various parts of our continent are the result of the antiquated and inadequate agrarian structure and the existence of a system of land tenure tantamount to serfdom, with its unexploited latifundia and unproductive smallholdings.
150.	There is an encouraging similarity in the way the Latin American Governments assess the problems of their peoples and the measures required to solve them successfully. This is the task on which they are concentrating. They are also counting on the advantages to be derived from a great hemispheric enterprise, which we are convinced will not fail although its initial stages have been beset by difficulties. All this, however, is dependent on the preservation of the democratic character with which the Inter-American system was originally conceived and which it must retain. There is an urgent need, too, for vigorous and united efforts to be made to prevent the recurrence of the coups d'état, which openly conflict with that system and are a source of alarm and shame to our region,
151.	Colombia comes to these meetings imbued with the same spirit of brotherhood that has always inspired it in this world forum. I do not think that I need recapitulate the principles of international law which have shaped its juridical traditions. Long before the noble doctrine enshrined in the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was formulated, Colombia had brought its international conduct into line with these principles. Today we restate those principles, in the conviction that if the spirit of optimism and good fortune that has marked the opening of this eighteenth session should spread to the rest of the world, spurred on by the stimulating words of Mr. Kennedy, the President of the United States, and of Mr. Gromyko, the Foreign Minister of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and if man's mentality should change to the extent of making him place the interests of his own species above the lesser interests of each nation, that would do more to preserve peace on this earth in the years to come than would the destruction of the atomic arsenals.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
1.	It is my duty, on behalf of Colombia, to greet the President and all the representatives of the countries present here and to express our satisfaction that, for the first time, a citizen of Africa is presiding over this world Assembly. In presenting the world with a fertile crop of new States, Africa is suffering the convulsions and pain attendant upon any political transformation, but the intellectual maturity of its men, such as the one now presiding over these meetings, is sufficient proof of its ability to determine its own future and to serve its apprenticeship in the cause of freedom.
2.	I should also like to take this opportunity to express our great satisfaction at the admission of three new Members to the United Nations: the States of Malawi, Malta and Zambia. On behalf of Colombia, I extend to them the warmest of welcomes. Furthermore, I wish to offer them the fullest and most friendly and fraternal co-operation of the Colombian delegation to this Assembly and to express our conviction that their contribution to the great task before us will undoubtedly be of incalculable benefit. The excellent speeches that we have heard from the lips of their distinguished representatives and the sound opinions that they have given on the most intricate problems have already justified this confidence.
3.	Day by day we are drawing nearer to the ideal outlined by the United Nations from its very inception, even before San Francisco, namely, that only when every inhabitant and every corner of the planet is adequately represented here will it be an effective force in the community of nations.
4.	My speech has but one theme, for there is no need to give voice once again to the principles and purposes of the United Nations, especially as I represent a people which, when it first came into being, adopted those principles and purposes and followed them in the drafting of its constitution and in its international relations. Colombia has never disturbed the peace of other countries or committed aggression or been lacking in justice; it has always striven to settle its differences amicably, has encouraged friendly relations with other countries, has honoured its treaties and has championed human rights and fundamental freedoms on the basis of strict equality. Moreover, on previous occasions my country's representatives have stated those principles and have given a clear picture of Colombia's position regarding the political problems before the United Nations.
5.	My theme, my one theme, derives its inspiration from Article 1 (3) of the Charter, in which the United Nations has undertaken "to achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character ...".
6.	There is a great disequilibrium, an enormous inequality among the nations belonging to the United Nations. There are great differences in the degrees of power: in contrast with the countries whose monstrous weapons have enormous destructive power, the small countries are unable to defend themselves. In contrast with countries in which an advanced technology facilitates and increases production, we find countries that are not strong enough to progress beyond the initial stages of development; in contrast with the high level of education that encourages research, we find countries where the level is so low that outside ideas can be assimilated only with difficulty; in contrast with enormous progress — if indeed progress can be measured — we find backwardness. But this is not the disequilibrium that affects the harmony of nations, since the achievements of Some are occasionally communicated to and shared with the others and since any progress is admirable.
7.	Following the devastation caused by the last war among the peoples of the world, we have witnessed an astounding miracle. From the ruins and ashes industrial power has risen anew and privation has given way to well-being and plenty. The disequilibrium that threatens the peace of the world is economic and social; it lies in the difference in levels of living and in the unequal distribution of wealth. A parallel could be drawn between the socio-economic problems in the domestic affairs of nations and the same kind of problem in international relations.
8.	Many American countries are criticized for the inequitable distribution of the national income, for when some people — the minority — receive a great deal, the others — the majority — receive hardly anything at all. This is a fact. But the same thing happens at the international level: of the great volume of what might be called total income, the greater part goes to the developed countries, which are in the minority, and the smaller part to the developing and under-developed countries, which are in the majority. This means that the level of living in the developed countries is high and their people have a high purchasing power, whereas the level of living in the other countries is low and the purchasing power of their people is minimal.
9.	The labour of the under-developed and less- developed countries, however, provides food for the developed countries and supplies them with raw materials which, when processed industrially, are of greater value than they were on the international market and the increase in value is to the almost exclusive benefit of the developed countries. Thus some countries labour to earn a little and at the same time to enable others to earn much more.
10.	As is well known, the fundamental cause of this disequilibrium is the tendency of the demand for industrial products to increase more rapidly than the demand for agricultural products as national income increases.
11.	The theory of surplus-value, ennobled by the concept of the human value of labour, inseparable from man himself and from human dignity, served to correct an evident injustice in the domestic socio-economic field, by attaching greater value to labour than that recognized by liberal economic theory and that accorded to it under the capitalist system in its first stages.
12.	In the international field, however, injustice remains. The industrialized countries, which possess the most producer goods, are the ones that profit by the surplus-value, while the labour of the underdeveloped or developing countries is not fairly paid and has no share in the increased value which the commodities it has produced acquire when they have been processed.
13.	To put the problem in another way, it might be said that the countries which produce primary commodities such as foodstuffs and minerals do not receive a just return for their work, while the industrialized countries, which buy those commodities, receive more than they ought to receive in the context of a wide and generous concept of universal human solidarity. It is these countries, too, that grow wealthy by transforming, to an excessive degree, personal labour into accumulated labour.
14.	When people speak of the unfavourable position of those who devote themselves to agriculture in our countries and compare what they receive with the earnings of those engaged in city and urban pursuits— industry, the stock exchange, banking, transport, speculation and so forth — they say that rural life means poverty and backwardness. This dictum discourages people from engaging in agricultural activity and there is a great deal of truth in it, as is shown by the flight from the countryside and the resulting huge growth of the cities.
15.	Applying the dictum to the international field, it might be said that an economy based on the production of primary commodities means poverty and backwardness, with the additional disadvantage that the disequilibrium that has always existed, instead of diminishing, becomes more acute. Countries are now relatively richer or poorer than they were before. Contact with one another and more active trade have raised or lowered their level of living and widened the economic gap. Thus international trade has an unfavourable effect upon the economy of the weak countries. That is why, as a student of these problems has pointed out, it has been possible to organize mass production from a technical point of view but not to organize mass consumption from an economic point of view and therefore, he adds, the law of supply and demand is reflected in international prices. In other words, what was successfully countered in the private sector through the progress of social ideas promulgated by the labour movement and by the Church and thanks to trade-unionism, has reappeared at the international level.
16.	All this was the substance of the proceedings at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development which was held at Geneva early in 1964 upon the initiative of our Organization and in which countries of very different status met together for the first time to deal with these problems. This thesis of world disequilibrium, this disturbing evidence of the conflict that exists between some countries and others, was presented there in all its stark reality.
17.	As a first solution was suggested the idea of improving the support prices for primary products with a view to reducing and eventually eliminating, if possible, the disparity between the terms of trade of the developed and of the primary-producing countries.
18.	The problem is still before us. At the present time, for example, the International Coffee Agreement has given rise to a struggle between producers and consumers, that is between under-developed and developing countries on the one hand and industrialized countries on the other. The law of supply and demand is once more in operation to an extent that is neither rational nor just and the producing countries are once more asking that their labour, which is their livelihood, should not be subject to the fluctuation of prices imposed by the consumer countries.
19.	I think that in an under-nourished world, physically capable of absorbing all the foodstuffs that can be produced, over-production should not debase prices because of some misunderstood law of supply and demand but should give rise to a broader and more efficient distribution. Remunerative prices for all primary products could easily be maintained in order to encourage expansion and policy could be directed towards better distribution. The FAO should push their programmes more in that direction.
20.	The Geneva Conference produced specific recommendations for the establishment of a new subsidiary organ of the General Assembly for the permanent study of the problems of international trade in the light of economic development. Since the hopes of the peoples of the world for economic well-being are linked to the establishment of this body and since the relevant recommendations were unanimously adopted, the General Assembly should be able to overcome any obstacle caused by the special circumstances in which the United Nations now finds itself and should proceed to establish this body without any delay, for which there would be no justification. Colombia is confident that all Members of the United Nations will help in this vital measure, by setting aside differences on procedural matters, so that this measure can be approved before the Christmas recess in accordance with the agreements that have enabled the Assembly to function since 1 December.
21.	The Geneva Conference also saw the emergence of a defensive group: the Group of Seventy-Seven. This Group constitutes a union of the weaker countries, a unified movement to counter disequilibrium. It does not present a hostile face but takes, a stand against injustice.
22.	I know that the United Nations is concerned with these matters which are serious. The purpose which inspired me to develop this theme is clearly defined in the Charter. To achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, or humanitarian character is to go straight to these objectives. The very convening of the Geneva Conference was directed to the same end. Technical assistance provided through the specialized agencies, and financial assistance, which has been considerable, are adequate means for a beginning. I say for a beginning because a definitive solution has yet to be found. To find that solution and put it into effect will be the means of achieving, to a great extent, the objectives that have brought us together, among them the rule of justice and peaceful coexistence.

===== Session 20 - 1965 =====

129.     My delegation, my Government and my country take particular pleasure in welcoming the well-deserved election of His Excellency Mr. Fanfani as President of the Assembly, because of his outstanding personal qualifications and the close ties of friendship that have always linked Colombia and Italy. We address to him the enthusiastic congratulations of a nation proud of the Latin origin of its civilization, of a people that numbers among its greatest intellectual figures the most brilliant translator of Virgil, of a country which deeply admires modern Italy and cherishes the Spanish language which is fortunate to have so worthy a representative occupying the chair at today's meeting.

130.    This hall still echoes with the august words of the Roman Pontiff, which are destined to be a lasting inspiration to us in our pursuit of the ideals of the Charter. His moral standing immeasurably enhances his appeal, which, for our purposes, is, of course, much more important than any sizable military or financial support. Our Organization has been given an inspiring moral endorsement by His Holiness Pope Paul VI, whose recent address in this Assembly provides wise guidance for the solution of the problems that beset mankind today.

131.    This session could have no better augury than the visit of His Holiness. The work which has begun with this general debate is particularly in need of the blessings of fortune, for our agenda is full of items requiring solutions that are both difficult and urgent.

132.    Another hopeful sign has been the cease-fire between India and Pakistan achieved by the United Nations, whereby those two admirable countries have demonstrated in exemplary fashion their respect for the United Nations. Their attitude should be matched by all other Members in a determined effort to find formulas that will put an end to the Kashmir conflict once and for all.

133.    We also have the good fortune to begin our work by deciding on the admission of three new Members — the Gambia, the Maldive Islands and Singapore — to whose delegations I am happy to extend our warmest congratulations.

134.    My country, whose statement in the general debate at the nineteenth session [1302nd meeting] was devoted to emphasizing the urgent need for the Assembly to carry out the recommendations of the first United Nations Conference on Trade and Development concerning the establishment of that Conference as an organ of the General Assembly, welcomes with satisfaction and a certain pride the establishment of that organ [resolution 1995 (XIX)] as one of the most important achievements of the United Nations in all the twenty years of its existence. It does not therefore, share the opinion of those who think that that session was less fruitful than other previous sessions, in which no step of comparable significance was taken. Nevertheless, my delegation is not unaware that, whatever judgment the nineteenth session truly deserves, it is now imperative — if the Assembly is to recover its prestige — that our discussions should lead to constructive and far-reaching understandings on at least some of the main items to be considered.

135.    Two schools of thought, each of them covering a wide range of nuances, will probably vie with each other for control of the Assembly. Throughout the history of the United Nations the currents of opinion have split into these two general trends more consistently and more significantly than into other classifications, such as East and West, and industrial and developing countries.

136.    According to one of these schools of thought, the Assembly is principally and almost exclusively a debating society, and the mere successful the United Nations is in preserving the status quo, the better it will have achieved its purposes. It gives special priority to national sovereignty and tends to place a restrictive interpretation upon the Charter and the other relevant statutes so far as the activities of the different organs are concerned. Consequently, it attaches particular importance to financial matters, in which its budgetary conservatism becomes an insurmountable barrier to the expansion of programmes that are frequently suspect in its eyes.

137.    For the second school of thought, on the other hand, the Assembly is the organ that should actively promote the continuous and necessary expansion of co-operation among Member States, precisely because it is a forum of world opinion. National sovereignty and budgetary restraint are, according to this interpretation, less important than the seriousness of world imbalances.

138.    Although the not inconsiderable frustrations suffered -by the United Nations cannot necessarily be attributed to the first school of thought, it is clear that the achievements of which it can be proud derive from the second. In so far as the second school of
thought has prevailed, the United Nations has advanced. Every step taken with regard to decolonization, human rights and economic co-operation can be attributed to its influence.

139.    In the same way, the enormous task facing the United Nations requires that that school of thought should remain in firm control. Disarmament, the final elimination of colonialism, the necessary victories in the field of human rights and progress in economic co-operation demand a strong uninhibited United Nations, an Organization with a truly dynamic sense of its mission, prepared to interpret its mandate liberally and aware of the kind of world leadership that it is called upon to provide in the future.

140.    Colombia has always sided in the United Nations with those who base their position on this general criterion, and will continue at the present session to remain faithful to the commitment imposed by that tradition. It has upheld that criterion ever since its representative at San Francisco, Mr. Alberto Lleras, a former President of the Republic, stood almost alone in opposing the veto, ever since another Colombian, Mr. Eduardo Zuleta Angel, in his capacity as provisional President of the first session of the General Assembly, defined the role of the Assembly, and ever since its representative at that first session, another former President of the Republic, Mr. Alfonso Lopez, predicted among other things that the United Nations is an organism which, as events develop, will take shape and assume functions beyond the anticipations of the Charter.

141.    The duty to maintain international peace and security, which is one of the primary purposes and principles of the United Nations, is incumbent upon the Organization as a whole as well as on each of its Member States and all the groups of States associated together under regional agreements.

142.    From the point of view of the United Nations, the regional organizations are instruments for decentralized collective security action. However, they cannot effectively solve the legal, economic and political problems which occur among their members, or further the co-operation within their geographical regions that would benefit them all, if they do not have adequate means of maintaining in the regions concerned an atmosphere of confidence and of justice based on the law that alone can enable them to make immediate use of their own resources for the peaceful settlement of disputes and for the prevention and suppression of acts jeopardizing security of their members, whether such acts originated in their own regions or outside them.

143.    Inasmuch as the Charter of the United Nations gives first place to the inherent rights of States to individual or collective self-defence, it is only being consistent when it attributes to the regional arrangements in Chapter VIII the function of collective security in their respective regional spheres as laid down in the relevant treaties.

144.    As regards collective security, powers conferred under regional arrangements do not affect nor have any reason to affect the corresponding powers of the Security Council. On the contrary, under the Charter of the United Nations itself, they are accessory to and compatible with the powers of the Security Council. The Security Council itself has repeatedly and authoritatively interpreted the provisions of the Charter and of the corresponding regional agreements in the sense that the latter may apply all the procedures laid down therein to the limit, as is stated in article 2 of the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance. The only measures subject to the approval of the Security Council are the enforcement measures mentioned in Article 53 of the Charter, measures designed to restrain or subdue, which are altogether different and far removed from those intended to dissociate or separate. No restrictions or conditions can be placed upon the right of a group of States, duly associated and bound reciprocally to respect each other's sovereignty — a right which individually they cannot be denied — to keep their distance from a threat to the peace or to disassociate themselves from centres of unrest that threaten international security by preaching and practising violence, subversive infiltration and intervention.

145.    My delegation believes that it is appropriate to stress in this respect the need for a vigorous reaffirmation of the principle of non-intervention, which is the cornerstone of respect for the personality of States and an essential element of peaceful international coexistence. Repudiation of this principle is incompatible with the very existence of international organizations which were established by sovereign States and which would have no basis for existing if that principle were abandoned. In the light of elementary political considerations and in view of the legal basis on which the international community must be founded, nothing can justify the intervention of one State in the domestic or external affairs of another: not even the threat of intervention from another source, since the second would be justified a posteriori by the first.

146.    The satisfaction with which we all participated in the decision of 1 September 1965 that enabled the work of the Assembly to proceed normally cannot, of course, blind us to the fact that there is no agreement whatsoever on the substantive aspects of the problem raised by peace-keeping operations. It is logical, therefore, that we should give special, priority to consideration of that problem and that we should all endeavour to prepare the ground for a substantive solution. In our opinion, such an agreement could in no circumstances detract from our recognition of the Assembly's powers in the matter of international security contained in resolution 377 (V), entitled "Uniting for Peace". At the same time, without excluding other possible procedures, we have no hesitation in supporting the proposal of Brazil [1334th meeting, para. 11] concerning the adoption of a new chapter of the Charter dealing with this type of operation, since a matter of such importance deserves such special treatment.

147.    Disarmament, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the suspension of nuclear tests are, of course, our main concern. As in the Disarmament Commission, my delegation will support the convening of a world disarmament conference, since, while acknowledging that agreements on disarmament desired by all the peoples of the world could be worked out in the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament, it considers that such a conference would give full play to a factor that might be decisive: the weight of world opinion.

148.    Colombia is participating with particular interest in regional efforts to establish a denuclearized zone. The two sessions already held by the Preparatory Commission for the Denuclearization of Latin America represent the beginning of an undertaking whose importance cannot be over-emphasized and one which, as it progresses, is bound to be confronted by formidable obstacles, among them the difficulty of delimiting the proposed zone — as the problems relating to Cuba, Puerto Rico and the French and British possessions are so discreetly referred to — and the difficulty of obtaining the necessary guarantees from the nuclear Powers.

149.    My country, of course, views the delay in concluding agreements to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons with the greatest alarm and hopes that progress in this direction will be achieved at the current session. The atomic threat, which has been so seriously increased by the addition to the group of nuclear Powers of a regime which has persistently demonstrated its scorn for peace and which makes war its most valued banner, is growing while international action to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons is lagging behind.

150.    For the basic principles of the Charter to be properly fulfilled steady progress must be made to promote respect for human rights. For this reason, my delegation will support the timely proposal submitted by Costa Rica [1342nd meeting, para. 53], on the creation of the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights [A/5963].

151.    The items allocated to the Second Committee are among the most important on our agenda. At a time when there is an urgent need to forge ahead in fields such as those I have mentioned, it is also absolutely necessary to make progress in the crucial matter of co-operation for development; both a hasty glance at the relevant economic indicators and the most comprehensive analysis of those indicators lead to the conclusion that the United Nations is very far from meeting its responsibilities in this respect.

152.    All of us, even the most steadfast advocates of the present international economic order, agreed some time ago that the target of an annual growth rate of 5 per cent set by the Assembly for the
Development Decade was modest rather than ambitious, since it is only very slightly higher than the rate achieved in the previous decade. However, as indicated in Economic and Social Council resolution 1089 (XXXIX), based on the reports of the Secretariat, the rate of growth of the national income of most developing countries has been, for the first half of the current decade, considerably lower than that modest target.

153.    It is well known that, in accordance with the recommendation contained in the Final Act of the first United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, each developed country should supply financial resources to the developing countries in the form of investments, loans and grants, of a net amount approaching as nearly as possible to 1 per cent of its national income. Although that recommendation, which was rather revolutionary, was adopted without opposition and with few abstentions, the efforts to promote its implementation have not been very striking; on the contrary, there have been signs of a backward trend. One telling example will suffice: the annual appropriations approved by the United States House of Representatives for that country's foreign aid programmes are, compared with its national income, among the lowest ever approved for such programmes.

154.    Similarly, little attention has been paid to the final recommendations of the Conference on Trade and Development concerning better terms for commodities, recommendations which are generally designed to increase the export income of the developing countries. Both the members of the European Economic Community and the other developed countries are completely disregarding the Final Act of the Conference. In that connexion, I should like to draw the Assembly's attention to resolution 252 (XI), adopted by the Economic Commission for Latin America at its eleventh session, on the proposal of Colombia, which recommended that special priority should be given to urgent efforts to eliminate all discriminatory treatment in trade affecting the exports of the Latin American countries in accordance with the relevant recommendation of the Conference. The agreement reached at that Conference on this delicate matter could not be put into writing without encouraging to an unforeseeable extent movements favouring the establishment of hemispheric preferences which have already gained considerable impetus both in Latin America and in the United States.

155.    The setting up of a specialized agency for industrial development within the United Nations family was first proposed by Colombia and a few other countries. After a long-drawn-out process in which the opposition of the developed countries led to one report after the other, one group of experts after the other and identical resolutions, one after the other in a different body, the proposal was adopted at Geneva by the Group of Seventy-Seven and is recommended in the Final Act of the
Conference. Finally, at its recent session, the Economic and Social Council, basing itself on yet another Secretariat study — and we hope this one will be the last — once again endorsed it and requested that the final decision should be taken by the Assembly at the current session. There is, however, little reason to be optimistic about the position of the developed market-economy countries on the matter. In any case, their support for this proposal which is so dear to the hearts of the Group of Seventy-Seven, or their rejection of it, will be eloquent testimony of their general attitude to the problem par excellence of two-thirds of the people of the world.

156.    The indifference of the developed countries to the recommendations adopted by the Conference on Trade and Development and, in general, to their responsibilities to the developing countries forces the latter to close their ranks, to safeguard their unity whatever the cost and to defend their basic tenets even more stubbornly. The formation of the Group of Seventy-Seven has been considered potentially one of the most significant events of this period of history, since together, the developing countries will thus carry the negotiating weight of a super-Power. Such possibilities, which are dependent on the strict maintenance of the union, will be put to the test during this session, although the transformation of world trade into an effective instrument for development is a programme which will continue to be a matter of concern to the low-income countries for the rest of this century.

157.    Since it is convinced that the future of such countries is linked to the strengthening of the Group of Seventy-Seven, my country is particularly interested in the proposal, put forward on 23 September in this hall [1334th meeting] by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Senegal, on the convening of a conference of those countries.

158.    Particular attention should be given to item 96 of the agenda of the General Assembly entitled "Review and reappraisal of the role and functions of the Economic and Social Council", since it is advisable, in the light of the new international trade machinery now established, to consider the courses of action and opportunities open to that body which has been responsible for such important achievements as the regional economic commissions and the first United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. My delegation considers that retention of the important powers given to the Council by the Charter is in no way incompatible with recognition of the powers of the Trade and Development Board and that the functions of each are mutually complementary. It is also clear that the increase in its membership, which fortunately was effected by an appropriate amendment of the Charter [resolution 1991 B (XVIII)], will greatly enhance the authority of the Council and make the new phase of its work all the easier.

159.    On the regional level, the main thing is, certainly, to forge ahead despite all disappointments with the Alliance for Progress which, if the letter and the spirit of Punta del Este is adhered to, is an irreplaceable programme of co-operation, and also to work together to promote integration. In accordance with a decision taken by the Economic Commission for Latin America, a large amount of the necessary technical work has been begun at the headquarters of that Commission for the purpose of reaching urgently needed agreements for strengthening the machinery to promote progressive integration. My Government, no doubt, like those of other countries in the region, attaches particular importance to that work and is prepared to participate in any new commitments which may seem desirable in the light of the conclusions reached, so that the artificial frontiers which separate our great fatherland may be gradually removed.

160.    These are some of the views which will guide my delegation when it considers our agenda. All these views, and the views which it will express in the various committees, are all based on one solid premise: Colombia's enthusiastic support of the United Nations and its constant loyalty to the cause of our Organization which represents the best hopes of mankind.

===== Session 21 - 1966 =====
1.    Mr. President, knowing your skill as a statesman, your experience in dealing with international questions and your complete devotion to peace, which you have tirelessly propagated in the United Nations, the Government of Colombia believes that the General Assembly could not have made a better choice than it did in electing you as its President. May I therefore extend to you and to your great country my warmest congratulations and sincere good wishes for the utmost success in your difficult and complex task in the interest of the welfare of mankind and of the prestige of this Organization.

2.    At the same time, I most respectfully extend the greetings of my Government to all the representatives gathered here. I am confident that their work at this session of the Assembly will be inspired by a common desire to strengthen peace and ensure the well-being of the human race. Colombia comes to these meetings in this spirit and with the unshakable resolve that justice preside over relations between peoples.

3.    I also wish to express our deep satisfaction at the admission of Guyana as a new Member of the United Nations, and I accordingly extend our hearty congratulations to its Government and people and to the delegation that represents them. This young State has come to join the ranks of the Latin American nations, and we are sure that its contribution will be consonant with our continent's traditional policy of solidarity with the rest of the world. The admission of this new Member has a very profound significance for Latin America because it conforms to the anti-colonialist spirit of its inhabitants and their desire for that part of the world to be composed of free nations, the masters of their own destinies.

4.    I have had the honour of representing my country in this Organization for four years. In hope and in fear, I have lived through some of its most serious crises: on several occasions, we faced the appalling possibility of its dissolution, and on others, we noted it effectiveness in preventing catastrophies that might have been irreparable. All this has strengthened my conviction that whatever might be done by Member States to defend its existence, this is but little by comparison with what the absence of its beneficial influence on the lives of nations could mean for our own generation and even more for the generations to come. This would mean the disappearance of the principles which have been enshrined in the Charter with the aim of putting an end to the millennia of suffering endured by man since his appearance on this planet; it would, above all, deceive the hopes of the millions of human beings who are looking to the dawn of a better world free of the heavy burden of poverty and ignorance.

5.    The general debate which is held in this Assembly each year is not merely an occasion for analysing the international situation and learning the views of each of the Member States; it must in addition, as in fact it does, provide an opportunity for analysing the shortcomings and possibilities of our Organization in carrying out its basic purposes. If, having reached the twenty-first session of the General Assembly, we now look back, we find that its achievements have indeed been great and positive. We have preserved world peace for more than twenty years, although vast sectors of humanity have been shaken by violence and cruelty from time to time. We have helped new States towards independence and aided them in the establishment of their institutions, and these States now act as a balance between the various blocs of nations and are a decisive factor in world decisions. We have provided economic, technical and cultural assistance to help overcome the phenomen of underdevelopment, and even military assistance to alleviate tensions which at the time might have led to a new conflagration.

6.    Our Organization has been going forward and has been growing stronger despite the wide ideological and political divergencies of the great Powers, and it has gradually taken on the character of universality which it must have. But, we must admit that it has not always been as effective for the solution of world problems as it should have been. Many of its best efforts have come to nought, and this should cause us to ponder the best way of overcoming the enormous obstacles which ignorance, ambition, greed or the thirst for power have placed in the path to peace, to a better understanding among peoples and to the satisfaction of basic human needs.

7.    When the crisis which paralysed the nineteenth session of the Assembly was surmounted, we felt great hopes for the future of the Organization. However, the results which we so ardently desired have not been forthcoming. The truth is that we are unable to exert any decisive influence on events which are unfolding before our eyes and which we can only watch with increasing anxiety. We are unable to stop the conflict in Asia, which is continuing with the greatest bitterness and which could lead to the outbreak of a world conflict. This in turn raises the question of whether the Organization does or does not have the means to operate effectively, at this stage of history, in order to achieve the purposes for which it was created.

8.    What is more, however, those fundamental questions which have demanded the attention and concern of the United Nations during the twenty years of its existence are now in a discouraging state of paralysis. Take, for example, disarmament. Public opinion no longer expects any great progress to be made in the discussions which have been going on now for a number of years at Geneva in the 
Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament. Because of the obstinate refusal of the great Powers to yield in matters which could be settled if they were analysed with a real and deep desire to find intelligent solutions, general and complete disarmament now seems a more unattainable ideal than ever. The same is true of the hope that the enormous sums being devoted to a mad and criminal armaments race might be used to fight under-development and to banish backwardness from vast areas of the globe.

9.    The splitting of the atom and the discovery of nuclear energy have presented the world with the gravest of threats to the very existence of the human species, and there is a universal clamour that this threat, which may one day become a reality, should be banished forever. Ever since the first atomic bomb, w*th its lethal aftermath of radioactivity, was tested, the efforts of the Governments and people of all countries have been directed towards halting the ominous production, of nuclear weapons. The Assembly has adopted innumerable resolutions urging the atomic Powers to cease their tests so that the terrifying power of destroying civilization might not be expanded or increased and that broad areas of America, Africa and Asia might be free of this peril. As a result, the treaty banning nuclear weapon tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water was signed in Moscow on 5 August 1963 and was welcomed with joy by the people of the entire world. Since then, however, there has been no effective progress, and it is now apparent that the tests are continuing as all people, including those whose Governments persist in carrying out the tests, look on with fear, indignation and horror.

10.    The intention of our Organization as expressed in General Assembly resolution 2030 (XX) on the question of convening a world disarmament conference has so far been merely another vain hope. This was to be an opportunity for providing a universal forum where all the factors impeding the necessary understanding between the peoples of the world could be analysed with the participation of the nuclear Powers and particularly of those which are continuing to increase and perfect these weapons of destruction. It was to be an opportunity for starting a huge movement of world public opinion that could bring pressure to bear on the atomic Powers. Today, the possibility of entertaining any illusion of this kind is remote, and hence we must also admit that the United Nations is incapable of dealing with this crucial and decisive question. The nuclear tests will continue and with them the horrifying prospect that, as the number of atomic Powers increases, the third world war will become inevitable before the end of this century.

11.    There are, however, other events weighing down world peace, which are extremely grave and are related to one of the basic objectives of the world Organization, the second objective after the preservation of peace. The San Francisco Charter states that the peoples of the United Nations are determined "to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small". This principle led to the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, but today we see how the repeated, shocking and inhuman violation of this instrument constitutes still another matter with which we have been powerless to deal.

12.    There seemed to be some basis for believing that the abominable practice of a privileged minority dominating large subjugated majorities who were denied the most elemental rights might be restricted to one country and gradually disappear. We are alarmed, however, to see that Governments are arising in Africa with the same abominable characteristics. The continuance of this situation in the world of today is an affront to mankind and a cause for shame and reproach on the part of all of us seated here in this Assembly. The truth is that it has not been possible to solve this problem satisfactorily in the last few years and that it has now been aggravated by the situation in Southern Rhodesia and by the problem of South West Africa. The practices of apartheid must be completely stamped out. Colombia is willing to support, and even to sponsor, measures which might prove effective against such Governments. In this respect, my Government has adopted legislation to implement the relevant recommendations of the General Assembly and the Security Council regarding Southern Rhodesia, and with respect to the question of South West Africa, allow me to reiterate the view expressed at the last session of the Assembly that this territory should be placed under the administration of the United Nations.

13.    At all events, the outstanding fact, the one that we must stress before this gallery of nations, is that what has been done so far has not been sufficient to restore in certain areas the effectiveness of those essential principles for which the United Nations was created to put into practice.

14.    The old yearning of the international community, arising from the inability of the former League of Nations to maintain peace or, rather, to prevent war, was taken into account by the inclusion in the San Francisco Charter of Chapter VII prescribing what action should be taken with respect to threats to the peace, breaches of the peace and acts of aggression.

15.    The provisions of that Chapter regarding the re-establishment of international peace and security by means of regular United Nations forces have remained words only. We must realize that all the urgent activities of the United Nations, even if completely successful, will be entirely in vain if we fail to endow the Organization with the power to prevent war. This explains the constant endeavour of the General Assembly to overcome the paralysis of the Security Council in initiating the actions assigned to it in this regard by the Charter. It was thought that resolution 377 (V), the "Uniting for peace" resolution — so ardently defended not only by some of the great Powers but also by the smaller countries, both when it was adopted and now — might be an adequate solution. The truth is that since then we have gone through a process of confusion and complexity so bedevilled by political interests that it can be said that we have not taken a single step forward since the adoption of that resolution, which, although well conceived and motivated by the best of intentions, has proved in practice to be completely ineffective. In spite of the praiseworthy efforts of its members, the Special Committee on Peace-Keeping Operations, established under resolution 2006 (XIX), has been unabled to reach any practical or concrete conclusions. The refusal of the socialist countries to participate in the financing of these operations, the disagreement among the other Governments on the amount of the contributions that should be paid and scepticism about the possibility of reaching agreements that would guarantee the effectiveness of the system are all indications that our Organization is still very far from being able — without major financial difficulties and without having to depend on the caprice of the great Powers, on political circumstances or on what may at the moment suit purely national interests — to exercise consistently and decisively its indispensable function of eliminating the danger of war, punishing aggressors and warding off threats to peace.

16.    Some of the comments which 1 have with all due respect made before this Assembly were also made by Secretary-General U Thant when he indicated his decision not to offer his services for a second term of office. The document submitted by the Secretary-General in this connexion must be a matter for deep thought on the part of the Governments and people of the world. He who in the midst of innumerable and disquieting difficulties has handled with singular skill the grave international problems that confront the world today is without doubt the person best qualified to draw the attention of the United Nations to the fact that "no decisive progress has been made by the Governments of Member States in co-operative efforts which are essential if the Organization is to serve effectively the cause of peace and to contribute significantly to the economic development of the poorer regions of the world" [A/6400].

17.    I wish on behalf of my Government to pay a tribute of admiration and gratitude to the Secretary-General. As the representative of Colombia it was my privilege, at a time when the United Nations was going through one of its gravest crises, to co-operate in his felicitous appointment and to make known publicly on behalf of the Latin American group, the satisfaction felt by our Governments and our continent at his election. Today we can say that the hopes placed in his administration have been fully justified. No major error can justly be attributed to him in the discharge of his duties. Hence, the Latin American nations did what was right in expressing the desire that U Thant would agree to offer his services and endeavours to the world community once again.

18.    However, it would not be fair for us to demand this of him if Member States do not intend to take positive steps to change the circumstances he mentioned when he announced a decision which we all regret and which we hope will be revoked. I think there can be no doubt within this Assembly about the serious questions that would arise if we had to elect a new Secretary-General now. May I, on behalf of Colombia, express the wish that the Secretary-General will reconsider his position and reflect on how important these additional services we are asking of him may be for the cause of peace.

19.    I should now like to reaffirm various views which I stated in this Assembly on behalf of my country a few years ago and which are still fully valid today. The world cannot continue to be divided into antagonistic blocs that cling to irreconcilable positions concerning the systems of government that will make their peoples happy. Nor can nationalistic feelings be allowed to prevail over the universal interests of living together in harmony. Peace must be built on something more substantial than the cold formation of international co-operation or the illusion which the socialist countries have called peaceful coexistence. The need for understanding and brotherhood among peoples grows more imperative each day. An awareness of peace must be inculcated in youth through an immense educational effort that will banish from their sight the tinsel glitter of military apparatus which fires the early imagination of children and develops in them an admiration and worship of war heroes, whose fame far exceeds that of the artist or the scientist. Only by discarding the nationalistic concepts which today are a basic ingredient of education and supplanting them by a loftier concept of the great family of mankind, will peace one day be established on earth.

20.    That, however, presupposes an unqualified acceptance of the rule of justice, for so long as inequalities between nations and men become sharper instead of disappearing and so long as economic imbalance becomes more acute, it is quite impossible for violence to disappear from human relations. Such inequalities tend to create centres of disturbance throughout the world which prevent a calm and dispassionate analysis of problems and situations. Satisfactory solutions are thus impossible to attain and will continue to be so as long as they are subordinated to purely local interests or to the ambitions of the great Powers.

21.    It has thus come to be realized that the true strategy of peace is to be found in the effective and harmonious solution of the grave economic problems in the various areas of the world. Consequently, the most urgent task which our Organization must undertake is to reduce, on the international plane, the ever widening gap which separates the rich countries with a high per capita income from the developing countries, and, on the national plane, the gap between the small minorities who are well off and the large majorities who live in grinding poverty.

22.    It is true that the efforts made to correct this situation have had some success, but here, just as in the situation that has already been analysed, there is a dangerous degree of stagnation, particularly as regards relations between the industrialized countries and those which make a precarious living either from basic commodities that are subject to the vagaries of the market or from fledgling industries. Thus, wealth has continued to accumulate in a few nations which represent a small part of the world's population, while in the areas with the bulk of the population a scarcity of resources and of technical and economic assistance makes ever more difficult the task of the peoples who are striving to achieve a higher level of development.

23.    As can be seen, the economically under-developed countries are the victims of a world situation which does not seem likely to change very soon. Many of them are far from attaining the 5 per cent increase in national income which is one of the goals of the United Nations Development Decade. On the other hand, the coolness with which the industrialized countries received the recommendations of the first United Nations Conference on Trade and Development has been deplorable and hard to understand.

24.    A further disturbing fact recently pointed out by the Secretary-General must also be borne in mind, namely, that while the national Income of the developed countries is Increasing, the proportion of that income allocated to international assistance for the developing countries is decreasing. In the case of several Powers that proportion has not yet reached the 1 per cent of net income called for by the 1964 Geneva Conference in accordance with earlier recommendations of the General Assembly. The contrast between this relative decrease in international aid and the growing urgency of the need for that aid constitutes one of the most tragic negative signs of our times.

25.    In view of the need to intensify technical and economic co-operation through our Organization, more and more efforts and resources must be devoted to the United Nations Development Programme, to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and to the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. The final establishment of the latter, in accordance with the draft resolution prepared by the Ad Hoc Committee is, without a doubt, one of the fundamental objectives of this session.

26.    It is clear from all I have said that there are grounds for optimism, particularly in the programmes of technical and economic co-operation which our Organization has fostered. But I have also mentioned certain negative factors, and an awareness of these should stimulate the developing countries to redouble their efforts towards making maximum use of their own resources and technologies, thereby overcoming the limitations of their present condition, and towards uniting with peoples in similar situations, so as to seek in economic 
co-operation and the exchange of experience the path to redemption.

27.    It was with this in mind that, on 16 August of this year, the so-called Declaration of Bogota was signed and issued officially by the Presidents of Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela and Colombia. It was circulated as an official document of the United Nations [A/6410] in connexion with agenda item 42, entitled "Regional development". The text of the Declaration gives expression to the fervent desire of the peoples of America to achieve, through cooperative efforts, high levels of social well-being which, we hope, will gradually eliminate the desperate backwardness and ignorance of large masses on the continent.

28.    Besides the statements of a strictly political character, this Declaration, reflecting the desire to strengthen the inter-American system, to strive for the consolidation of peace, to express solidarity with the peoples struggling for their own development, and to defend representative democracy as the essential basis fox achieving liberty, progress and social justice, contains a clear, constructive programme for bringing about the integration of the Latin American nations into one great economic community. The President of Colombia, Mr. Carlos Lleras Restrepo, stated as much in words I would like to repeat before this Assembly, since they express so clearly the meaning and scope of this document, conceived according to the broadest definition of continental solidarity:

"We regard as indispensable the economic integration of Latin America and the furtherance of an international policy which will make the great markets of the world more accessible to our products. We defend the prices of the primary commodities which constitute the bulk of our exports while endeavouring to diversify these exports. We urgently need sufficient external income to acquire those valuable capital goods which are necessary for the acceleration of economic development; and we maintain that international financial assistance should be provided on a reasonable basis and in pursuance of a policy which in no way affects the independence or dignity of our countries. We want, not colonial economies — whatever semblance of prosperity they may offer — but nations which are masters of their own destinies, nations which can maintain normal economic relations with the rest of the world and ensure freedom for the movement of capital. We have therefore stressed the need for a foreign investment policy which will harmoniously and equitably combine the legitimate interests of the investor with the permanent needs of our nations, that is, with what we wish to be and must be."

29.    During the last session of the General Assembly, Colombia participated in the drafting and discussion of resolution 2131 (XX) on non-intervention. This text, which, like many others, has become an historic expression of the Assembly's resolve to ensure international coexistence, must he zealously adhered to by the Members of the United Nations, for otherwise world peace will be gravely endangered. But, as is well known, frequent attempts are made to violate that lofty principle, affecting the security of our nations, and these may lead to extremes which could aggravate our present difficulties and hamper
the enormous efforts of our peoples and our Governments to conquer under-development. It is pertinent to recall the terms of that resolution, which was adopted unanimously, in order to contrast the principles embodied therein with the practices of certain countries, which unquestionably constitute open interference in the internal affairs of others. Operative paragraph 1 solemnly declares:

"No State has the right to intervene, directly or indirectly, for any reason whatever, in the internal or external affairs of any other State. Consequently, armed intervention and all other forms of interference or attempted threats against the personality of the State or against its political, economic and cultural elements, are condemned."

And the resolution continues:

"... Also, no State shall organize, assist, foment, finance, incite or tolerate subversive, terrorist or armed activities directed towards the violent overthrow of the regime of another State, or interfere in civil strife in another State."

30.    Yet we have witnessed the convening of intercontinental conferences, attended by officials of the Governments concerned, whose primary objective, openly expressed, is to give moral and material support to subversive movements in various parts of the world, and particularly in Latin America. I ask you whether such support of armed subversion in other nations, directed against democratic institutions, like those in my country does not constitute an open, flagrant and totally unacceptable violation of the principles which I have just quoted.

31.    Of course, the well-known attempts to penetrate our continent in order to destroy democracy and to implant totalitarian systems characterized by the brutal repression of all liberty and unconditional submission to extracontinental Powers have been unsuccessful, but have sometimes left in their wake a tragic toll of suffering and death. The international community cannot remain indifferent to these acts which contravene the resolution cited, which work against the self-determination of our peoples and which represent therefore clear-cut threats to the peace of America.

32.    In making these observations — and Colombia has deliberately chosen to be utterly frank — our only purpose is to help meet one of the major needs of the present moment: the strengthening of the United Nations; for considering the difficult circumstances in which it must operate today, it lacks the influence it should wield over international events.

33.    If this Organization cannot deal with the immense problems of the international community in these troubled times; if it cannot stop conflicts which might lead to the annihilation of the human race or to the destruction of the civilized world; if it cannot contribute effectively to the well-being and security of the inhabitants of this planet and to the attainment of at least moderate levels of cultural and scientific advancement in areas which today are deprived of the benefits of civilization; if, finally, it cannot achieve the goals set when it was founded, its prestige will necessarily decline, and It may well disappear eventually in a cloud of melancholy ineffectiveness.

34.    This is the grim reality we face; this is what our peoples as well as our Governments must realize. We must appeal loudly and clearly to the conscience and intelligence of the world's leaders in the hope that, through acts of understanding and great deeds, they may preserve, consolidate and strengthen this Organization, and make it a true instrument of peace, a forum where the claims of the dispossessed, the complaints of those who are suffering injustices, the voice of the persecuted minorities and of the peoples who are victims of aggression will be heard and answered.

35.    The greatest responsibilities, of course, still fall upon those Powers which are privileged to hold a permanent seat in the Security Council. It is they above all who must abandon their antagonistic positions and give to the rest of the world an example of constructive and harmonious coexistence. It is they who must live up to the obligations of international solidarity, provide the developing countries with technical and financial assistance, and facilitate the construction of an egalitarian and progressive society in a disarmed and peaceful world.

36.    There are many obstacles along the way. The greatest of these is lack of understanding, which breeds fanaticism and intolerance. Men themselves have sown the path of life with pain and sorrow. Human actions have produced a world in which only a few receive the benefits of health and knowledge, while the majority continue to live an obscure and hopeless life. This imbalance must be corrected. The labour of all must be paid for in the same coin — that is, there must be adequate compensation. A great deal of national pride and wealth will have to be sacrificed for the benefit of the majority. It has been said that inequalities do not last for ever, or, as one great President of this Assembly, Zafrulla Khan, put it, if one part of the organism is diseased, the whole will soon he diseased.

37.    Colombia wishes to be a part of this co-operative and redemptive undertaking, which should consist, not of adopting recommendations of merely literary value, but of taking measures which can lead to the solution of our difficulties. We realize that we who have here united our wills cannot ensure that the positive results we seek will actually be achieved or will lead to new trends in international conduct. But at least we can expect those whose obligations towards the Charter are greatest to live up to and implement its principles. Herein lies our hope for a less troubling future.

===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
48. Mr. President, on behalf of Colombia I should like to join in the well-justified congratulations that have been addressed to you upon your assuming the high office of President of the General Assembly at this twenty-second session. Those of us who welcome your election do so in the certitude that, in conformity with your clear record and your career as a statesman, an eminent internationalist and a staunch friend of peace, you will direct our work with impartiality, justice, propriety and intelligence, in a task that will not be easy but that, encouraged by these lofty purposes, will of necessity help towards the solution of the serious problems with which we are called upon to deal.
49. This is the second time that, as Foreign Minister of Colombia, I have come to address this august forum. I do so with the respect that my country has always felt for the representatives of all the peoples of the world that have their place here and I come imbued with my country's traditional spirit of peace and resolved to apply this spirit to the decisions of this world Organization. I am glad, therefore, to reiterate these sentiments to you, to offer you our respectful greetings and to assure you of the admiration and affection that the people of Colombia feel for each of the peoples represented here.

50. We could not really feel satisfied, calm or in agreement with the situation with which we are faced at the beginning of this session of the General Assembly. The world has been unable to rid itself of fear, malaise and injustice, which are still characteristics of the present era. Violence is breaking out everywhere, with its train of bitterness and sorrow, and we are all filled with a foreboding that if certain situations are not remedied promptly, it may well be that world disaster may prove unavoidable.
51. In my statement on behalf of Colombia in the general debate at the twenty-first session [1416th meeting], I analysed the defects of our Organization and the efficiency it has occasionally shown in the preservation of peace. They are structural defects which, instead of being corrected, have been accentuated; far from there being any firm collective determination to rectify them, there seems to be an inexplicable design on the part of some Governments to retain them. That explains why our Organization has been unable to take action to achieve and impose peace in Asia. It also explains why it was unable to adopt any effective means of preventing the sad conflict in the Near East. The truth is that we cannot go on like this; the truth is that we cannot look on with cold indifference, or, if you wish, with anguish, while the world moves towards the abyss, nor can we afford to refrain from action to prevent the perpetration of the deeds that are going on before our eyes.
52. The non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is the first concern of the world of today and it will remain so as long as the spectre of an atomic conflagration looms up as a horrifying future prospect. Unfortunately, the efforts that the General Assembly has been making to halt the production and expansion of nuclear weapons have not made much progress.
53. The industrialized countries do not want to fall behind or to be at a military disadvantage in relation to the countries which possess such weapons and it would not be surprising if even the less-developed countries too might want, to test their devices. For the time being there are two countries which are completely outside any international control for the testing and manufacture of nuclear and thermo-nuclear weapons and which possess them; France and Communist China.
54. It is no good belittling the danger that the proliferation of nuclear weapons presents for the world by arguing that the very fact of their terrifying destructive power, which could wipe out our present civilization, will always inhibit States from starting a conflagration of this kind. If we review the history of mankind, we see clearly that ambition and the desire to predominate have never known any barriers, and certainly not that of consideration of the inexpressible horrors that any armed conflict entails. Even today we hear macabre conjectures of the advantage that an atomic war could be for over-populated countries.
55. It is nevertheless encouraging, in the midst of this gloomy picture, to record the adoption at Mexico City, on 14 February of this year, of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America. For Colombia the paramount interest of this Treaty lies in the fact that it prevents nuclear competition among the Latin American countries in that it imposes upon them the obligation to refrain in future from possessing or manufacturing such weapons. Our peoples are overwhelmed with need, even to achieve minimum conditions for leading a life worthy of human beings and for enjoying the benefits of civilization. All that we can invest in this effort is a mere trifle compared with the magnitude of the need, and if one of the countries of Latin America were to decide to manufacture nuclear weapons we should soon see the others following suit, committing a large part of their scanty resources to it. We do not, therefore, want to be confronted with this state of affairs, which would be fatal for a region that is desperately striving to achieve development and which would thus see all its hopes of recovery shattered.
56. The ability of our world Organization to fulfil the essential purpose of its existence, its true raison d’être, that of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war, is still in question and is a serious matter not only for its prestige but for its very survival. Once again, in the recent Arab-Israel conflict, to which I shall refer later, the United Nations has shown itself powerless to prevent it.
57. We realize, however, that to bring about any change in the situation I have described is no easy matter. With the passage of time since the victorious Powers of the Second World War and their then allies conceived and created this Organization, subsequent developments have produced a world in which the marvels of technological progress are accompanied by a sharpening of social conflict and international mistrust. And in this stormy process the Members of our Organization are either the main protagonists or are involved or compromised. To speak of the non-aligned countries is almost meaningless. All countries are fettered to situations which certainly do not allow them complete freedom of action and, as is natural, each one or each group wants its own interests to prevail. Thus the true and supreme interests of mankind are relegated to a lower plane in this grim struggle, this fight between the Powers, this surge of material appetites and transactions and calculations. It would be inconceivable in such a world that the members of the Security Council would be willing to forgo their veto power and in democratic fair play to submit to a competent majority that would impose certain obligations on them against their will. If that is impossible, it will be equally impossible for us to place ourselves at last in the only position that is admissible for this world Organization, which, if it fails to take that position, will see its prestige diminishing day by day in public opinion: namely, its full ability to prevent war and to safeguard peace.
58. The United Nations General Assembly will at this session concern itself once again with the conflict that has occurred in the Near East between the Arab States and Israel. I should like, on behalf of my Government, to make a fresh appeal for common sense, and even human brotherliness, in order that we may arrive at a lasting settlement based on justice.
59. Colombia must state here that its conduct, both within our regional group and in the Assembly, has been strictly confined to principles which it has warmly defended throughout its life as a nation and which are immutable rules in relations among peoples. None of its words or attitudes could have been considered partial. At every moment it has sought justice and it has found identical intentions among its brother countries of the continent. It has never harboured any feeling of aversion for any of the countries that were involved in this conflict. I should like to express the admiration of my Government and my people, and their feelings of friendship and affection, for each one of the Arab States and for the State of Israel.
60. The tension in that part of the world affects us all. I cannot accept the idea that the situation that has been created, and that is becoming more inflammable day after day, may not at any given moment affect general peace. Even if that were not so, the sight of groups of human beings confronting each other, ready to annihilate each other, causes all nations anxiety and uneasiness. Yet everyone advises these countries to adopt an attitude in which the ardour that they have displayed would give place to reciprocal efforts of collaboration and understanding, which would undoubtedly bear fruit. This, of course, implies the comprehensive collaboration of all nations, and in particular the great Powers; not the collaboration that has been given up to now, which has consisted of arms and instruments of destruction that inevitably provoke fresh and more bloody and dangerous armed attacks, but constructive aid, mediation in the cause of peace, restorative action that would banish fear and anxiety for ever from this area that is of such importance and of such significance in the history of mankind and replace it with creative tranquillity.
61. The unanimous action of the countries forming the Latin American group in the discussions that the General Assembly held in order to consider the warlike conflict between the Arab States and Israel gives my country — and, I hope, its brother countries — a theme to ponder, which I think I should deal with in this speech. I am doing so precisely because it refers to what can be and what should be, in my Government's opinion, the role of the Latin American countries in the elucidation of the problems that affect the world.
62. By reason of its broad and constant tradition of respect for law, and of defence of legality and peace, its deep-rooted culture, the brilliance and mental capacity of its internationalists and the invaluable contribution that it has made in the history of culture to the formation and concept of international law, Latin America must play an important part in the decisions that affect the future of the species. But in order to do so it must work and act in unity.
63. This united position, the presence of all our countries with one single point of view — and the more so if that point of view is supported by sound moral and legal arguments — can at least gain the allegiance of a considerable part of the honest opinion of the other nations of the world. And this has proved true on other occasions. Latin America must have its own policy, which reflects the common aspiration of our peoples. It is true that the countries of Latin America have followed the line of the Western nations faithfully and with conviction — not simply out of opportunism, or for a whim, or for advantages, but on the basis of an ordered body of philosophical and political doctrine. We believe in representative democracy, in the importance of certain spiritual values and in the permanence of inherent juridical principles. In the complex world of today, when the blocs of nations which were formed in the Second World War are disintegrating and when each of them tries to make its own interests prevail even over the principles of our basic Charter, it is necessary that Latin America should proclaim before the international community a line of conduct that may help to clear away the shadows of this confused world and produce some clarity. For this effort Colombia offers its most determined co-operation.
64. As a result of persistent acts which had been widely broadcast to world public opinion, the organ of consultation of the Organization of American States met recently at Washington. There, decisions were taken with the object of halting the action of the Government of Cuba, which, as is well known, is designed to promote, finance and direct subversive movements in the Latin American countries. Such movements have made themselves felt in varying degrees in different Latin American countries, although in none of them have they actually represented a serious danger to the stability of its institutions. As far as Colombia is concerned, I can state that propaganda and sensationalism have exaggerated a situation that has never been so serious or marked by such unrest as they claim. My country is proceeding with its orderly and peaceful development, within a legal and political system of deeply rooted freedom.
65. The immense majority of the Latin American countries have severed diplomatic and commercial relations with the Government of Cuba. They have, however, gone no further. Their object was to form a sanitary cordon in order to protect their way of life, but they have never tried to interfere in the internal affairs of Cuba or to replace the regime in power there by one chosen by themselves.
66. On the other hand, the persistent, blatant and calculated action of the Government of Cuba in intervening in the internal affairs of the Latin American countries is beyond all doubt a scandalous violation of the principle of non-intervention enshrined in the United Nations Charter and in General Assembly resolution 2131 (XX). The international community and the world Organization which is its authorized mouthpiece cannot remain indifferent to such acts; for that reason, and in accordance with the decision unanimously adopted by the States members of our regional system, the facts will have to be carefully analysed here.
67. In the context of the great efforts that the international community has been making to correct the increasing disequilibrium in social and economic matters in the world, Latin America can offer some comforting facts. In the Declaration of the Presidents of America signed at Punta del Este on 14 April 1967, there is something that directly concerns the leaders of the world economy; it is the part that refers to the relations of the Latin American countries with the industrialized countries and the need for external financial and technical help to carry oat the development programmes.
68. With regard to the first point, it is common knowledge that it is the adverse terms of their international trade that has seriously hampered the progress of our countries. There is still a tremendous and lamentable lack of understanding oil the part of the developed countries of the terms on which their trade relations with the developing countries are carried out, and unfortunately this spirit does not seem to have changed. The whole economic orientation of international trade and industrial production is designed to make things more difficult for the countries which live, precariously from the proceeds of their basic products, the prices of which decrease from day to day on the international market while the prices of manufactured products increase.
69. Recently, in an important article by Josué de Castro, attention was drawn to the impressive fact that, at a time when the external aid given by the industrialized countries to the developing countries amounted, at the most, to an annual total of $8,000 million, the military budgets of those countries amounted to more than $150,000 million. The author of the article said that the comparison between those two figures was the most serious indictment of the policy of the great Powers. For a world in which the elementary needs for food, housing and clothing are calling more and more urgently for some relief, even temporary, it is a source of perpetual resentment to see such extraordinary sums invested in armaments, military equipment and powerful offensive devices. And, worst of all, while that expenditure tends to increase, the money invested in external aid is daily growing less. Moreover, external aid is granted on a bilateral basis and in such circumstances it is generally the political and economic interests of the country granting the aid that prevail over the real needs of the recipient country. Thus the developing countries are placed in a position of inferiority and insecurity.
70. Thousands of voices have been raised in denunciation of this tremendous injustice, which is growing greater with every day that passes. Today the world has before it the spectacle of great prosperity on one side and poverty on the other. Such a world cannot and must not continue — and it certainly will not continue for many years. In his splendid encyclical Populorum Progressio of 26 March 1967, Pope Paul VI gave the leaders and the people of all nations a counsel that we must not forget and that I shall venture to quote to you:
"The same duty of solidarity that rests on individuals exists also for nations: 'Advanced nations have a very heavy obligation to help the developing peoples'...Given the increasing needs of the underdeveloped countries, it should be considered quite normal for an advanced country to devote a part of its production to meet their needs.” 
71. As this new session of the General Assembly opens, my country expresses the hope that we may reach fundamental agreements on the real and more acute problems facing the nations, that we may find suitable ways of settling disputes, that we may work out sound ways of relieving human suffering, eradicating violence and banishing fear, that each human being may gain some degree of well-being-, however small. As mankind grows and science advances, producing the wonders that civilization has placed before our astonished eyes, the ideal of justice becomes more elusive. But we must not resign ourselves to that fact: it is our duty, in the light of our grave responsibility as leaders of our respective countries, to fight stubbornly and tirelessly, undaunted by the most formidable obstacles, to build a future of prosperity for man in a world at peace.

===== Session 23 - 1968 =====
133. I should like to borrow a vivid metaphor used by that great man Churchill to describe the role of small countries. Among the background material to the Yalta Conference of 4-11 February 1945, published by the United States Department of State, there is a report of the last meeting, at which the role of smaller States in the world of the future was discussed. The British statesman, commenting on the role of the small nations which would subsequently be invited to join the United Nations quoted Shakespeare and said:

“The eagle suffers little birds to sing, And is not careful what they mean thereby”.

134. Twenty-five years have passed since that meeting, at which the first serious efforts were made to work out the concept of the United Nations, and it may perhaps not be out of place for the song of some of the little birds to be heard in this forum.

135. A quarter of a century is but a brief instant in the history of mankind’s search for a lasting peace throughout its thousands of years of existence. It is in the light of this short span of time that we should judge the effectiveness of our Organization. We must recognize that, despite certain failures which might be regarded as cause for discouragement, the achievements of the United Nations in a world more integrated and complex than in the days of the League of Nations, can be compared favourably with those of the League. We are not on the verge of a third world war, as was the case in the 1930s when the League of Nations reached the same age. On the contrary, under the auspices of the United Nations, in the past twenty years there has been a vast process of decolonization in several continents, which has led to a new balance of powers among the great nations.

136. Never in the history. of man has there been such a vast redistribution of power in the world, achieved not by force of arms but as a result of negotiations around the conference table. Some nations have attained the rank of super-Powers, while others, confined within the bounds of their original territory, have seen their importance in world affairs reduced, without this posing any major threat to world peace. The bringing to an end of the white race’s centuries-old dominion over other races without seriously affecting the political stability of the world, as occurred when vast areas of Asia and Africa were conquered by the European Powers, is one of the most remarkable achievements in the history of these past twenty years.

137. It is true that hotbeds of racism remain in more than one African region, but the process of integration in the international sphere has been so inevitable that Colombia is convinced that, in the national sphere, too, the claim to supremacy of some races over others is doomed to disappear. Again, as was the case with the League of Nations itself, the United Nations organs have done commendable work not only in the preservation of peace, but also in regard to social and economic development, health, culture, technical assistance and monetary policy; in short, in the sphere of human solidarity. Nevertheless, if we compare the spirit of the discussions at San Francisco and of the first years of the United Nations with what is happening today, there are sound reasons for re-examining the course we are following.

138. Peace between nations, like peace between men, can be based on no other principle than that of entrusting the entire community with he task of rendering justice in order to safeguard the security of each associated State. Progress in the achievement of peace is reflected in all societies by the extent to which power is delegated to a common higher authority responsible for ensuring that man lives in harmony with his neighbour; since this authority represents the interests of all, it becomes superfluous and obsolete to take the law into one’s own hands. Ideally, peace between nations should be based on the creation of a supranational body able to apply collective force, which would represent the highest culmination of the principle I have just outlined. But at this stage in the history of mankind it would be too much to expect all States to renounce armed force and place it in the hands of a common higher body. However, until this ideal objective can be attained, there is a state of mind which is indicative of progress or lack of progress in the spirit of collaboration, depending on whether the attitude adopted is insular or multilateral.

139. If peace is being sought sincerely, every day should bring an increase in the number of settlements attained by persuasion through the collective will and a decrease in the number of settlements imposed by force and bypassing the world Organization. In other words, peace is measured by the willingness to renounce unilateral solutions and to abide by the decisions of the community of States constituting the Organization. Using this yardstick, we note with dismay how in the world of today, the settlements imposed are not the result of agreement or of submission to higher interests, but rather of the economic and military supremacy of the great Powers, which attempt to guarantee their own security unilaterally, while at the same time the small States see their conflicts prolonged, often artificially, in the interests of the larger Powers, which turn the world into a chess-board on which they move queens, rooks and pawns alike. It is not without reason that we are again hearing phrases such as “balance of power”, “spheres of influence,” “national security” and the like, which at the end of the Second World War appeared to be banned from the vocabulary of international relations.

140. Thus, when we thought we had outgrown the concept that, on the basis of the principle of the balance of power, peace is guaranteed by the formation of equally powerful blocs such as those which maintained a balance between the European monarchies in the eighteenth century, we find ourselves in a world in which this same anachronistic doctrine holds sway, sometimes tacitly and sometimes overtly. For some time now there has been a growing tendency to overlook the principle that peace among equal States is preserved by the rule of law, as embodied in the United Nations; it would seem that, unfortunately, the super-Powers are trying to prove that the stability of the world depends on their capacity to bare their teeth at each other, while at the same time respecting each other’s sphere of influence. In this context, what is likely to become of the United Nations? What has happened to the role of guardian of the peace which was assigned to the complex organization created at San Francisco? Is it to be dependent on the great Powers generously allowing it to exercise its jurisdiction only in specific circumstances? No. We do not think that any State, however powerful, can set itself up as a world policeman in order to impose democracy or socialism as interpreted in its own particular creed. 

141. Where policing the international order is concerned, the only legitimate policeman is the United Nations. The guardian of international order could hardly be a State with a specific ideology, which declares that those which do not share it are heretics. It must be the United Nations, animated by tolerance, which allows different ideologies to flourish and exist side by side. In Viet-Nam, the Middle East and Nigeria (with the shameful crime against humanity in Biafra), and in other, less obvious cases, where the so-called cold war continues to be fought in the form of an undeclared war, as in Czechoslovakia, between inhabitants and invaders, rivers of blood bear witness to a situation in which the United Nations is finding its authority diminished in a world of conflicting interests that does not come under its jurisdiction.

142. Outside the United Nations, but with the participation of its most prominent Members, peace is said to be preserved or threatened unilaterally by States which, for reasons which vary in their degree of validity, disregard their duties and obligations as members of the community of nations constituting the Organization and resort to force to achieve their goals.

143. Their position as States with primary responsibility for the maintenance of world security, laid down and accepted in the Charter, is no longer sufficient for certain Powers, which regard themselves as exempt from some of their duties as Members of the United Nations and act accordingly. How often have we heard them say, in sarcastic tones, that the security of a great State, with world-wide commitments, cannot depend on the will of any small country? That is true; but it was precisely to assure the super-Powers freedom of action within a legal framework, that the idea of the veto was conceived, since it means that they are not automatically subject to the will of the majority and are not therefore compelled to resort to the law of the jungle.

144. What justification would there be for the veto, if those who possess that power also reserved the right to invade their neighbours, ignoring ail their legal commitments, as a way of guaranteeing their security or that of their political system, outside the United Nations? The problem is not a new one. Ten or fifteen years ago, when nuclear technology was the exclusive province of two or three nations, how often, in an effort to belittle the views of the small States, did they resort to the ingenious tactic of saying mockingly that the conclusions of their scientists on nuclear energy did not coincide with the findings of the small nations!

145. That is why those who cannot understand why the little birds should be allowed to sing in the presence of the eagles must be reminded again and again that the United Nations was not the result of a plot on the part of the small States to place the great Powers under their rule, but that on the contrary it was the great Powers, exercising their full sovereignty at Yalta and at Dumbarton Oaks, which laid down the rules of the club they were forming, reserving for themselves certain advantages, such as the right of veto, and then invited us to join. Why, then, is it surprising that we, the weak nations, not only make use of the statutes that were presented to us but sometimes also raise our voices to demand that those who established the rules should abide by them? 

146. In his message to the National Congress on 20 July 1968, the President of Colombia, referring to the war in Viet-Nam, rightly stated:

“... this conflict continues while the countries associated in a system essentially created for the purpose of preserving peace, and whose representatives act either in the Security Council or in the larger forum of the General Assembly, are unable to take any action to alter its fatal course. This confirms once again the very serious drawbacks of the San Francisco Charter: the obstacles created by the great Powers’ right of veto and the major defect of lack of universality, which it has not been possible to remedy.

“It would probably seem Utopian to speak of a great reform which would open the United Nations unreservedly to all the countries of the world, establish more effective procedures for the peaceful settlement of disputes and endow the international Organization with genuine collective power. But the spectacle of its present powerlessness in face of a situation from which none of the parties concerned can easily escape highlights the problems of the international Organization and the urgent need to tackle them openly and frankly, going beyond the conventional stands and alignments which are largely the result of blatant or artfully disguised imperialist practices, as the case may be.”

147. Again, if this reluctance to act collectively leads to such disastrous results in the maintenance of peace, what of the same policy when it is a question, not of armed conflict, but of providing economic assistance and foreign aid to prevent social tension.

148. If the United Nations is becoming less effective in maintaining world peace, the same is true of its role in assisting the poorer nations on the road to development. The world Organization is no longer, except to a very small extent, the normal channel for providing economic assistance. The idea that the more advanced countries should assist the less prosperous ones with their capital and technical know-how has recently gained greater acceptance internationally. For tie first time in the history of nations, the backwardness of some countries has become a matter of concern to the wealthier countries.

149. This degree of intellectual maturity in public opinion should be reflected in the establishment of a large fund for foreign aid with contributions from all nations, to be administered, again collectively, by all the peoples of the world, through the United Nations. But this is not the case. The aid received by the weak countries through the United Nations is only a small percentage of the funds allocated by the strong nations to the development of the developing countries. In the same way that declarations of war or acts of aggression are undertaken unilaterally, in many cases foreign aid is provided through bilateral agreements, with specific commitments. The same policy of spheres of
influence and blocs which is a threat to the moral authority of the United Nations is, in the economic field, sowing the seeds of destruction of universal solidarity.

150. The credits granted by the super-Powers within their spheres of influence carry with them so many conditions regarding the management of the domestic economy that it would not be an exaggeration to say that on occasion they actually infringe the recipient country’s freedom to choose its own economic policies.

151. Not only are recipient countries required to purchase goods in specific regions, goods which must be paid for in a specific way through specific establishments and transported in ships of a specific flag, but their autonomy in economic matters is often subject to the will of the lending States. They are not really free to choose how they will use the assistance so generously given because, as is recognized in the current terminology, many of the suppliers’ credits are “tied”. In other words, more than economic aid, the loans are a means for promoting the exports of the strong State so that the weak State, buying today, is indebted to his supplier for the morrow.

152. This is undoubtedly an effective means of co-operation; none the less, if the loans were not administered unilaterally but rather channelled through the United Nations, to be used by the recipients to their best advantage, not only would this expedite development but it would help to prevent the inevitable friction between creditor and debtor countries which, in spite of mutual goodwill, may, as a result of the inflexibility of some minor official, lead to irreparable misunderstandings. Paradoxically, where both producing and consuming countries benefit from the agreements reached in world conferences sponsored by the United Nations, for the purpose of regulating trade above and beyond political considerations, as in the case of coffee and sugar, there is no comparable arrangement in the field of foreign aid. Only a very small number of loans do not bring, implicitly or explicitly, in some cases political and in many cases commercial or economic advantages to the lender. Multilateral aid is practically non-existent.

153. In foreign aid as in the maintenance of peace, the United Nations often acts merely as a notary, recording what others do. Might it not be appropriate to bring up the question of the need to universalize the problem of foreign aid, just as it is necessary to universalize the problem of peace? The contrast between the failure of some bilateral assistance plans and the success of others which have no strings attached, such as those of the Inter-American Development Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, speaks eloquently against the use of aid as a pretext for making the debtor country directly dependent on the creditor country. Any contribution to the universalization of foreign aid is a contribution to peace and to the improvement of social and economic conditions in countries Members of the United Nations.

154. Among other reasons, it must be remembered that the division of the world into regional, sometimes antagonistic, blocs leads to the establishment of regional or national protectionist policies which, with the barriers to trade, create a tariff war atmosphere similar to the one prevailing on the eve of the great world crisis of 1930. How can we expect an improvement in the situation of the less developed countries through fairly generous foreign aid if, at the same time, tariff barriers to international trade are erected and every exporting nation finds the door slammed in its face because of political or regional considerations? This is what happens to our tropical fruits in the market of the European Economic Community, where the new African and Asian States receive privileged treatment from the former metropolitan countries.

155. What would happen if, carrying this process further, the United States of America were to close its doors to coffee, tobacco, bananas, sugar and cocoa from other continents, in defence of the products of the American continent? Would we not be favouring an economic standstill similar to that which ruined the world economy four decades ago? Great efforts have been made to universalize trade and replace partial arrangements by comprehensive multinational conventions aimed at organizing marketing and trade on a world-wide scale, but here as in other cases the insular spirit of groups or regions continues to prevail, despite the need for supranational action that would complement the United Nations peace-keeping mission by attacking war at its economic roots.

156. We must go back to the idea of multilateral action, be it with regard to problems of territorial or economic security, exploitation of the resources of the sea, or control of nuclear energy. We must rise above the policy of blocs or spheres of influence, replacing it by respect for law and the equality of nations under the aegis of the United Nations, by forming, among those of us who share this principle, a bloc of impartial peace-loving nations, respecting the rights of all countries that refrain from taking justice into their own hands, receiving or giving assistance with political implications, engaging in tariff wars or countenancing acts of piracy in the air such as occur from time to time in various regions in the face of collective indifference. This is how we could restore to the United. Nations its significance as a catalyst of human solidarity, rather than an impotent spectator of a new distribution of power wherein, although the actors and the stage have changed, the anachronistic principle of preserving peace by demonstrating the capacity to wage war — as in the days of ancient Rome — remains unchanged after more than twenty centuries of civilization under law.

157. In this regard the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons [resolution 2372(XXII)] marks one of the greatest achievements towards solving the conflicts that darken the horizon, by establishing a world-wide commitment to avoid them. 

158. On behalf of my delegation, I am glad to announce, that, within the next few weeks, the Government of Colombia will be instructing its representatives to sign the non-proliferation Treaty. My Government is confident that it will be possible, in the near future, to secure the accession to this Treaty not only of States that are not able to manufacture nuclear devices but also of countries that might be in a position to do so in the near future. If this is achieved, then, as with the overall problem of disarmament, all that would remain is to persuade the Powers possessing or capable of producing nuclear arsenals to reach an agreement on banning the use of such weapons by placing them under international control. It would be to no avail for the signatories of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to spend fifty years discussing the matter around the conference table or to sign hundreds of treaties, if the super-Powers, outside the restrictions imposed by the non-proliferation Treaty on the parties, retain their capacity to unleash, in the space of one day or one hour, a nuclear confrontation.

159. A few years ago a member of the United States Senate qualified as “unthinkable” those ideas which, even though accepted inwardly, are prevented by the attitude of society, in an atmosphere of suspicion and mistrust, from coming to the surface. He was referring to the need for his country to discuss the problems of South-East Asia with the People’s Republic of China, the advisability of reaching an agreement on the dismantling of the Warsaw Treaty and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and the readmission of the Republic of Cuba to the American community of nations. We are not in a position to judge the political implications that these “unthinkable” thoughts might have for different nations; for just as a United States citizen might consider certain subjects “unthinkable”, it is not inconceivable that, in other parts of the world. even if certain forms of censorship did not exist, the liberalization of political customs and practices or tolerance of criticism of government action might also be termed “unthinkable”. However, it is just such intellectual courage that is needed to break the vicious circle in which the United Nations finds itself becoming increasingly deadlocked because there
is not sufficient intellectual courage to break through stereotyped attitudes. Only by using creative imagination, as new developments occur, can we prevent this Assembly from resembling the performance of a play in which each actor plays a preassigned role because the instructions from Governments to their representatives do not vary substantially from year to year.

160. It would perhaps be premature at this stage of the general debate to speak of amending the Charter itself, especially since it is not the tools but we the workmen who have been failing to implement the policies for which the United Nations was conceived. Let us reform ourselves, both great and small, temporarily committed as we are to unilateral solutions, and return with fresh minds to the concept of collective peace, placing the security of the world in the hands of the Organization. Let us not allow the great Powers to misuse the veto — which was instituted for the protection of their interests — to take advantage of the Organization by preventing it from dealing with the theatres of war that at present constitute mankind’s greatest concern. The veto was not meant to be used to circumvent the jurisdiction of the United Nations and carry out invasions and landings, thus placing the world Organization in the position of a spectator. On the contrary, it was established in order to free the Organization from the rule of material or numerical force and allow it to act independently as the guardian of the law in settling armed conflict.

161. The delegation of Colombia would regard it as a good omen if, beginning with this session, there were to be a thaw in previous positions that would lead to a constructive dialogue instead of verbal clashes, and if the full effectiveness of the collective security mechanisms could be restored. It is man’s last hope of permanently securing the long-desired boon of peace.

162. I do not wish to conclude without welcoming, on behalf of my country’s delegation, the election of Mr. Emilio Arenales, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Guatemala, as President of the United Nations General Assembly at its twenty-third session. Mr. Arenales embodies all the virtues of his great little nation and his election is not only a high honour for the entire Latin American community, but also a guarantee of impartiality, discretion and good judgement in the conduct of our debates. His experience as a veteran diplomat will ensure that the office of President will continue to be used to further the cause of peace, as it was by his illustrious predecessor, Mr. Corneliu Manescu, whom all Members of this Organization remember with gratitude and to whom we shall be delighted to pay tribute during his forthcoming visit to Colombia.

===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
16. I think it is a good omen that our deliberations
this year are presided over by such a distinguished
personality as Miss Angie Brooks. The affection and esteem
in which she has been generally held for years in the United
Nations are well deserved and, on this occasion, she
embodies many of the values which constitute the nucleus
of the Organization’s concern, not only as a woman but as a
representative of a small country and of a race whose
influence extends to several continents. Colombia rejoices
at her unanimous election to preside over this Assembly.

17. Nor can I fail to record with a profound feeling of
sorrow the disappearance from our midst of our last
President, Mr. Emilio Arenales, the representative of a Latin
American nation and of a generation destined to face the
challenge of our times with personalities of outstanding
character such as his.

18. Reference has been made here on numerous occasions
to the heroic feat of a human being setting foot on the
moon for the first time. There can be no doubt that this
constitutes a decisive landmark in the progress of mankind.
The very destiny of man and his place in history have been
placed in a new light. In the last ten years we have made the
most rapid progress of the species in many centuries. And
notwithstanding the fact that the astronaut, Armstrong,
when he planted his flag stated that he did so “for all
mankind“, as a generous act towards his rivals in the space
race and towards those who will never achieve a comparable
degree of development, how many considerations does this
event not give rise to?

19. As inconceivable as the sidereal distances covered are
to the general public, so also are the technological,
economic and social gaps which separate some inhabitants
of the earth from others. The prodigious conquest, which is
said to have been carried out in the name of all and which
in an egalitarian society of nations, with a universal
Organization, should have been carried out under a
common direction and with the support of all mankind, is
but the accomplishment of one super-Power, in which it
demonstrates its unquestionable superiority.

20. As we enter this new era, new responsibilities and new
obligations are entailed for each one of us. This has been
perceived intuitively by churches, empires and States,
which have been shaken to their foundations by present day 
developments known as aggiornamiento, or “decolonization” 
or the “thaw” and bow to the signs of the times.

21. In contrast to this change amid stability, where
technology, science, religions and political institutions also
adapt themselves to their new context, the United Nations
remains the same, governed by a Charter, namely the one
signed in San Francisco, which was drawn up twenty-five
years ago to operate for geopolitical conditions which have
now been surpassed.

22. A few days ago [1756th meeting] the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union reminded us here how
this Organization had been conceived by a coalition of
peace-loving countries which, despite ideological differences, 
succeeded in restoring the rule of international
law, making themselves responsible for the maintenance of
order against the law-breakers of the Nazi-Fascist axis.

23. This was the distribution of forces taken into account
by the Charter and which today no longer exists. The
designation “enemy” States is an anachronism which
corresponds to the conditions prevailing in 1946. After the
years of alliance against totalitarianism and of competition
among the super-Powers, we are returning to that path from
which we should never have strayed, namely that international 
order is not the task of any State in particular but is
the collective duty of the community.

24. The enormous responsibility of maintaining world
peace which the United States assumed for the first time in
history, as President Nixon reminded us here [1755th
meeting], is also a thing of the past. What was a dissident
opinion a few years ago has now become a commonplace.
All of us, all States, large and small; see in collective
security the true guarantee of world peace and no one
fosters any longer the illusion that it can be the gendarme
responsible for maintaining international order. The persistence 
of many conflicts between small States can rightly
be attributed to interference by the great Powers, as was
stated here by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Israel,
when he said:

“For when the complex national interests and rivalries
of great Powers are superimposed on a regional tension,
the result is often not to reduce the tension but to
broaden its scope” [1757th meeting].

25. Therefore, despite the inevitable setbacks in a process
as complicated as the maintenance of peace, we can
contemplate the future with optimism on the twenty-fifth
anniversary of the Organization.

26. The very nature of nuclear weapons, which, when the
United Nations came into existence, were in the hands of a
single Power, has forced all the participants in the arms race
to change their outlook. Today, with the new distribution
of power in the world, it is more imperative than it was a
quarter of a century ago to achieve disarmament and
agreement through dialogue and negotiation in a spirit of
mutual respect. Furthermore, it is known that in the wars
of our times and for all the more reason in future wars
there are no absolute victors or vanquished, nor will there
be, but rather that victory, which is more difficult to
achieve than in other ages, imposes obligations on the
victors themselves; it is also a known fact that between
countries whose economic and technological development
is comparable only a very transitory military superiority
can be gained. The ever more strenuous efforts required to
establish an immense industrial and military complex, while
they may make possible feats such as the voyage to the
moon, must ultimately be regarded as a waste in the light of
the urgency of human needs, not only in the underdeveloped 
areas, but also in the industrialized countries
themselves.

27. In this way we return, after many high hopes of global
strategy, to the concept which took shape with the
reconstruction of Europe and Japan, following the San
Francisco Conference, namely that peace rests equally on
strength of arms and on social stability based upon the
satisfaction of a minimum of needs which, for twentieth-century 
man, is as important as his own particle of freedom
was for the man of previous centuries. Therefore, in 1946,
paraphrasing a great Latin American who said a century
ago: “Peace is respect for another’s rights”, we could then
say: “Peace is the satisfying of another’s hunger”, with the
prospect that large economic resources diverted from the
arms race would be channelled, at least in part, towards the
development of the least developed regions of the world,
giving bread, literacy and work to millions of human beings.
Article 26 of the Charter states the same thing when it
affirms:

“In order to promote the establishment and maintenance 
of international peace and security with the least
diversion for armaments of the world’s human and
economic resources, the Security Council shall be responsible 
for formulating... plans to be submitted to the
Members of the United Nations for the establishment of a
system for the regulation of armaments.”

28. What have we achieved in this respect? It is true that
significant progress has been made, particularly in regard to
the outlawing of chemical and bacteriological warfare, and
the results of the nuclear non-proliferation treaties, both
world-wide and regional, are encouraging in some respects;
but it is no less certain that we have lived for years on end
under the strategy of terror in search of a détente, of which
the words which we have heard here are harbingers, in that
they relate to renunciation of unilateral action, of spheres
of influence, of the Great Powers’ role of gendarme, in
order to return to the collective concept of the rule of law.

29. We see how little by little strategic concepts of the
period prior to modern intercontinental missiles, when the
range of armaments necessitated a policy of alliances
designed to secure launching bases, which today are an
anachronism, are being relegated to oblivion. The most
advanced types of rockets allow the super-Powers to take
charge of their own security without the need for partners,
and the large States can now boast of not having in their
continental appendices any “soft bellies” where they can be
hit.

30. We have before us, however, armed conflicts which
have remained unsolved for years, in the face of the
impotence of the United Nations and of the super-Powers
themselves. The cases of Viet-Nam and of the Middle East,
no less than civil or racial wars, are obvious examples. Here
in this very Assembly, we have witnessed the great paradox
that Viet-Nam, which is not on the agenda of the
twenty-fourth session of the General Assembly, has been
the central theme of many speeches. In like manner, we
have seen how the Middle East conflict, on which there was
rare unanimity in Security Council resolution 242 (1967)
of 22 November 1967, has been delegated to the so-called
Big Four, with a last hope of reaching agreement, in view of
the failure of the regular organs of the Organization to
make their own resolutions effective. Colombia regrets this
state of affairs but understands it. It is better to seek, at
whatever cost, the re-establishment of peace through the
agreement of the great Powers than definitely to give up the
search. But does not this state of affairs indicate to us not
only the need to assess the results achieved by the
Organization in this quarter of a century but also the
desirability of its being restructured institutionally in some
respects?

31. No one would venture to deny the balance of
beneficial results that have been achieved by the United
Nations in its brief existence in the fields of culture, health,
nutrition, economics and peace itself. There have been
many conflicts of all kinds that the Organization, sometimes 
discreetly and sometimes dramatically, has helped to
settle. Barely a month and a half ago the Organization of
American States, a regional organization which forms part
of the world system, ended an armed conflict between two
sister nations when events as serious as the occupation of
territories had already occurred. In the same way, over the
years, imminent or real threats to the peace have been
averted with honourable and satisfactory solutions for the
parties in dispute.

32. Nevertheless, Colombia considers that even though
this balance is so positive, in view of the new circumstances
of the present-day world, some reform to bring the Charter
up to date is imperative. For this purpose it intends to
request the holding of a General Conference, as provided
for in Article 109 of the Charter itself, trusting that
although this initiative comes from a small country, from
one of those countries which are generally assigned the role
of spectators and not of actors in this Assembly, the
experiences of the last twenty-five years may prove the
timeliness and appropriateness of such an institutional
readjustment.

33. My Government’s reasons are very clear, and I have
been very much pleased to see that they are shared by other
States. The balance of power in the present-day world is
not the same as it was in 1946. The Secretary-General,
U Thant, who is so objective and impartial and whose
opinions deserve all our respect, said at a press conference
that for some years to come the international scene will be
dominated by the nature of the relationship between
mainland China and the two super-Powers, and it is an
obvious fact that world peace cannot be organized while a
nation possessing the capacity for waging war on such a
scale as People’s China is excluded.

34. This was recognized in this very same hall some years
ago by His Holiness the Supreme Pontiff of Rome and,
more recently, by President Nixon when he stated that the
United States would have no objection to a request for
admission by People’s China if there was a willingness to
abide by the rules of the Organization. The question of the
admission of mainland China, if indeed it wishes to form
part of the Organization, cannot continue indefinitely to be
treated as a procedural question involving a decision as to
whether it is one of the so-called important questions
requiring a two-thirds majority or whether it is a simple
matter of credentials. What is at stake are the general
interests of peace, respect for. the right of self-determination 
of the people of Taiwan, whom the Organization 
could hardly exclude, and a number of other
questions relating to a general settlement of disputes on the
continent of Asia.

35. As more and more voices are heard calling for
universality in the United Nations, voices like that of the
President of Colombia, like those of 16 June 1969 in the
Security Council, and like those of many illustrious
personages who are calling for a study of the participation
of People’s China and other new countries, the conclusion
is reached that it is essential to stop evading the question
and face up to it, while simultaneously undertaking a
general consideration of the rules for the admission of new
States to the United Nations, and defining unequivocally
what, by general consensus, is meant by “a new State” in
the international community.

36. It is not possible, without a new and close examination 
of the principles that allow of such events, to continue
indefinitely studying limitations with a view to conferring
on small States the status of associate members, because of
their small size, while at the same time failing to investigate
whether 700 million human beings in the Asian continent
would be interested in enjoying the benefits of the world
Organization and abiding by its rules. This is an unanswered
question which must be cleared up in order to decide upon
a course of action which is in harmony with the purposes of
the United Nations.

37. Equal importance should be attached to the reform of
the functions of the Security Council and of the Secretary-General 
himself as far as his good offices for the purpose of
bringing about an understanding between the parties in
dispute are concerned. The persistent disregard of resolutions 
against racial discrimination, of those which order a
return to the status quo ante or those whose purpose is to
protect the rights of minorities makes it imperative to
provide the Security Council with a force of its own, a
secular arm. Such a force, permanent in character and not
created to deal with a specific case, would replace the
occasional expeditions which, organized in the midst of
power conflicts and in the ebb and flow of momentary
interests, have the result that the financial and material
contributions of each State subsequently become a breeding-ground 
of further difficulties for the proper functioning 
of the Organization.

38. The will to strengthen world security cannot be
limited, as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has
requested, to calling for the withdrawal of troops from
occupied territories, which would be merely a solution for
transitory difficulties, properly speaking. It must be accompanied 
by measures which, within the framework of
the Charter and the rules of procedure, invest the Security
Council with greater enforcement powers, such as the
creation of a permanent force, international in character, to
give effect to its resolutions, by force if necessary.

39. Naturally, the establishment of such a force would
have to be accompanied by a clear definition of what is
meant by aggression and by an unequivocal differentiation
between internal conflicts and international conflicts, over
which latter the United Nations has jurisdiction and in
which, without renouncing the concept of sovereignty, it is
possible to frustrate the already traditional gambit of
evading the Organization’s resolutions condemning discrimination 
based on religion, race or nationality, by alleging
that the problems concerned are internal ones. In the same
range of ideas, the question of disarmament, now entrusted
to the Eighteen-Nation Committee on Disarmament, should
be the principal item on the agenda of the General
Conference which Colombia intends to request.

40. When the studies for the Second United Nations
Development Decade are beginning, and in view of the
failure to reach the goals set for the First Decade, the
reduction of military expenditures, with the consequent
utilization of part of those resources to raise the living
standards of backward areas, becomes particularly relevant.
A number of countries have repeated, at this session, their
intention to devote 1 per cent of their gross national
product to the development of the less developed areas.
Yet, natural wealth and resources are concentrated to such
an extent in the hands of those States which are the leaders
in the armaments race that it would be utopian to think of
an improvement in general conditions, while relying solely
on the good intentions of the small States but without the
determined will of those States which to a greater degree
are contributing to the strangulation of the international
economy through military expenditures at an almost
exclusively national level. This economic process not only
consumes the money of the great Powers but determines
the whole gamut of contemporary problems as well: the
problems of poverty, of racial differences, of education, of
housing and employment, not only in the competing
countries themselves but also in those that could receive
greater attention were it not for the pernicious obsession
with armaments.

41. The complex processes involved in manufacturing
modern weapons also concentrate employment in only a
few centres of industrial and technological development in
the world. When battles were fought with arrows each State
found work for its inhabitants, whose job it was to sharpen
them. In the era of rockets and supersonic planes there are
few indeed, outside the industrialized countries, who can
participate in their production.

42. The Powers of Europe, America and Asia which were
exposed, during the great depression of the 1930s, to
massive unemployment among their workers, find a palliative 
for this scourge in the employment brought about by
contemporary war industries and their related industries. In
this way, unemployment among men and women, which
mentally we associate with the last crisis of the industrial
world, has been transferred to the developing countries,
with its train of poverty and disorders, in proportions and
with characteristics never before recorded in the history of
mankind. It is essential that at this session of the Assembly,
at which the Second United Nations Development Decade
will be discussed, there should be a clear awareness of how
serious is the problem of unemployment in the rural and
semi-industrialized areas of the world.

43. Many of the world’s resources are lying idle, are
unexploited or are in process of disappearing because of
imbalances caused by mankind itself. It is incumbent on the
Assembly at the present and at forthcoming sessions to
make a thorough study of the exploitation of the resources
of the sea-bed, of the definition of the limits of territorial
waters by agreement between States, of the use of outer
space for peaceful purposes and of many other equally
important items which are on the agenda.

44. However, undoubtedly the most important item
before the Assembly, particularly for countries like
Colombia, must be the one relating to development. The
very notion of development implies the concept of making
the most of something that already exists, be it labour, the
resources of the sea-bed or the resources of the subsoil, but
which cannot be used for lack of means. Many factors —
indeed the same factors which, channeled on a vast scale
into the armaments race, have made possible the achievements 
of the new era — are involved in the process of
development. Firstly, economic resources when they are
allocated on a vast scale to mobilize inert wealth and to
promote full employment assist nations in their so-called
“take-off” towards consumer societies. The application of
science and technology — in a word, education — plays a
similar role in both cases, whether it be to turn inventiveness 
to the making of war material or to awaken societies
that have been sleeping in a centuries-old lethargy.

45. Therefore, the effort to make the objectives of the
Second United Nations Development Decade a reality must
combine the question of the reduction of armaments with
positive measures, in order to start diverting energies which
are today devoted to preparations for a hypothetical war
towards the benefits of a better distributed and more
widely enjoyed world prosperity, and, first and foremost,
to face the problem of unemployment which, either openly
or in disguised form, afflicts the under-developed regions.
Will not this then be the real challenge of our times, in the
Second United Nations Development Decade?

46. Our countries do not aspire, however, to receive from
alien hands the benefits of progress. We only want to
change in the framework within which other countries
achieved it in the past. We only seek access to world
markets on a non-discriminatory and non-reciprocal basis.
A greater participation of our continent in the world
market would be tantamount to setting out on the road to
development with a resolute step. But, as my Government
has stated repeatedly, for this to occur there must be
established a reciprocity between the backward and the
developed regions going beyond the supply of raw materials
subject to ruthless competition both from the older
producers and from the manufacturers of artificial substitutes. 
A division of labour similar to that which occurs
naturally in large countries, leaving industries requiring a
large volume of manpower in areas where this is plentiful,
and large concentrations of capital in areas where this is to
be found, should also take place on a world-wide scale.

47. Thus, with wider horizons for world trade, with the
abandonment of imperial or post-colonial preferences, the
semi-industrialized countries would be able to have access
to the large markets, with indisputable benefits to the
consumers themselves. This is why we attach such great
importance to the task of trade liberalization which the
United Nations is promoting for the Second Development
Decade.

48. We seek less power for States and more welfare for the
individual, a larger trade flow and less interchange of strong
words and missiles among nations. Optimistically we believe
that, given the will to change existing conditions, we shall
be able to forge ahead. To the great States we say: Create
the: conditions, give us the tools, and we, by our own
efforts, will carry out the task of freeing two thirds of the
human race from hunger, ignorance, disease and unemployment.

===== Session 25 - 1970 =====
Mr. President, this visit to the United Nations provides me with an opportunity to congratulate you on your well-deserved election by the General Assembly. It is a gesture of recognition of your personal qualifications and of the contribution which your country has made to international cooperation. Colombia is confident that under your expert guidance the General Assembly will successfully complete its work.
2.	This is the first time the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the new Government of Colombia attends this world Assembly. On 7 August last, President Misael Pastrana was constitutionally inaugurated. He was elected by the people of my country in the freest and most closely contested election campaign in the last years, in which a record number of ballots was cast and voters were able to decide the national destiny under the protection of the laws.
3.	The democratic character of this Government is fully in accord with the efforts of {he two national parties to maintain a coalition government and to continue to carry out the social programs, which are the irreversible goal of the new President of Colombia. He is determined to strengthen the achievements that have been gained within law and order, so as to apply an integral agrarian reform, an intensive and well balanced development of our territory and.a gradual and progressive rise in the standard of living of the underprivileged classes.
4.	The experience of the National Front, in existence for twelve years, has been one of the most significant developments in the history of Colombia. In its respect for human rights and constitutional guarantees, it has created an atmosphere favorable to understanding and agreement among all of our political groups. In a disturbed and confused world, shaken by protest and revolution. Colombia has achieved progress, through democratic channels and under the rule of law. We have full confidence in this national consensus and in the sprint of our nations.
5.	Furthermore, we have well-defined international purposes which support the principles of the United Nations. As a country we have an old and deep-rooted tradition of acting always with the strictest sense of justice and by closely observing the rules of human rights.
6.	The foreign policy of Colombia, since the earliest decades of the nineteenth century, the first years of our independence, has been oriented towards international cooperation. An evidence of this is the missions sent by the liberator and President of the Republic, Simon Bolivar, to various States in America and Europe, to explain the main principles of our new nation and to anticipate the Congress of 1826,  which adopted the first interAmerican Treaty of solidarity, mutual aid and reciprocal respect for sovereignty.
7.	That was the spirit with which we established our national boundaries. In the midst of a lack of knowledge of our geography, it was necessary to track down ancient titles to justify the legal demarcation line and to chase foot by foot the landmarks of a frontier extending over several thousand kilometers. In establishing its borders, Colombia scrupulously followed a juridical criterion and thus gave the supreme example of adherence to international law and to peaceful means. Any territorial disputes with our neighbors were settled in accordance with international law, with no thought of war, invasion or conquest.
8.	It is now many years since our last frontier treaty was signed. When that chapter of our diplomatic history was closed, we looked back with gratitude to the founders of the Republic of Colombia, for it was they who instilled in us the spirit of cooperation and friendship with our neighbors and with all States of our continent. It was they who proclaimed clearly the Colombian doctrine of judicially established frontiers, specifically those of uti possidetis juris of 1810, by which the nations that inherited the Spanish dominions were recognized as rightful owners of the territories of the various general captaincies and vice-royalties. It was this doctrine that very largely regulated the demarcation of frontiers in our hemisphere.
9.	Our national sovereignty is defined and limited by law. The ambition to which we have adhered through
the years has been the observance of international law, which is the supreme rule for justice among peoples. It is thus possible for us who are today members of the Colombian Government to state that we do not covet any territory other than that which has been assigned to us legitimately by border treaties and international agreements, as, for instance, those related to our continental shelf and our fishing zone J. Every inch of our land is acknowledged as ours by treaties which we finally succeeded in working out through friendly agreements. We should like to follow the same procedures with our neighbors regarding the delineation of the marine and submarine areas.
10.	In the first century of their existence the Latin American countries lived apart from international life, involved as they were in internal strife, and after the epic of liberation came the need for our countries of the Western Hemisphere to settle complicated differences over frontiers. Now, in the twentieth century, Latin America has an international personality and is proud to come to this Assembly of the United Nations with her theses on law, human dignity and economic justice among peoples.
11.	Latin America, in our opinion, has a lofty mission in world gatherings: to plead unceasingly for international cooperation, for the rule of law and justice and for better treatment for the developing peoples, as the basis for world balance. We are not satisfied with what has been done so far and we feel obliged to say so within this Organization, because of the grave situations which we see throughout the world.
12.	We have adhered to the ideals and methods of international cooperation both at the regional level and at the wider level of the United Nations, and now we find strong reasons to warn that the period of the isolation of peoples is over and that they are bound to join hands to undertake the works of peace, the very pressing task of preventing war and the equally urgent duty of extending economic and social justice throughout the world.
13.	No spot on earth is immune from attack. The Second World War was a clear demonstration of that fact, which is no longer disputed by anybody in this age of technology and science, when man has succeeded in his greatest adventure to travel to other spaces. Since then the destructive power of weapons has been perfected to the utmost, and our planet seems smaller than ever before, more densely populated and more exposed to the danger of universal devastation. At the same time, the needs of the underdeveloped peoples cannot wait. If the arms race is not stopped, we would face ominous harbingers and the not entirely unimaginable danger that what are now local wars may escalate into more general wars.
14.	The indispensable cooperation between peoples and States requires, of course, certain conditions without which it would be a vain purpose or an empty word. States must completely accept the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, in particular to refrain from using threats or force against the territorial integrity or the political independence of any State and always to act according to international law and to apply the procedures for the peaceful resolution of differences. Wherever illegal force is used there is a weakening of the noble concept of international cooperation so dear to all peoples of all nations.
15.	The dilemma of force versus law, of violence as a means to dominate other nations or against their self determination in choosing their national destinies and forms of government, which will best respond to their national criterion, whether social or political, is an accurate moral x-ray of the disquiet of our time and the summary of the past twenty--five years of history. After the Second World War ended, we did not see that era of peace and justice for which everyone yearned. We saw only a continuation of violence and the subordination of some States by others. It can be said that this Organization was born in the middle of a tremendous drama of mankind, when the war had not yet ended, and it was impossible to implant cooperation among all nations. We have yet to see the attainment of such aims as a just peace firmly established and peoples living together in freedom.
16.	Whereas technology and science reveal astonishing progress we have hardly advanced at all in the field of human relations. Yet we know where the essential values lie. There is no cooperation without respect for international law and respect too for self determination and the dignity of the individual. The United Nations is itself founded on the belief that all the Member States agree on certain fundamental principles.
17.	Let us recall Pascal's words: "Force without law is tyranny, and law without force is impotence."
18.	The United Nations should initiate without delay a process of honest self-criticism of its potentialities and achievements in collective security and the maintenance of peace. The twenty-five years during which the Charter of the Organization has been in force prove the ineffectiveness of the system adopted in San Francisco to "save succeeding generations from the scourge of war".
19.	There has been a glaring contradiction between the law and the harsh reality endured by people in some regions of the world where they suffer the bitter insecurity of poverty, where freedom is unknown, where war is the natural atmosphere in which generations are being raised. Nor have crises been lacking to show up the deficiencies of the system, because the organisms entrusted with the preservation of peace have been powerless to prevent such situations or have had insufficient authority to bring about an adequate solution. In the Middle East and in Asia there are wars, which public opinion is becoming accustomed to considering as an endemic state or a permanent situation, while acts of piracy provoke universal protest.
20.	We are witnesses to an undeniable deterioration of the peaceful procedures of international law, already fallen into disuse with the "cold war" episodes, the visible opposition between two blocs of countries separated by conflicting ideologies and situated in major zones of influence. The United Nations then lost a large part of its authority because of the unfortunate precedents created, and the Charter of the United Nations became an ineffective instrument. Although it is true that, after these twenty-five years of international tensions, we do perceive friendly contacts between States on both sides of the iron curtain.
21.	Certain other factors are not contemplated in the United Nations Charter. Such are the undeclared wars which erupt and are waged without formal announcements and which international organizations decide, with an excess of optimism, to consider that they do not exist. Then too there is the contemporary phenomenon of indirect aggression. This is perpetrated in various ways, sometimes, as war propaganda against another sovereign State, sometimes as instigations, so that improvised armies will disturb the internal peace and development of another country. Methods of creating violence have multiplied to such an extent throughout the world that the fundamental problem of the United Nations is, first of all, to restore confidence in its procedures among peoples.
22.	Yet the real and very grave problem of the vacuums in the collective security system is caused by the failure of a number of procedures which have been replaced by force of arms. The pyramid of armaments, which crushes humanity under its ruthless weight, has replaced collective security based on law and, unfortunately, what prevails now is the might of the strongest rather than the United Nations Charter. Let this be said clearly.
23.	The problem of collective security is a very serious one and should be examined without delay by the Member States of the United Nations, unless we wish to see the total collapse of a great ideal. We have reached the lowest point of incredulity in a system in which we all stand staring at' 'the balance of terror'', which looms over us like a menacing specter which we should like to be forever removed.
24.	Faced with the absence of a general system of collective security it becomes even more imperative for countries to improve regional agreements. In America at least and in our hemisphere we find a series of principles which cover legal equality among States, the obligation of nonintervention and solidarity against any kind of aggression and armed attack. These are the result of a lengthy evolution in our continental relations.
25.	Not only can we not refrain from applying these principles and methods of our regional system, but Colombia is furthermore determined to strengthen it, to extend it and endow it with the means to cope with the changing circumstances of the contemporary world, and to fulfill the guiding fundamental axiom of the Chapultepec Conference of 19452 which states that international law shall be the rule of conduct for all
States. In America we have outlawed war, as the antiwar treaty of nonaggression and conciliation of 1933 records, and we have established regional collective security by the interAmerican treaty of reciprocal assistance of 1947.
26.	Regional agreements are, at this juncture in the life of nations, the indispensable complement of the theoretical and furthermore inoperative worldwide collective security system. Colombia expounded this view at the San Francisco Conference, and we reiterate it, after decades of lack of action, unresolved crises and downright failures. We can now appreciate the historic significance of the debate at San Francisco. We did not want for warnings as to the general collective security system, entrusted as it was to a minority group of Great Powers in the Security Council, each of them having obtained the power to paralyse any decision of this body.
27.	It is quite true that the United Nations Charter was not drawn up in San Francisco in its entirety: it reached us with its essential, its most fundamental chapters dealing with the preservation of peace and with security already worked out. That explains why Colombia insisted so strenuously in 1945 to obtain confirmation of the regional agreements. It is a fact that certain great Powers had taken it upon themselves to assume responsibility for framing the future statute of the world Organization, as though called upon to do so, at the Conferences of Yalta in 1945 and Dumbarton Oaks in 1944. The countries that did not belong to that exclusive and powerful group had no choice but to agree to a whole series of rules to which no amendments of any kind were considered admissible,
28.	In San Francisco the tenacity of my country and of the American States, which backed up the ideas fervently and rightly championed by the chief of the Colombian delegation, our former President Alberto Lleras, did make it possible with regard to Article 52 on regional agreements to add paragraphs 2 and 4, and particularly paragraph 2, which invites States participating in such agreements to "make every possible effort to achieve pacific settlement of local disputes through such regional arrangements or by such regional agencies before referring them to the Security Council".
29. The experience of these twenty-five years has proved Colombia to have been right in firmly insisting on the need to preserve the integrity of such regional agreements as are compatible with the Charter of the United Nations and to make full use of them in the interests of peace and security. In several continents these agreements are clear guidelines for the security of numerous States in facing difficult circumstances, and at times when such situations are rendered desperate by aggression and intervention, which would otherwise have meant submission to the cumbersome machinery of the Security Council.
30.	Moreover, Article 51 of the United Nations Charter recognizes the rights of Member States of the Organization, including naturally the American countries, to act individually and collectively in self defense ' 'until the Security Council has taken measures necessary to maintain international peace and security". The chief of the delegation of Colombia at the San Francisco Conference explained the situation in the following words:
"If at any given time an armed attack should occur, that is to say, an act of aggression against a Member State of a regional group, then self-defense, either individual or collective, exercised as an inherent right, shall automatically operate within the terms stated by the Charter, until such time as the Security Council might impose the appropriate sanctions against the aggressor country.
"In the case of the American States, aggression against an American State constitutes aggression against all the American States, and in supporting the State attacked all States will be exercising their right of legitimate self-defense in order to repel the aggression. This is what is called the right of legitimate collective defense."
31.	One of the items on the agenda of the General Assembly is the "Need to consider suggestions regarding the review of the Charter of the United Nations". Colombia attaches particular importance to this problem, because we are convinced of the urgency of the task of aggiornamento of the Organization, which has become prematurely old in twenty-five years.
32.	The mere proliferation of new States calls for criteria to evaluate their capacity to assume responsibilities in this Organization. The "miniState" is a phenomenon which requires a certain amount of study if we wish to avoid excessive improvisation of judicial persons who aspire to act as sovereign entities. On the other hand, there are certain complex situations, the existing realities of which we should at least begin to consider, so that within a few decades we will not be accused of having established within the United Nations the image of an international community, arbitrarily cut up, without the participation of important States.
33.	In the world today, even the oldest and the most venerable institutions and beliefs of peoples have had to undergo revisions in keeping with the times. There is a concept of change that obliges every institution to take into account new social circumstances. Besides, unceasing evolution is a natural phenomenon in law. AngloSaxon jurists recognize it in their Common Law, and no code can be exempt from a day-to-day interpretation of jurisprudence.
34.	One could say a great deal perhaps even too much about the shortcomings of the United Nations Charter. It might not be amiss to specify the most conspicuous of them. We need, for example, first a reaffirmation of the principles of international law which concern good relations among States; secondly, an effective system to prevent war and to determine the aggressor; thirdly, a guarantee of the actual existence and defense of human rights; and, fourthly, the adoption of procedures for the peaceful settlement of international disputes in order finally to abolish war.
35.	However, our immediate desires do not go so far and take into account reality. Indeed, Colombia's proposals are within the limited possibilities that we deem attainable at this time. We have preferred to postpone a discussion of subjects which, on account of their scope and many-sided implications, would require previous acceptance by the majority of this Assembly. We accept as a fact the much-discussed mechanism of the Security Council. At the same time, we observe, not without anguish, that the unchecked decaying of the procedures and institutions of the United Nations Charter becomes more notorious from year to year.
36.	We should like to find a way to achieve universality for the United Nations. This is a first purpose in response to the idea of a world system of peace and justice, as well as to the nature of certain problems which cannot be solved in the absence of the countries concerned. We need a procedure that will add both flexibility and effectiveness to the principle in the United Nations Charter, whereby it is provided that "membership in the United Nations is open to . . . peace-loving States which accept the obligations contained in the . . . Charter and, in the judgment of the Organization, are able and willing to carry out these obligations".
37.	In the field of collective security, the enunciation of initiatives is not an easy task without first altering the Security Council machinery, which is the engine of the system. We consider, however, that it would be useful to suggest a more categorical implementation of the regional agreements for the maintenance of peace. In most cases when disagreements between States arise, the problem for the United Nations is to prevent an immediate confrontation between the great Powers, and to this end regional agreements should be resorted to for the implementation of conciliatory action, as provided for in Article 33 of the Charter. This procedure would leave in the hands of the parties concerned in the conflict area a choice of the most suitable peaceful means to find a solution without having to fear intervention by the great Powers. We are seeking a stricter interpretation of Article 52 of the Charter in such a way that it would be essential for Member States of the United Nations before appealing to the Security Council, to work out a peaceful settlement of their local or regional disputes through any agreements previously subscribed to by them. This transfer of mandate from the Council to the regional organizations would make the former a supreme and second instance at which the dispute in question could be examined and settled.
38.	We wish to have the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter left unchanged, since those States which have the greatest responsibility for the maintenance of peace should not be deprived of their capacity to act on behalf of the United Nations and, on express recommendation of the Security Council at times of extremely serious threats to peace, breaches of the peace or acts of aggression. This would not mean that the Council, as provided for in Article 53, might not make use of the regional agreements if it should deem this more appropriate.
39.	In the second place, we recommend more active participation by the International Court of Justice in the work of peace. It is undeniable that that high Court has been kept completely apart from the collective security system and its action has been confined to the arbitration of occasional disputes. In view of its vested authority and multinational character and in view also of the fact that it represents the different legal traditions of the Members of the United Nations, the Court could also pass judgment on the strictly legal aspects of international disputes by an emergency procedure open to all States without exception, whether or not they are Members of the United Nations.
40.	Our ideas for possible revision of parts of the Charter in certain specific aspects are submitted by Colombia to Governments represented at this Assembly for consideration, so that we may review with them all the factors of the problem and find the most adequate solutions in order to install new life into the United Nations.
41.	Colombia is particularly interested in the subject of the law of the sea. The General Assembly, in accordance with resolution 2574 A (XXIV), should consider the desirability of convening a conference on such an important subject. We can state in advance that we are ready to participate actively in the necessary preparatory work.
42.	A great deal of progress has been made in establishing principles either unknown or ignored in 1945, when the President of the United States, Mr. Harry S. Truman, issued an important proclamation, which prompted similar proclamations by other States to claim jurisdiction in some cases, and in others to claim sovereignty of the State over the continental shelf, the criterion being based on different geographical and legal considerations. This was an era marked by anarchy in the development of the law of the sea.
43.	The American States were the first to establish adequate regional doctrines in this respect. The Inter American Council of Jurists declared, as early as 1956, among other postulates, that "the distance of three miles as the limit of territorial waters is insufficient, and does not constitute a general rule of international law". And it adds, consequently, that "the enlargement of the zone of the sea traditionally called 'territorial waters' is justifiable". The resolution adopted in Ciudad Trujillo that year, at the Inter-American Special Conference on Conservation of Natural Resources: the Continental Shelf and Marine Waters,  included the principle of the Convention of 1958 on the Continental Shelf which reads as follows:
"The seabed and subsoil of the continental shelf, continental and insular terrace, or other submarine areas, adjacent to the coastal State, outside the area of the territorial sea, and to a depth of 200 meters or, beyond that limit, to where the depth of the super adjacent waters admits of the exploitation of the natural resources of the seabed and subsoil, appertain exclusively to that State and are subject to its jurisdiction and control."
In 1958 the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea  adopted four international conventions which refer to the main aspects of this question, namely, territorial waters and adjacent zones; the high seas, fishing and the conservation of the natural resources in the high seas; the continental shelf.
44.	At the Ciudad Trujillo Conference in 1956, Colombia expressly requested international cooperation in the solution of marine problems and announced that, in order to ease the way to unify points of view and eliminate divergences it would "abstain from adopting unilateral regulations". It would have been easy for Colombia to follow the example of other countries by formulating a unilateral statement as to its rights to the continental shelf or its adjacent zone, but Colombia preferred to await the outcome of the United Nations Conference held in 1958, and to incorporate its principles in the conventions which were adopted and signed there. We were consistent with our past attitude in determining territorial sovereignty, and abiding by the rules of the law were content simply to wait to cooperate with all nations in a general conference.
45.	There can be no mistake. International cooperation is the only way to avoid situations of insoluble difficulty, a searching for clear rules as to the extent of the rights of States. This indispensable cooperation has produced such lofty principles as those proclaimed by the International Convention on the Continental Shelf, which makes it clear that a coastal State exercises exclusive sovereign rights over the areas referred to in that instrument for the purposes of exploration and development of natural resources.
46.	Nevertheless, progress in the science of oceanography has left far behind certain rules of the Convention of the Continental Shelf, in which the right of sovereignty was envisaged as extending to 200 meters or, if possible, still further, without setting a limit to the exploitation or exploration of the natural resources of these zones. Furthermore, there is the Latin American consensus which grants the coastal State equally exclusive rights over the living resources of the part of the sea nearest its coast. There is an unequivocal need to complement this 1958 Convention with new and explicit provisions in the light of the most recent experience.
47.	Therefore, Colombia is in favor of the idea of convening a general conference of Member States of the United Nations to carry on the work discontinued since 1958. We desire this provided that, at the next meeting, due consideration will be given to all the various factors to which we have referred and which constitute an indivisible whole. On looking back upon the unilateral statements following President Truman's 1945 proclamation, we see them as completely outdated. International cooperation is opportune and, indeed, indispensable, so as to lead to the adoption of new rules that will take into account the needs of all countries.
48.	We shall therefore give preferential attention to the important proposal made in 1970 by the President of the United States, Mr. Richard Nixon, on the possible exploration and exploitation of the ocean floor by a community of closely associated nations, in such a way as to respect the interests of the coastline State and to obtain a source of investments to assist the developing countries.
49.	In respect to the law of the sea, Colombia has adhered strictly to the principles of international law and will continue to do so. Were we to act otherwise, we would be breaking with our past tradition of asserting our sovereignty and claiming maritime rights of domain only in so far as we are authorized to do so by international conventions and public treaties.
50.	Colombia is not merely a country of mountains and wide open spaces, both veined by many rivers; Colombia is also a land with long coastlines washed by two oceans; it needs to delve into the riches of the seas to benefit its people. This represents nothing more than a consequence of obvious international principles.
51.	The twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations is celebrated amidst the distress of the peoples of a host of developing countries. It is a chapter in which we cannot conceal the gravity of the problems which confront us. They were not foreseen in all their vast dimensions at the San Francisco Conference, nor in the Bretton Woods Agreements.
52.	In the last few months numerous and very learned reports have examined the chief factors of the shortcomings in the aid to the developing countries. It is now a generally admitted and un-contradicted truth that the present world is divided into industrialized and poverty stricken zones. This great economic gap of our time widens every day with the existence of two price rates, one for industrial goods and another for the raw or semi-finished materials of the developing countries.
53.	A world divided into two very different zones, makes us think back to a description in the work Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations written in 1776 by the British economist Adam Smith. It shows the consequences of the discovery of the New World, which gave rise to an opening up of markets
"Signed at Washington, D.C. on 27 December 1945.
for the goods of Europe and progress in the arts and industry of that continent, in exchange for the precious metals of the New World, extracted in the midst of the rusticity and poverty of the inhabitants of that region. We see, then, that the gap in economic development goes back a long way.
54.	We would have to add other considerations. The areas most in need of development have been deprived of the immense capital invested in the sophisticated technology of the artifacts of death. While expenditures on intercontinental missiles increase constantly, the volume of aid to the developing countries has so steadily been declining that it is now at the 1961 level. The United Nations has doubtless made an effort to relieve the situation but it can hardly feel satisfied with the disappointing results of the first Development Decade, which ended in 1970.
55.	In his report to the first session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in 1964, Mr. Raul Prebisch stated:
"One of the main objectives of the United Nations Development Decade is the attainment of a minimum annual growth rate of 5 per cent in the income of the developing countries by 1970. This is certainly a rather modest target and not much higher than the average rate of 4.4 per cent registered in the 1950s. Nevertheless, it will be extremely difficult if not impossible for many of the developing countries to achieve and maintain this rate of growth unless the present Conference brings about a policy of international cooperation that would make it possible to eliminate the imbalance in trade."
56.	That rate of 5 per cent per annum really meant something much less in the average per capita earnings in the peripheral countries. Even though the goals were so modest they were not attained nor was implementation of the recommendations attained, such as the one that the industrialized nations set aside 1 per cent of the gross national product of each of them to aid the developing areas. The point we have reached has been graphically described in the Pearson report  with these figures: 34 per cent of the world population, composed of industrialized nations, received 87.5 per cent of the gross national product of all countries; 66 per cent of the world population, corresponding to the group of less developed countries, received barely 12.5 per cent of the above mentioned gross national product; 22 per cent of the world population live in the less developed countries, where per capita income was less than 1 per cent per annum; 48 per cent obtained from 1 to 2 per cent and only 30 per cent of the outside countries have exceeded 2 per cent.
57.	The foreign debt of the developing countries, created by large export credits and development aid, has rapidly increased to almost 50 billion dollars, while the servicing of these debts has increased at the rate of 17 percent per annum, according to the Pearson report, which was drawn up by a high ranking commission of experts of the World Bank. The first Development Decade does not offer much reason for enthusiasm in most countries.
58.	Given these figures we cannot fail to see that the Second Development Decade will be decisive for the fate of both the developed and the developing areas of the world, since neither can remain isolated from the other. Prosperity beside poverty is bound to provoke an upheaval. The effects are already perceptible in the outbreaks of nonconformity and violence in various parts of the world. The problem of trade in the developing countries is one which cannot be postponed. Possibly it is more important, in the long run, than the problem of aid itself. If the multilateral machinery for assistance is to be improved, there must be an effective increase in the contributions of capital.
59.	If the world maintains the present cleavage between rich and poor countries, and if, moreover, the exclusive commercial blocs favoring some countries and making outsiders of others are consolidated then the international situation cannot but show in the Second Development Decade a balance of frustration and disappointment far more alarming than that of the first.
60.	Colombia has come to this world Assembly to renew its great hope in the United Nations. Every human endeavor is subject to the storms of time. Nor should we forget that the effects of several centuries of enmity and misunderstanding among peoples cannot suddenly vanish like a midsummer night's dream. Despite the shortcomings we have pointed out, the United Nations is called upon to tackle a superhuman task.
61.	Progress cannot be measured in terms of months and years but in terms of decades and centuries. To arrive at the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, in 1789, entire centuries of personal suffering had to be borne, and tyranny brought to the point of utter weariness. Democracy did not spring up overnight as though by magic. It was a progressive movement in the minds of people, while the ideas of Utopians and the thoughts of philosophers perforated like drops of water the wall of misunderstandings and the stony deafness of the leaders, until the time came when there was a great overthrow of the institutions.
62.	The United Nations is the creature of a Utopia of brotherhood and a philosophy of concord among peoples with respect for the rules of international law, which little by little are finding the arduous way to positive achievement. These mostly lie ahead. What we now perceive appears imperfect. But that which existed yesterday was even further removed from the ideal we cherished. Mankind in 1970 will, on looking back, become aware of the fact that we have laid the foundations for a future world organization, based on the active participation of all peoples in the management of the community of nations.
63.	Just now we find ourselves at a moment of evolution. The United Nations has seen that its structures need changing. This signifies an intellectual process of adaptation to changes in international ideas, whose aims are the abolition of racial discrimination, the suppression of social injustice, the strengthening of peaceful methods to solve controversies, and disarmament, as a prelude to security.
64.	Security, disarmament and the peaceful settlement of disputes, were three intentions that won acclaim on the conclusion of the First World War. They were the signals of hope. Today we reiterate those purposes and add to them the clamors of a destitute mankind so that, through international cooperation, we may find effective means for harmonious development on all continents, together with social justice and respect for human rights. The United Nations is still a land of hope for a better world.


===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
169.	: Mr, President, I should like to congratulate you on your election by the General Assembly. It is a tribute not only to your personal merits and to those of your country, but also to the principle of universality which all of us in Latin America and in Colombia have defended.
170.	This year the General Assembly is meeting under the best of auspices. The peoples of the world have for many years awaited the end of the cold war that now seems not too distant. Strictly speaking, since the end of the Second World War, mankind has not enjoyed complete peace because of the grave effects of that catastrophic war-not only where the actual fighting took place, but also on other continents as well. In addition to the political turmoil, there was social and economic upheaval, the poverty of many regions and the displacement of countless persons. As if all that did not suffice, the victorious Powers found themselves at odds, which created more problems for the establishment of peace.
171.	The birth of the United Nations was surrounded by grave doubts regarding its ability to survive and continue for a number of years. This Organization was conceived as a means of creating united action among the great Powers, and the Security Council was to be a forum for the important decisions of war and peace. Once that unity was shattered, the rules that had been meticulously drafted in the cool atmosphere of Dumbarton Oaks and even in San Francisco to create a comprehensive and perfect system of world-wide collective security were left in mid-air. International life became far more complex and difficult than the drafters of the Charter of the United Nations had anticipated. However, we all realize that the great inadequacies in the political functioning of the Organization were due to the hard times of the cold war that has marked the last 25 years.
172.	We are therefore encouraged by the signs of a thaw in that cold war which we see today. There are evident signs of a European reconciliation: there is tangible proof that the differences separating the Federal Republic of Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and the Western States from other countries of Eastern Europe can at last be settled. There is also a new Berlin Agreement that gives rise to this hope that the wall dissecting the former capital of the German Empire may disappear. In a word, there is a trend in the international community to do away everywhere with cold-war methods.
173.	To that trend must now be added the announcement of a forthcoming visit by the President of the United States, Mr. Richard Nixon, to the capital of the People's Republic of China. The meeting of those two gigantic nations will have a salutary effect if, with that meeting, mankind is brought closer to a period of real coexistence among peoples. However great may be the ideological differences that separate Colombia from the Asian giant, we could neither ignore nor conceal the importance of a nation of almost 800 million inhabitants co-operating with the United Nations. Nor can we forget what that meeting might signify in terms of fending off a new world war which would this time be a ghastly atomic holocaust on the Asian continent.
174.	The announcement of the Sino-United States rapprochement caused a sudden about-face in world politics and we are now witnessing the not-too-distant prospect of the entry of the People's Republic of China into the United Nations. In the event of such an occurrence, Colombia wishes to take a realistic approach in analyzing the facts. So we say that there is no perfect solution to a difficult problem. To admit Peking China by expelling Taiwan China is neither a praiseworthy nor an advisable solution, for it would be tantamount to applying a punitive measure to a
Government that has lawfully occupied a seat in this Organization. Yet the "two Chinas" thesis cannot fail to raise questions of the legal interpretation of the United Nations Charter regarding the presence of two representative Governments of one nation,
175, Of the two choices confronting us, Colombia tends to favor the second, without admitting that such a "two Chinas" stand could in the future be invoked as a binding and valid precedent in similar cases. This would be an exceptional solution for an exceptional problem and small States possessing little military power must not be at the mercy of the decisions of the great Powers when they decide that another small State is to be punished by expulsion. Therefore we do not oppose the admission to the United Nations of a great Asian State of recognized power, but we do oppose the jurisprudence of expulsion on the orders of the Great Powers. That would be a return to the harsh practices of the Holy Alliance 1815.
116. The presence of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations must not mean the expulsion of the Republic of China, of whose capacity to govern itself freely and to accept the obligations imposed by the Charter we have no doubt whatsoever. Allowing a new and great State to join the Organization would be in accord with the universality that Colombia has always advocated and would be in keeping with an undeniable reality of the contemporary world. But when the People's Republic of China joins us as a new Government represented here, it does not mean that the principles and systems of the United Nations should be changed, but instead that the new Government should join our system with all the rights and, at the same time, all the duties imposed by the Organization.
177.	Colombia categorically affirms that the right to representation of States implies a status similar to the right of citizenship and cannot be arbitrarily withdrawn by the international community. Still less can it be withdrawn in the United Nations, which is based on the principles of universality and the juridical equality of States. The precedent now being established would create a chink in the jurisprudence of the United Nations Charter.
178.	We are living in a period of negotiation and of contacts among nations with different ideologies in order to do away with the cold war and replace the use of force to settle situations that might lead peoples to wide conflicts. "If you desire peace, prepare for war", said the Romans, si vis pacem, para bellum, but today, with the sombre picture in mind of what the last world war was, and the thought of what a new armed clash among nations possessing the greatest atomic power in the world would mean, we have to coin the old aphorism differently and say rather "Si vis pacem, para pacem", "If you desire peace, prepare for peace".
179.	We are heading towards a pluralist world towards truce among the continents. Warring over ideologies has shown that none could alone unify the universe. We are therefore forced to recognize an ideological plurality and the diversity of political and social doctrines of nations if we wish wisely to acknowledge a palpable feature of our day. Never before- has it been more necessary to recognize the principles of self-determination of peoples and of non-intervention, which are the two cornerstones of our international world order. Without them, we would be back to the dismal and tragic period of interference by the great countries of the world in the domestic affairs of the small which for so many decades blotted the history of our American continent. We now aspire to full coexistence among the American .nations without any of them seeking to interfere in the free life of the others.
180.	Each country must have the right to channel its own institutions along the lines chosen by its citizens through the free play of popular vote and thus we shall be able to turn our attention to international co-operation on the basis ,of the principles that this General Assembly approved in 1970 in resolution 2625 (XXV), which might warrant repetition since they embody a supreme hope for legitimate peaceful coexistence among all States-regardless of their political and social doctrines or their national institutions.
181.	By that resolution the General Assembly approved the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and presented them as follows: the principle that States shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the principles of the United Nations; the principle that States shall settle their international disputes by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security and justice are not endangered; the duty not to intervene in matters within the domestic jurisdiction of any State in accordance with the Charter; the duty of States to co-operate with one another; the principle of equal rights and the self-determination of peoples; the principle of the sovereign equality of States; and the principle that States shall fulfill in good faith the obligations assumed by them in accordance with the Charter.
182.	If we are to act consistently with those principles, therefore, we must condemn the exporting of revolutions and we must accept the plurality of ideologies. Intervention is an aspect of the cold war that is being replaced as an obsolete policy. Nothing could be more absurd than the imposition of an ideology by the force of arms. A movement is gaining ground against such methods, and other techniques in the mutual relations of States are gaining ground-such as, for example, the visits of Heads of State of different beliefs and talks between Ministers of Foreign Affairs. Despite difficulties in the international field, the world is now guided by dialog and a sense of human understanding and solidarity.
183.	Without a doubt this was the trail blazed by Pope John XXIII, the Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church, who must be called the precursor of the' policies" of understanding that become manifest in events in the Far East and in Europe. In his encyclical Pacem in Terris, that outstanding leader outlined what should be true peaceful coexistence in the world, based on true balance between rights and duties, respect for minorities, a legal order in harmony with moral order and the common good based on the principles of economic justice. I shall quote his words;
"There is reason to hope, however, that by meeting and negotiating, men may come to discover better the bonds that unite them together, deriving from the human nature which they have in common; and that they may also come to discover that one of the most profound requirements of their common nature is this: that between them and their respective peoples it is not fear which should reign but love .. .".
184., It would be premature to try and foretell the outcome of this new period of understanding among all States, over and above their national idiosyncracies. Perhaps this pluralistic world of which we speak may come closer to that ideal that was sought at the beginning of the nineteenth century : the democratic State with the coexistence of its citizenry. We are transferring to a world-wide scale what was fulfilled within the narrow confines of the "independent State". The freedom of the State as a social group is today as necessary as freedom of thought to the citizen at the beginning of the democratic era. States therefore have the right to dissent. Among the great monoliths that are the atomic Powers small nations have a place. Ideological terror imposed by vast armies is today nonsensical.
185.	Colombia reiterates its adherence to the principles of international law and to the doctrine that the fundamental rights of the State is an essential need of the present day. This is an inevitable requirement of our era of relaxation of tensions and closer bonds and the general .assumption now is that different ideologies can coexist in the world without resorting to the occupation of free peoples or the desperate measures of war, bombing and the annihilation of defenseless populations.
186.	But that view has one more implication. European reconciliation, the shrinking of the conflict areas, the trend towards an ending of the war in Viet-Nam are all factors that should contribute to the conclusion of the unfinished business of disarmament as much as the entry of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations.
187.	A conference of all the atomic Powers seems today both possible and necessary, with the contribution of that great State, to avoid the arms race which weighs so heavily ori the developing nations and even on the countries which stockpile the weapons. In April of this year the Secretary- General of the United Nations, with his enlightened view of world needs, proclaimed the necessity for disarmament at the fourteenth session of the Economic Commission for Latin America and he quoted the alarming figure of $200,000 million as the disproportionate sum invested yearly by the nations of the world in the purchase of arms.
188.	Colombia has championed the elimination of all unnecessary military expenditures in Latin America. We believe that it is still not too late to extend to other highly sophisticated weapons the prohibition covering atomic arms
in our continent contained in the Treaty of Tlatelolco. There is no reason for the peoples that bear the burden of poverty and suffer the rigors of constant work in order to overcome the limitations of under-development to invest exorbitant amounts of money in armaments that are disproportionate with the true needs of their national defense. In Latin America we are running the risk of getting into an arms race, because we lack agreements prohibiting sophisticated and costly weapons.
189.	We are neither Utopian nor are we visionaries, but we are anxious to meet the needs of national defense. We wish to contribute to the economic and social development of our countries with all our resources and to the fullest extent of our ability. The arms race in the under-developed continents cannot but be the denial of the basic needs of men.
190.	And with disarmament, we face the harsh visage of poverty.
191.	Every year, from this very rostrum, the developing nations rise to repeat complaints about the deficiencies in world trade which hamper the expansion of their economies and hinder an increase in their resources. Colombia does so this year also, and with more than usual concern, because of the unexpected turn in the world monetary market. The developing countries had seemed to be the only ones to suffer from monetary readjustment due to imbalances in their balance of payments; but, paradoxically, this phenomenon now seems to be affecting the richer countries. We feel we are in good company although we face greater limitations because the crisis in the world monetary market affects us so vitally.
192.	This crisis is characterized by the unequal distribution of gold reserves and the impossibility of maintaining rigid exchange rates. We cannot nurture the illusion that it has been business as usual since the Second World War in the monetary and international trade institutions, inasmuch as the Bretton Woods pillars of monetary regulations are crumbling before us. But analyzing the consequences of these events we are led to state that it would be unjust completely inimical to the urgency of narrowing the gap between the wealthy and the poor countries if the financial imbalances of the former were allowed adversely to affect the scarce monetary reserves of the latter which have been accumulated through savings and constant work. This new Development Decade cannot be permitted to become a period of greater frustration.
193.	Consultative machinery in the international economic field that seems to be deteriorating to the great prejudice of the multilateral approach on which the 1944 Articles of Agreement on the International Monetary Fund rested must be re-established. We are in effect witnessing the existence of a double standard in monetary regulations: one that permits the great nations to ac' as they will and another that forces the poor countries to submit to the strict discipline of deprivation and poverty. We must return to the principle that no single country can by a unilateral decision alter the international exchange situation. Latin
America has just made a most vigorous protest against the recent United States decision to impose a 10 per cent surcharge on imports and it has taken a unified position on immediate and long-term solutions to the problem of revising the world monetary system which have been put forward by the Minister of Finance of Colombia, Dr. Rodrigo Llorente, on behalf of Latin America.
194.	Although this problem is under lengthy discussion in other forums, it is appropriate to mention that it would have been fairer towards the developing countries had the United States not applied the surcharge to them, since basically the rivalry that exists is between the great exporting nations. By exempting them it would have virtually granted the trade preferences that are still an imperative measure if the trade balance is to be restored. We must realize that the situation in the developing countries which in all continents represent the area with the largest population has not improved sufficiently in the past few years and could deteriorate if these circumstances are not remedied.
195.	Colombia believes that everything should tend towards the opening of new markets for our products. In the strategy for development of the countries with fewer resources, it would seem that what Mr. Raul Prebisch called "the persistent and systematic effort to overcome foreign strangulation" has to be resorted to. Apart from the need for structural reforms and the accumulation of their own resources, and the development of greater technological capacity, that distinguished economist, in a study on Latin America published under the auspices of the Inter- American Bank,  warned us that in the future our countries would depend on new exports.
196.	The problem of world trade is daily becoming more acute and distressing for the developing countries, which depend on their exports to pursue their plans for progress. The dilemma facing these countries is either export or suffer from poverty, and that of the developed countries is to share their profits or to increase world disorder.
197.	At past regular sessions of the General Assembly, Colombia advocated consideration of certain aspects of a concrete revision of the United Nations Charter. We are fully aware of the very serious tactical problems which would be involved in a genial revision of the San Francisco Charter. We have taken a very specific approach to this and we have referred to the problem of universality and the acceptance of new Members in the United Nations.
198.	-	We think that the institutions governed by the Charter can be perfected. First of all, we would like to have regional covenants of collective security used mere broadly in the Lengthening of peace. Experience has shown that the Security Council, in most eases, is paralyzed because of political obstacles which have been created by the antagonistic stands of the major Powers, and that is why greater flexibility must be given to it in application of Article 53 of the Charter.
199.	It was felt in San Francisco that regional arrangements were a dangerous exception to the general rules of collective security and an intense campaign was waged to render the Charter compatible with the rules of the Inter-American system. Today we note the contrary phenomenon taking place. No one would challenge the advantage of appealing to the countries directly concerned in a given conflict.
200.	Regional collective security agreements are the best instruments for co-ordination among the countries directly interested in solving international problems before appealing to the Security Council.
201.	Secondly, the International Court of Justice needs to play a more active role in the maintenance of peace. The Statute of the Court grants limited jurisdiction in whatever controversial matters the parties submit to it, and this has led to important decisions that have enriched international jurisprudence. But exclusively legal matters, and questions of the interpretation of treaties have constituted the main subjects for discussion by the Court, and these should not be the sole concern of that judicial body. If it were not possible to extend the competence of the International Court of Justice to matters of peace, as Colombia has already advocated and defended from this rostrum last year [1846th meeting], it might be advisable to consider granting it special competence to safeguard human rights throughout the world.
202.	The International Court of Justice would then act as an organ to protect human rights and would play a decisive role in one of the areas of international law where valuable experience has already been gathered by the European Court of Human Rights, which a number of Western nations established. This competence could be open to acceptance by States, and, little by little, a new jurisprudence would build up on the principles of the international covenants on human rights of the United Nations which otherwise run the risk of becoming just a manual of pious good intentions without practical application.
203.	The United Nations is studying a grave matter, the law of the sea. The 1973 Conference, convened by the General Assembly pursuant to resolution 2750 (XXV), is being actively prepared for, but a thorough study of the subjects allocated to that Conference is still required. In practical terms, that Conference will have to deal with all the problems of the law of the sea, going from the breadth of the territorial sea to the international regime for the sea-bed, without overlooking such related issues as the continental shelf, the contiguous zone, fishing and the exploration of marine resources.
204.	At the last session, Colombia sponsored the convening of this Conference and we feel in duty bound to draw attention to the undeniable need to prepare a strict program of work that will lead to mature and carefully pondered decisions at the future session. Perhaps the best way of ensuring positive results would be not to contend that all subjects should be discussed at the same time, but problems should instead perhaps be staggered in different stages or sessions of a Conference that might well stretch over for a number of months, or might even be held in two consecutive years. It would be far better to advance thoughtfully step by step than to try to rush through the whole gamut in one single session.
205.	The problems confronting us under the heading of "The Law of the Sea" are vast in their implications. On the one hand there is the question of the international regime for the sea-bed and ocean floor and the subsoil thereof beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. The Declaration of Principles adopted by the General Assembly in 1970 in resolution 2749 (XXV) spells undoubted progress in shaping the new doctrine of the "common heritage of mankind" as applied to the sea-bed. As the Declaration states, that area "shall not be subject to appropriation... by any States" and "shall be open to use exclusively for peaceful purposes". All activities in the area shall be governed by the international regime to be established. Much progress has been made thanks to the preliminary study carried out in the enlarged Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction of the United Nations which has considered a number of draft resolutions, one of which, co-sponsored by Colombia and 11 other Latin American countries, provides for an international sea-bed authority possessing sufficient autonomy to undertake scientific research of the abyssal depths and their exploitation.
206.	On the other hand, there are still the matters left pending after the first two United Nations Conferences on the Law of the Sea, which were held in 1958 and 1960. In reality, the four Conventions approved in 1958 constituted the most ambitious codification of the regulations of the sea that might have been imagined in the days of John Selden and Hugh Grotius, and they are the very basis of maritime international law today. However, there can be no doubt that the enormous strides of science and technology have brought out new problems not contemplated in 1958. The very matter of the joint exploitation of the sea-bed calls for far greater precision in the definition of concepts related to each of the four Conventions adopted that year on the territorial sea, the continental shelf, the high seas, the fishing zone and the conservation of the living resources of the sea.
207.	Colombia believes that significant agreements must be arrived at if the Conference is to be a success, and to that end, we suggest:
(a)	The principle that all States shall be free to utilize the marine and submarine zones contiguous to their shores and that they shall be considered an extension of their territory;
(b)	The principle that there exist reasonable limits to the setting of the sovereign and primary interest of the State over the marine and sub-marine zones contiguous to their shores, and that there can be no hindering of the Jus commune nationis nor the common progress of mankind;
(c)	The principle that the international community should offer the State guarantees and safeguard it against undue usurpation of its marine and submarine resources by devising, for international maritime law, a concept of Uti possidetis maris similar to that which exists in Latin America for national territory.
208.	We also would point out the need to differentiate between the territorial and the patrimonial sea. In many cases the differences that occurred in international maritime law have been due to the mistaken use of the territorial sea to meet the economic needs of our day, when these could better be served with the new notion of the "patrimonial sea". The former is the zone of exclusive sovereignty recognized for the coastal State, over the sea, the air space and the subsoil under the waters. It is an old part of international law whose origins go back to the Middle Ages and which was always understood as defined by Pradier Foddrd as "the defensive line of the territory".
209.	This concept is deeply embedded in the legal customs of man, but with all due respect to the countries of Latin America which have adopted ample breadths for their territorial sea. Yet one still wonders whether it is appropriate for the State to enjoy the unlimited right of setting the breadth of the territorial sea to the point that it might close off the lines of communication of other States. The jus commune nationis of which Francisco de Vitoria wrote is still a vital need today, and if we leave in the hands of States the right to set any breadth whatsoever for the territorial sea, or to extend it to the coasts of another State across a gulf or a strait, the freedom of communications across the sea would be endangered.
210.	At the last two United Nations Conferences on the Law of the Sea, a quasi-unanimous consensus was arrived at on the 12-mile maximum breadth for the territorial sea, which seems in itself sufficient under normal circumstances to permit vigilance to be maintained over the coasts. Of course, however, with modern weaponry and intercontinental missiles, medieval concepts have been made obsolete, and if the countries with lesser military potential insist on contending that the territorial sea can be extended arbitrarily, the great Powers could quite easily close off the seas altogether by the mere application of the principle stated by Bynkershoek, when he proclaimed that territorial sovereignty ends with the range of weapons (Potestas terrae finiri ubi finitur armorum vis).
211.	A confusion has arisen in the present discussions between the territorial sea which should reach the 12-mile limit and the patrimonial sea which had begun to appear in international law as a zone where the coastal State enjoys special privileges for the exploration and exploitation of marine and submarine resources. Today, the patrimonial sea is what the territorial sea was to the Middle Ages: a consequence of biological and economic needs and also of the need to defend a nation's own resources as well as a way of compensating for the poverty of many areas, or, in other cases, for the lack of a continental shelf, and it includes the exclusive authority to explore and exploit the sea and all its resources.
212.	The patrimonial sea could well be 200 miles wide while the territorial sea merely reaches the 12-mile limit. The special privileges recognized for it should be the subject of a separate convention unifying rights over the contiguous zone and the continental shelf. Thus we might come to a reasonable compromise between the old and the new- between the 12-mile limit and the 200-mile limit that some countries claim; between the States which contend that the territorial sea cannot be widened unrestrictedly by unilateral measures and those which advocate the present-day concept of the economic interests of State applied to the 
legal regime of the sea. The common denominator would be to avoid closing off the high seas.
213.	To the universality of the principles of the Law of the Sea is added the need to accept the regional nature of solutions for each of the seas themselves, considered separately. Surely the Pacific Ocean, where distances are immense, is not the same as the Caribbean or the Baltic Seas. Colombia considers that a regional agreement will have to be arrived at for the Caribbean which includes all States having islands or mainland coasts on it, whatever their national situation. It is only thus that we will be able to settle the specific questions that arise with regard to the narrow area of the Caribbean, where no country can claim its 200 miles without encroaching upon the waters of another State.
214.	Regional marine agreements will facilitate the already complex work of the future universal conference of the law of the sea. A regional conference of the countries of the Caribbean region would, I believe, be very advisable, to establish special formulas for this island-studded sea, as a preparatory stage for the world conference.
215.	If a special formula of 200 miles has been arrived at for the Pacific or the Atlantic, surely it would be possible to devise a more appropriate one for the Caribbean, or the Baltic or the Persian Gulf or the Red Sea.
216.	Universality and regionalism have never been incompatible concepts as far as political and security aspects are concerned, and we believe that the solution to the problems of the sea lies in these two concepts.
217.	May I conclude my statement paying a tribute to our Secretary-General, UThant. For many years he has been the man who has been directly responsible for the fate of the United Nations. Information on the grave situations confronting mankind has been placed in his hands-and thanks in large measure to his serenity, ability and wisdom as a great statesman of Asia, none of these has led to a confrontation. His calm demeanor has been a model of international wisdom, yet it has never been devoid of energy. On the war in Viet-Nam and on conflicts that have afflicted other regions, UThant has made categorical declarations and issued warnings to the major Powers.
218.	In the forthcoming election of a new Secretary- General of the United Nations, Latin America claims the right and the honor to elect one of its own citizens of this continent. Europe and Asia have already exercised this right, and it is only natural that Latin America should obtain this honor and responsibility in the person of a son of its own continent.
219.	Colombia expresses a most fervent wish that the United Nations shall truly be an Organization of peace, law and justice, for mankind, which still places its hopes and trust in the principles of the San Francisco Charter.


===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
The United Nations continues to be the great hope for mankind to organize relations among States in a system based on peace and the dignity of the human person. On this road towards full justice the world becomes each day more united in its historic destiny. For this reason my opening words must be a greeting to those who constantly serve this ideal and, first of all, to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, and to the President of the General Assembly, who is presiding over our work with such impartiality and efficiency. This is the great forum of the nations, whose hallmark is freedom of expression and in which our problems can be discussed.
40.	The year that has elapsed since the last session of the General Assembly has confirmed the trend that we noted towards an almost total liquidation of the so-called cold war. This is a circumstance which is welcomed by all nations despite the difficulties still encountered in the work for peace. But it is a fact that hatreds are disappearing as are also the territorial scars of the frontiers whose recognition by the German nation was, until a short time ago, in doubt.
41.	Today there is the possibility of a policy of under-standing between Eastern and Western Europe, and the day is not far distant when the once separated blocs will begin talks on a European security agreement. This is a new example of the efficacy of regional security arrangements, which Latin America advocated at the San Francisco Conference as being the true interpretation of the precepts of the Charter dealing with regional arrangements, based on the Dumbarton Oaks proposals. At" that time this Latin American doctrine appeared to be a heresy from the universality of the principles of the nascent Organization, but time has shown that in the solutions of the problems of peace regionalism is the best way to achieve international co-operation.
42.	Furthermore, with the entry of the People's Republic of China the balance between the two super-Powers, the United States and the Soviet Union, has been replaced by a triangular concept of world decisions. Whatever our position may be with regard to the entry of that great Asian country to the world Organization, the fact is that the road has been opened to multi-polarity in international policy, which is further strengthened by the fact that the number of independent States which have shaken off the tutelage of colonialism and achieved the category of Members of the United Nations has increased steadily.
43.	In this last third of the twentieth century we are nearing a truly world-wide political order which has far outstripped the concept of exclusively European international policies. Never before, perhaps, has the United Nations been better able to aspire to universality and to being an Organization which represents all continents.
44.	Despite the good omens that encourage understanding among nations there has been unleashed on the world a wave of terrorism which manifests itself in different ways and which in some cases assumes the proportions of virtual political aggression. This violence does not stop at the borders of the countries in conflict, but takes place anywhere in the world, which is tantamount to a continuation of belligerency on neutral soil and makes victims among the peoples of countries completely outside the battle. This singular trend of our day seeks the methods of terrorism to introduce this new form of war among nations. This was the case in the events that recently took place during the Olympic Games in Munich, whose tragic results shook all mankind.
45.	Colombia condemns violence in any form whether it be personal attack, skyjacking, the taking of hostages, or collective massacres for all of them constitute a return by man to those eras which we had thought belonged to the past: the use of primitive means of violence to achieve political ends.
46.	The Charter lays down principles governing normal relations among Member States and we do not believe that they can be applied differently when law, reason and right must prevail over instincts of violence.
47.	We could never condone any type of attack or violence as licit forms of the struggle to solve international differences. Our civilization, already sorely beset by so many elements of violence, by individual crimes, by drug abuses, and even by the befouling of the air we breathe, will be even more seriously threatened and I would say doomed if those who practice sports, cultivate the arts and letters or proclaim peace are included among the belligerents in a conflict that is not of their making.
48.	But all violence has a cause, and the United Nations cannot overlook the fact that one of the aspects of the conflict in the Middle East-the destiny of the Palestinian people-is still awaiting solution. The problems involved in that long war are many, and a careful study must be made of all of them, as well as of the possibilities for peace which Colombia advocates and hopes will be based on justice and equity for the countries concerned, as stated in Security Council resolution 242 (1967), which calls for the integrity of States within secure and recognized frontiers.
49.	Terrorism has also assumed the equally dangerous guise of skyjacking, whose stigma as a specific crime will remain a simple academic matter until a clear procedure for extradition which we still await is evolved. While there exist countries that serve as privileged sanctuaries to the kidnappers, this other type of useless violence will persist.
50.	Solidarity among all nations must be tightened in order to eradicate the use of terrorism as a political weapon, as well as other forms of violence. But this presupposes the widest possible exercise of the self-determination of peoples as the guiding and basic tenet in the life of nations. The very Charter of our Organization sets forth this principle.
51.	Colombia has defended ideology and even economic plurality as facets of a policy of tolerance and respect for the self-determination of peoples regarding the choice of their own systems of government, and we feel that an effort that has been neglected for over 10 years that of determining of rights and duties of States should be resumed in order to draft a treaty to complement our Charter, which has left many blanks in the clear-cut definition of the true rights and duties of all States.
52.	Colombia is firmly convinced that self-determination of peoples is the key to peace, and its denial the beginning of war. Intervention is another ancient aspect of international life that has become anachronistic, now that powerful nations which fought in the last World War and which today represent different ideologies are tied by links of friendship and the Organization has approved so many declarations on peace and the rights of States by universal consensus.
53.	More than 60 nations that were mere colonies during the last World War have since become emancipated, and this process is irreversible and cannot be stemmed or interfered with by interventions that create fictitious situations. So the war in VietNam cannot be left as a war, with neither end nor victory for either of the belligerents until the right of self-determination of that people is fully recognized.
54.	New generations know well that war pays no dividend and that in a nuclear age it is as dangerous as to play with fire in an ammunition dump. Strictly local wars are a thing of the past, and whenever they may occur there is the inevitable fear of their spreading and of the indefinite continuation of the conflict where both troops and civilian populations suffer equally.
55.	War today is more cruel and destructive than before because of the sophistication of the weapons and the use of chemical and technological means for the extermination of the adversary. Today the entire nation is the battle field the nation with its open cities, its industrial complexes, its irrigation networks and its crops. "Total war", which in 1914 seemed an apocalyptic nightmare, has today become an everyday reality, a more harsh and cruel reality for those masses who are not to blame for living so close to the inferno. Thus we wonder whether the lessons of Korea today on the way to unification might not serve as a blueprint for the two parts of Viet-Nam which, after more than 10 years of destruction and scorched earth, lies desolate and wasted as the result of a war which General de Gaulle foresaw would leave only the dead, without victors or vanquished.
56.	The world in which we live is in essence a plural society in which no other stand is valid but that of the full recognition of the tangible and visible reality of the existence of a multiplicity of political and social systems.
Colombia has understood this fact and entertains relations with Governments of the most diverse ideologies and social disciplines, with the single and special understanding that none will interfere in our domestic affairs, as we would not interfere in those of others. For many years the Latin American regional system has been based upon precisely this recognition, as we stated during the visit to Bogota of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Chile, my eminent friend Mr. Clodomiro Almeyda, when we proclaimed the need to recognize ideological diversity.
57.	The political regime of no country can be an export-able commodity. If we admit this irrefutable fact of our day, we will have made significant progress towards the building of a new international order characterized by mutual tolerance, respect for human rights and the general exercise of the right of self-determination of peoples. We must transfer to the international arena the same evolution that has taken place within the democratic and representative state, where parties coexist as organized elements for political and public action within the framework of the law.
58.	That same pluralism is carried over into the field of economics. The variety of systems in the world also applies to economic and social matters; and international organizations must start with the premise that their primary task is to build bridges between different types of society. World exchange is necessary among all countries for, when all is said and done, we live in a society in which progress must be intensively speeded up in order to cope with "revolution of rising expectations" which is occurring everywhere.
59.	Colombia has been following this practice and applying it constantly to our relations with other continents and in our own Western hemisphere, where, with the countries of the Andean region, we are making headway in our experiment to integrate our economies and harmonize our economic practices in order to make joint plans to do away with tariffs simultaneously and to set our common industrialization targets.
60.	Generally speaking, international treaties and agreements must be able to withstand the acid test of changes of government, for they cannot be considered as applying to specific persons or parties, ceasing to exist when these disappear, as were the family agreements of the monarchic period of Hie eighteenth century.
61.	An era of negotiations has, in fact, dawned in relations between the great Powers, quite in keeping with the system which we have termed the triangular system of world decisions. Those negotiations have borne visible fruits in the relations among those great Powers and obviously they have a beneficial effect on peace.
62.	The triangular system is extremely restricted, extending to a very few nations, and overlooks the rest, the medium-sized and smaller countries. Special envoys are reminiscent of the diplomacy of the last century, when there were no world or regional organizations of many ,nations linked by legal statutes establishing methods and ways of approaching the international problems and the means of solving the differences among States. Chapters VI and VII of the San Francisco Charter, which deal with the peaceful settlement of disputes and actions to be taken in case of threats or breaches of the peace or acts of aggression, seem to have been shelved. Excessive pragmatism on the part of the great Powers in the handling of world affairs has produced the strange phenomenon of the eclipse of the Security Council as the supreme body of the United Nations and the guide of the world political system as originally intended at the San Francisco Conference.
63.	The immediate prospects for the United Nations are not encouraging. Progress towards peace is not paralleled by the same progress in international institutions. The San Francisco Charter is tending to be replaced by a system of secret negotiations among the powerful nations, and a new Charter of an exclusively political nature is being formed through tacit agreements among the great Powers, relegating the earlier institutions set up by the Charter to a secondary place. And thus in a few years we might well be confronted by two statutes, the nominal San Francisco Charter, and the more real and effective Charter elaborated by the great Powers.
64.	This is a disturbing thing for the medium-sized and smaller nations, as has been recognized by our Secretary- General when, in the introduction to his report on the work of the Organization, he notes that the United Nations has "proved to be of limited value as an instrument of collective security" [A/8701/Add. 1, p. 1J. Without over-looking the special responsibilities resting on the great Powers, the Secretary-General quite rightly goes on to state:
"The world order that we are striving to build in the United Nations must meet the requirements of such a society" a world society, that is "and any other system, however effective in the past, obviously cannot be acceptable, in the long run, to the peoples of the world. The interests, the wisdom and the importance of the vast majority of medium and smaller Powers cannot, at this point in history, be ignored in any durable system of world order." [Ibid., p. 2.]
65.	The United Nations is limited by the circumstances that I have mentioned and, particularly, by the exclusive interplay of the interests of the great Powers themselves. Surely, we do not lack principles nor do we want for basic norms for peace but we are simply faced by the desire to consider them as nothing but a series of academic rules.
66.	We do not for a moment imagine that we can alter that triangular system which rules world affairs at the moment. But we do believe that we should at least try to revise some of the basic aspects of the Charter of the United Nations. Colombia pledged its unreserved support to the United Nations from the very first years of the Organization's creation and, despite the limitations we have mentioned, we are still of the opinion that in the San Francisco Charter lie the keys to peace and to understanding among peoples.
67.	The problem does not lie in new and solemn declarations of principle, but rather in a readjustment of out-mode procedures and models of conduct. No social organism can permit itself the luxury of immutability or of staying on the sidelines while great changes in the structure of countries and in the physiognomy of continents take place and when basic modifications in the technological capacities of mankind occur.
68.	One indispensable condition for the correct functioning of United Nations institutions is that the idea of disarmament should be made a reality. While countries of all the continents spend the astronomical figure of $200,000 million a year on armaments, as U Thant, then Secretary-General of the United Nations, pointed out not many months ago, no thought can truly be given to the full implementation of the legal processes established in San Francisco for the solution of international disputes that lead to so-called local wars.
69.	The excess of armaments in the world is one of the main obstacles to, the true fulfillment by the United Nations of its political and universal mission and it is one of the reasons for the survival of poverty and misery in many parts of the world. With an annual investment of $200,000 million, a considerable restriction is placed on the amounts that could be assigned for peace and the progress of the hungry, the illiterate and the disease-ridden peoples.
70.	In the Organization of American States, Colombia has raised the question of the need, even on the smaller scale of Latin American armaments as compared with those of the great Powers, of laying down proportionate yardsticks to avoid increasing unnecessary military expenditures.
71.	Disarmament is the corner-stone of the edifice of the United Nations. Any revision of the Charter requires and presupposes this condition which is as imperative for the great Powers as it is for the medium-sized and small States.
72.	Apart from the above, the basic Colombian idea can be summarized as the desire to eliminate outdated provisions of the Charter such as the mention of "enemy States" in Article 53, which resorts to a language that dates back to the Second World War of more than 30 years ago.
73.	We also believe that the powers of the Secretary- General, according to Article 99, should be strengthened. In this way, he would be able not only to "bring to the attention of the Security Council any matter which in his opinion may threaten the maintenance of international peace and security", but also to ask for the convening of a meeting of the Security Council whenever he deemed it appropriate. Because of his special experience and responsibility, the Secretary-General should be endowed with the power permitting him to call for a meeting of the highest body of the United Nations on questions of security and the maintenance of peace. We also seek greater decision-making powers for the General Assembly in the designation of the Secretary-General, allowing it to make a selection from a three-name slate submitted by the Security Council.
74.	On more important matters, Colombia has suggested: The widening of the universality of the United Nations by making it a right for all States to become Members, rather than a favor, as it is at present; the consideration of a new category of "Associated States" in order to settle the problem of the so-called "mini-States", thus making it easier for such States to enjoy economic and social co-operation and even co-operation in the political field and in that of security while not imposing on them the burdens of membership, which might be too onerous for them; the revision of the rules of the Security Council so that the unanimity of all five permanent members is not necessary in the case of simple elections to fact-finding committees or bodies dealing with humanitarian problems; the establishment of a peace force that will not be a fighting army, but a body intended to give military assistance in order to prevent certain areas from being totally unprotected or to guarantee peace formulas between former combatants; the updating of the functions of the Trusteeship Council in view of the fact that now only two territories of only relative importance fall under its jurisdiction and that even these territories are due to achieve autonomy in the very near future, when the Council will have no further duties and could be entrusted with trusteeship over human rights; the consideration of a closer relationship between the International Court of Justice and the tasks of peace as well as the creation of specialized branches for questions of a regional nature.
75.	A special matter which should be discussed in the Assembly, in an endeavor to equip the United Nations to meet the needs of the times, is that of co-ordination between the many and varied existing economic organs. The proliferation of international organs is far too well known to require further comment, but the multiplicity of economic organs both inside and outside the United Nations does call for comment. The delegation of Brazil has proposed that the Economic and Social Council, expanded and reorganized, should become the equivalent of the Security Council on economic questions. In principle, my delegation and Government support that idea since it offers us an opportunity to ponder co-ordination among boards, conferences, commissions, bodies, all of which, in one way or another, deal with the same matters and come to different conclusions.
76.	The United Nations was created when less than half the countries that today compose the third world were in existence when there was no hint of the claims submitted by the developing countries later at the three sessions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development [UNCTADJ, held at Geneva, New Delhi and Santiago in 1964, 1968 and 1972 respectively. The changes that have since occurred have completely transformed the nature of the discussions on international trade and economy.
77.	Therefore, it should be only natural for the Economic and Social Council to serve as a body to co-ordinate and make decisions on matters within its competence without prejudice to UNCTAD continuing to be the forum for discussions between the industrialized nations and the third world.
78.	One of the lessons that can be learned from the third session of UNCTAD is that the items to be discussed and dealt with among 140 countries of the most diverse economic capacities and geographical size should be more specialized.
79.	The 22 items included in the agenda for the third session in Santiago were in point of fact an agenda not only for one, but for two, or even three, conferences of that type. The items were so extensive and difficult-items such as the trade and economic aspects of disarmament; the repercussions of environmental matters on trade; the present international monetary situation; the encouragement of exports; non-tariff barriers-and even one item that belongs more properly on the agenda of the Security Council: the closure of the Suez Canal.
80.	We fear that these international conferences may easily lead to world-wide pandemonium, or to compromise resolutions that treat conflicting positions equally and refer them to study groups.
81.	Apart from this, the questions raised at the third session of UNCTAD were all so closely linked to the international monetary situation, that, without a solution to the latter great problem, it is almost impossible to speak of doing away with barriers and obstacles to increased trade. An international trade policy is basically a policy of prices and of remuneration for labor in all 140 countries that were represented at Santiago. That fair-price policy for labor in the developing countries must take into account the monetary fluctuations of the great Powers and the lowering of the purchasing power which these bring about.
82.	The disparities between the price system for industrial goods and the poor payment for raw materials are still all too obvious, and therein lies the major problem confronting the economy of the world.
83.	Without dwelling on individual decisions of the third session of UNCTAD on the various items on its agenda, what was most notable there was the will of the countries of the third world to participate in bodies whose decisions affect their economies-that is, ultimately, the very fate of their peoples.
84.	The bad precedent of a few and powerful countries possessing the power of decision on international monetary questions that affect all countries must be considered outmoded and should not be repeated.
85.	International democracy cannot be a mere skeleton- lifeless and still nor should it be only a literary subject worthy of mention at the inauguration of conferences and in welcoming speeches.
86.	The developing countries are beginning to take a decisive part in the international discussions on the law of the sea, whose evolution had, until a few decades ago, been subject to the control of the more powerful and wealthy nations.
87.	Narrow territorial waters and freedom of navigation had been the ideal set-up for the great maritime Powers in order to ensure them unhampered entry into all seas and the exploitation of the oceanic wealth of all continents. That situation, so typical of the colonial enterprises of the nineteenth century had, as one of its mainstays, the three-mile limit that some countries proclaimed as a principle of international law. But colonialism is no longer a reality of our day.
88.	As of 1945, and more noticeably since 1958, after the first United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the developing countries conceived new formulas that constitute a trend towards reviving the rights of the coastal States
8
and their sovereignty over the wealth of the seas adjacent to their shores. This was due to very special situations which must be conceded by the great Powers, and among these was the need to protect the plankton that serves as feed for a great number of sedentary or benthonic species against the reckless exploitation and exhaustion of these resources.
89.	Following this line of thought, Colombia, together with 15 other countries of the Caribbean, formulated the doctrine of the patrimonial sea in the Declaration of Santo Domingo [A/8721, annex I, sect. 2], approved at the meeting of the Ministers of the Specialized Conference of Caribbean Countries on Problems of the Sea in June of this year. That doctrine is the most constructive and carefully weighed contribution made to date to find regional solutions on the basis of the existence of an economic zone and of the sovereignty of the coastal State over the exploitation of the resources of the sea adjacent to its shores.
90.	Our view is that the formula that is most closely akin to the legal realities of all continents is the one that recognizes an initial security zone, or territorial sea, of 12 nautical miles and an adjacent zone of primarily economic significance of variable widths up to 200 miles, depending on the width of the maritime areas and the location of archipelagoes in narrow seas like the Caribbean, where 200 miles cannot be drawn in all directions without infringing the sovereign rights of other States. The issue here is that those zones should allow freedom of navigation the jus communicationis and not become closed seas, and that at the same time, a unilateral proclamation should not infringe the sovereign rights of States with adjacent or facing maritime zones. We believe that those zones should be defined in international law, for we want to pass from the stage of purely unilateral declarations of claims by States to the stage of regional agreements governed by international law.
91.	Colombia has been willing to have talks with other countries of our hemisphere in order to co-ordinate the different interpretations of the 200 miles in a regional agreement. This would be at a conference of the Latin American States that could at the same time serve as a preparatory conference for the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea to be held in 1973. Our attitude is one of international co-operation, but we realize that a new phase of this field of law has been reached by the emergence of clear economic needs.
92.	The economic zones of the adjacent seas have even become a symbol of Latin American nationalism.
93.	The number of items that will appear on the agenda of the forthcoming Conference are increasing considerably. Perhaps the authors of General Assembly resolution 2750 C (XXV), calling for the Conference in 1973, did not quite appreciate the universal scope and the great variety of problems that would arise because of the political and economic realities, scientific progress and the rapid technological developments of the last 10 years. Apart from the purely juridical and political factors that tend to modify the 1958 concepts on the territorial sea, the continental shelf, the high seas and fishing rights, there are now the problems of pollution of the marine environment and international co-operation in oceanic research. If we add to these the complex questions of the sea-bed, we find that there will be too many subjects for a single conference of limited duration to deal with.
94.	Colombia wishes a program of work for that forthcoming Conference to be prepared here and now. It should not be impossible to envisage subdividing purely scientific questions, such as marine pollution and international co-operation in research, as well as certain aspects of the sea-bed, to form a special category of problems to be dealt with at special meetings within a co-ordinated work-plan, for the Conference must not become fragmented through a proliferation of items.
95.	On the other hand, the other legal and political questions would be dealt with as a whole in a program of work that will avoid confusion in the debates on matters of a complex nature for which delegations will have to prepare themselves, first of all, to decide upon a policy for the sea and then, and only then, to take up the discussion of carefully prepared texts of articles or paragraphs of resolutions or conventions. In the discussion of the problems of the sea, priorities must be established.
96.	In one word, the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea will have to set down criteria of its own on three main aspects: the expanded economic zones, the sea-bed and ocean floor, and the contamination and the ecology of the seas together with related scientific research. But at its present session, the General Assembly could make some progress with the organization of work.
97.	My country has a consistent and lengthy tradition of compliance with international law in dealing with all foreign affairs problems. I do not believe I would be overstating the case if I say that our international conduct has always been clearly in keeping with the precise terms of law and of treaties. We do not believe that might makes right, or that violence and intimidation can be instruments of international policies. Our frontiers are clearly marked and we aspire to the territory of no other country.
98.	Because of this constant principle of my country, we seek a more just world community governed by the norms and principles of. international law. We wish to see co-operation among States developing in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations not that we need principles and rules, but because we must have the will of all States to put them into effect. The international justice we advocate is not simply theoretical but is eminently practical, and is designed to find the causes of existing conflicts and to promote equitable treatment for the developing nations.
99.	The myth of peace must, in this last quarter of the twentieth century, become the effective reality of peace. Despite its obvious shortcomings, the United Nations is still a good means of seeking that goal that is so ardently desired by my country and the immense majority of men and women of all other countries of the world. The sufferings of the war-torn peoples are the best justification for our appeal for peace in justice and law.


===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿121.	On behalf of my delegation, I should like to greet the Secretary-General of the United Nations,' Mr. Kurt Waldheim, who this year made an extremely important and fruitful visit to Latin America when the Security Council held its meetings in Panama. His words on that memorable occasion  were heard with immense satisfaction since they bespoke the intention of the United Nations to deal with the political and economic problems of the developing countries. During his stay in the capital of my own country, we expressed our thanks to him personally.
122.	With the very deepest feelings of sincere friendship, I should like to congratulate the President of this session of the General Assembly, Mr. Leopoldo Benites, who has for so many years outstandingly and effectively represented in this Organization a nation friendly to Colombia. We are truly gratified by this well-earned election, which honours a Latin American personality and a country with an admirable international tradition. Our President, who knows the United Nations well, will at all times be the impartial leader of our debates.
123.	In this introduction to my statement, may I refer to a great Colombian who died this morning, Eduardo Zuleta Angel, an eminent jurist who, in 1946, presided over the Preparatory Commission of the United Nations. He played an important part in the drafting of the Charter in San Francisco. For my country and for the world Organization, this is an irreparable loss, which we mourn deeply.
124.	I must also speak with sadness of the death of two other important personalities, the President of Chile, Salvador Allende, and the poet of America, Pablo Neruda. Allende was a leader with whom we were linked by friendship, and Neruda was an intellectual of great international standing.
125.	History is a constant process of correction and innovation, and no one today will challenge the fact that we stand on the threshold of a new era in international relations which bears the sign of a spiritual, political and economic convergence of continents.
126.	Thanks to the extraordinary means of social communication provided by scientific and technical progress, countries feel more closely united precisely because they are more directly connected. Intercontinental distances have been shrunk by supersonic planes, and images are projected from one end of the world to the other in fractions of a second. This same inner inspection of the earth and its latent wealth is being pressed forward from a space laboratory with a meticulous precision undreamed of by scientists 20 years ago.
j 27. Globalism - that trend towards universal convergence-leaves far behind the stances and the alliances of the period following the Second World War, when we saw taking root the bipolar system of power distribution of the world, with its sequel of grim and intense rivalries between the great Powers that headed the two confronting camps, the United States and the Soviet Union. In fact, occasions were not lacking when that very confrontation spelled a dangerous approach to the edge where an atomic holocaust could take place, and there were times when the United Nations itself was felt to be unreal.
128.	Armageddon in the twentieth century would be brought about by the two opposing blocs resorting to their respective atomic arsenals. But, fortunately, for mankind, that terrifying apocalyptic spectre has been dissipated by the emergence of a new period, one of an interrelationship among differing political and ideological systems, an interweaving of the great Powers, and an arrival at joint agreements for their mutual benefit in the economic field and in trade.
129.	Beyond the policy of confrontation and the bipolar system lies a period of globalism, a system truly planetary in its dimensions and political, economic and social scope. But without being carried away by optimism we can assert that this new era of world co-operation is characterized by the following features: first, wide international co-operation among all countries; secondly, peace-as the target of international policy and action--more deeply felt and more arduously won; thirdly, the end of colonialism and the repudiation of racial discriminations as outmoded institutions not in keeping with the dignity of the subjected peoples; fourthly, international law as the equally global concept of international relations and the reflection of a gamut of concerns going from the good behaviour of States to the problems of outer space, the sea-bed and the ecology of continents and fifthly, economic and social justice as the necessary premise for the new ordering of international trade, the international distribution of labour and the monetary system.
130.	Thus the assumption of membership in the United Nations by so many new States of Africa and Asia that have achieved their independence is a clear index of that universality that imbues our debates. Gradually a multipolar system has been developing that allows for the distribution of international competences among a larger number of sovereign States and replaces the erstwhile division of the international order among confronting blocs. And the symptoms of globalism multiply. The problems of the sea-bed, the ocean floor and outer space are discussed. Ecology has made its debut among the list of contemporary issues. Over 130 nations now participate in our work and technological and industrial progress is not confined to a single continent but has moved to the Far East-to Japan, whose rebirth is so gratifying to us.
131.	The presence of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations has revitalized our Organization by the addition of a nation that is among the most densely populated in the world, while the admission to our midst of the two Germanys and of a newly-created American State, the Commonwealth of the Bahamas-which we welcome with such pleasure-puts an effective end to a history of rivalries and animosities and is a decisive step towards international rapprochement.
132.	Without denying that these positive results have been obtained by dint of a direct understanding among the great Powers-primarily the United States, the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China-we wonder whether we are not at present witnessing a return to the formulas of the balance of power that were so typical of European international politics of the nineteenth century and the days of Prince Metternich.
133.	Our concern lies not in the existence of a system of balances and counterbalances among the great Powers-or in the fact that such a system ushers in an era of useful trade and financial exchanges; for we cannot deny the meaning of history based on what we have called "ideological pluralism", namely, the coexistence of different systems within the framework of international co-operation and mutual respect for the sovereignty and self-determination of peoples.
134.	We merely point out that that very balance of power is achieved by agreements concluded on the fringe of the United Nations and is creating a special system of relations among a privileged group of States-a group that is governed by principles and goals that differ from those of the United Nations. The division of the world into great power blocs on the one hand and the rest of the nations on the other is a fact of contemporary life but it nevertheless shatters international solidarity.
135.	This might well be the appropriate moment to state that never before has the need-and perhaps the urgency - been more clearly seen of setting in effective motion the machinery and the processes of the United Nations.
136.	The United Nations is the immense arena for the convergence of all peoples of the earth. The Charter of the world Organization not only possesses specific juridical values embodied in a series of commitments on the part of all its Members to abide by certain obligations and enjoy certain rights; it not only represents the duty of resorting to juridical processes in the settlement of international disputes. but it also carries an effective political value.
137.	The Charter of the United Nations must always be interpreted juridically and politically. It contains as much of law as it does of politics. It is far from being a mere collection of guiding principles and procedures; it also contains a variety of compromise formulas for the adoption of new attitudes in keeping with the circumstances of history that is passing through what one Latin American author has termed "the commonplace of revolution".
138.	The Charter of the United Nations and its principal organs- the Security Council and the General Assembly- must be resorted to constantly in the shaping of the framework for international relations. The very play of balances among the great Powers must have the purpose of ensuring the improved functioning of the United Nations.
139.	Globalism, internationalism. United Nations: surely these are synonyms. Exclusivism, political separatism, the forgetting of the developing countries: surely these are contradictions of the history we are now living. Prince Metternich ought not to be revived; he should be surpassed.
140.	In fact, our day calls for the closest association among all continents, among ail peoples, among all races.
141.	The primary condition for the new order of peace to become a reality lies in the overriding need for the non-proliferation of nuclear arms. Along these lines, Latin America pointed the way with the 1967 Treaty of Tlatelolco on the prohibition of nuclear weapons in the hemisphere, as did the United Nations in 1968, when the General Assembly adopted the important measure of recommending to States the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. That Treaty and the Moscow Treaty of 1963 which prohibits all nuclear tests in the atmosphere or in any environment that might cause radioactive contamination were the first steps taken along the road to general and complete disarmament precisely for the purpose of strengthening the new world order. The so-called test-ban Treaty-though it be limited in scope- is nevertheless the indispensable prelude to the creation of what U Thant referred to in 1963 as a better awareness of the need at least to limit the manufacture of devices for mass destruction.
142.	It is for those reasons that this year Colombia repeated its protests against the atomic tests carried out in the Mururoa Atoll in the Pacific Ocean. We did so standing together with the members of the Andean Pact, namely, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela. We did so because, apart from the knowledge of the dangerous effects on the ecology of the seas and oceans of such tests, there was the matter of principle dictating that we take up the international work of disarmament without delay..
143.	The 1967 report of a group of consultant experts, in response to General Assembly resolution 2162 A (XXI) of 5 December 1966 on the effects of the possible use of nuclear weapons and on the implications for States of the acquisition and further development of these weapons, set forth among other conclusions that an atmospheric explosion of a device at a height of less than 100,000 feet produces an energy discharge of 50 per cent-heat radiation of 35 per cent, and radioactive discharge of 15 per cent. One third of these radiations is produced within the first minute of the explosion, and the radioactive effects are carried by the atmosphere over great distances.
144.	In the case at issue there was also a formal judgement handed down by the International Court of Justice at the request of Australia and New Zealand, and our deepest hope is to see the highest court of the United Nations fully respected by the Member States when it intervenes in matters of peace. There can be no other way of establishing an order of law in the world but by seeking the non- proliferation of atomic arms.
145.	We are deeply convinced of the primacy of international law and of the fundamental role of the International Court of Justice as the authorized interpreter of the commitments assumed by States Member's of the United Nations.
146.	The report of the Group of Consultant Experts on the Economic and Social Consequences of the Arms Race and Military Expenditure nominated by the Secretary- General pursuant to resolution 2667 (XXV) of the 1970 session of the General Assembly, contains statistics of the problem that are truly alarming.
147.	By the end of the decade of the 1970s the level of total arms expenditure rose beyond S200,000 million a year, and, as the experts point out, those military expenditures were two and a half times greater than the entire amount allocated by Governments to health programmes, one and a half times greater than the amount devoted to education, and 30 times greater than the total of the official economic assistance given by the developed countries to the developing nations. 
148.	Mankind must think carefully whether this colossal squandering of wealth is justified or not. The large-scale manufacture of multiple independent re-entry vehicles has been perfected. These can be launched against a number of targets simultaneously and can, in one launching, wipe out antiballistic missiles. So, therefore, we ask ourselves, how far will this frenzied race of man towards his own destruction take us? For the developing countries a modern supersonic fighter-plane represents 10 times the cost of the machine 10 years ago and requires a far more highly sophisticated and complex control system than that used until 1945.
149.	The same can be safely said of the other modern weaponry. It is true that part of that expenditure is laid out for scientific research, but it is no less obvious that a greater transfer of resources for the improvement of the health, education and nutritional possibilities of mankind would help to dispel the demographic problems that seem insoluble today. Nor should we lose sight of the fact that the Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade called for a 6 per cent rate of growth and an increase in domestic savings to reach the 20 per cent level by 1980. Yet how can these levels be reached if the arms race continues in the world.
150.	Therefore, the Second United Nations Development Decade hinges on disarmament. In resolution 2930 (XXVII) the General Assembly invited the Governments of all States to continue efforts to create conditions conducive to the holding of a world disarmament conference and to that end created a Special Committee to prepare for that conference, and included Colombia in its membership.
151.	We have always held the opinion that disarmament should be achieved not only within the concept of universality that underlies our Organization, but also bearing in mind regional circumstances and what we might term the "defence balance" of each of our continents. Conditions in Latin America are not identical with those in Europe, or Africa, or Asia. Each of those regions is beset by needs that are well known to the experts in arms types and face logistic conditions on which the concept of continental defence must rest.
152.	We would therefore presume that, just as a Conference of Security and Co-operation in Europe would inevitably tend to create a balance of forces between those countries that have adhered to the system of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the States signatories of the Treaty of Friendship, Co-operation and Mutual Assistance, signed at Warsaw in 1955 -the Warsaw Pact - so, too, the States of other regions-in particular those of Latin America and Africa -which have their own regional organizations could also establish in the United Nations specific plans governing the defence and arms balance in their respective areas. We advocate a regional approach to disarmament.
153.	Thus we would see the regional groups playing a decisive role in the preparation of the forthcoming world disarmament conference. Otherwise, that conference might suffer the same unfortunate and uncertain fate of so many earlier efforts-made without a regional approach - to solve the problems that may effect over 130 States possessing different economic and political systems, and lying in different latitudes.
154.	In the inter-American regional organization, Colombia has put forth these same ideas in order to avoid unnecessary military expenditures in Latin America and help to accelerate economic and social development.
155.	We are happy to agree with the Secretary-General of the United Nations on the fact that the necessity for international co-operation has never been so urgent, but we ask ourselves what are the main functions that this Organization should therefore be called upon to perform.
156.	Starting from the assumption that world-wide confrontations have been set aside thanks to the solid progress achieved in rapprochement by the great Powers, there are still in existence the "peripheral conflicts", or, if you prefer, local wars. The Viet-Namese experience must be studied in order to avoid the failure of the peace-keeping mission of this international Organization if it stands immutable, with the rigidity of a statue, when, in some part of the world, wide-scale military operations are taking place or when mass destruction of towns and human beings is taking place, simply because such a war has not legally been declared.
157.	The fiction that conflicts do not exist if they have not been formally declared or if the outmoded diplomatic niceties of the announcement of the outbreak of hostilities have not been fulfilled seems to overlook the shocking fact of the existence of the victims of the sophisticated weapons that arc used in combat in a well-known demographic area. We must agree that the United Nations should play a pacifying role in undeclared wars as well as in those legally recognized as existing.
158.	There is. furthermore, the fact that wars of today inevitably end at the negotiating table, given the inability of the combatants to destroy one another. War, therefore, merely postpones the solution to problems instead of settling them.
159.	The procedures for international conciliation in the United Nations must therefore be made more supple and the part played by the Security Council or the General Assembly more persevering.
160.	The new global concept of international affairs-was very obviously demonstrated by the special meetings of the Security Council held in Panama at the beginning of this "year. It was a most heartening experience for us to see such a high political organ of the United Nations dwelling more directly on the problems of the Western Hemisphere and hearing the opinions of the Latin American nations at first-hand.
161.	Speaking for my own country, I was able to draw attention to some problems occurring specifically in our continent, problems which condition the maintenance of peace there. The persistence of under-development and the existence of large masses of the population outside the main current of development cannot be corrected except by vast plans for industrial development and for improving the economic and social infrastructure. This calls for an increase in our capacity to export and to generate a potential wealth that can be distributed among the less fortunate in the form of salaries and educational, health and housing assistance.
162.	The major problem besetting Latin America is under-development. The population of our countries literally flocks to the cities in search of better living and working opportunities, and there is no chance of grappling with What has been termed the "revolution of rising expectations" of the third world, unless there is a new international division of trade and unless more favourable access is opened up to the exports from those countries. At the same time, it is imperative to admit that the developing countries have the right to regain the resources previously granted to others in colonial contracts, as one way of exercising their sovereignty.
163.	Peace, therefore, is not the outcome of certain diplomatic protocols, but rather the result of a better economic balance between continents, and of a meeting of the aspirations for social justice that move our countries. Political peace itself is a precarious tool at best, unless it is accompanied by economic and social peace. In other words, international security must be assessed in economic and social terms.
164.	But peace also depends on the solution that may be found to other problems that affect a region. So Colombia very sincerely endorsed the plea of other Latin American republics for a solution to the question of Panamanian sovereignty in the Panama Canal Zone. Nothing could be more just than that that country be allowed to put an end to a system that bisects its territory into two separate areas divided by a belt of water and land governed by another nation.
165.	The Republic of Panama brought its problem directly to the United Nations because, procedurally, it was hamstrung in the inter-American regional organization, and the Security Council showed itself capable of entertaining the concern of peoples within the new global concept of international affairs.
166.	Because of the trend towards globalism, we are witnessing a crisis in the regional organizations and in the way in which they were conceived after the Second World War as a means of dealing with the problems of the cold war and the conflicts arising out of the Power-bloc confrontations.
167.	Security treaties, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization of 1949 and the Treaty of Friendship, Co-operation and Mutual Assistance among the socialist countries-the Warsaw Pact of 1955 — were designed as defensive alliances to cope with problems arising out of the cold war; but they have been left standing as isolated bodies, and now call for readjustments in the light of new situations flowing from European co-operation-not to mention the Middle-Eastern and Far-Eastern security alliances that have been dissolved by circumstances. In our own inter-American system, the inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance  includes far wider aspects, but aside from that instrument the economic problems that, we face cannot be solved by our regional organization.
168.	The future of such organs-and particularly that of the inter-American organization-will depend on the way they decide to or can adapt to the new circumstances of a world in evolution, in which wide political agreements are sought outside ideologies and where it is nonsense for the cold war to have ended between the great Powers but to continue in Latin America, where the vestiges of the period of confrontation are carefully nurtured.
169.	In some aspects Latin America has entered the twentieth century and in others it has remained in the nineteenth. We now require a new continental policy for our Hemisphere, one based on United Nations principles for co-operation and relations among States that will permit each people to seek its own development and greater social justice, without interference of any sort.
170.	First of all, each State must be entitled to establish relations with any other. International law, as practised in the world today, recognizes that freedom as inherent in sovereignty and as part of the concept of mutual and full respect for the independent personality of each State. Sooner or later this principle will have to prevail in the Western Hemisphere if we wish to restore friendship among the peoples of the region and be consistent with the notion of ideological plurality.
171.	Secondly, in the future we will have to avoid a recurrence of certain interferences that have taken place in recent years and that have been in the nature of reprisals on the part of large corporations against certain countries. The credit of international agencies cannot be made to depend on restrictions derived from claims by private interests against a country, but must be open to the developing countries according to their capacity and ability. Intervention, in any of its forms and manifestations, is contrary to the very spirit of the day.
172.	Finally, Colombia is concerned over the basic aspect-the fate of human rights in the Hemisphere and in the world and the guarantees that must surround the dignity of the human person. We witness with sorrow the existence of certain situations in which the principles that we felt to be deeply embedded in contemporary civilization are entirely eradicated.
173.	Colombia is proud of its democratic lineage and reiterates its faith in the rule of law and of public liberties as a permanent system of coexistence based on equality and respect for all ideologies within the framework of the republican order.
174.	It is easy, therefore, for us to advocate the doctrine of ideological pluralism which Colombia has championed successfully in the General Assembly of the Organization of American States. That rule of law which we apply to the individual citizen we have endeavoured to extend to every nation, so long as the latter, in turn, is willing to comply with, and accept, law and justice as norms governing the conduct of States.
175.	We are defenders of this doctrine in so far as we believe in universality for international relations and the application of the principles of the self-determination of peoples and of non-intervention. But pluralism to us does not mean yielding our own national way of life, or forgetting our own democratic tradition, or even disregarding human rights elsewhere in the world. To us, it means mutual tolerance for the diversity of ideological systems and political regimes.
176.	This pluralism, resting four-square on international coexistence, and based on clear legal principles, is professed by Colombia as a theory derived from our own national history. It also takes into account the image of a world governed by criteria of tolerance and respect among nations. Territorial sovereignty and the political independence of States are the foundations of ideological pluralism.
177.	U is a doctrine that looks to the future, and not to the hatreds of the past.
178.	The general economic situation is not satisfactory. The world is afflicted with a supply crisis. Furthermore, there is the grave uncertainty felt by the developing countries over the growing imbalance in the terms of trade. However, development plans presuppose the knowledge of the future pattern of world trade and of the monetary system.
179.	The forthcoming trade and currency negotiations, to take place over the next few months, will be crucial to peace. We find ourselves at a point where the development gap has widened between the wealthy and the poor countries and is aggravated by the technological gap between the same groups. To a certain extent, the agreements among the great Powers tend to create a circle of privileged nations that act outside the confines of international conferences.
180.	The creation of economic blocs has been a very different approach to world economy and one that was not dreamed of in 1944, when the ground was prepared for the monetary system, or even two years later, when world trade was organized. Freedom of trade has disappeared, as also has the concept of set parity, two principles that were then voiced as guidelines for economics, and we are daily moving deeper into a world bisected into the group of industrialized nations and that of the poverty zones of the third world.
181.	Latin America has drawn a lesson from these events in order to strengthen its co-operation and encourage its dynamic and important efforts such as the Andean Agreement for Subregional Integration.
182.	A very eager desire is expressed among the developing countries to be able to participate effectively in the resources of the sea adjacent to their coasts. Thus, new principles of the law of the sea are being elaborated such as that of the "patrimonial sea", which Colombia, together with other countries of Latin America, has defended. We are gratified to see that that initiative has won the support of other important countries, since it allows the establishment of the rights of the coastal State over an economic zone located beyond the 12-mile territorial sea. while respecting the notion of freedom of navigation and overflight and freedom to lay cables or submarine pipelines or to carry out scientific investigation under the control of the coastal State.
183.	The great Powers must grant this equitable distribution of the ichthyological resources so as to allow the needs of the coastal populations to be satisfied. We have no doubt that the law of the sea evolves subject to obvious economic needs, in the same way as it did when for years it reflected the imperialisms and colonialisms of eras we believe obsolete. But the economic zone of the coastal State must then be the great and new principle of a truly universal law of the sea, one that will be the outcome of the forthcoming Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea..
184.	I do not wish to overlook two burning issues of the present day. The unification of the two Republics of Korea will be a further contribution to the pacification of the Far East, and their admission to membership in the United Nations will doubtless help to extend the universality of our Organization.
185.	The as yet uncertain atmosphere in the Middle East leads us to make an appeal for reconciliation and peace. Colombia has always believed that Security Council resolution 242 (1967) contains the basis for a just and lasting peace, and any action by the United Nations leading to peace must be predicated upon it. However, we do feel that it would be helpful to enhance the powers of Mr. Gunnar Jarring of Sweden as the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in the Middle East, in order to encourage agreement among the States concerned in accordance with the terms of that resolution.
186.	Our participation in the United Nations and the remarks we have made on the problems that appear in other parts of the world reflect Colombia's intention to seek an international order governed by law and built on justice. International life must daily become more imbued with the rules of law that must themselves be the expression of the universal agreement of peoples. Contrary to the case of the last century, the world today is no longer an inchoate mass that can be shaped and commanded from a few influential capitals. The premises that allowed colonialism and the distribution of spheres of influence have today disappeared.
187.	Yet at present international problems are even more complicated because to the old matters of conciliation and peaceful means of settling international disputes must now be added the new problems besetting the world community, which have to do with the fate of mankind, its right to life, the protection of economic security and the preservation of the environment. We might safely say that man and all men are the main subject for international organizations such as the United Nations-organizations that hope to influence conditions of peace and security in the world.
188.	Peace must thus depend on an over-all preservation of human life and a larger investment of the resources made available to the wealthy countries when no longer used for armaments. Peace is a single problem of anguished and. generally speaking, impoverished mankind, in that vast field the. United Nations has an agenda of infinite scope. The regional organizations are in a critical situation since they are unable to deal with the disquiet of a world knitted tighter together by means of communication, technology and science and by the solidarity that today exists among all nations.
189.	We could not guarantee that those desires will all be fulfilled entirely without conflicts or suffering. But we can make an appeal to men of all races and say that it is the widest programme and the most urgent to which generations can aspire.
190.	For the time being, the United Nations is the greatest political hope of mankind.

===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
My first words are addressed to you, Mr. President, to congratulate you on your well- earned election to preside over this, the greatest forum of the peoples of the world, to guide it with your recognized wisdom and boldness at this particular moment in history.
171.	My next words are of welcome to the three new States that have emerged from colonial status into full sovereignty and independence. I greet Guinea- Bissau, Bangladesh and Grenada, whose heroic presence among us gives us cause for rejoicing.
172.	I must say a few words regarding the grief of Latin America at the ravages suffered by Honduras, our sister Republic, struck by adversity in the form of a hurricane. This is the time for us to show our solidarity with that small but great nation, and to give prompt and decisive help in its reconstruction.
173.	Rarely in the history of this Organization has the period between two regular sessions of the General Assembly been so filled with events, or shown a deeper and more extensive transformation in the conditions of human life and the relations between peoples. There is an atmosphere of expectancy, of dissatisfaction and of tension between the industrial countries and the developing nations. The latter have been waging an almost vain struggle to achieve higher standards of living, and to close the gap between them and the economic and technological Powers. The unequal terms of trade are the common denominator of the problem. The Algerian proposal to hold a special session to study the question of raw materials and development resulted in the sixth special session? and served to pinpoint that tension which had been dramatically exacerbated by what was termed the energy crisis, that is, by the decision of the oil-exporting countries to re-price their obviously non-renewable resource and to serve notice that their reserves were limited and that their management had entered a radically new phase.
174.	The effects of these measures have touched all nations of the world to a different extent and in different ways. The bases for industrial production of wide areas have been changed, and many articles have been subject to unavoidable readjustments. Obviously, that measure was not the cause of the monetary troubles which were already being felt, nor can it alone be held responsible for the phenomenon of global inflation. But it is linked to imbalances in the world market, to the financial crisis and to the changes in many prices, which were earlier referred to as equitable but which now appear suddenly capricious in their response to the new oil price levels, which the producers quite justifiably consider as having been set belatedly.
175.	Going beyond the specific and immediate debate on oil, the sixth special session issued a Declaration which might wall be termed the Magna Carta of economic equity and then went on to adopt its Program of Action. Despite some reservations, consensus was the order of the day and for the first time it became obvious that world solidarity was more than an empty phrase. The interdependence of all peoples of the earth was a fact of pristine truth and it was made clear that the needy and the wealthy were components of a single whole that must be reviewed with justice, with courage and with wisdom in order to advance towards a more egalitarian and secure world. It was also made clear that, besides peace, collective security, the urgency of disarmament and the prohibition of aggression, economic development and social welfare were also objectives of equal importance and inseparable from the others.
176.	Among the lasting benefits derived from that sixth special session was the fact that the third world, once an amorphous collection of peoples with neither close contacts nor clear-cut goals, became a consolidated body. That session opened wide the doors to dialog and a gate to the future and set in true motion the principle of the sovereign equality of States. The voices of the strong and the weak acquired equal resonance. These are irreversible achievements; and we can as of this moment assert that the symbol of the United Nations for the next long years will be an economic symbol, or, more specifically, the systematic and courageous search for the way in which three quarters of the world's population are to move towards standards of development, or at least are to be given conditions whereby to achieve such standards; so that contrary to the usual effect, their efforts to progress will not bring about a relative regression.
177.	It is, however, clear that the historic session of April last in this same hall did not possess magical virtues or automatic means, and we cannot confuse our intentions with the long-range results. That session was accompanied or immediately followed by dark economic omens: monetary instability and uncertainty regarding ways of stabilizing currency exchanges; poor harvests and grave warnings about the world's food reserves. But over and above all, there was a global inflation whose levels and speed of growth were practically unprecedented in scope. Many industrial economies that had a mere few months earlier appeared prosperous and sound suddenly showed signs of weakness and sank to near bankruptcy levels. Money had lost some of its purchasing power and became more difficult to obtain. The situation of most developing countries went from bad to critical because of the trend among the industrialized nations towards cutting down on their purchases in the third world and concentrating on raw materials that were essential for subsequent manufacture. Those raw materials did not have the benefit of the necessary emergency machinery to impose conditions of sale and prices; what is more, they bore no relation to the capital goods which those less advanced countries had to import, with their enormous surcharges due to the high standard of living in the manufacturing countries now further increased by the inflationary spiral.
178.	Thus many peoples not only feel that they have drifted far afield from the minimum well-being and development targets set a few months earlier in New York, but now face critical situations in the procurement of food for survival. A feeling of urgency and an awareness of the gravity of the moment seems to hover over most of the items on our agenda. The peoples who have had control over the possibility of peace or war, of collective security and control of trade, as well as those nations which have enjoyed sudden boom conditions, now have the chance of using their resources, not in charitable works, but in an enlightened effort of self-defense against the boomerang of an untenable economic situation. The political stability of the world is threatened by the rising waves. A new type of society, one that is desperate and skeptical regarding all forms of government and of opposing ideologies, may supersede the more stable, peaceful, traditional and organized national communities. One need not stretch one's imagination too far to foresee, among the poor peoples who are being robbed of their hopes for improvement, calamities which will engender further calamities.
179.	The moment is ripe to prove the capacity of the United Nations. No bilateral arrangement, nor agreements between blocs, will have sufficient influence to alter the economic course or to arrive at global policies that will offer true safeguards. It is only world-wide agreements, arrived at here by dialog, through reason and in the assurance that we are living in a united world, that will give adequate answers to the complex and threatening challenge. All countries, some in more orderly fashion than others, are turning to the task of domestic therapy. More than ever before, Governments are aware of the need to assess the possibilities of their respective peoples, and many of the latter are responding with dedication and fervor to the sacrifice of a more than precarious existence. But there is a limit to the ability to perform miracles, and facts, as we well know, are stubborn. Beyond the national effort there is still that great battle to be fought.
180.	Personally, I am optimistic regarding the human ability to adapt in order to meet unforeseen circumstances and almost instinctively to organize in the face of the common threat. Herein lies the greatest reserve of the United Nations: that it is a state of mind and spirit that transcends cultures, ideologies and customs. More than the isolated generosity of some countries, it is a community effort which, with .some sort of occult wisdom, leads us to an equilibrium, to a restoration of peace, to the preservation of order, to a sense of foresight, and to acts that start beyond individual and specific interests. This does not mean adopting a passive reliance on providence, or a giving-in contrary to the strength of reason organized into systematic thinking. It is an act of faith in values that we hold in common and that find in this Organization their most propitious outlet.
181.	Events do not pass by the United Nations without affecting and changing it. The sixth special session is a good example of how the concept of economic development crystallized, despite the vagueness with which Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Charter refers to "promoting and encouraging respect for human rights", which is an entirely different matter. That statute, the result of the post-war period, was based on outmoded notions of sovereignty which were unconnected with natural resources. Yet it has been in force since 1946, so that it is high time for 138 associated nations to revise it, to bring it up to date, making it more operative and dynamic.
182.	At the twenty-fourth session of the Assembly in 1969, Colombia proposed just this. It was then that our then Foreign Minister, now the President of the Republic, Mr. Lopez Michelsen, from this same rostrum, called for the need to rejuvenate the San Francisco Charter that had been drafted "25 years ago to operate for geopolitical conditions which have been surpassed".8 We advocate not its demolition but a change of some of its parts. No one can deny the services that this venerable legal instrument has rendered. But by the same token, no one can blind himself to the slowing down, the artificial obstacles and duplications it has caused, or to the vagueness and lack of precision it has created. Those who fear that a revision of the Charter implies a break-down of the spirit of the Organization and a jump into the unknown are mistaken.
183.	Paradoxically, it is far more in keeping with tradition to ensure that institutions retain their creative dynamism than to preserve their facades intact. The British writer G. K. Chesterton contended that it was far more traditional to keep painting the white mast white than to wait until it had lost the last traces of its whiteness on the pretext of preserving it intact. Notions such as the common character of the seabed, of outer space and their multiple uses cry out for a place in our Charter, as do those of biological balance or those of the campaign to safeguard the environment against pollution, for the right to ecological balance is not the heritage of a single generation isolated in time, and we are in danger of being adjudged by posterity as the destroyers of the planet. 
184.	Colombia is honored this year as being the site for the first International Women's Conference at Bogota. The two main phenomena that characterize the social changes of the twentieth century have been the rapid urbanization which brought about the mass exodus from the countryside and the creation of innumerable huge cities. The other feature of our time has been the emergence of women into economic, social and political life. This has led to changes in the structure of the family and of culture itself. Obviously, that leads to a change in mentality, in attitudes and tasks in the life of man. It is the human couple as such that has changed. To assess the alterations in the domestic and social functions of both, their influence on the home and the community, and to discern the new trends will be among, the tasks of that Conference. The Conference will also have to examine the obstacles that still stand in the way of the harmonious integration of the efforts of women and men jointly to grapple with such tasks and responsibilities as are posed by under-development. Furthermore, the Conference will have to gage the results of the World Population Conference held recently at Bucharest. Responsible motherhood and the right to control fertility within the framework of women's freedom and beliefs are indissolubly linked to their rote in modern life and to women's identity, dictated by their biological and psychological nature.
185.	We are well aware that no assistance will suffice to shatter the fetters of underdevelopment unless it is linked to an orderly and systematic internal effort. But it is equally true that the distances between some societies and others are so great that in order to bring many peoples into the modern era a veritable race against time is required. This is typified in the field of technology. In the solidarity and inter-dependence of the present-day world, the right to use or abuse specific knowledge is not too well under-stood. There are some areas, such as health, where the preventive vaccine cannot be the exclusive property of any if it can be used to save the lives of millions of beings. Thus, too, certain discoveries and improvements in key areas, such as energy or the exploitation and preparation of basic products, must be termed the collective heritage of mankind. We must consider that the so-called transfer of technology should be operated not bilaterally through more favorable conditions or counterpart benefits between countries, but, rather, by a gradual but massive transfer as the poorer countries require it. This leads to the idea of a world pool of technology which should be administered or monitored by the United Nations.
186.	One item that certainly does belong on our agenda is the "Examination of the functions of the International Court of Justice" [item 93]. This subject was discussed at the twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh sessions and should cast some light on the functions and priorities of the main legal organ of the United Nations. The subject also dovetails with the concern over the review of the Charter. Colombia believes that it would redound to the benefit of the international community if the sphere of the advisory opinions and decisions of the Court were to be widened. The surprising evolution of international law today, which is rich in new issues, should benefit from the clear decisions of the Court, as the nature of the matters brought to the consideration of that supreme tribunal warrant.
187.	During the last few years, the growth of war material of all kinds has been virtually unaffected by arms control or disarmament agreements. Limited or localized wars, such as those of IndoChina, Cambodia or the Middle East, have a markedly experimental character. They affect military criteria and planning. Technological progress in certain tactical and strategic weapons is so rapid that the great Powers are constantly beset by the terror of being irremediably left behind by their peers. This explains the lag and delay in bilateral agreements on mutual reduction of forces and the vagueness of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks. It also explains the meager results obtained at the summit talks to find a balance in the possession of multiple independently target-able re-entry vehicles [MlRVs).
188.	Thus, the rate of military technological production has only grown. Even in the fields of chemical and bacteriological warfare there is no sign of a reduction or destruction of existing arsenals, but, rather, it is believed with some justification that more sophisticated progress is being made in these destructive fields.
189.	The nuclear-weapons tests in the atmosphere, which in 1973 shook the world and particularly those countries that border on the Pacific Ocean, are far from ended, and they systematically coincided with the tenth anniversary of the signing of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmoshpere, in Outer Space and under Water, signed in Moscow on 5 August 1963. This proves the paucity of success obtained in this vital field by the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament which, doubtless and despite all, is the most important forum for world arms control. Blocked by the negotiations of the super-Powers, it has turned, us attention to the noble, albeit more limited, objectives such as the prohibition of the use of needlessly cruel and indiscriminate weapons, for example, napalm, and acts of war against civilian populations.
190.	I quote from the S1PR1 Yearbook 1974 of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute:
"SIPRI has shown that world military expenditures [for 1973 and 1974] are running at about $207,000 million per year" which is over 6 per cent of the gross national product of the countries of the world and equal to the total income of the 2,000 million persons living in the region of the third world with the exclusion of China. "The military expenditure of those countries which provide development aid is estimated at approximately 6.7 per cent of their gross national product, which is 30 times greater than the official development aid they provide."
191.	We can safely say that, aside from the imbalance between the prices of raw materials and those of manufactured goods, no other factor acts as such a drawback on the life of peoples representing 70 per cent of the world's population as does the arms race.
192.	So, for reasons of world security as well as of pure economy, it is only just that we aspire to a world peace conference whose agenda will include all types of weapons and systems of mass destruction, and whose conclusions will be guaranteed in advance by the great atomic and military Powers by means of forms of verification open to and exercised by the United Nations. This hope, which might appear a Utopian flight of fancy , is, nevertheless, the corner-stone of our Organization, and to its achievement all our efforts must be directed all the more so since the danger is growing and we stand on the threshold of a second generation of countries that are capable of nuclear warfare, 
193.	Colombia is a country, dedicated to peace, that is eager to work and, by its own efforts, to obtain what is indispensable to it in a framework of world commerce that will exclude the imperialism of trade, tied loans and inflation built into the goods it imports. During the last decades, we have watched with anguish the systematic erosion of coffee prices, which represent 50 per cent of our export trade, while seeing a radical increase in the prices of agricultural machinery, inputs and fertilizers. The national effort has been gigantic in order to cover the coffee deficit with manufactured goods and to meet the needs of the national growth and the peaceful revolution to ensure a more equitable distribution of wealth and more equality for all Colombian citizens. We believe that at this time the situation of coffee is alarming. We believe in the advisability and the need for a climate between producers and consumers not of confrontation but of dialog and progressive under-standing. The President of Venezuela, Mr. Carlos Andres Perez, in a recent message to President Ford of the United States, denounced this situation in the following terms:
"At this very time, we are seeing how the refusal of the developed countries, including the United States of America, to agree to just and fair prices for coffee has resulted in the inaction of the Inter-national Coffee Organization, which was established precisely to achieve a satisfactory and just equilibrium between producers and consumers. The coffee-producing countries of Latin America and Africa will lose roughly 30 per cent of their foreign- exchange earnings, while manufactured goods from the developed nations have doubled or tripled an price." [S^ AI9784, annex.]
194.	It is obvious that, confronted with this picture, we should feel ourselves as allies of all the countries that face similar obstacles in Africa or Asia. Colombia considers Latin America to be an extension of the concept of the nation and is united with each and every country in that region of brothers. We are aware that in this planetary world of ours Latin America is a bridge that links other areas culturally and economically. We offer our friendship indiscriminately to all the peoples of the world, regardless of their ideology, so long as they respect our institutions and the democratic system of Colombia.
195.	We are here to perform an arduous task, and to perform it together. We are not unaware of the obstacles, but we possess the faith born of our tradition that ideas become the weapons that no wall is sufficiently high to keep out. Freedom is something as real and tangible as the air we brent he. We believe that freedom hungers for bread, for security and for well-being and ultimately identifies itself with them.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====

66.	  We are genuinely pleased to applaud the wisdom shown by the General Assembly in the election of its President. In addition to his outstanding human and intellectual qualities, Mr. Thorn has valuable experience in the management of the particular problems of an economic community within which developed States and new States are associated, a personal experience rare in our times, despite the fact that peace and normal conditions in the world largely depend on finding formulas and devising compromises which will remove the tensions that today disturb relations between the advanced countries and the developing peoples.
67.	We rejoice, therefore, at the presence of Mr. Thorn as President of the Assembly. We also wish to welcome to the world Organization, as independent and sovereign States, the People's Republic of Mozambique, the Republic of Cape Verde and the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
68.	These two circumstances are not necessarily isolated; they reflect certain predominant trends of our times, the significance of which is not yet appreciated in its true dimensions. And this explains why, as the. annual sessions of the General Assembly succeed one another, we note the progress of the idea that the general debate is an anachronistic institution within which it is thought evidence is given of the alleged absence of political maturity and precision of ideas usually attributed to the representatives of tropical countries, in contrast with the seriousness and economy of words of which the spokesmen of the developed countries and the Nordic cultures boast. Possibly at times there is some basis for this idea but it would be a dangerous mistake to seek the solution to a procedural question without previously considering the substantive problem which today affects the United Nations, that of finding a new political and economic balance in the world in which there is room for the new realities which arose tumultuously after the Organization came into being. The multitude of postponed problems, of problems which have deliberately been left unsolved, is the reason which confers on the general debate this aspect of growing confrontation and pugnacity which alarms many and which could hardly be done away with by depriving this Assembly on its status as the appropriate forum for avoiding tensions created by unresolved disputes or those which are difficult to solve within power situations created in an authoritarian manner at the end of the Second World War.
69.	Finding this new balance is all the more necessary since it is well known today that at each session of the
Assembly pessimism regarding the world Organization becomes more noticeable among the Powers which so decisively contributed to its creation and whose behavior at times gives the impression that they consider it a hindrance to the satisfactory development of their foreign policy.
70.	We do not rule out the possibility that the nations which emerged to autonomous life in the midst of the great commotions which transformed the political map of the world after the Second World War, do in fact lack the experience and wisdom which in the past the great Powers ascribed exclusively to themselves  virtues which were the result of holding, throughout centuries, a leading position in international affairs. But it is surprising how quickly the optimism of yesterday has become the pessimism of today. The aspirations of the new States, which are today maligned as being exorbitant, were not difficult to foresee when, in August 1941, aboard a British battleship, two great Anglo-Saxon statesmen signed the Atlantic Charter, wherein they stated:
"Being met together, deem it right to make known certain common principles in the national policies of their respective countries on which they base their hopes for a better future for the world.
"First, their countries seek no aggrandizement, territorial or other;
"Second, they desire to see no territorial changes that do not accord with the clearly expressed wishes of the peoples concerned;
"Third, they respect the right of all peoples to choose the form of government under which they will live; and they wish to see sovereign rights and self government restored to those who have been forcibly deprived of them;
"Fourth, they will endeavor, with due respect for their existing obligations, to further the enjoyment by all States, great or small, victor or vanquished, of access on equal terms, to the trade and to the raw materials of the world which are needed for their economic prosperity;
"Fifth, they desire to bring about the fullest collaboration between all nations in the economic field with the object of securing, for all, improved labor standards, economic adjustment, and social security. . ."
71.	The statesmen on board the British ship HMS Prince of Wales called in those terms for the support of all peoples and societies which for centuries had been subjected to a colonial or dependent regime. They had in mind the decisive contribution of that support to triumph over an enemy whose political philosophy expressed the brutal refusal by the powerful to recognize the rights of peoples of other races and of underdeveloped countries. As a foreseeable consequence of these declarations and the realities they recognized, new States gradually joined the United Nations, and the outcome has meant that the world Organization, which was founded with 51 Member States, is now made up of 141 sovereign nations which as a whole represent the broad spectrum of problems that arise at different levels of economic and political development.
72.	Today these problems seem new because they arise within the arena of world politics, but they are not so very different from those faced in their internal life by the great Powers whose spokesmen signed the Atlantic Charter, when the democratic spirit of their national constitutions compelled the rulers to grant guarantees and better remuneration to the social classes which traditionally had been the victims of inequalities imposed by their governing minorities. It was also stated then and history bears witness to this that the proletarian classes lacked training and responsibility to be able to become involved, through their vote, in the great affairs of State, and periods of pessimism were felt by these classes at each step of their way up on the political and social power scale.
73.	Possibly at the initial stages as occurs today internationally there were reasons to distrust the responsibility of social sectors which for the first time participated in the political decision-making process. But the passage of time saw to it that what was unknown became clear and the various types of philosophy which were used to consecrate the established order became unrealistic; the ruling classes, which were so opposed to their participation, ended by discovering that there was no harm in improving the consumption capacity and level of income of the major sectors of their population, and sought agreements which would give society greater stability and make it possible to submit the crucial problems of the nation to the periodical vote of their citizens.
74.	It therefore does not seem justified that some Western Powers and some Eastern Powers should express surprise when, within the world Organization, there arise discrepancies that are typical of all processes aimed at destroying century-old inequalities and increasing the decision-making power of peoples which, in an international order that was distorted by the traditional imbalances of power, have been deprived of autonomy and of the opportunity to acquire the necessary virtues and responsibility to exercise that power with prudence and objectivity. It can hardly be regarded as a solution to the difficulties confronting the United Nations today to contribute to the decline of its prestige simply because in that body differing currents of opinion are reflected, or because in it forces are emerging which had no say in the interpretation given by the Powers victorious in a world war with regard to the purposes and scope of the Organization. Nor can it be a solution to threaten to suspend payment of the quotas through which contributions are made for its maintenance, or to take the course, as is occurring, of resolving international conflicts outside the framework of the world Organization, without consulting it, and seeking a stage on which it is possible to deal with international problems as simple questions of national interest or of balance of military power.
75. It is true that it would be unfair to assert that the power and prosperity that are today enjoyed by the great Powers are something gratuitous, something not connected with the tenacious and intelligent efforts exerted by their peoples through the generations and the sacrifices they endured in the past in order to reach the levels of pre-eminence and prosperity that they today enjoy. It would be equally foolish to ignore the mistaken decisions or the grave omissions made by societies which, through the centuries, have kept themselves in a state of stagnation and, without taking advantage of them, have allowed opportunities for progress to pass by, opportunities which history has frequently offered them to achieve the well-being which they have only begun to desire and exerted themselves to acquire when they have seen it displayed in the showcases of the affluent societies. Those backward societies constitute a heterogeneous whole, with interests that are not always in agreement because of their varying degrees of development and dependency, and it is therefore inevitable that their discrepancies are accentuated when they try to find joint solutions to specific problems. Hence, it is somewhat arbitrary to attribute complete homogeneity to what is called the underdeveloped world.
76.	But, recognizing, as we must, that the nations now suffering the consequences of economic backwardness are not without blame, any explanation of how the profound gaps which today separate them from the developed countries would be incomplete if we were to omit the decisive role that force and the abuse of force played in the distribution of political and economic power, of poverty and well-being, in the world inherited by our generation.
77.	The enormous accumulation of wealth concentrated today in a few regions of the earth, wealth which the institutional mechanisms existing in those areas make it possible to distribute with a measure of equity among the inhabitants thereof, is not the exclusive product of the virtues, the ingenuity or the economic ethics of which they so often boast; it is also the result of the consolidation, on an international scale, of an order of relationships among the peoples of the planet, between the areas south and north of the Equator, between the temperate zones and the tropical zones. In that order, the equivalent values for their products were determined, to a great degree, by coercive and often predatory procedures. The mechanisms of the world market which, according to hallowed economic doctrines, were supposed to be automatic and impartial, were at a very early date distorted by the interferences of power, and thus a world took shape that was riddled with inequalities, a world that could be perpetuated, as was indeed done, on the basis of philosophies that prided themselves on the virtues of strength or the superiority of certain races which benevolently shouldered what a renowned poet once called "the white man's burden".
78.	A situation thus came into being in which a limited number of nations made up a privileged world establishment, while at the same time vast areas of the earth found themselves despoiled of an increasing share of the economic value of their labor and deprived of the ability, thanks to the meager income permitted to them, to improve, through distributional mechanisms, the deplorable living conditions of their peoples.
79.	We are therefore witnessing an acceleration of the processes of change required to correct situations which in the contemporary world are manifestly obsolete. These corrections require that the essential concessions be made in large measure by the Powers in which the wealth has been accumulated, not by the nations which, by being ill-paid for centuries for their resources, have made possible the concentration of prosperity and well-being in a few regions of the planet. The desirable fairness and prudence in the course of those processes of change cannot be demanded in equal measure alike from those who must take these decisions from a position of power and affluence, and those countries that entered the United Nations under the dead weight of all their former dependencies and with the negative inheritance left to them by a history of subjugation and scanty remuneration for the fruits of the labor of their peoples.
80.	If it is sought to find a new and a sounder political and economic balance in the world, and to create "consensuses" that will facilitate the functioning of the United Nations, it cannot be presumed that such "consensuses" must mean the resigned acceptance of the established order by representatives of the underdeveloped and tropical parts of the world, or the renunciation in advance of the pressure which, by their votes in this Assembly, they can exert for the solution of grave problems for which, all too frequently, the remedy offered has consisted of routine resolutions that mean only an indefinite postponement of the matter. Responsibility cannot be the task exclusively of the small countries; it is rather the natural function of the great countries. The atmosphere of confrontation in the United Nations that concerns us today is due, in no small measure, to the persistent reluctance of the great Powers to accept the necessary compromises in a world which, politically and culturally, cannot allow a continuance of the unjust inequalities which in past times seemed natural and even proper for those who notoriously benefited from them.
81.	One cannot think otherwise when the way the world economy functions is constantly reflected by the colossal indebtedness of the third world, and the great creditor Powers resist a serious study of the possibility of renegotiating the debts, just at a time when the results of the United Nations Development Decades present so discouraging a balance and offer additional evidence of the lack of willingness on the part of the developed nations to contribute appropriately to a more balanced distribution of wealth and economic progress throughout the world. This is in sharp contrast to the excessive sensitivity which those nations show when typical murket conditions or the combined efforts of producers of raw materials or fuels succeed in winning a substantial improvement in their international remuneration. It is not compatible with the aspiration to create more stable conditions in the world that the efforts of good will made by the developing countries to reach agreements between producers and consumers of the main raw materials meet with a response of indifference or frank hostility from the major consumer countries, and that the latter feel they are victims and proclaim that the world economy is in danger when the producers of raw materials unite to defend the international level of their prices.
82.	The major problem of establishing more equitable terms of trade between the prices of industrial products and of raw materials and fuels, like that of preventing the export of inflation from the affluent societies from seriously affecting countries which do not have the same operating and marketing facilities for re-exporting that inflation and improving the value of their exports, cannot be eluded indefinitely, and if procedures such as indexing, for example, are not satisfactory or acceptable, the proper conduct for the developed countries is not to evade the problem with declarations devoid of practical effectiveness but rather to take the initiative in suggesting alternatives which will result in effective progress in correcting the inequalities which today profoundly distort the international economy. The resignation of nations which accepted ridiculous prices for the labor of their peoples has altered substantively and every day it seems more difficult to maintain a situation in which the well-being and waste of highly developed nations depend to a large extent on the meagre income which the world market, affected by monopolistic mechanisms, allows the developing countries to keep for their growth and well-being.
83.	Equal concern might arise because of the resistance encountered in respect of the general system of preferences which, if genuinely and loyally applied, would lead to a new international division of labor throughout the world. Countries which have already succeeded in developing a highly sophisticated technology, which gives them a monopoly in vast segments of the most complex and advanced industries of our time, persist in reviving an obsolete protectionism to prevent access to their markets of the industrial products of countries whose development is going through the initial phases of industrialization. As an argument for reviewing this regressive protectionism, claims and resistance by trade unions of some backward industries of the great Powers are alleged, with the additional demand that the developing countries avoid any confrontation in the United Nations. It is hardly an edifying spectacle when some trade unions of the great Powers lobby their Governments to prevent their making essential reforms. The fact that the racist reactions and the most anachronistic motivations of former colonialism have been transferred to and seek to perpetuate themselves in the conduct of trade unions of the nations which, because of their might, have the greatest responsibility for the preservation of peace, is not an encouraging symptom with respect to the possibility that the problems of the modern world will be managed with the equity and wisdom they require.
84.	To all of this must be added the behavior of the press in certain affluent societies. That press started by giving itself the right to decide what news is important and what is not and has finally deceived itself into believing that only what is published in its pages is important. Only the negative aspects of the developing countries are of interest to them, and they consider themselves authorized not to mention events which imply positive advances in the progress of our societies. Contraband, illegal traffic in drugs, crimes, riots, frequent and irregular changes of Government, statistics on malnutrition, mortality and other consequences of backwardness these constitute the only news which they consider to be worthy of editorial mention or to be brought to the attention of their readers.
85.	Of course, it would be unfair to make the Governments of those affluent societies responsible for the conduct of their press, which fortunately enjoys the constitutional prerogative of freedom. My country considers that freedom of the press is essential, and we associate it with the progress achieved by mankind in establishing machinery to defend citizens and reflect public aspirations, which frequently have no spokes-man within the rigid framework created in society by vested interests. But we cannot underrate the harmful effects of what the press of the affluent societies does or fails to do at times when those responsible for foreign policy in those societies are determined to carry out sound reforms of the international order.
86.	Owing to the distorted image which this press presents of the underdeveloped world, further aggravated by the presumptuous superiority with which it criticizes anything reprehensible that happens in the developing countries, one would be tempted to wonder whether perhaps that press was edited on some unknown planet rather than in the same affluent societies in which successful attempts are made on the lives of high officers of the Government; crime has grown to unprecedented levels; racial and political violence has acquired hitherto unknown characteristics; and drug abuse is so rampant as to warrant the setting up of powerful illegal organizations of their nationals with abundant funds to finance the traffic in drugs and exercise an unwholesome influence abroad, resulting in the export of corruption to other societies.
87.	The realities which are today apparent in the civil life of certain affluent societies are hardly edifying and hardly entitle their press to judge the conduct of the developing countries with such a notorious lack of moderation, equity and prudence.
88.	Responsibility in international behavior, so insistently demanded of the new countries which have recently entered the world Organization, must first be demonstrated by the great Powers conducting their foreign policies independently of the private interests and the pressure groups of their own societies. World peace and the decisive task of creating a new international order cannot depend on parochialisms which, in the guise of national interest, are frequently expressed in the conduct of the public authorities of those countries. The trade unions' appeasement of their backward industries goes in tandem with their ambiguous position towards the multinational corporations, as is shown by the debates that have been held in various United Nations forums.
89.	These transnational corporations are the new and formidable institutions of modern economy; and their power, which goes beyond all national frontiers, must be subject to controls and be institutionalized in some manner. The desirability of so doing is not in the interests of the underdeveloped countries alone: the Governments of the great nations have a similar interest in not allowing a world economic power to expand unchecked to gigantic proportions without institutional limitations, since this might imply similar threats for the autonomy of the decisions of their own Governments. It is therefore surprising that there should be a lack of interest on the part of the highly developed countries in the timid efforts made in various forums of the world Organization to regulate the conduct and activities of the transnational corporations.
90.	We are of course aware that iL is no easy mailer to solve the problems that I have listed here, and that each of them is influenced by powerful vested interests which hamper, and will continue lo hamper, the actions of States in their attempts to formulate a foreign policy in which the needs of mankind and the need to preserve peace throughout the world will predominate. Similarly, we must recognize that some countries whose action is decisive are gradually modifying the traditional premises of their foreign policy, and that some of their eminent men, who bear the heaviest responsibilities, are wisely and imaginatively alert to the repercussions of contemporary conflicts, and are even trying to anticipate the unknown difficulties that will confront mankind in relation to the possession and control of resources, the existence of which, until recent times, has been largely unknown. 1 am referring to the vast riches of the sea and of its various geologic strata, which, all of a sudden, seem to be the solution to many problems. At the same time, the matter of this wealth and the areas where it is to be found is becoming a fertile ground for conflicts among nations, according to the intelligent and timely observation of United States Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who emphasized the far-reaching implications which the decisions or the indecision of the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea have and will have [2355th meeting, para. 134].
91.	The same can be said of another scarce natural resource having exceptional and unique characteristics: the earth-synchronized stationary orbit of satellites.
92.	We can no longer postpone a legal definition of outer space and of earth-space communications, because past experience and foreseeable developments in the next few years highlight the notorious lacunas in existing conventions on the peaceful exploration and use of outer space. Those conventions did not take into account, for example, its exploitation for gain, or the legal and physically immutable existence of segments of that earth orbit permanently placed within the territorial skies of various equatorial countries which are States Members of the United Nations, as is the case with Colombia, which is situated between approximately 70 and 75 degrees west of Greenwich.
93.	Since the time is drawing near when in due course we shall see the "use or occupation'" of such positions by commercial enterprises wishing to place such "fixed radio communications stations" within the territory of sovereign countries, the Government of Colombia considers it urgent to regulate the assignment of sites for fixed satellites, because it might very well happen that individuals or legal entities would claim a suigeneris kind of "private sovereignty" within sovereign countries, which is unacceptable to the latter.
94.	Colombia does not object to free orbital transit or to communications requiring the devices envisaged and authorized by the International Telecommunications Convention, as long as those devices ply the territorial sky in a gravitational flight, from any practical height to infinity. But a clear exception is to be made in the case of devices which are to be fixed on a segment of their stationary orbit, because we consider that segment as one of our "natural resources" a resource which has always been part of our full sovereignty,
95.	This session of the Assembly we are attending today is not, therefore, of a routine nature: it is taking place at a time when the world situation is such that there are grounds for faith in the wisdom of those who govern, but there are also many reasons for pessimism and fear. As the representative of Colombia , I can only express in this forum, whose prestige has been enhanced by the words of eminent personalities, the hope of my fellow citizens that in the Western and Eastern Powers the forces of self-interest will not prevail which wish to prevent removal of the obstacles which are dangerously thwarting the search for a new and more satisfactory balance between the affluent and the impoverished worlds, between the rich peoples and the vast pauperized masses of the planet, on whose discontent one cannot build a lasting international order. Let us hope that no one will yield to the temptation of thinking that power and force constitute effective instruments for the perpetuation of old policies of privilege. In the nuclear age there will be no time for a new Atlantic Charter intended to win the support of peoples whose endorsement was not won in time, in order to incorporate them into an international community less exposed to the tensions, inequalities and conflicts which today make the world tread a tightrope.




===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
It is a matter of great good fortune that the deliberations of this session of the General Assembly are being presided over by Mr. Amerasinghe, who represents his country, SriLanka, with singular authority. His outstanding human and intellectual qualities, as well as his brilliant performance at international conferences, have earned him the respect of the world community. We are delighted at being presided over by a distinguished personality from
Asia, a continent whose ancient cultures have bequeathed us a legacy of wisdom and spiritual serenity, so necessary at a time like ours when mankind is drawing near the disasters it has been approaching-even calling into question the survival of the species because of the ever more marked imbalance between material progress and the slow progress of the spiritual values which bind men together in every great civilization.

133.	We are pleased also to take note of the admission of the Republic of Seychelles as a State Member of this Organization.
134.	Since the last session of the United Nations General Assembly there has been no change in the negative image of this Organization in the press and other communications media of the great Powers. What these media organizations have failed to mention, however, is that while there have been an increasing number of confrontations in inter-national forums, such confrontations have not been exclusively a mark of United Nations conferences. Internal tensions in the world community have become more acute in many critical areas because of the absence of serious efforts to create a more balanced international order or because these efforts, when they have been made, have not enjoyed effective support from nations that are primarily responsible for maintaining peace. International institutions, like national institutions, have only a limited capacity for establishing coexistence when applied to human groups or State entities between which there persist unresolved causes of discord.
135.	Some people think that the United Nations enjoyed a golden age in its first few decades but that in recent years the Organization has entered into a period of inevitable decadence attributable to the influence exercised on it by new countries which until recently were only allowed scant participation in international affairs. That idea stems from a conception of world politics in which it was assumed, with unfounded optimism, that power relations and., economic relations, as they existed in the world before-the war, were satisfactory and that all that was needed was to remove the threat of totalitarian regimes for the existing civilization and international order to fulfill the aspirations of the peoples. It was assumed that the democratic machinery which in the victorious nations had determined the nature of the States and the distribution of wealth would result in beneficial effects for the entire international community.

136.	But that was not the case. What some nostalgically considered to be the golden age of this Organization was in fact a time when relations of dependence and unequal distribution of wealth in the world were not properly examined; nor was there any serious insistence on the fulfillment of promises made during the difficult years of the war with regard to a new order. It was a time when the Organization served to strengthen alliances and blocs among countries, which led to the tense atmosphere of the cold war and to ferocious localized wars in various parts of the planet. At that time the press and other communications" media in the great Powers were unstinting in their praise of those who had conceived an organization which was so superior-so they said-to the League of Nations of Geneva. 
At that time, no objections were raised in the budget departments of those Powers to the prompt payment of their assessments.
137.	But that situation could not last. The legacy of inequality was like a millstone fastened to the established order and could hardly be institutionalized with the help of the United Nations. The massive economic and social transformations in the past few years have been and are reflected in bitter confrontations in world forums, but this cannot be attributed exclusively to the immaturity of young nations nor to their limited familiarity with the machinery of compromise, which for centuries had been the pride of nations that have designed institutional systems to facilitate and create broad domestic consensus on their fundamental problems.
138.	If controversy in international organizations, in which for years the great Powers were the leading protagonists, has increasingly come to be replaced by radical antagonisms, with such unexpected and of course discomforting guests as the new developing nations, this is a result of the fact that the advanced countries of the world were determined to preserve the excessive advantages they enjoyed under the established order, even though the premises which had served as. the basis for that order since its very origins had disappeared; and these origins did not go so far back as to constitute the kind of legal precedent to which so much value is attached in systems of law based on tradition rather than written norms.
139.	In the past, the construction of an international order was the result of the efforts of statesmen to achieve a relative balance between the ambitions find interests of the great Powers of the time. The duration of that order was subject to the maintenance of this balance by the exclusion of new Powers or outsiders that might disturb it.
140.	In this contemporary world there has been an unsuccessful attempt to revive the old models of international order based exclusively upon the agreement of the great Powers. The failure of such efforts results from the impact caused by the concerted action of weak and traditionally poor countries whose participation is now essential if we want to invest the international order with the legitimacy that comes fro.m longevity and stability. Today the world is undergoing a crisis created by the vacuum that has in turn been created by the absence of a consensus expressing the aspirations of the international community as a whole.
141.	It is therefore understandable that it was only recently that some statesmen of foresight in nations which bear some responsibility for the maintenance of peace initiated a slight change of course in the foreign policies of their countries. Those who acted in this way knew that peace and concord, cannot be decreed, nor imposed solely by power, but result from a delicate balance which can be achieved only when aspirations which genuinely reflect the aims and variety of interests of an era form part of the international order. This fruitful endeavor, which has been the achievement of great leaders of history whose names are indelibly printed on long periods of peace, is not an easy one to consummate. Furthermore, those who attempt it as a rule have to cope with the opposition of their fellow citizens, who often fail to understand the need to make concessions or to renounce the use and abuse of the advantages and prerogatives of power and wealth.
142.	Our era is not exceptional in terms of the recurrence of a phenomenon, familiar because it has appeared with similar characteristics in other periods of profound crisis. Hence the statesmen of the great Powers who have made an effort to approach with sympathy the possibility of building a world order which will not mean putting new labels on old inequalities have been the object of furious opposition in their own countries. The ancient Chinese saying, uttered as a curse, might well have been spoken against them: "May you live in an interesting age."
143.	The growing indifference of .affluent societies to world problems reflects the desire of increasingly broad sectors of their populations to enjoy their prosperity to the utmost while attaching ever less importance to international problems. That indifference has significantly influenced those societies to strive to reduce the attributes of executive or administrative offices whose orientation in foreign as well as domestic policies they view as an impediment to unlimited enjoyment by their citizens and voters of the good life, which the abundant resources and technology of their countries permit.
144.	It would be wrong not to recognize this development if we remember that it is the broadening of the executive powers of administration which for some decades now has enabled affluent societies to fight the domestic concentration of wealth and to impose mechanisms for its more equitable distribution. What can the world and the underdeveloped countries expect in the future if, in their dialog with the highly industrialized nations, they will not be dealing with the type of Governments which, because they were able to do so, imposed some discipline on the major private powers in their economies, on their monopolies, their labor and trade-union organizations and their transnational communication empires, but will instead be dealing with internally weakened Governments, Governments therefore fearful of those power groups? The latter, as though in a post-industrial state of feudalism, will gradually fill the vacuum left by an administration devoid of strength, devoid of the capacity to take decisions, which is essential to reduce the inequalities which exist and are becoming greater in the international community. This new international isolationism, masquerading as democratic or moral concern, and the institutionalization of the weakening of governmental authority in affluent nations are not a happy augury for the future. They would appear to be an attempt to preserve in the world an anonymous imperial power fragmented into private pressure groups free of the burden of responsibility which all power entails.
145.	The fact that this is happening arises from the belief still prevailing in affluent societies that their prosperity and well-being are exclusively the result of the intelligence and superiority of their peoples. And because of that belief they refuse to analyze the extent to which the prosperity and extravagance so characteristic of their economic organization have depended and still depend on an income distribution governed by a world market that is influenced by power mechanisms or by monopolistic systems on an international level which have enabled them to retain the 
surpluses generated by the marketing of the products of developing countries at low prices.
146.	It is not compatible with the aspiration to create more stable conditions in the world for the major consumer countries to respond to the well intentioned attempts of developing countries to reach agreements between producers and consumers of raw materials with indifference or hostility and then for them to feel that there is aggression against them and to proclaim that the world economy is in danger when producers of raw materials join forces to defend their incomes.
147.	One of the beneficial effects of the rise in oil prices, which in affluent societies is known as the energy crisis, was to bring out into the open the very high degree to which the standard of living of affluent societies is linked to the low prices of the export products of the developing countries. This experience has already unleashed a chain reaction and will inevitably lead to a search for new patterns of balance in the economic relations of the world.
148.	We are not unaware that among the great Powers the idea is gaining ground that it has become unjustifiable to maintain the level of foreign-aid funds of the past few decades for developing peoples. Nor 'ire we unaware that it is thought that such funds could be better used for transforming the suburbs of their cities; for the education of their young or their war veterans; for medical and hospital services for their citizens; for increasing unemployment benefits; for improving police forces; for the treatment of delinquents or drug addicts; for protecting their parks; for adequately equipping their libraries or museums and for maintaining a level of conspicuous consumption which does not correspond with man's spontaneous needs but is promoted by a vast advertising community which is frantically attempting to create artificial needs, thus encouraging the squandering of the scarce resources of this planet.

149.	It is not for us, of course, to challenge the right of affluent societies to allocate their surplus funds for the improvement of the quality of life of their citizens and to encourage unnecessary consumption rather than to co-operate in lessening the alarming economic inequalities which exist on a world-wide scale. But it is our hope that, similarly, without any show of surprise, it will be recognized that we enjoy an identical right to organize ourselves in order to defend the proper remuneration for our exports so that income therefrom will permit us to remedy the consequences of backwardness, make the subhuman life in our suburbs more bearable, prevent the deterioration of our environment, lower the illiteracy rates of our populations, close the gap between the rural and the urban populations, create medical and hospital services in order to eradicate diseases caused by malnutrition and endemic sickness, provide jobs for the unemployed, and protect ourselves from the Mafias which finance the traffic in drugs from the territories of the great Powers and with that traffic export to us all the home-grown means of corruption. And, on the subject of international trade, we also trust that they will not invoke the so-called comparative advantages when seeking to ensure a market for the highly effective products of the industrialized nations, while regressing, at the same time, to the crudest protectionism when it comes to safeguarding the interests of their economic enterprises which, because they are inefficient or obsolete, cannot compete with exports from developing countries.
150.	Events of the last decades indicate that there cannot be an indefinite postponement of 3 new international division of labor more in keeping with realities of the day. This new division must be organized in such a way that the developed nations, which have a complex and highly sophisticated technology, take some steps towards opening their markets not only to raw materials or tropical products but also to the manufactured products of those countries which have already embarked upon the initial stages of industrialization. This will contribute to increasing and balancing world trade and will strengthen a more equitable and desirable type of economic relations between the north and south on our planet. The nature of these relations and the adjustments it will be necessary to make in their traditional standards will be the major theme of inter-national policy in the last quarter of the twentieth century.
151.	This vast transformation will imply concessions and responsibilities on both sides; it will require prudence and wisdom on the part of the leaders of the affluent nations and the peoples in the process of modernization. Just as it would be reprehensible for great nations to abuse their power so as to impose solutions which are inordinately in their favor such abuses would tarnish their image and lessen their options to defend peacefully their legitimate interests-so it would be, and is, equally reprehensible to follow the undesirable practice of debating political items, the natural forum for which is this Assembly, at conferences of the specialized agencies, to the grave detriment of the services which the United Nations renders, and should render, to Member states. The same criticism can be applied to acts of violence and terrorism which jeopardize the lives of innocent third persons and are frequently carried out in the name of the right of peoples to fight for their independence. Terrorism invites the repudiation of world opinion and brings about a loss of prestige for the cause which those who use terrorism as a political weapon claim to defend. This is already happening. A formula for co-operation between Governments and the United Nations must be found so as to seek out and punish those who perpetrate acts of violence and piracy, and who, by means of terror, threaten the fundamental freedoms of human beings for the purpose of demanding of States that they violate their own laws.

152.	There is likewise an urgent need for a specific legal definition of outer space and of geostationary space communications, because recent experience and foreseeable developments within the next few years have brought to light glaring gaps and omissions in the conventions in force on the peaceful exploration and use of outer space. These conventions fail to take into account, for example, the use of outer space for profit; and nothing at all is said about the legal and physically immutable existence of the segments of the synchronic geostationary orbit which generate rights by reason of being permanently situated within the territorial airspace of several equatorial countries Members of the United Nations. Such is the case of Colombia, which lies between 70 and 75 degrees west of Greenwich. 

153.	My country does not object to free orbital and communications transit as required for the devices en-visaged in and authorized by the International Telecommunications Convention, as long as those devices traverse the territorial airspace in a gravitational flight from a practicable height. But we make a clear exception in the case of devices which it might be intended to establish as fixtures on the segment of our own synchronic geostationary orbit.
154.	As Minister for Foreign Affairs of Colombia, I am pleased to state to you my confidence that the deliberations of this Assembly will result in effective progress in the difficult task of arriving at compromises which will not mistakenly underrate the legitimate hopes of the pauperized masses of the world, on whose discontent no lasting international order can be built. The concessions essential to a consolidation of the legitimacy of a new world order must be granted, to a large extent, by the nations in which wealth has been accumulated through the ages, and not by peoples whose resources have been ill rewarded for centuries, with the result that prosperity and well-being have been concentrated in limited areas of our planet.
155.	As representative of my country in a forum that has gained such prestige from the learned words of so many eminent personalities, I am bound to express the hope of my fellow citizens that the antagonisms which today seriously divide the international community will find peaceful solutions in channels constituted by the norms of law which give form to the Charter of the United Nations. Let us at any rate remember that we are not living in an age of calm when historical time passes with soothing evenness; in our day, time flows like those large tropical rivers whose currents become impetuous and devastating as they approach the cataract.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿199.	 My country feels that the election of Mr. Lazar Mojsov to the presidency, of this General Assembly is truly a felicitous decision. His intellectual and personal qualities represent the virtues of the Yugoslavs, a people which has upheld the image of the principles of its political organization but which also has coexisted constructively with the various ideological trends of our time and has contributed to the alleviation of tensions created by intolerance in the international community. Mr. Mojsov in the presidency is a guarantee that at this session the international Organization will make a sincere effort to work with the dynamism, authority and efficiency that the maintenance of world peace demands.
200.	An effort is now more necessary than ever for the Assembly meets at a time when there are not many reasons for optimism and little progress has been made in finding solutions to the problems that have been discussed in recent years. As such solutions continue to evade us and the problems meet in international forums with the dilatory treatment of bureaucratic routine, the areas for friction become more numerous and the increasing tensions put to stringent tests the systems devised after the Second World War to settle disputes among nations within a freely accepted legal order.
201.	Much light would be shed on the true nature of the present conflicts if we started by acknowledging the fact that the post-war world was organized as a political democracy of States recognized as equals-a democracy that was to coexist with an oligarchy of prosperous nations endowed with protective mechanisms rooted in the prestige of tradition and the influence of power.
202.	If the democratic spirit of international institutions has had little success in moderating the old and new inequalities, that is due to the constant opposition of the tight network of institutions and practices protecting an economic order based on mechanisms which create and maintain an excessively unequal international distribution of wealth.
203.	To appreciate the importance in international life of such practices and institutions, which constitute an economic world of their own, it should be enough to mention matters such as international liquidity; terms of trade between nations; trade restrictions; income distribution at the world level; and the control over technological progress and its effect on the new resources of the planet, such as the riches of the sea-bed or the uses of outer space.
204.	While international organizations devise, without insurmountable difficulties, important concepts in matters of political democracy—as in the case of the protection of human rights, the struggle against racial discrimination, or the equal representation of States—on the other hand obstacles systematically arise whenever the powerful vested interests of a small group of affluent societies are involved, as for them the concepts of equality, equity and human rights are subjects that can be, and in fact are, excluded from the economic sphere, deemed by them to be a reserved area for inequalities, the predominance of power and the maintenance of the privileges and advantages acquired under the old international economic order.
205.	Every legal-political organization can resist inequalities up to a certain critical point. One indication that we are nearing that point is that confrontations between developed and developing countries are becoming more and more widespread, and that industrial nations show a distinct tendency to discuss, outside this Organization the very problems that justify its existence. This tendency becomes even more serious when the Governments of industrial societies do not even oppose the consolidation of a certain attitude of public opinion in their countries which is adverse to the international organizations, an attitude inspired by the feeling that belonging to such organizations entails commitments and duties of solidarity that are viewed as hindrances to an unlimited enjoyment of the benefits yielded by their own prosperity.
206.	It would, in all truthfulness, be unfair to say that the power, the wealth and the abundance enjoyed by the highly developed countries have been acquired by them at no cost and are unrelated to the strenuous efforts of their people over generations, and to the sacrifices they made to attain their current levels of pre-eminence and well-being. However, even though admitting such achievements and their merits, the explanations for the origin of the wide gap now separating peoples would be incomplete if no mention were made of the decisive role played in the distribution of wealth and poverty inherited by our generation by the power and the monopolistic concentration of their economic organizations.
207.	The huge accumulation of wealth now concentrated in a few areas of the world, and which can be distributed among their inhabitants with a certain equity because of institutional mechanisms of those areas, is not only the result of the ingenuity and economic ethics they so frequently boast of, but also of the entrenchment, at the international level, of a pattern of relationships between the peoples of the entire world; between the areas north and south of the equator, and between the temperate and the tropical zones, where the value equations for products was set, in large measure, by means of coercive and often predatory procedures.
208.	The mechanisms by which the world markets work, assumed to be automatic and impersonal by the established economic doctrines, were soon distorted by the monopoly prices the industrial societies set for their goods. Thus a situation took shape in which a small number of nations became a privileged world establishment while in the greater part of the world the laws of a free and competitive market for their exports did indeed apply. The inhabitants of these vast areas were despoiled of an ever increasing portion of the economic value of their work and this in a situation where the meagre income they were allowed precluded the use of distributive systems for the improvement of the population's appalling living conditions.
209.	It is not therefore idle briefly to point out that the democratic spirit which inspired the Charter of the United Nations and the instruments created for its implementation has proved unequal to permeating economic institutions and practices or has been prevented from doing so.
210.	Approaching these subjects somewhat at random, we could start by mentioning the important issue of international liquidity. The record of post-war international monetary institutions is characterized by the constant requests made by the developing countries that the volume of international means of payment should be sufficient for their trade needs and for the financing of the development and modernization processes, new phenomena requiring a revision of the solutions imposed by the victors of the Second World War. That revision became even more necessary in view of the fact that such solutions called for excessive ties between the international means of payment and the currencies of highly industrialized countries and, in practice, adjusted the volume of such means to trade flow of the industrial societies.
211.	The systematic reply to such requests was that measures for increasing international liquidity in order to respond to trade needs and the financing of developing countries would lead to world inflation and the disruption of the monetary system and would cause a deep crisis in the economy. Those were the reasons given by the industrial societies in opposing the wishes of the developing countries, and they only tolerated minor reforms which coincided with the requirements of their own economic growth.
212.	All that developing countries can do now is watch with amazement as they see how inflation, used as a pretext for refusing the changes requested in the international monetary system, has made its appearance on the world scene on a scale unprecedented in history. And that inflation was due to the political, economic and monetary measures-prompted by domestic and foreign considerations-of the very same industrial nations, which took great pride in their cautious orthodoxy. The crumbling of the foundations of the monetary system created after the war was not the doing of the economic policies of the developing countries. Those countries did not unleash world inflation, reignite the devaluation wars used to secure trade advantages or start domestic inflationary processes of such magnitude that they have been exported to the furthest reaches of the world. Those who dug the grave of the Bretton Woods Agreements were not the developing countries, but precisely the Powers which drew up and imposed those Agreements, which refused to modify them for as long as they served their own interests, and which then ignored them when their mechanisms no longer gave them the advantages initially afforded them. And today, paradoxically, they strive to attribute the crisis in the world economy to the efforts of some developing countries to defend the price levels of their exports, as the oil-producing countries did.
213.	This brings us to the problems that result from the need to seek—if the planned new international economic order is to have any meaning—the most efficient means of avoiding the perpetuation of trade situations belonging to a time when the world economy worked on the undisputed assumption that prices of commodities and food-stuffs should be kept as low as possible while the prices of industrial goods should be free to increase constantly.
214.	There would be more clarity and more progress along the road to the establishment of a new international economic order if the industrial societies and their populations were to understand in time that there are no reasons for. subjecting the prices of commodities and food to a regime of permanent under-valuation; and that a new division of labour in the world is an imperative which requires that the markets of those affluent societies accept the goods produced by nations in the first stages of their industrialization, just as developed countries should devote their efforts to. advanced-technology industries and the production of goods, equipment and services derived from their sophisticated technology.
215.	Industrial societies would give proof of the political maturity expected of them because of their progress in other fields if they were prepared to live with the realities of the new era, typified by the disappearance of that resignation with which for centuries the majority of the planet's population bore the yoke of a trade system by virtue of which the prosperity of some was obtained at the expense of the "non-development of others"-to quote a French economist.
216.	Unfortunately, the recent conduct of industrial societies with regard to trade is not very encouraging. Their trade laws, the use of restrictive practices such as tariffs and par tariffs, the poor results of the so-called United Nations Development Decades and of the North-South dialogue, and the delay in enforcing the Charter on Economic Rights and Duties of States all denote an insistence on maintaining the excessive advantages of the old international economic order.
217.	It can hardly be though that a contribution is being made to co-operation between States when freedom of trade to expand markets for industrial goods is requested and simultaneously an anachronistic protectionism is applied again whenever commodities or manufactures of new industries in developing countries turn out to be competitive in the markets of affluent societies. It is indeed strangely contradictory to see the protectionist practices, historically devised for "infant industries" in the first stages of their modernization process, now being applied by countries at the summit of technological development against nations struggling laboriously in the initial stages of development. It is contradictory, because with this practice the balanced operation of the international economy is disrupted, as it is also by the restrictive practices and official and private boycotts the developed nations resort to when a situation of obvious scarcity in one commodity triggers a spasmodic increase in its price.
218.	Understandably, then, it is trade between developed countries which has grown in recent years, while their trade flows with the developing world have suffered a gradual decrease. These centres of prosperity in the geographical areas where the affluent societies are located have monopolized the benefits of trade expansion, and their experts and economists have come to think that the world economy can function normally even when such expansion is held within the bounds of industrial societies. This gives an insight into their obvious preference for their own economic, financial and monetary alliances and their increasing lack of interest in any effort tending to enlarge their trade with the developing world. Apparently these experts assume that the magnitude of the flow of trade exclusively between highly industrialized societies is a sufficiently dynamic factor to maintain efficient and optimum activity in the world economy.
219.	What the experience of history does tell us is that this optimistic assumption is very precarious. It is not new or typical of our age to believe that certain world trade patterns, because they favour one or more nations, can guarantee the smooth functioning of the international economy. In the past, such a claim resulted in deep crises when new nations appeared on the scene competing with traditional Powers in markets that did not expand, because they lacked any system to counteract the concentration of wealth in small areas of the planet.
220.	In reality, we see the first signs of a similar situation. The frequency of recessions not followed, as was hoped, by genuine recoveries, the rebirth of protectionism among the major Powers as a tool to fight unemployment, and the low rates of economic activity, are all signs that we are nearing the end of the exceptional opportunities created by the ravages of the Second World War.
221.	The reconstruction of the countries deeply affected by the conflict and the modernization of new nations have already created trade imbalances that point to the effects of unequal distribution of world demand. This casts doubt on the too-easily accepted hypothesis that mere expansion of trade between highly industrialized nations is an appropriate foundation for the operation of the world economy, and underlines the need for raising the levels of consumption of a major portion of the world's population kept, in the past as now, in a situation of scarcity and dangerous stagnation by a world market distorted by power mechanisms and monopolistic systems.
222.	This is the true meaning of the desire to establish a new international order, all the more justified since it seeks not only to correct inequalities created by the impact of colonialism and the various forms of economic dependence but also to adjust the distribution of world demand to the enormous surge in the supply of goods and services from the gigantic production facilities of the present day, facilities which seem doomed to less and less use of their capacity if the traditional terms of trade are perpetuated.
223.	When a structural—and not temporary—imbalance between supply and demand appears in a country, the remedy for it has generally been sought in reforms entailing a redistribution of income. The nations that have been most successful in their growth are those that have not allowed too great a concentration of income in small sectors of their population or territory.
224.	I do not, of course, wish to say that the case of a national economy is completely similar to that of the international economy. However, we should be fully aware that today's alarming symptoms of a crisis, strikingly similar to those that preceded the great depressions, make it more than ever impossible to accept the wide gap now separating the under-developed peoples from those islands of -prosperity which shelter affluent societies, standing out solitary and arrogant in an ocean swept by the winds of poverty, backwardness and inequality that afflict the majority of the world's population.
225.	This gap becomes even more alarming when new factors loom on the horizon which, if not treated with foresight and equity, will contribute to a serious disruption of coexistence between nations; for we are on the threshold of a critical era, when what is debated is more than the traditional way of distributing the resources known to humanity and used by it for thousands of years. Technology's spectacular progress and demographic pressures have given a sudden economic value to resources and elements in nature that were given scant attention in the past. Such is the case, for instance, with the sea and its wealth, and with the synchronous geostationary orbit that enables satellite communications to reach undreamed-of limits. If the great wealth of goods and resources, whose economic value has only recently begun to reveal itself, is left to the exclusive management of the nations in possession of the most advanced technologies, and if a circumstantial pre-eminence in the field of such technologies were used to claim a new title of ownership over critical resources on this earth, the antagonisms now eroding the coexistence mechanisms of the international community would become even deeper.
226.	At a time when there is increasing tension between the democratic spirit of the international Organization and the vested interests of a group of nations which have had ample opportunity to enjoy the advantages acquired in the past, Colombia is confident that the countries entrusted with the maintenance of peace will not, by acts of omission or commission, allow such tension to reach critical limits. In the same way, Colombia trusts that these countries will not yield to the temptation of regarding as a victory or an act of wisdom the possible prolongation of the tottering reign of an economic order which is already posing serious problems to the very countries that derived the greatest benefits from it.
227.	A historic example of how goodwill and genuine foresight can eliminate situations which have lost all justification in modern times is the recent settlement between the Governments of the United States of America and Panama concerning the Canal Zone. My country expressed here its most fervent wish that nothing will be allowed to stand in the way of the successful fulfilment of this settlement, for it is a model of the type of solution possible when the work is not influenced by the arrogance of power.
228.	My country also wishes, at this session of the United Nations General Assembly, to stress its concern over the universal spread of inflation, a scourge which is causing serious social and economic upheavals in the world. Accordingly, the international community must give it priority consideration-the more so since the swift spread of its effects is showing us that the measures adopted individually by States are not sufficient to tackle a problem which is eroding the economic life of nations and the orderly functioning of the world economy.
229.	That is why I feel it timely to suggest to this Assembly that it consider the possibility of convening-as proposed by the President of Colombia during a recent meeting of the Heads of State of the Andean Pact countries held in Washington on 8 September 1911-a world conference on inflation. That conference could discuss inflation's complex causes and the mechanisms which cause it to spread and also adopt adequate global strategies to fight a problem of universal magnitude, worsened by the recent phenomenon whereby contemporary inflation coincides with high rates of unemployment.
230.	On behalf of my fellow citizens, I renew here my last wishes to the General Assembly in its efforts to make true progress in the patient and difficult enterprise of filling the gaps left by inequalities among peoples, which are now testing the authority of the international Organization by multiplying the sources of conflict between States, continents and the various geographical and economic areas of the planet.
231.	Colombia also hails the entry into the world Organization of such nations as Viet Nam and Djibouti, which will surely contribute their will to work for peace, as well as the valuable experience they have acquired in the course of their unremitting struggle to achieve independence.
 




===== Session 33 - 1978 =====
﻿145.	Mr. President, it is especially gratifying to my country to greet and to congratulate you upon your election as President of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its thirty-third session. Mr. Indalecio Lievano Aguirre, whom I have had the honour to succeed as Minister for Foreign Affairs, is a distinguished Colombian singularly well endowed by his training and character for the conduct of diplomatic affairs. His election to the presidency of the highest international forum is a recognition of his praiseworthy activity in that field. With his election, the people and Government of Colombia feel honoured.
146.	My country has consistently given its support to those international organizations which seek to preserve peace and security and to develop co-operation in all spheres. It may be said that our country emerged into independent life calling for the united efforts of its liberators to protect the recently won independence of our hemisphere. Then, as now, we reaffirmed our sincere conviction that the best guarantee of self-determination of peoples is to be found in strengthening of an international regulatory order so as to defeat the new and refined forms of domination which today subjugate medium-sized and small nations.
147.	Since the creation of the United Nations and the Organization of American States, successive Colombian Governments have expressed their unequivocal will to turn all endeavours for peace into a common task and duly to shoulder their share of the responsibilities that each new situation has imposed.
148.	The Government of the new President of the Republic, Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala, notes with concern the attempts that have been made to transfer to other forums than those established for the purpose the consideration of many of the conflicts that threaten security among nations. The desire, particularly in the case of the United Nations, to take control again over situations that have been slipping away from it should become a driving force for all Members of the Organization. In the light of these considerations, Colombia has always sympathetically viewed the ideas put forward in this body and will seek to strengthen the role of the United Nations, either by changing the structure of the Charter or by developing its precepts through specific but parallel instruments. The problems that have come to the fore in our time, and which combine political, economic and social factors, compel us to think that the legal order elaborated in 1945 has been overtaken by events. No regulatory regime, if it purports to be the expression of existing social reality, can remain static or it will lose its effectiveness. Thus, it would be desirable to speed up the
evolution of a large number of institutions that were created under the aegis of the United Nations and even to attempt to complement that process with elements that would assist in the investigation of particular situations, while making it easier to solve certain conflicts.
149.	The need for the United Nations to become again the indispensable forum for the settlement of situations threatening peace, far from distressing the great Powers, would be the logical consequence of the new dimensions of world solidarity, where all efforts would lead to a more just and more harmonious order.
150.	There would be more promising prospects of solving the Middle East problem, so fraught with anguishing forebodings, if we reverted to the spirit and letter of resolution 242 (1967), adopted by the Security Council on 22 November 1967, which condenses what is still, 10 years -after its adoption, a good point of departure for ensuring peace in the region.
151.	Since the creation of the United Nations, Colombia has maintained a balanced and equitable position with respect to the Middle East problem. The elements embodied in the resolution that I have just mentioned imply recognition of the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination; the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force; the withdrawal of Israeli troops from all the occupied territories; the termination of all states of belligerency; and respect for and recognition of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of every State in the area and its right to live in peace within secure\and recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of force. In this context, and as a first step towards the implementation of those elements, my Government has noted as a constructive achievement the Camp David agreements between the Presidents of the United States and Egypt and the Prime Minister of Israel. The recent Security Council resolution on Lebanon, resolution 436 (1978) is another important, step forward.
152.	New Security Council decisions and new General Assembly resolutions that might be adopted or formulated this year would be received by international public opinion as the best response to the vigilance we demand of the United Nations in the exercise of all the functions that fall within its institutional framework.
153.	Similarly, the Colombian Government attaches particular importance to all attempts to expedite agreements on disarmament and the limitation of means of mass destruction. There is no doubt that the policy of detente put into effect by the great Powers slowed down the arms race. The sophisticated nature of certain types of missiles and new scientific discoveries to improve them counsel us not only to contribute to detente among the great Powers but to strive to ensure that it extends to other areas of the world which that detente has not yet reached.
154.	The proliferation of weapons not only could result in a nuclear holocaust but affects the development process of
many countries by absorbing resources that could well be devoted to infrastructure projects that would help improve the living standards of their peoples. We should note, further, that for the nations of the third world the arms trade, including trade in conventional weapons, represents a heavy technological burden that could well lead to limitations in economic growth targets and in social progress.
155.	in his inaugural address President Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala emphasized how important it was for Colombia to play an active part in the preparation of the new .international economic order. This implies, first, that we strengthen diplomatic and trade relations with the countries of the third world and that in the various international forums we help to reinforce their positions while creating new ties with nations that are necessarily engaged in the task of overcoming the external factors that condition their progress. Perhaps the first and most important aspect is the technological one, which has become the new dividing line between the very poor and the very rich. The changes that have occurred as a result of the displacement of financial resources in the past decade have shown clearly that the acquisition of technology has become in our time the most costly and dominant element dividing nations, and is the key to the liberation of the developing world. The best programme for the developing world is the transfer of scientific knowledge, the exchange of information, so far as possible, and the conception of the new order not as a mere system of financial mechanisms but rather as a concrete opportunity for the acquisition of science and technological resources.	
156.	The undertaking of the third world, with which the Colombian Government wishes to identify itself further, is not only to act to protect raw materials and to promote the expansion of trade and new sources of finance but to participate in making the big decisions on monetary policy that so decisively affects the domestic situation in all countries.
157.	The new international economic order should prevent spectacular falls in the prices of primary commodities, on whose stability peace among nations depends to a large degree. The unquestionable relationship between security, both internal and external, ,and the equitable price of primary commodities has been shown .on numerous occasions. A people condemned to live in squalor and poverty cannot prevent the spread of discontent among the population, discontent that can easily explode into a conflict with international repercussions. The parallel between adequate terms of trade and world security is the new dimension in relations between -the industrialized countries and the producers of primary commodities, and the necessary point of departure for the economic claims that the third world so justly makes.	
158.	The resumption of the North-South dialogue, despite the set-backs it suffered in the last attempts to continue, is another goal in the achievement of which we should unreservedly co-operate, although we would prefer that its base be extended and that it be placed squarely within the framework of the United Nations.
159.	Colombia co-operated in the work of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the seventh Session of which ended last September, from the only preparation of the Conference. We would recall the participation of our country in seeking to promote the Maltese proposals when the present President of the republic, Mr. Turbay Ayala, was the head of our mission to the United Nations. That process was later to culminate in the General Assembly's declaration of the sea-bed and the ocean floor as the common heritage of mankind [see resolution 2749 (XXV), para. 1]. Despite the interest of many Governments in speeding up the completion of the Conference, we now hear with alarm the announcement by some Powers of their possible unilateral exploitation of what is regarded as an area reserved for the benefit of all peoples. I wish not only to insist here on the need to protect the moratorium that we achieved on the exploitation of the sea-bed and ocean floor but to warn of the risks of excessive delay in the negotiations within the Conference, which may well thwart our attempts to create a new code of the sea, an instrument that would prevent a new colonization of the seas and oceans.
160. As Colombia has stated before the United Nations, the international community should delay no longer a legal definition of outer space and of geo-stationary space communications, because the experiments we have seen, and foreseeable developments in the next few years, highlight significant lacunae in the existing agreements for their exploitation and peaceful utilization. Indeed, as you stated, Mr. President, during the thirtieth session of this Assembly in your capacity as Foreign Minister of Colombia, those agreements do not take into account the exploitation of the geo-stationary orbit for profit, or the juridically and physically immutable existence of the segments of that orbit permanently located within the space of the equatorial States, to which you added later:
"Colombia does not object to free orbital transit or to communications as long as those devices ply the territorial sky in a gravitational flight, from any practical height to infinity. But a clear exception is to be made in the case of devices which are to be fixed on a segment of their Stationary orbit.
161. The Government of President Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala has given full support to this position so as to protect a natural resource which is located over the territory of developing countries, in keeping with the spirit of General Assembly resolution 2692 (XXV), entitled "Permanent sovereignty over natural resources of developing countries and expansion of domestic sources of accumulation for economic development" and with the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States proclaimed by the Assembly in its resolution 3281. 
162. Thanks to the support of a large majority of delegations in the United Nations, the membership of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space was increased [resolution 32/196B] in order to give adequate representation to the space interests of the equatorial countries.
163. We consider that the staggering progress of space technology makes imperative the progressive development
of international law in order to take into account the rights of the equatorial countries in their respective segments of the geo-stationary orbit.
164.	Colombia rejects as inadmissible from every point Of view attempts arbitrarily to modify any international statutes, as long as the United Nations has not produced a precise definition of outer space and of the legal regime of the geo-stationary orbit within the framework of M international agreement.
165.	The protection of human rights is one of the objectives of the United Nations most often repeated in the Charter and in various resolutions of United Nations bodies and specialized agencies. There is, no doubt, a Close link between peace and the protection of human freedom. Disregard for the most elementary guarantees of the rights of the individual unleashes conflicts transcending national boundaries and weakening harmony among States. The philosophy condensed in the United Nations Charter concerning the duty to preserve and protect the fundamental rights of the individual, must be regarded as an obligation on each of the Members of the Organization, and as a concomitant raised to the status of an imperative rule in the law of peoples. Respect for human rights, which are regarded as part of the jus cogens, has become compulsory for all Governments and peoples on earth.
166.	Those who drafted the San Francisco Charter and subscribed to it as founding Members, as well as those States which have subsequently joined the Organization, are convinced that, without the obligation to protect life and the dignity and well-being of peoples, the United Nations would lack statues and a very raison d'etre.
167.	For that reason, the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights has been supplemented by many instruments in order to endow it with the means to make it binding. Among them, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its Optional Protocol represent perhaps the most daring and advanced effort to date. The diversity of circumstances and the imperative need to draw a distinction between procedures for the safeguarding of civil and political rights and those for economic, social and cultural rights have led to the conclusion that in this area we cannot have, one single procedure; rather, we must establish multiple and parallel means of recourse.
168.	The International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, [resolution 2106 A (XX), annex] , as well as the special procedures developed in the specialized agencies, such as UNESCO and the ILO, clearly shows that " the protection of human rights is incumbent upon all United Nations bodies, without distinction.
169.	A similar phenomenon occurs in regional bodies, where the procedures evolved, in the case of the European Community, for example, have led to favourable results. Within the Organization of American States we have also noted some progress, especially since the Pact of San Jose, Costa Rica, entered into force.
170.	When the lives of defenceless people are threatened, so long as there exist countries where fundamental freedoms are systematically violated and from the moment when individual guarantees disappear in any place, giving way to barbarism, the United Nations is required to act urgently through the many channels it has developed for the purpose.
n
171.	The President of Colombia and Venezuela, Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala and Carlos Andres Perez, on 27 September last, addressed a communication to the President of this Assembly, to denounce the serious violations of human rights that were occurring in the Republic of Nicaragua. The two Presidents stated the following:
"In denouncing the tragic and dramatic situation of vast segments of the population of Nicaragua, whose essential rights are being violated, we respect the principle of non-intervention, which is by no means incompatible with the task of internationally safeguarding human rights which the United Nations is required to perform.. . [see A/33/275, annex.]
In this appeal to the world's conscience they sought to put before the United Nations clear information on the serious events taking place in Nicaragua so that the various institutionalized mechanisms for the true protection of human rights could immediately be put into operation and greater loss of life be prevented.
172.	The Commission on Human Rights, as an organ of the Economic and Social Council, will also provide adequate measures, although that would not exclude the possibility of the United Nations promoting concerted humanitarian action at all other levels; nor does it preclude the participation of regional mechanisms.
173.	With respect to the protection of human rights, there cannot be any principle of exclusion. Therefore, in various similar ways, the Colombian Government will lay stress on this matter in order to mobilize world public opinion to the fullest in support of the victims of the Nicaraguan tragedy.
174.	The work of international bodies in the field of human rights cannot be regarded as an activity which violates the principle of non-intervention, because whatever work they do is carried out in compliance with their treaty obligations.
175.	Colombia, as it observes the serious problems threatening peace and the security of peoples, and convinced as it is that only a strong Organization can preserve us from the scourge of war, voices its sincerest wishes that the present session of the General Assembly may help to strengthen the institutional power of the United Nations and the effectiveness of its contribution to the protection of life and the dignity of human beings everywhere on earth.


















===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿On behalf of my Government, I should like to congratulate Mr. Salim on his election as President of the thirty-fourth regular session of the General Assembly. Our Organization has thereby attempted to acknowledge the debt it owes to his country, the United Republic of Tanzania, and its illustrious President, Mr. Julius Nyerere, in the lengthy struggle for the decolonization of Africa, a task that entailed many risks. In Mr. Salim we recognize the continuity of that tradition of struggle for freedom and self-determination of peoples. In the Special Committee on decolonization, we have seen him as a leader of the decolonization movement and we were amazed at how well he guided the work of the Special Committee at such an early age.
94.	On behalf of the Government of Colombia, I should also like to extend a fraternal welcome to Saint Lucia, the beautiful Caribbean island that has just achieved full independence. It enters the United Nations in its own Right, as it has entered our regional group, the Organization of American States. In both organizations, we hope to co-operate with it for the success of our endeavours. We offer it our support in order that its international role may be commensurate with its people's just deserts.
95.	The thirty-fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly is convening against a background of contradictory signs and of threats to world peace. No one can ignore the efforts this Organization has made to preserve security in various continents and its tireless striving to avert conflicts that would inevitably have led to new hostilities. However, speaking objectively, we should note that the United Nations must seek to recover the initiative in and responsibility for the maintenance of peace on the five continents of the world, lest all that does not partake of the spirit of the Charter and that is undertaken without reference to the competence of United Nations bodies should subsequently occasion fresh difficulties on the road of understanding and concord.
96.	This is why in my statement to the Assembly last year I emphasized the importance of strengthening the Organization as the nerve-centre of major world decisions. In pursuit of that policy, I now wish to present some views, on behalf of Colombia, on how the functioning of the world Organization might be strengthened in a creative spirit.
97.	First, my country continues to view with concern the ongoing crisis in the Middle East, an area now being shaken by new and disturbing signs of strife. We believe that peace in the region must be sought through the United Nations system and that it must be based on over-all solutions in accordance with the spirit of the oft-reaffirmed Security Council resolutions. These solutions can only lead to progress to the extent that they include the full recognition of the rights of the Palestinian people to a sovereign territory. This situation is analogous in many respects to that which Israel faced in 1947.
98.	Accordingly, the initiative of the Secretary- General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, to convene a special conference with the participation of all parties concerned on the basis of equality is a step forward which should be supported and adopted by the present session of the General Assembly. The indefinite postponement of this problem has brought grave difficulties to the countries of the Middle East, and the call for a just solution deserves universal attention, as does the future status of Jerusalem, a city holy to three of the world's major monotheistic religions.
99.	Together with the Middle East, we must emphasize with anxiety the tragic condition of the people of South Africa, where a systematic crime against the indigenous populations is being perpetuated in the sys- tern of apartheid, which is unequivocally rejected by all free peoples. Coupled with genocidal violations of human rights, South Africa's nuclear arms policy now poses a threat not only to the peace of the region but also to world security. The decolonization process which the United Nations has so successfully been carrying forward should now be directed essentially to preventing the racist policy of South Africa from being perpetuated and thus jeopardizing collective security. Apartheid, which is perhaps the worst crime of our times, must be eradicated through new and more vigorous policies from the Security Council and the General Assembly.
100.	The independence of Namibia and an appropriate solution to the problem of Zimbabwe are also matters of particular concern.
101.	Colombia has for some time observed that Article 2, paragraph 3, of the Charter, which makes the Pacific settlement of disputes mandatory, has not yet seen the subject of orderly development offering possibilities for settlement in many conflicts. The world is aware that the problems of our times stem from a combination of economic, political and social factors which do not always lend themselves to solutions by law. Possibly, the branch of international relations in which there has been the least progress is the settlement of disputes by peaceful means. Both the International Court of Justice and the Permanent Court of Arbitration tend to be kept at one remove from the difficulties which they were intended to solve and for which they were established. It would therefore be a proper task for this Assembly, in pursuance of the imperatives of the Charter, to promote a current of world opinion aimed at devising new and imaginative machinery for the settlement of disputes. Colombia views with favour and lends its support to the initiative of the Government of Austria to establish a centre for research and conciliation which could by its flexible character contribute to the direct settlement of disputes which might arise In future. This plan has been discussed previously in the Assembly but, while there might have been doubts in the past as to its desirability, world security today demands more expeditious and manageable instruments which can be resorted to so as to reconcile conflicting positions and prevent the deterioration of relations among States.
102.	Colombia has been an advocate of furthering the work on the review of the Charter, efforts on which have yielded only hesitant conclusions. However, without prejudice to continuing this work, a decision by the General Assembly to create new machinery for investigation and conciliation together with new imaginative approaches to the mediation of international conflicts is not only a timely task but also a very promising one.
103.	Our country is firmly convinced that the international crisis we are going through is directly related to the stagnation of programmes for a new international economic order, which the United Nations itself has proclaimed as an undertaking of the Organization and made into a norm of conduct for its Member Governments. It is obvious that the North-South dialogue, which began with so much optimism, has only given rise to new frustrations. As its last session in Manila UNCTAD once again brought to light the lack of understanding of the industrialized countries vis-a-vis the demands of the third world, and We must not hide the fact that progress was scant, if we bear in mind the magnitude of the programme which should have been covered. Colombia fully supports the proposal for global negotiations as presented by the developing countries.
104.	With regard to the law of the sea, the intransigence of some Powers has complicated the task of drawing up a harmonious and just code for the use of the oceans. Each time the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea is convened, we hear in ever stronger terms the voices of those countries which disregard the achievements of the small and medium-sized countries, achievements which had seemed secure, such as the 200-mile limit of sovereignty over economic resources. With respect to the sea-bed authority, the distribution of powers now claimed dampens our hopes that the future treaty could become a true instrument for the decolonization of the seas.
105.	With reference to the question of price-support machinery for commodities, such as coffee and sugar, the major consumers are reluctant to support its operation, which, coupled with the new obstacles to trade in commodities from developing countries, is rendering the world distribution of power increasingly unfair. To that we must add the dwindling financial potential of international bodies devoted to promoting cooperation, which earmark disproportionate sums for administrative expenditures with the concomitant decline in aid programmes.
106.	The demand by the equatorial countries that the synchronous geostationary orbit should become part of the resources falling within their full competence, a point on which Colombia reaffirms its full solidarity with the countries of the area, has been persistently rejected by certain Powers, which wish in the matter of outer space as with the use of the seas to reserve resources for their exclusive use.
107.	This review of developments which point to a grave deterioration of international co-operation in recent times leads to the conclusion that the concept of the new international economic order is still nothing more than an aspiration which is frustrated at every step.
108.	To this negative balance-sheet of international co-operation, which sows mistrust in relations between the affluent nations and the third world, we must add the energy crisis, which has dealt its hardest blows to the small and medium-sized countries.
109.	At the Meeting of Heads of State or Government held in Caracas during the term of office of the distinguished Venezuelan leader Mr. Luis Herrera Campuis, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala, President of Colombia, the following statement was made:
"Let us avail ourselves of this opportunity to address an appeal to the petroleum-producing countries and to the entire world concerning the need to establish without delay appropriate machinery to permit a logical application of the price of petroleum and its derivatives. Our position is not one of opposition to the establishment of just prices. On the contrary, we need such prices for our products. But we take exception openly with arbitrary price-fixing and an indiscriminate increase in the price of petroleum, which has been accompanied by substantial speculation on spot-market prices and which deprives our peoples of their prerogatives."
110.	The Caracas declaration, from which I have just quoted, was signed on 12 March 1979 by the Presidents of Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic, as well as by the Head of Government of Spain. The views expressed referred to the urgency of seeking, at an international level, machinery to reader less difficult the fulfilment of development programmes for countries which lack petroleum and therefore face critical difficulties.
111.	It is worth while emphasizing, in addition, the view expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Venezuela, Mr. Jose Alberto Zambrano, in the statement he made at the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries at Havana:
"As countries members of OPEC," we are fully aware of the imperative need for new initiatives and strategies of preferential co-operation with the developing countries, and this matter will have special priority at the next meeting of OPEC to be held in Caracas at the end of this year".
112.	President Jose' Lopez Portillo of Mexico also discussed the desirability of adopting, within the framework of the United Nations, a new policy with respect to energy sources, especially petroleum. All these statements buttress and underscore the urgent need for the General Assembly itself to take steps and provide guidelines in order to deal with the major problem now burdening the developing world.
113.	With reference to Latin America, we must welcome as an important development the creation of the Junta of National Reconstruction as the new Government of Nicaragua established in the wake of the heroic victory which overthrew the Somoza dictatorship, a development that was endorsed by the General Assembly itself at its last session in response to charges of human rights violations brought by the Governments of Colombia and Venezuela. The tragic events which the Nicaraguan people have endured compel us to reiterate the appeal made to all countries to contribute to the task of national reconstruction in a spirit of authentic international solidarity.
114.	The signing in Panama on 1 October of the Torrijos-Carter Treaties restoring sovereignty over the Canal Zone to the Republic of Panama should be hailed as a genuine triumph for free peoples.
115.	Perhaps the most important political development this year in South America was the strengthening of the Andean sub regional group, comprising Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela. This constitutes an important step towards economic integration and encourages joint action vis-a-vis various international organizations. The Andean Group, created by the Cartagena Agreement, is perhaps the best example of horizontal co-operation and of efforts to cope with the unequal conditions under which third-world countries are labouring in the face of the crisis of international co-operation to which I have referred.
116.	The appeal I am making on behalf of the Government of Colombia for the creation of machinery to develop the mandate of the Charter in the sphere of the peaceful settlement of disputes, the urgent need for the United Nations fully to exercise the responsibility for the maintenance of peace that rightfully falls to it, the importance of furthering the new international economic order in the domain of possible achievements and the urgency of arriving at a common policy with respect to the critical energy situation are all things that are not only the aspirations of my country but also undertakings of the United Nations, which should understand the new path it must follow so that economic and social conditions in the world will not trigger a new conflagration of unforeseeable dimensions.
117.	For confidence in the future of the Organization to be renewed, as it must be, what is required today is steadfastness and boldness in the quest for a new system of international relations. Because of its urgency, this is something that should be the subject of particular attention by all countries, and it is something which Colombia repeatedly advocates.
118.	World peace requires that a supreme effort be made to narrow disparities in development among nations and to ensure that policies based on power alone give way to an order in which human dignity and the fundamental rights of peoples are guaranteed by law. To that end, Colombia, as a deeply democratic country, offers its loyal co-operation.

===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿I should like to congratulate you, Sir, on behalf of my Government, on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly. In electing you, this body wished to acknowledge the valuable contribution of your country to the peaceful development of international life in the post-war period and the extraordinary achievements of the Federal Republic of Germany in the building of a highly efficient and equitable society and also wished to pay a tribute to the distinguished human and intellectual qualities which have marked your conduct as representative of the Federal Republic of Germany in the Organization.
159.	We should also like to associate ourselves with the expressions of gratitude which have been made by members of the Assembly for the task accomplished by your predecessor in the presidency, Mr. Salim of the United Republic of Tanzania. In a difficult period the Assembly benefited from the effective and judicious conduct of our proceedings by this outstanding representative of generations trained in the struggle for the emancipation of African States.
160.	At a time when severe conflicts threaten the peaceful coexistence of nations, we consider it fortunate that our Organization should be able to profit from the enlightenment, experience and vigilance of its Secretary-General.
161.	We should also like to welcome the admission of a new State from the Latin American area, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. On behalf of the Government of Colombia, I wish to bid a fraternal welcome to that State and I take pleasure in offering our co-operation in ensuring that its participation in the international arena shall have the scope merited by its people.
162.	This session of the General Assembly comes, at a particularly difficult time for world peace when, in a climate of perturbation, we can observe signs of potential conflagration and conflict. The optimism, which seemed to be spreading as a result of the policy of detente, reflected in such a promising way in the Salt II Treaty, and in particular in the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, signed at Helsinki in 197S, has been replaced by states of war, a situation which we must confront with objectivity and realism.
163.	The conflict between Iraq and Iran, the consequences of which we cannot foresee, makes it imperative that the United Nations itself renew its efforts to restore harmony and to ensure that the principles on which world solidarity rests will prevail. These facts have made it clear that the whole complex of international relations must be reviewed and the role of each nation in the face of the conflict defined.
164.	The most important thing of all, of course, is not only to rebuild the climate of confidence among all countries, but to give the policy of detente every opportunity to become effective and stable. Colombia has always called for a detente that would not be confined to a few geographical areas but would extend to every continent, but we must not allow the benefits of the agreement between the two super-Powers to be limited to a privileged group of nations.
165.	Detente—understood in its essential terms, such as the limitation of strategic arms, economic cooperation transcending ideological barriers, and in particular the curbing of the arms race—is a goal that is binding on the international Organization, and no country should be allowed to shirk the duties incumbent upon it in the maintenance of peace. In order to achieve these goals, the United Nations must bring its entire institutional machinery into play. More particularly it must strengthen the vocation for peace, which is the most appropriate safeguard for understanding and dialogue.
166.	The developing countries wish to see detente become universal. It would be wrong for peace agreements to be worked out by a small group of nations while other countries suffer the tragic consequences of conflicts fostered from abroad.
167.	We welcome the preparations for the second review session of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, to be held at Madrid, to follow up the Helsinki Final Act and to adapt its conclusions to the new circumstances. However, detente limited to one continent alone must of necessity transfer many disputes between the great Powers to outlying areas, condemning them to international conflicts with tragic consequences. Universal detente with the participation of representatives from every continent would make a true and sound contribution to international security. It is incumbent upon the United Nations to promote detente by creating, through its operative machinery, the conditions that would bring it about.
168.	Within this context, Encouraging disarmament projects is something that should have priority over other matters, Without any doubt, the developing nations are the ones which bear the heaviest burden because of the arms race which diverts basic resources from the well-being of their peoples and, in relative terms, limits economic growth and increases their technological dependence on the major centres of power.
169.	It is highly possible that in the institutional field there is already considerable machinery capable of bringing about disarmament successfully. Thus, what is required is the political will to lay the bases for a real limitation of weapons of mass destruction, on which the major risk of a generalized conflagration depend.
170.	Another item of concern to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session is the question of Afghanistan, a situation that was analysed in the course of the sixth emergency special session held this year. In its resolution ES-6/2 the Assembly called for the immediate, unconditional and total withdrawal of the occupying troops, an appeal that has not been heeded, while the so-called justifications put forward cannot be accepted because they are contrary to international law. The presence of foreign troops in Afghanistan is, from every standpoint, contrary to the Charter of the United Nations. Hence, at the current session the General Assembly should repeat the appeal for the evacuation of the occupying troops, permitting the Afghan people to recover its right of self-determination, free from compulsion and without advantages for other countries.
171.	In the Middle East unmistakable symptoms of a disruption of peace persist, and have become more acute. Yet the United Nations has not been able to prevent the situation from worsening.
172.	Colombia is convinced that suitable machinery for a stable peace lies in a dialogue among all the countries of the region, and including the PLO, in order to secure through reconciliation of the different viewpoints, effective measures for maintaining the security of all the peoples of the area on a basis of justice and equity. The demand for a Palestinian homeland, a matter the urgency of which my country has emphasized in this very hall on other occasions, cannot be indefinitely delayed. Establishment of such a homeland, besides redressing a wrong, would also contribute to the normalization of relations among the peoples of the area. Guaranteeing the fundamental rights of all the countries in the Middle East requires a search for an appropriate solution to the serious crisis in Lebanon, a nation that has been suffering from very tragic circumstances and whose plight the United Nations cannot ignore if it is to retain its territorial integrity without outside intervention. International action so far has not, in respect of Lebanon, been sufficiently active or effective.
173.	The regional balance that might arise from a security conference for the Middle East, for which the General Assembly has on other occasions called, should take into account the very special conditions of the area and base itself on the guiding principle of the United Nations, which is that peace should be based on the rule of law, which in its turn must be the expression of justice. Any unjust attempt, far from contributing to lasting solutions, would open up the field to fresh conflicts with unpredictable consequences.
174.	My country favours the creation of the Palestinian State, since its people has the right to a legal, dignified and peaceful existence. Similarly, Colombia defends the existence of the State of Israel, with secure frontiers within territorial limits recognized by the international Organisation.
175.	The process of decolonization, for which the United Nations may justly claim the greatest credit ever since its foundation, has met with the obstinate resistance of the South African Government in its attempt to create the necessary conditions for recognition of Namibia as a free and sovereign nation. This is all the more serious if we realize that South Africa continues to pursue its policy of apartheid, a flagrant violation of the most elementary human rights and a vestige of the discriminatory policy of ancient empires.
176.	The fact that my country has for more than 12 years belonged to the United Nations Council for Namibia strengthens its authority when it calls once again on the Assembly to condemn apartheid and to require South Africa to comply with its international obligation to permit the complete independence of Namibia with all the prerogatives inherent in the sovereignty of States.
177.	Colombia is a country which throughout its history as a republic has maintained unswerving respect for the principles of international law as an irreplaceable rule for peace and coexistence among peoples. Respect for the inviolability of treaties, the security of obligations agreed upon under conventions and, particularly, the principle that international conduct should be governed by the rule of the law of nations constitute the best guarantee for a nation so profoundly committed to the precepts upon which international solidarity is based.
178.	The principle of pacta sunt servanda is something that our neighbour, Nicaragua, has tried to disregard. It is unilaterally attempting to repudiate the validity of the Barcenas Meneses-Esguerra Treaty of 1928, which defined the territorial dispute between the two States. Any attempt on the part of the Nicaraguan Government to repudiate the Treaty of 1928 would be unprecedented and would imply disrespect for treaties that have been duly and properly signed. The Treaty with Nicaragua was signed and subsequently approved in both countries with full compliance with all constitutional requirements, and then the respective instruments were solemnly exchanged there having been prior discussions of the document in Nicaragua, with the full participation of the various political parties. The abortive attempt by the present Nicaraguan Government to abrogate arbitrarily the Treaty of 1928 with Colombia simply deserves the repudiation of the international community, because it is an attempt to disregard law and alter the situation of friendly relations between our two peoples. The juridical claim of Colombia is based on prevailing law, which faithfully and fully interprets the principles of uti possidetis juris of 1810, is irrefutable and admits of no argument.
179.	This session of the Assembly is being held at a time when the economic situation of the countries of the third world is showing undoubted symptoms of crisis, particularly because of the growing deterioration in terms of trade. The great Powers have been coping relatively successfully with their difficulties, but at the same time the rises in the prices of petroleum and its derivatives are continuing directly and incontrovertibly to affect the financial structures of the weaker nations. Nobody can deny that the fluctuations and increases in the oil prices have been a factor altering the basic conditions underlying world order. It is equally clear that the economies of the developing countries are suffering from a diminution of their real income that alters the priorities of public investment to the point where not only have growth possibilities been restricted but the very political stability of the countries has often been threatened. For the developing countries the oil crisis has reduced the possibilities of proper and appropriate planning to make bold structural changes. To this must be added the tragic situation of countries which export primary commodities, which have seen a dramatic reduction in the volume of their earnings, in contrast to the gradual increase in the prices of the goods they are obliged to insert.
180.	The delay in the entry into force of the International Coffee Agreement between producers and consumers has made clear the short-sightedness of the latter with regard to the real impact of the fall in coffee-bean prices as a destabilizing element. The coffee-consuming countries did not want to realize that, with prices below producers' real requirements, the only thing that is achieved is the stimulation of the factors of national and international disorder. The consumer nations did not give their decisive support at the proper time to the negotiation of a coffee agreement, and consequently the producer countries were forced to organize their own defence machinery. The latter is a valid and effective instrument for the free market situation in which the importing countries have placed us, but in spite of the success of the machinery adopted, Colombia is aware that in the long term the Agreement between producers and consumers is the best tool for the management of the coffee trade, and for this reason we have agreed to it. The producer countries insist that the International Coffee Agreement, with all its mechanisms in full force, should function as a forum for the scrupulous analysis of market trends, particularly so that it can act as a regulating instrument and preserve the real income of the producer countries, since nominal pricing is not enough for the defence of our economies.
181.	The generalized crisis in international co-operation runs the whole gamut of the financial institutions and clearly shows how the developing countries have been traversing the most troublesome stage of the last few decades, without the international community coming to their assistance. The recently concluded eleventh special session of the General Assembly only left as its corollary a greater distance between the rich and the poor countries, without any speedy possible solutions having been glimpsed. Within the United Nations itself and the specialized agencies there have been initiatives for the protection of primary commodity prices, to restore the balance between the industrialized countries and the raw materials exporters. However, in this field we find an increasingly unjust distribution of world power and an increasingly evasive attitude of the great Powers in regard to the international commitments which should underlie the new international economic order.
182.	World public opinion should be made known clearly in favour of strict compliance with the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, which so far has been only a catalogue of good intentions without any practical effect. Its establishment as a binding rule for the international community is becoming an indispensable requirement for ensuring peace.
183.	In the period since the end of the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly, the implementation of measures of co-operation for the developing world has been postponed or reduced to absurd terms. The policy of the North- South dialogue remains bogged down in the face of indifference and delay. The demand of the peoples of the world for general and complete disarmament has been met simply with denials or delays. This obviously discouraging picture should be the subject of very serious and alert consideration on the part of the third world countries which have been so sorely afflicted by present economic circumstances.
184.	Colombia believes that only a vast movement of unity in the third world can rescue the objective of the new international economic order. As long as the developing nations maintain their casual attitude, their role will always be diminished. We find that the belligerent intentions of some countries are becoming clearer and clearer, and the only response, in order to ensure peace and co-operation, is a movement towards unity on the part of the third world, so that it can become a genuine force of moral deterrence in the face of any nuclear adventure.
185.	The unity of the third world, or the developing world, is something that Colombia would adopt as a banner for international action, and it should have as its objective the neutralization of any military provocation and should mobilize public opinion against anything that might give rise to a conflagration. The new international economic order will always be a fallacy so long as we fail to improve the machinery already agreed upon to maintain the prices of primary products. As long as the only lines of credit open to developing countries are for the purchase of armaments, the fate of world peace will be seriously jeopardized.
186.	The unity which the third world needs would be the best weapon to promote genuine conditions of detente within a necessary global context. The present situation in the world requires a sufficient determination to see to it that the peace-loving peoples of the world alert humanity as a whole to the dangers which threaten collective security.
187.	On behalf of my country, I should like to express best wishes for success in the deliberations of this thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly. We are convinced today more than ever that solutions for peace must derive from the institutional framework of the United Nations, which is the strongest instrument ever created in history for settling disputes among States.
188.	The call to unity of the third world to become the major peace movement is a call also for it to demand that just and fair conditions be adopted in the economic field so that security should not only be a precarious balance between Powers but also a co-ordinated effort, an harmonious effort, on the part of all nations on earth to achieve better conditions of life, free from the daily more threatening spectre of total war.


===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
69.	Permit me first of all to convey the congratulations of my Government to Mr. Kittani on his election as President of the General Assembly. That action is an appropriate honoring of his country and of his distinguished personal qualities. The Organization has placed its trust in a highly qualified person who, because, of his experience, is well aware of the delicate responsibilities of his high post.
70.	I also wish to express the congratulations of my Government to his illustrious predecessor, Mr. von Wechmar, who, by his actions during a particularly difficult time, amply justified the trust placed in him by the international community.
71.	Let me also take this opportunity to welcome me admission to the United Nations of two new States, Vanuatu and Belize. Colombia is pleased to note this new and important step in the process of decolonization, and offers its best wishes for the peace and prosperity of both new nations.
72.	The report on the work of the Organization presented to the Assembly by the SecretaryGeneral [A/36/1] is further proof of his intelligent approach to complex situations and serious conflicts; it provides much food for thought, including an objective description of the difficulties and challenges which place formidable obstacles in the path to world peace.
73.	This annual meeting of the General Assembly has been overshadowed by the tragic news of the assassination of President Anwar El Sadat. He was a statesman who fought for world peace with exemplary courage and constancy. His death, which has moved all those working for harmony among peoples, was his legacy to that cause, to which we should all contribute with the same courage and with a similar will to sacrifice.
74.	In entrusting to Mr. Kittani the guidance of this body, conceived as a forum for peace, the Assembly
wished to indicate that discussion and dialog are the most effective means for resolving any conflicts that may arise between peoples of the world. War, that last hazardous and terrible recourse, leaves nothing in its wake but the grief of desolation and the always fearful danger of rancor. It is strange that, after so many and such long sufferings, the astonishing human intelligence has not been able to perceive such evident and tragic proof as that offered on every page of the book of history that there is no more fragile peace, no more precarious conquest, no less stable alliances, than those achieved amidst the roar of cannon and the sinister aegis of fire and sword. However, mankind, or at least a large part of it, continues to harbor its bloodstained illusions. As in barbarous times when private disputes were settled summarily by blows of the club, because there were no laws and none to apply them, no reason or justice which could prevail over force, and power was reduced to the naked exercise of violence, war continues to have a fatal attraction and fervent supporters. However, very little or nothing is resolved by those extremely costly and atrocious adventures, which inevitably begin as an exultant march from which, with no known exception, there returns a generation of young people, without any clear idea of what they were supposed to be doing on the battlefield, mutilated, angry and wasted, young people who would have better served their country and of course their own cause if they had been allowed to apply their strength and unbounded enthusiasm to less bloody undertakings.
75.	It was precisely to prevent nations from coming to blows after the first disagreement or the first conflict and from turning disputes that could be discussed and settled into a catastrophe that, after many setbacks and great effort, international law was established. It was simply a matter of transferring to international relations the same rational mechanism as that which in the domestic jurisdiction had deprived those prepared to strike first, deal a cowardly blow, or hit hardest, of the ability to impose their will on others. If something as elementary but also as difficult as this i.e. that it is up to the laws and the interpreters of the laws, the mediators and the courts, to decide who was right in the innumerable disputes among citizens without waiting for them all to come to blows to establish who was in the right could prevail, of course with some regrettable exceptions, within countries, why not try the same on the international level? In the final analysis, if the experiment has been successful not without a certain amount of inevitable coercion among uncivilized and ignorant people who fought over land, water, cattle, and the right to survive and even the right to believe, to have opinions and to persuade others of the virtues of their beliefs and opinions, why should this not ( be applied in relations among nations, which are supposedly ruled by men and women who are more enlightened, wiser, and more sensible and farsighted?
76.	For four centuries and even longer perhaps, jurists, theologians, statesmen and skilled diplomats, sophisticated or pragmatic, undertook the colossal task of convincing their peers throughout the world of the excellence of their project, and designing, and making acceptable to reluctant nationalism the institutions that would safeguard it. Its evolution was extremely slow, but the Very bestiality of war to which nations repeatedly resorted, attracted by profitable imperial trade, by simple vanity or
by suspicion, or because the diabolical rhetoric of some delirious demagogue had razed the last barriers separating insanity from good-judgment imposed the need to come to terms before fighting, of talking before the wagons bristling with weapons crossed borders, before soldiers killed each other, before whole populations were senselessly destroyed and before women and children, who were taking no part in the storms of war, paid their tragic dues of hunger, death, pestilence and ruin, in settlement of the account for some senseless quarrel.
77.	Without question, the Organization is the culmination of that long and arduous effort. As is stated in the Preamble to its Charter, it was created "to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind". In a way, then, it is the tangible embodiment of that ecumenical humanitarian purpose: to avoid war and to convince nations that there are more civilized systems and certainly much more effective ones than those of general butchery in settling their pending affairs and even their grievances, which are generally the result of some other dispute for which no solution was found and which only brought out latent rancor:
78.	That being the case, it seems to me that there can be no more appropriate forum or more responsive audience than this one for reference to a subject of concern to my Government: the obvious crisis in international law.
79.	While throughout the long period of its creation great and even malicious departures from it were used with notorious cynicism to justify wars of aggression and greedy acts of conquest, today's international community is based on the acceptance of certain fundamental basic rules, without which the maintenance of international peace and security is impossible. They are not many or very complicated, but they suffice to prevent the planet from becoming a vast pile of debris, if they are respected and not placed through cowardice or perhaps through chronic confusion in the deceitful hands of those who adhere to them without conviction, perversely and with suspect reservations. Those rules include: the sovereign equality of all nations, large and small; the seif-determination of peoples; the prohibition of interference in affairs essentially within the internal jurisdiction of States; the duty to comply in good faith with obligations stemming from treaties and other sources of international law; the obligation to settle international disputes by peaceful means; and the prohibition of any form of attack on the integrity or political independence of any State. Those norms, to be sure, were in large part incorporated into the Charter of the United Nations on the initiative of the Latin American countries, which for many years lived under the threat of foreign interference, from the dreadful punitive expeditions organized by the great Powers to cancel sometimes insignificant debts to their nationals, to the old and scandalous international trickery aimed at distorting the will of peoples or at nullifying it by placing at the head of Governments cruel, venal and greedy men, as obliging towards foreigners as they are merciless towards their own fellow-citizens.
80.	The 51 original signatories of the Charter of the United Nations, as well as the others which have joined the Organization in the course of its 35 years of existence, have willingly accepted those norms, and have solemnly pledged themselves not only to comply with them, bat also to create conditions in which justice, and respect among all the world's peoples, based firmly on those norms, may be reasonably expected to be maintained.
81.	Those principles and norms, along with international mores, judicial decisions and the doctrines of the most competent writers in the field, ate the essence of international law and govern the conduct of nations in their mutual relations* but they seem to have entered into a disquieting crisis, turning almost imperceptibly into a flexible catalog of amorphous solemnities, often used with unabashed cynicisnMo support the not always sound domestic objectives of some States and, on more occasions than we would like to admit, the blatant expansionism of others.
82.	The traditional procedures for the peaceful settlement of dispute such as good offices, conciliation, arbitration and judicial settlement, which are enshrined, after visible compliance with ritual formalities, in many bilateral or multilateral instruments, are in the process of becoming laughable dead letters with no use other than serving as rhetorical disguise for manifest ill will. Some States, when they sign international agreements, skilfully maneuver to present themselves to the international community as standard bearers of principles in which they do not believe, principles which, in their domestic policies, they do not apply, or disregard, and which they would not hesitate to violate if, for any reason, they did not meet the interests of the Government in power, or of the system, or of the political ideology they attempt to impose and consolidate.
83.	At times, they go to the extreme of using a change in regime as an argument of course, with no grounds in international law to support the denunciation of international territorial treaties, which are flawless and unassailable, and were agreed on years before and ratified in due form by the pertinent legislative powers. Faced with such serious evidence, one might say that we are going backwards to the uncertain and dangerous times when, with unheard of insolence and, of course, with distorted intentions, it was declared that treaties were nothing but meaningless pieces of paper.
84.	Law, in any of its manifestations, is based on an elemental principle of good faith: without good faith, it is impossible, to govern mutual relations. At the domestic level, the great social pact which establishes a very subtle but valuable line between anarchy and harmony, is guaranteed by the restraining power inherent in the pact itself. But good will is essential, the conviction that only by heeding the laws and the principles which inspire them is it possible to build a disciplined, harmonious, equitable and sound society. Without this deep conviction that the law is necessary and valuable, and of course perfectible, although it imposes limits and constraints, is restrictive and sometimes unpleasant, no community of free men can exist. But even were a community temporarily to survive the insuperable challenge of its own disorder, it would not be respected, and all other communities would be wary of making agreements with it or trusting in its statements, however sensible they might be. Thus, if there is no intentional subjection to rules of conduct which are the same for all* there is no society, no credibility which could support it, ana no pact, contract or agreement of any kind which could be understood as having any qualities beyond those of improbable expectations.
85.	In the international level, where this enforcement power does not exist, or exists vaguely and questionably, good faith, the sincere will to honor agreements, and not only formal adherence to them for the sake of appearances, can guarantee genuine lasting peace. Unfortunately, sufficient awareness of this unassailable fact does not always seem to exist. Furthermore, contrary to what one might logically expect, it is the weak countries, whose survival depends to a large extent on a strict body of norms which defend them against the arbitrary behavior of those stronger than they, that most frequently and lightly disregard them to attain casual advantages, not understanding that such behavior may then become a precedent to justify an illegal act against their own vital interests.
86.	Any devious interpretation of what should be a transparently clear explanation will turn against whoever makes it and set in motion his own downfall. To behave as though one believes that only what is in one's own interest is ethical exposes oneself to the calculated risk of leaving the fate of international harmony in the hands of the strongest or the least honest or a dangerous combination of the two.
87.	The thorough and enlightened discussions of many complex issues which have taken place over the years and which are taking place here now, will be meaningless unless we all seek to bring about an effective return to faithful compliance with international law. The independence and self-determination of peoples will be nothing but empty words devoid of content if real or veiled intervention and in some cases actions which openly violate international law by some countries in the internal affairs of others, shielded behind pretexts and artificial considerations, are yet part of a clear political design. We have reached such, extremes of complacent complicity and unpardonable leniency in the application of international norms that there are those who do not consider as flagrant intervention cases of economic, political and even military support for minority groups which at times violently challenge the legitimate existence of Governments that are supported by large majorities. Others, as if it were an insignificant matter, allege that the supply of arms and military training to extremist organizations or terrorist groups (which act in the broad area of subversion with the open and declared purpose of destabilizing democratically constituted Governments and imposing by force on other countries the systems and ideologies that exist in the countries that assist and finance) does not constitute intervention or damage the juridical structure, which was so difficult to build and which is now threatened with destruction by the indifference of those who should be the most concerned by its gradual disappearance.
88.	On the other hand, general and complete disarmament will continue to be not much more than an irrelevant item of academic discussion if, as could occur now, States do not have the opportunity of recourse to law to avert the risk of a real or imagined threat to the integrity and stability of their Governments. As long as the present alarming indifference exists regarding the fate of international law, there will always be justification for the acquisition of arms and for increasing the war potential. Even worse, it is possible that some who, for reasons of prestige or profit or with even less admissible motives, see a good opportunity to derive political or economic profit from a generalized arms race, are the same who promote such a state of affairs by advising their Governments that, instead of relying on the rules of treaties, they should resort to the insidious security of weapons to preserve the law, without actually having to fire those weapons.
89.	If the full rule of law were restored, as it should be, it would not be necessary to affirm, as, unfortunately it too often is nowadays, that the only purpose of the arms race is the routine replacement of equipment, the search for a rational balance with other Powers or the natural defense of the country, since the juridical mechanism would suffice to cause any attempted aggression to be rejected immediately or to be heavily punished by the international community. But as long as that is not the position, on the pretext of the demands of national or even collective defense, enormous amounts will continue to be spent on sophisticated weapons, thus diverting those resources from development projects and the improvement of the general wellbeing.
90.	If disregard of the norms of international law can bring about changes with unforeseeable consequences in the field of political relations, the same is true in the field of international economic relations. What is required there and perhaps with the same urgency is not only a substantive review but also the full restoration of the compulsory nature of international agreements and strict respect for their provisions.
91.	We have had seven years without practical results of the commitment to establish a new international economic order; five years without implementation of the Integrated program for Commodities; more than 15 years of sterility and despair in the implementation of the agreements in principle of the law of the sea; and more than two years to begin a modest cycle of global negotiations. Those are only some indications, in my view serious ones, of what may await mankind in the future if we do not counter weakness, reluctance, lack of responsibility and negligence with a firm decision to respect our agreements.
92.	I believe that we are passing the limits of credibility. Organizations such as this one and those associated with it, but not ensuring respect for agreements, run the risk of being replaced by structures which respond better to the aspirations of the international community. It is unnecessary to. state what a backward step it would be in the search for understanding among nations if that were to occur. But unfortunately that will be the case if decisions, agreements, rules and settlements are not strictly and promptly implemented or respected. What we are witnessing with increasing concern is a scandalous succession of acts which directly or indirectly infringe the norms which protect justice by means of the law in the field of international relations. Diplomatic prerogatives, which were formally agreed to or which have been accepted for centuries to facilitate normal communications among Governments, are brazenly violated: Juridical mandates are being disregarded and trampled underfoot, mandates which translate the principle of nonintervention proclaimed in conclusive terms by the General Assembly in its Declaration on the Inadmissibility of Intervention in the Domestic Affairs of States and the Protection of their Independence and Sovereignty, adopted unanimously in 1965 [resolution 2131 (XX)]. There is open violation of the principle of nonaggression by means of armed attacks which are completely unjustified and which treacherously violate the provisions of Chapter VII cf the Charter. There is scandalous mockery of decisions of the International Court of Justice, the highest court of the world, the judicial body of the Organization, and of other international institutions. The obligation to resort to the procedures for the peaceful settlement of disputes provided for in Chapter VI of the Charter and in other multilateral and bilateral conventions is not respected. The duties relative to the protection of human rights proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and in agreements emerging from competent bodies of international organizations are ignored. Foreign territory is invaded unilaterally and with complete disregard of the most elementary legal principles. In practice, the principles of the equal rights of States and the self-determination of peoples are repudiated. Even in those fields; which most obviously call for the universal cooperation of nations, such cooperation is denied, although it would be beneficial to all if everybody contributed to the preparation of and respect for the relevant conventions.
93.	Let us think for a moment of the consequences of a possible final and total disruption of the legal norms on which is based the operation of international organizations, the continual activities of which guarantee the functioning of the various sectors of what could be termed international public administration. The disappearance of those bodies, the existence of which we have come to consider natural, would mean a world without postal services, telecommunications, international civil aviation, economic or financial cooperation among States, meteorological data from outside national boundaries, preventive measures against the spread of global epidemics, without the means of continuing, promoting and increasing world food production, without action or joint guidelines in the field of education or labor, without the possibility of maintaining scientific and cultural exchanges, without stimulus for the support and progress of maritime navigation, without cooperation in the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, without a network of international intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations dealing with the most varied needs of peoples at the international level, without international commerce; in a word, without any trade at all, since the least trade presupposes the existence of rules governing it.
94.	Colombia, which prides itself above all on its respect for law, can therefore not ignore such an alarming situation. It is to the crisis in international law and the lack of interest shown in it that we attribute phenomena that have created tremendous tension and that will probably bring about untold calamities in the community of nations.
95.	The presence of foreign troops in Afghanistan and Kampuchea, despite the reiterated appeals made by the Organization to guarantee to those countries the right to self-determination, is nothing but one more example  and, of course, one of the most disquieting of the casual attitude of some nations to the civilized practice of
international law. If in the future somewhere else in the world another invasion occurs there is no doubt that a good part of the responsibility for that nefarious act will rest with those who seem unaware of the importance of the full application of international legal norms.
96.	Something similar could be said about one of the most offensive and abhorrent violations of the dignity of the human person racial discrimination. Colombia, which has traditionally been a member of the United Nations Council for Namibia,, has always rejected and continues vigorously to reject apartheid. It also considers that the fate of the Territory should be determined by its inhabitants, without the intervention or support of foreign Powers, In keeping with this position, it considers that the Government of South Africa has an inescapable obligation to bring about the independence of Namibia and not put obstacles in the way of its legitimate claim to self-government.
97.	My country is of course aware of the general concern at the situation in the Middle East which has been further complicated by the assassination of President Anwar El Sadat. We welcomed the dialog that made possible peace between Egypt and Israel and the agreements that were the happy result of that splendid gesture of conciliation and goodwill. That is why, as a contribution to peace in the Middle East, Colombia has decided to take part in the multinational force which will guarantee the demilitarization of the Sinai Peninsula. My country would like to see a similar climate prevail with regard to the definitive solution of the Palestinian problem, which certainly cannot be solved without the participation of the legitimate representatives of that people.
98.	In the continuous process of the legal codification of relations among States and between geography and man there is a field that is still subject to rules of law that are inadequate and reflect the unfairness of the relations of force which led to their adoption. I am referring to the regime which exists for outer space and the geostationary synchronous orbit.
99.	That orbit is a Scarce resource and should not be allocated on the basis of the excessive advantages that the unequal development of technology offers to a very small number of States. This points to the advisability of convening an international conference for the purpose of filling the gaps in the treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies [resolution 222 (XXI)] and elaborating a proper law of space, consistent, equitable and harmonious.
100.	Equatorial countries have already begun an international debate on the geostationary synchronous orbit, a debate that has shown the gaps in that Treaty and has enabled peoples of the third world to begin to see how a vital element of contemporary civilization, satellite communications, is becoming the object of a process of increased monopolization. That is why we must legally distinguish the geostationary synchronous orbit from the amorphous concept of outer space. In that essential task developing countries must promote an international, legal order which, responding to the legitimate rights of equatorial States, will regulate the use of the orbit bearing in mind the common interest of mankind.
101.	My country and other equatorial States would not find it at all satisfactory if, in the absence of the legal reforms that have been recommended, third world peoples 10 or 20 years hence, in order to free themselves from the subjection and inequality created in space, had to fight from a position of disadvantage and face serious faits accomplis, as is the case today in connection with the international economic order. By then it will nor be easy to achieve a new international legal order in space, just as it is now difficult to achieve a new international economic order.
102.	I belong to a country which believes more in the force of law than in the force of arms; which admires more the quiet labor of jurists than the clamor and arrogant ostentation of strong men; which has created a civilized society that respects the popular will and is peaceful and republican. All those Circumstances, together with the disquiet that we experience owing to the progressive deterioration of a true international legal order, have led me to put before the General Assembly a subject which may not have the same apparent topicality as others which have properly been dealt with here. But I would say that it is perhaps in the ostensible breach in international law that we may find the origin of our many present tribulations and of those that will undoubtedly follow if we do not act courageously to restore what we have left to fade and languish through our negligence, in our improvident hands.
103.	Were international law to disappear and were organizations such as this one, where dialog is still possible, to remain as another monument to the futility of our efforts to make reason prevail over unbridled force, humanity would have unwittingly entered into a new dark age. But if, on the contrary, we persevere in the worthwhile task of replacing the ferocious code of war by a judicious and thoughtful code of agreements, against all forecasts we shall have done more lasting work for peace than that resulting from the precarious and sombre balance of terror. If we are to coexist, as we must, at least as long as the planet tolerates us and provides for us, it will not be as the result of a sterile, inclement and ruinous play of mistrust, shock and contained violence. Let us seek, as so many before us, the best of the species, have done successfully, an intelligent framework of impersonal and abstract laws so that our strong aspiration to peace may not be frustrated by the merciless and fateful law of the jungle.


===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
I should like first to congratulate Mr. Hollai on his election to the 
important post of President and at the same time to express the hope 
that, under his able leadership, this session of the General Assembly 
will achieve positive results. I should also like to express to his 
eminent predecessor, Mr. Kittani, our gratitude for the effectiveness 
with which he presided over the thirty-sixth session. I wish to 
assure the Secretary-General, Mr. Perez de Cuellar, a seasoned 
diplomat of whom Latin America is proud, of our support in any action 
that he takes in the interest of the international community. I take 
this opportunity to commend the sincerity, the vigour and the vision 
shown in his report to the General Assembly on the role of the 
Organization in these times of crisis.
On behalf of our President, Belisario Betancur, and the people of 
Colombia, I should like to greet the representatives of States 
Members of the United Nations and to express our confidence that at 
this thirty-seventh session of the General Assembly we shall be able 
to work effectively in the search for solutions to the disputes that 
disturb the peace and threaten the security of our peoples.
I represent a country with a population of 30 million-the fourth 
largest in population in the western hemisphere-situated at the heart 
of the Americas and sharing land and sea boundaries with 13 Latin 
American and Caribbean nations. Our unique geographical position ties 
us irrevocably to the fate of a large part of the continent and 
obliges us to work in an open and constructive spirit.
Colombia is also a country of laws and an unsullied democratic 
tradition, where political differences are resolved through elections 
and authority emanates from the popular will. Our newly elected 
Government has devoted its efforts to the country's economic and 
social recovery and to a major peace initiative which will surely 
enable those groups which had resorted to armed rebellion to be 
reincorporated into civilian life. I have been so bold as to mention 
these positive attributes of my country, but I shall not dwell 
further on a point which hold little interest for the news agencies, 
whose preferred subject-matter is scandals and disasters.
My country believes in the possibility and the desirability of 
peaceful solutions. It defends the application of the principles and 
norms of international law in the settlement of disputes and 
advocates nonintervention, self-determination and strict observance 
of treaties. It none the less believes that justice complements law 
and it is therefore prepared to consider with an open mind all those 
intrinsically just causes that, for this very reason, warrant the 
attention of the international community.
The United Nations, created under the noblest of auspices to save the 
world from the scourge of war, to promote more equitable conditions 
and standards of living for the peoples and to ensure a stable 
economic order and harmonious development, has all too often been 
prevented from fulfilling its noble mission. In the view of many it 
has even become ineffectual. To a large extent this view is correct: 
purely political controversy has invaded all United Nations forums. 
Agencies designed to promote social progress, economic recovery and 
technological progress have become arenas of bitter polemics. The 
spirit of co-operation is gradually disappearing; selfish interests 
predominate and the policy of blocs is expanding. Against the 
backdrop of this kind of Tower of Babel, the imminent danger of 
universal cataclysm emerges as the only reality.
It is not surprising that, in this atmosphere, the arms race should 
have intensified. What until recently was a phenomenon exclusive to 
the great Powers has spread like a malignant growth to moderately 
developed States and even to poor countries. Often it is the 
industrialized nations themselves that encourage this trade in death.
Military and economic might create conditions of dependence. The 
world's backward countries must sacrifice their dignity to necessity 
and their conceptual independence in the face of threats. The will to 
survive leads to a servile pragmatism which destroys ideals and 
fosters resentment. This concentration of the factors of power 
explains the formation of the major blocs and the humiliating 
situation of those nations that have been forced to submit to one or 
another sphere of influence.
It would be unfair to overlook the ideological motivation surrounding 
some of the decisions of the great Powers. This ideological 
confrontation is becoming increasingly rare, however. Above all, what 
we have is a power struggle which threatens to engulf the entire 
world community. As long as the system of major blocs persists, peace 
will be impossible.
Colombia is profoundly concerned about this state of affairs. In the 
past year, far from decreasing, the causes for concern have actually 
increased. The number of situations which disrupt world peace is 
growing, the economic crisis's becoming increasingly complex and the 
imbalance among nations is becoming increasingly marked Colombia is 
concerned by the constant violations of the principles and norms of 
international law. We cannot countenance the illegal occupation and 
annexation of territories by force or other forms of intervention 
that perpetuate a state of permanent anxiety.
Like most countries, Colombia has condemned Israel's military action 
in Lebanon. It advocates withdrawal from the Arab territories now 
under military occupation and recognizes the right of the Palestinian 
people to a sovereign State.
Colombia believes that the various formulas now under consideration 
with regard to the Palestinian problem must be reconciled as soon as 
possible. New negotiating machinery which is binding on the parties 
to the conflict and on the third countries involved is probably 
needed. We believe that this vital step does not conflict with 
recognition of the State of Israel and the latter's right to live in 
peace within its own borders.
We note with interest and satisfaction all efforts, such as those 
undertaken by the Korean people, tending to re-establish national 
unity.
We have voiced our opposition to the possible exclusion of any Member 
State from the various organs of the United Nations. Despite all the 
risks, we believe that the principle of universality, which is 
fundamental to the survival and historical impact of the 
Organization, must be maintained.
Unfortunately, the latest acts of aggression and violence in the 
Middle East are not the only ones suffered and repudiated by the 
international community. We have also condemned the military 
occupation of Afghanistan and Kampuchea and the persecution of the 
trade union movement in Poland. In all these cases clear-cut norms of 
international law have been violated, resulting in the irreparable 
loss of human life and considerable material damage.
We are deeply concerned at the situation in Central America and at 
the risk that this region so near to us geographically and so dear to 
our hearts might become a new arena of international confrontation. 
The nations of Central America are struggling, each in its own way, 
to strengthen democracy and promote social change. In that process, 
which should occur peacefully as a result of self-determination, 
there has in recent times been resort to the perilous course of 
ideological extremism, arms buildup and foreign interference.
We cannot stand by and let the countries of Central America become a 
prey to international ambitions and their weak political and economic 
structures be suddenly threatened by violence and civil war. It is 
essential to restore peace and, by means of a constructive dialogue, 
to create the conditions for' peaceful coexistence and development. 
In achieving these objectives, it would be most useful to eliminate 
the pernicious influence of the military apparatus that in one way or 
another has become involved in Central American politics.
At the beginning of October, Colombia participated in a meeting of 
Foreign Ministers organized by the Government of Costa Rica with the 
aim of finding common ground and discussing specific actions which 
would permit a return to normalcy. As a result of that important 
meeting, it was agreed to create a body which would work for peace 
and democracy: a peace based on mutual respect and a democracy which 
would guarantee free political expression in each country. At 
Colombia's request, the Foreign Ministers meeting in San Jose 
proposed the removal of all military and security advisers from the 
area, in particular from El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua.
We hope that the goodwill mission entrusted to the Foreign Minister 
of Costa Rica will help to broaden the regional dialogue and will be 
well received in those countries which for various reasons did not 
participate in the first round of talks. My country will co-operate 
fully in achieving the objectives set.
Colombia does not advocate and has never advocated the use of force 
to resolve conflicts. It therefore deplores the fact that, in the 
case of the Malvinas Islands, the protracted absence of a peaceful 
solution and the persistence of colonialist practices let to the de 
facto situations and that all efforts at conciliation to avoid an 
armed conflict failed.
We are now faced with the consequences: the loss of 3,000 human lives 
and damage estimated at over $1 billion. But this tragic outcome is 
not the only cause for concern. The truth is that as a result of the 
armed conflict the possibility of a stable solution for the islands 
now appears more remote than ever.
The United Kingdom, having gained a military victory, refuses to 
discuss the question of sovereignty over the islands. Although 
explicable in the light of recent events, this position will prove 
untenable in the long run. The anti-colonialist determination of the 
vast majority of countries, Colombia among them, will finally prevail.
In order to obviate the risk of further conflict and avoid a 
prolongation of the harmful consequences of this confrontation, 
Colombia proposes that the Malvinas should immediately be made 
neutral and their administration entrusted to a multinational 
authority until a way is found of reconciling Argentina's rights with 
the legitimate interests of the islands' inhabitants.
The conduct of the United States in this unfortunate incident 
warrants special comment. That country's decision to abandon its 
initial neutral position and to afford economic, political and 
military support to the United Kingdom aroused justified indignation 
in Latin America. That episode has given rise to the feeling 
throughout the continent that the United States cares little of the 
fate of its neighbours. The United States attitude none the less had 
the salutary effect of uniting the peoples of Latin America for the 
first time in their entire history. We must seize this opportunity to 
create effective machinery which will make possible a joint response 
in moments of crisis.
The impact of this conflict on the continent's political future 
cannot be ignored. Europeans and North Americans will in the short 
term be able to correct many of the decisions taken during the war, 
but it will take a long time for the wounds to heal. Clearly, Latin 
America is not a priority on the great Powers' list. At the centre of 
the armed confrontation in the South Atlantic the question of 
colonialism appears as a last remnant of a world which has faded into 
history but the vestiges of which will continue to cause constant 
irritation and potential conflicts for years* to come. Practical 
problems arise in this decolonization process, including that of how 
to ensure that newly independent territorial entities, many of them 
small, avoid the dependence forced on them by their limited economic 
resources. Faced with the danger of new forms of domination, these 
young nations will have to seek, with the support of the 
international community, systems of association that enable them to 
defend their own independence successfully.
In analysing the factors which contribute to disturbances of the 
peace we are also concerned at the discouraging results of the second 
special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament. We 
see the problem as one not only of nuclear weapons butalso of 
conventional weapons. It is not enough for the great Powers to 
declare their willingness to refrain from the use of nuclear weapons. 
A decision must also be taken drastically to reduce conventional 
weapons and to agree to absolutely trustworthy verification 
procedures.
In Colombia's view peace is not and cannot be a precarious balance 
between heavily armed nations but rather the result of a just 
international order. Pope Paul VI made this abundantly clear when he 
stated in his encyclical Populorium Progressio many years ago that 
development was the new name for peace. The Pontiffs historic maxim 
becomes dramatically relevant in a world where opportunities are 
dangerously concentrated in the hands of a few and three quarters of 
mankind continues to be excluded from a development which would make 
justice feasible and freedom attainable.
It was this time bomb which prompted the international community a 
decade ago to seek a new international economic order which would 
make it possible to correct imbalances and bridge the gap between 
rich and poor. Without wishing to belittle the initial efforts that 
were made, we must agree that the situation is not encouraging and 
the prospects of establishing such an order are increasingly remote, 
above all in the midst of one of the worst economic crises to face 
the international community in three generations.
This crisis, which is probably both the cause and the effect of the 
chaotic situation in which mankind is living, is the result of 
numerous factors, including theoretical dependence on rigid models 
which for a long time now have failed to take into account the whole 
purpose of economic management for the advancement of man and have 
become worn-out concepts which, at the political level, point the way 
to failure.
The peripheral countries that traditionally revolve around these 
systems are often used as testing grounds. The all-out free 
enterprise of the so-called Chicago school on the one hand and the 
rigid self- management and planning, with total State intervention, 
advocated by the current Marxist school, on the other, are the most 
recent examples of how blind adherence to economic theories whose 
origins are purely political is doomed to failure.
Another no less important, cause of this far- reaching crisis is the 
rapidly growing indebtedness of the developing countries and of those 
countries with a so-called centrally planned economy. Between them, 
these countries are fast approaching a foreign debt amounting to the 
extraordinary sum of $800 billion. Two circumstances aggravate this 
phenomenon: on the one hand, the growing involvement of private 
lenders-calculated at 50 per cent-to the detriment of financing 
through international development agencies which are finding it 
increasingly difficult to open the coffers of their rich members; on 
the other hand, the all too frequent use of foreign loans for sectors 
other than infrastructure or social welfare.
In practice, those resources have become volatile material and there 
are difficulties in repaying loans because production has not 
increased in proportion to indebtedness. There are, of course, 
exceptions but in the end only those countries that have exchanged 
foreign currency for progress will be successful and it will be 
difficult to find a remedy for those which exchanged loans for 
prestige or used them for ill-planned investments to find a way out 
of their difficulties.
The external debt problem has reached such insane proportions that 
what formerly generated dependence today engenders mutual fear 
between debtors and creditors. The entire financial problem must be 
approached in new terms before this fear degenerates into political 
confrontation.
Colombia is not subject at present to the pressures of a 
disproportionate foreign debt. Its foreign debt amounts to over $7 
billion, but to a large extent this figure represents development 
loans whose short- term impact is manageable. The annual debt service 
takes up barely 15 per cent of our foreign trade earnings. 
International reserves stand at over $5 billion. We are not,therefore, 
pleading our own cause but rather speaking, out of an elementary 
sense of solidarity, as advocates of those countries which need rapid 
and effective support. To this end we support the preparation and 
implementation of a short- term emergency plan as a first step in the 
process of global negotiations.
The economic crisis also has its mots in the policies of the 
industrialized countries. The restriction of demand in order to 
control inflation has caused a drop in the growth of price indices 
and more recently in that of interest rates, but at the high social 
cost of slowing down growth and increasing unemployment.
This affects international trade, which is the basis for the growth 
of most of the developing economies, and thus exports unemployment, 
the social and political consequences of which are felt far more 
acutely in the third world than in the industrialized world. 
Protectionism has taken hold of the major markets, with obvious 
consequences for trade but also with the distressing result that the 
developing countries, seeing the deterioration in their trade 
balances and balances of payments, try to save themselves and are in 
turn accused of protectionism, of violating free trade agreements or 
simply of being trade terrorists who, by stimulating exports, attack 
the world economy.
Another aspect that we must mention here is the deterioration of the 
situation with regard to commodities. Producer countries were used to 
products enjoying good seasons bad seasons, and one usually cancelled 
out the other. Now there are only bad periods because of the 
recession affecting the main purchasers, and especially because of 
the irresponsible, selfish and disastrous policies of groups of 
developed countries which, as in the case of sugar, have brought 
prices down to absolutely ludicrous levels.
The countries that uphold this sugar policy of subsidies, increased 
production and the imposition of quotas cannot expect us to be 
grateful, to cooperate and to let them participate in our development 
plans. In my country the sugar sector generates considerable 
employment and foreign currency, and it would be inconsistent of us 
not to respond forcefully to seeing our international earnings 
reduced as a result of unilateral policies.
Almost all the Powers could be accused of this kind of policy with 
regard to other commodities. The sale of strategic reserves, the 
stockpiling of others by mining multinationals, the unilateral fixing 
of quotas for access to markets and the use of foodstuffs as a 
political weapon are only some of the many aberrations against which 
the international community as a whole will have to fight.
We should, however, also mention, within this bleak commodity 
situation, the success just achieved in London in connection with the 
International Coffee Agreement, of which my country has always been 
and will continue to be an ardent supporter. This agreement to 
protect the market reached between producers and consumers in the 
same forum is an example which I should like to mention here and 
which would not have been possible without solidarity between the two 
interest groups.
This already long list also includes the affront constituted by 
military spending. According to United Nations calculations, at 1978 
prices the world spends $1.2 billion a day on armaments, $900 million 
of which represents the combined military budgets of the United 
States, the Soviet Union, China, France and the United Kingdom. This 
daily arms expenditure is equal to the sum total of the annual 
budgets of UNDP, the World Food Programme, UNICEF, UNRWA and UNFPA.
And, one further comment, compared with the over $380 billion spent 
each year on military budgets, the $21 billion in direct aid, the $80 
million from the World Bank, the $24 million from the Inter-American 
Development Bank and the $67 million from the International Monetary 
Fund seem paltry amounts. The $825 million of United States financial 
assistance to the Caribbean and the Soviet Union's $1,856 million to 
Cuba, North Korea and Viet Nam are even more insignificant. These 
figures speak for themselves.
The subject of the North-South dialogue is perhaps one of the few on 
which we all agree: we have failed miserably. Since 1973, the year of 
the oil embargo and the floating of the principal currencies, the 
United Nations as an institution, its Members and the decade's most 
eminent personalities have reiterated the need to restructure 
fundamentally the economic relationship between those that are the 
most prosperous and those that are still the poorest. Then came the 
General Assembly resolutions on the new international economic order 
and the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States. The latter 
could figure in the book of world records as the instrument most 
frequently violated.
The same happened with the 1974 Paris Conference, which throughout 
its three long years brought nothing new to the solution of world 
problems; with the various meetings of UNCTAD; the ministerial 
meeting of GATT; the Conference of Science and Technology for 
Development; the Tokyo Round; the annual rite of the International 
Monetary Fund, the World Bank and FAO; the proposal of the 
non-aligned countries on global negotiations; the Brandt report; the 
Cancun summit and the New Delhi and Oslo meetings.
These comings and goings of officials, diplomats, economists and 
politicians have achieved little. Generosity has run out; these are 
difficult times; such are the phrases we read in foreign ministry 
reports. We of the South say that the North lacks the necessary 
political will; those of the North say that we of the South do not 
know what we want. There is nothing new; every possibility, including 
hope, has vanished.
The argument that we must wait for the world economy to return to 
normal and regain its health is not convincing enough for us to 
postpone indefinitely the initiatives with regard to the North-South 
dialogue and the global negotiations. The illness has to be treated; 
the solution is in the hands of those present here-developed or 
underdeveloped, with or without a colonial past. It is a question of 
political will and of clearly identifying our goals and procedures.
There is light in all this darkness: co-operation among developing 
countries. This South-South relationship is one of the few 
multilateral successes of recent years and must therefore maintain 
its momentum and continue its identification of areas in which 
co-operation is possible and fruitful.
It is true that the developing countries enjoy only 28 per cent of 
the wealth of our planet, but it is no less true that they represent 
80 per cent of the world's population. This tremendous sociological 
reality will make itself felt in the end and the developed countries 
realize this. Unfortunately, they neither act nor allow others to 
act. Years ago there was a proposal, which was never put into 
practice, that the rich countries should earmark a minimum percentage 
of their gross national product for programmes of international 
co-operation. The proposal never got off the ground.
The only alternative is to strengthen the South- South relationship. 
It is a question of seeking and offering support, encouraging 
exchanges, pooling experiences and developing new technologies. These 
are some of the goals. Although Colombia is not an economic Power, 
much less a military one, it understands and accepts its obligation 
to contribute to those goals and has tried to do so in its own area.
One result of my country's decision is the Andean Pact or Cartagena 
Agreement, an interesting experiment in sub-regional integration that 
has managed to survive for over 10 years. Another example is the plan 
for economic, trade and financial cooperation which Colombia is 
promoting with the countries of Central America and the Caribbean. 
These are specific examples which prove that a stable and fruitful 
relationship is possible among developing countries.
If it is not possible, as we have seen, to institutionalize the 
North-South dialogue and render it operational, then let the General 
Assembly at least offer effective backing to the agencies that 
promote South-South co-operation.
In the midst of so many disappointments, there is another very 
important and positive element in the work of the United Nations 
which shows that it is possible to find universally acceptable 
solutions to problems affecting the international community when the 
spirit of consensus prevails and multilateral negotiating machinery 
is properly used. I am referring to the adoption on 30 April last of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the culmination 
of nine years of difficult negotiations and six years of careful 
preparation.
The new regime for the sea recognizes and develops for the sea-bed 
beyond the limits of national jurisdiction a principle already 
formulated 150 years ago by the great Latin American legal expert 
Andres Bello, according to which there are assets which can remain 
common property for the benefit of all and belong to the indivisible 
heritage of mankind and cannot be marked with the seal of ownership. 
With regard to maritime spaces under State jurisdiction, the 
Convention represents not only a complete legal framework, but also 
an instrument for the economic and social development of our peoples.
Colombia was one of the 130 countries to vote in favour of the 
Convention and hopes that at this session the General Assembly will 
provide the Secretary-General with the necessary means to take on the 
responsibilities assigned to him.
The Second United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful 
Uses of Outer Space, which was held at Vienna in August, enabled the 
United Nations to review the conquest of space, and the developing 
countries to call the attention of the technological Powers to the 
need for more effective and systematic international co-operation. 
For Colombia, an equatorial country, it was significant that several 
of the recommendations of the Conference stressed the urgent need to 
plan and regulate the use of the geostationary orbit, a limited 
natural resource which can be over-exploited by its appropriation by 
the technological monopolies. Since 1975, my country and nine other 
equatorial States have been demanding a special regime for the 
geostationary orbit. In Vienna, all the developing countries, within 
the framework of the Group of 77, turned our demands into a dire 
necessity. We reiterate to the Assembly today that technological 
development must be regulated by international law and that 
consequently the free consent of countries below the orbital arc must 
be a prerequisite of any such regulation. We really believe that the 
prior consent of receiving and monitored countries must be obtained 
before direct television broadcasting by satellite or remote-sensing 
activities are carried out.
I could go on at length on many other topics of concern to my 
country, but I see no practical usefulness in doing so. Each country 
must act within the limits of its possibilities and in relation to 
the questions which concern it directly. I should like, however, to 
share a number of closing observations with the members of the 
Assembly. These refer to the search for a lasting peace which would 
guarantee the survival of our species. If we are to achieve such a 
peace, we must replace confrontation by balance. This balance does 
not arise from the strategic parity of the super-Powers, however, but 
is born of the tactical unity of medium-sized and small nations in 
seeking to dismantle the whole threatening apparatus of war.
It has been proved time and again that the United States and the 
Soviet Union are not in a position to offer mankind the good news of 
effective disarmament and that they will probably pursue their 
intensive political, economic and military rivalry. Colombia has 
thought carefully about these and other facts in relation to its own 
international position. For years, influenced by our dedication to a 
set of principles and consistent with a tradition, we have on 
occasion been regarded as a dependent country. We believe that the 
time has come to clarify our position. Not so that we might disown an 
honourable past, much less abjure principles that are deeply rooted 
in our people, but simply so that we might better serve the cause of 
mankind. We believe that the prospects for peace will be improved if 
countries able to do so adopt more independent positions. This is 
also valid in view of the aspirations to establish a new, more just 
and equitable economic order.
These are the main reasons for Colombia's decision to apply for 
admission to the non-aligned movement. We are well aware that this 
movement was, at the outset, made up principally of countries from 
other continents. We believe that the time has come for the countries 
of Latin America also to join in a process which, if well directed, 
can make a decisive contribution to the cause of peace. Some have 
already done so and others, like Colombia, hope to do so in the near 
future.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿1.		On behalf of Colombia, I would like first of all, Sir, to congratulate you most sincerely on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. It is a source of satisfaction to us that this honour has been conferred upon the Vice-President of a country with which Colombia has such brotherly relations. Your diplomatic skills and experience are a guarantee of the objectivity and effectiveness of the work of the Assembly.
2.	I would also like to avail myself of this opportunity to welcome most cordially the delegation of Saint Christopher and Nevis, a country which, in accordance with the goal of universality, has just been admitted to membership in the United Nations.
3.	It is easy to amuse oneself by putting together, like the pieces of a familiar jigsaw puzzle, the transformations which in recent times, through the magical power of commitments which changed collective behaviour, have swept away values once held to be immutable, among them the concept of sovereignty, on the basis of which each nation once withdrew into the isolation of its national borders as into a shell.
4.	The conflict for power, even while it sacrifices consciences to opposing ideologies, characterizes every stage of the march of history. There is more profit in exploring its motives than in seeking to control it, in an age when those practising traditional diplomacy are displaced by incompatible factions determined to participate, whose precipitate pace is that set by the warning on the ancient Egyptian sundial: "It is later than you think".
5.	Amidst the maelstrom of the Second World War and rising from its charred remains, the United Nations carved a place for itself in the preservation of the most urgently desired of all things—peace.
6.	Since then 38 years have passed and, despite our constituent Charter, the world is moving farther away from that ideal. An objective review of its acts of insanity reminds us that since that time there have been in succession 150 armed conflicts, waged in the name of the most senseless causes, each one reflecting an apparent yet absurd polarization.
7.	But the victims have come from the low-lying lands of the weak, not from the centres of arrogant power, and the Mood has flowed in remote provinces, and not in the fortresses where the interests truly engaged in the conflict are to be found.
8.	Can such a paradox be attributed to a disintegration heralding a conscious regrouping? Let us, inspired by our faith in the survival of mankind, assert that it is so, offering the testimony of a free country turned both to the Caribbean and to the Pacific, located at the point of junction between the Central American isthmus and South America, and close to the heart of disturbances which imperil the future of the world.
9.	At one time we cultivated the illusion that, but for a few deviant exceptions such as the Malvinas Islands, colonialism came to an end with the Second World War, as nations emerged and claimed their right to produce and to market what they produced. But the cold war drove them into client bands which competed with one another for the unheard-of privilege of being able to set fair prices for their products and to have access to technology and finance. That competition, the weakness of the weak and their inability to work together kept down the prices of oil and basic commodities. The detente of the 1950s saw the emergence of the first blocs of developing countries, which came together to transcend the capitalist-socialist dilemma by establishing an independent existence. With the dispersion of the West the developing world forged its own path, and there followed the discovery of modernization, demonstrated by Japan, Germany, Korea and China.
10.	The price of lack of understanding was exacted with interest and without advance notice. The world is simpler than it appears, and the new oil prices and the reforms in the world economic system, which had gradually to be accepted, marked the advent of a new order. That has been Colombia's goal in adopting a position of balanced impartiality and coexistence within the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, at present under the charismatic leadership of Mrs. Gandhi.
11.	By what means are we to bring the two great world Powers, each a centripetal nucleus for friendly nations, to reopen the dialogue, to give more thought to mankind than to their own sometimes warped interests? Three great men who have left their imprint on this century strove to break that vicious circle: Nehru, heir to the legendary wisdom of the Hindus; Nasser, restorer of the spirit of Islam; and Tito, archetypal exponent of pragmatic nationalism. Their philosophy, with its concern to defend the cultural identity of peoples defined by Sukarno at Bandung, advocates the gradual and dignified attainment by mankind of a single world identity, in contrast to the bipolar Manichean divisiveness of the Yalta agreements. It puts faith in dialogue, in the opening up of channels through which peoples may develop autonomously and in peace instead of war among the powerful of the earth.
12.	Satellite of nor and dependent on none, as well as the enemy of none.
13.	This stance of Colombia's has been fundamental to our foreign policy since the foundations of our nationhood were laid, when the Liberator Bolivar called upon us to strive for a universal balance. Now, as we maintain those of our friendships that are based on respect, dignity, ideological plurality, democracy and rejection of colonialism, we believe that the time has come for the birth of the new world cultural order proclaimed by the African prophet of Negritude, Leopold Sedar Senghor, a spiritual adventure in which members are warmly invited to join us.
14.	The time is now, because the polarization of the world into two menacing and mutually suspicious blocs is endangering peace with the appalling possibility of nuclear destruction.
15.	The struggle for supremacy is the spur to acts of madness which shatter the measure of that which is rational and that which is not. The arms build-up is disproportion in its most tragic manifestation. It is always possible to assess the relative cost-benefit ratio of undertaking an act or leaving it undone, of expanding or diminishing its scope, of controlling or limiting it—save in the case of the arms race, whose excesses attain such a pitch that in the minutes it takes me to utter these words the world will have spent $50 million on refining its techniques of destruction.
16.	One of the simplest arguments on the side of peace states that war is not possible without weapons. There are those, like the Harvard University group, who believe that now that mankind has lost its nuclear innocence it will never be able to regain it, and that Promethean man remains bound to such weapons as to fire. He will never be able to free himself from his knowledge. But conflict springs not from weapons or the expansion of arsenals, but from political decisions. Peace is not achieved solely by the abolition of the arms race; it is necessary for us to disarm in spirit and in action—among other things, to deny any further confirmation to the theory that the models of hatred are monstrous offspring of the West which materialize in all their brutality in the South, and to avoid confirmation of the anguished thoughts of Nehru when in prison:
"Evil often triumphed, but what was worse was to see how that which had seemed so just became degraded and deformed. Was human nature so essentially evil that repeated suffering and disaster would be necessary before it learnt to behave rationally and to raise mankind above the level of the greedy, violent and deceitful being that he now was? And, in the meantime, was any effort to change that nature in the present or the near future doomed to failure?"
17.	I shall not succumb to the attractions of Utopia, but I could not be at peace with myself if I did not cry out for all of us to be at peace with one another. Never has man held within his grasp so much technology beneficial to his welfare; never has he been so far from applying it to that end.
18.	Such advancement, which belongs as naturally to everyone as air or water, flows from accumulated Knowledge in the gathering of which human beings have played an active or a passive part. It follows that the fruits of that harvest should benefit all mankind. Yet millions, the majority of the peoples represented by the men and women assembled here today, are prisoners of their own ignorance.
19.	Science should not be twisted into dogma or exclusion, for every scientific theory is biodegradable, and to make science into a cult rather than a culture is to exalt irrationality and obscurantism.
20.	They should not be exalted in space, for instance, that being one of the great arenas in which to project the ideal of justice. The fascinating adventure of outer space should make us sensible of our interdependence and of the community, which must husband precious resources in order that the species to which all nations belong may survive. For as we ascend to gaze more closely into the face of God we become more truly equidistant from any given point on earth. Consequently, we should not permit space to be traversed by the artefacts of war, to the helpless consternation of those countries which are not affiliated to the club of the powerful because they lack the means or are held back by philosophic inhibitions.
21.	Our common heritage encompasses our crops, our mines, our coasts, the riches of the seas, our forests and rivers—in other words, our health, our education, our survival; that precious essential, peace. It is our very souls that are at stake.
22.	Part of that heritage too is the intricate network of our communications, the sound and images which fill the privacy of our homes, affirming the right to information and enhancing the quality of our lives. To convert space into yet another dimension of w&=fare above the fragile and defenceless heads of the dragon-flies of the universe is a diabolical form of domination. Let us rather return to the appeal made by the great Austrian statesman Mr. Kreisky:
"What were once the railway, road and canal networks are now the telecommunications, information, computer, education and training networks using the most modern technology. Peoples seeking to develop have an absolute right to access without delay to these networks. We are witnessing a revolution in the concept of human resources. And we must avoid what is known as 'electronic apartheid" . . .".
23.	Like the other countries of the geostationary orbit region, Colombia is aware of that privileged position. Accordingly, we have no wish to become the exclusive users of a resource of priority importance to the regions where its effects are felt, which is essential to peace and development and in which exploitation for the purposes of destruction or of undermining the sovereignty of nations or ecumenical stability has no part.
24.	Despite my scepticism about rhetorical exhortations concerning peace and the deterrence-based arms race, there is a place for creative thinking such as that offered by the Club of Rome in its draft forum humanum. It has never been easy to learn from the lessons of history. Just as we are generous to ourselves in praising our few virtues, so we are circumspect and sparing in speaking of our defects. Voluble and contrary by nature, we are more so under the intoxication of power than in the melancholy of defeat—one of the relative advantages of being on the side of the weak.
25.	Helmut Schmidt, that citizen of the world, recently explored the stormy seas of the crisis and concluded that we in the least developed countries had fared worst in the recession. The new fair prices for oil were paid "only in small part" by the industrialized countries, the brunt being borne by our terms of trade, which were shattered beyond repair. This fact was recalled a few days ago by Jorge Illueca, the President of this Assembly, and also by Osvaldo Hurtado Larrea, the brilliant young President of Ecuador. Someone with a black sense of humour commented that we, the poor, had been left to cope with an air-conditioned poverty.
26.	There can be no lasting balance founded solely on the destructive capability of the super-Powers, much less on a division into spheres in which those in the subordinate areas row like galley slaves towards the power centres. The East-West polarization and the vertical dichotomy between the rich of the North and the poor of the South has no part in a just concept of reality, and we refuse to resign ourselves to it like slaves to the treadmill.
27.	We of the South hold to our commitment to Western values, the organic meaning of our militant striving for peace, a striving which is not diverted from its purpose to serve an ideology. Secretary of State George Shultz, a man of intellectual distinction, has suggested that the refinancing of the developing countries, their external trade deficits and the prices of their exports should attract greater concern than communist subversion or other traditional sources of anxiety. I would add blind protectionism to the list.
28.	It is evident that the tempting option of protectionism, one of the most unjust forms of discrimination, poses an obstacle to the third world, whose debts amount to some $600 billion. The refinancing of these debts must be made a priority, as the only alternative to the insolvency of the debtors. At the same time it would have a dynamic catalytic effect on the creditors. In spite of lacking so much, the third world plays a decisive part in the productive machinery of the industrialized countries.
29.	Someone has cast doubt on the way in which Edward Heath, former British Prime Minister, presents these bold facts when he says:
"One in every 20 industrial jobs in the United States is dependent on exports to developing countries. Those countries furnish 25 per cent of manufactures, imported at prices 16 per cent lower than those of the industrialized counties. They are also the source of two thirds of the service-related earnings of the United States trade balance. And 60 per cent of the external debt of the non oil-exporting developing countries is owed to financial institutions in the United States, in which 300,000 jobs were cut last year as a result of the effects of the recession on peripheral areas."
30.	This mutual dependence proves the urgency of reactivating the world economy as a whole and of redistributing financial resources through the conversion of a part of such countries' debts into investment in the social area, which will be discussed at the Latin American economic conference to be held at Quito in January 1984.
31.	My voice is the voice of the ordinary man or woman, the beneficiary or victim of wise or misguided policies. A few hours journey away from these Headquarters lies a seething continent cut off from means of communication, banished from the attention of the powerful and currently the epicentre of events which in one way or another make us all actors in its tragedy.
32.	The problems of Central America and the Caribbean did not develop overnight as if until yesterday those areas had been filled with dancing and the joyful strains of prosperity. Since attaining independence the region has followed a painful progress towards forms of genuine democracy, a journey in which development has lagged behind in the shadow of colonialist arrogance. But in the souls of our peoples, in the newly opened eyes of our starving children, there is potential. It is simply that their creativity is interrupted by interference alien to their aspirations.
33.	Central America is an example of structural problems which must be solved by its peoples, and by them alone, within the sovereign framework of their genuine aspirations and their institutions. This is the purpose of the actions of the Contadora Group, which seeks to meet a need in the process of bringing peace to the region. It takes as a basis the common objectives of Mexico, Venezuela, Panama and Colombia, together with the firm support of all Central American countries, in working for conditions of freedom in which each country may determine its own future.
34.	Violence, tensions, incidents, underdevelopment and injustice are all symptoms of a crisis in which coexistence and self-determination have been forgotten and which sees the super-Powers shamelessly interfering in lands where peasants leave the sowing of seeds to take up unfamiliar weapons—and to dig their own graves.
35.	In the joint endeavour within what is known to the world as the Contadora philosophy, I and my fellow heads of State, working together with our foreign ministers and advisers, made our diagnosis and are calling for understanding and seeking to foster dialogue, agreements and compromise solutions. And we are engaged in knock- in g on the doors of the powerful in our quest for peace.
36.	To that end, on 17 July I and the Presidents of Mexico, Panama and Venezuela signed the Cancun Declaration	in which we make positive suggestions and reaffirm our belief in the search for peace, democratic institutions, respect for human rights and social justice. We expressed our concern to other heads of State, whom I wish to thank for their support. For the encouragement received from Pope John Paul II and many members of the world community, I wish to express my gratitude. It is clear to the Contadora Group that its mission as a herald of peace in Central America is in line with the objectives of the United Nations, and, within the context of Security Council resolution 530 (1983), we are assisting the Secretary-General in the task entrusted to him by providing reports on the peace-making process.
37.	America, Asia and Africa are the scenes of similar conflicts. In all three continents unjustified outside intervention is endangering peace, fomenting hatred, enriching arms merchants and provoking violence. Notwithstanding the particular characteristics of each case, those conflicts have in common the factor of foreign intervention, whether as a root cause or as a concomitant element.
38.	That is why the head of State of a small country like Colombia, which is not an economic, military or political power but which is certainly a moral one, which at home is endeavouring to achieve peace, development and change with equity, feels morally bound to declare that it is essential as a matter of urgency for foreign troops and military advisers to leave Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras, Lebanon, Afghanistan, Kampuchea, Namibia, Mozambique, Angola and Chad—wherever they are blocking the self-determination of the peoples of the world.
39.	It is my country's fervent hope that in Central America, in the Near and Middle East, in South-East Asia and in any part of the world where man is engaged in destroying man, dialogue may silence the voice of the guns and that the sowers of death may depart. The sowers of death are the volunteers or mercenary troops and the great private or State corporations which, in the arms- producing countries, work to refine their diabolical inventions and build their power on their destructive capability.
40.	I who now have the honour to address the Assembly am the second of 22 children of a semi-literate Colombian peasant family. I am not a technocrat, to my regret, but a former university professor who has stared hunger in the face, slept on park benches and taken any kind of work to survive. I am, then, a child of underdevelopment and a survivor of that dread disease, economic retardation. I know from personal experience the joys and sorrows of that branch of the human tree, the most numerous, the most long-suffering and perhaps the wisest of all. It is from that wisdom that I have spoken to the Assembly, without Messianic gestures or any pretension save that of having been made President of my homeland through the free vote of my humble people. It is in their dear, forthright and candid language that have spoken to you today.
41.	As I look back, seeking a way to touch the Assembly's understanding, I recall the chiaroscuro world of my youth. How many changes there have been in one generation While horizons were shrinking, life expectancy was expanding. Then we numbered 2 billion; now we are 4 billion; in the year 2000 we shall be 6 billion.
42.	Then, as now, we lived amid the din of the hurricanes which the powerful nations unleashed upon the world. Today we have shaped this Organization, in which nations that before were deprived of a voice express their sovereign opinions freely on an equal footing with all others.
43.	In spite of the omnipresent spectre of war and of the barbarism masquerading in the insidious disguise of terrorism, and in spite of the lunatic sway held by a reason of state which could dictate the shooting down of aircraft with the sacrifice of innocent lives, and generate a plainly absurd distinction between "authoritarian" friends and "totalitarian" enemies, as if in all cases there were Hot human lives at stake—something very noble has emerged from the Assembly's deliberations: dialogue between adversaries, no longer just theoretical but practical, a dialogue between equals in the world community.
44.	I hope that you will forgive this reiteration of my rural creed, but I believe in the triumph of freedom over fatality, I believe that revolt against injustice is the driving force of history, and I believe that justice among the peoples will prevail.
45.	For the African visionary Albert T6vo6djr6, the poverty of the peoples is converted into riches by means of a solidarity pact which acts upon spirits as a spur to progress. A man of this century, Bertrand Russell, controversial and provocative, whose lucidity and intellectual honesty not even Ms most vehement opponents dared to doubt, uttered these frighteningly optimistic words:
"Neither poverty nor madness are an inevitable part of man's heritage. I am convinced that intelligence, patience and persuasion will succeed in liberating the human species from its self-imposed torment, provided it does not first exterminate itself . . .".
46.	To paraphrase my compatriot, Nobel Prize winner Gabriel Garcia Marquez, I urge members to work to give those sections of humanity condemned to 100 years of solitude a second chance on this earth.
47.	Let us work together for a single race, the human race; a single language, that of peace; and a single purpose, progress.
 



===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿It is a good omen indeed, and Colombia is very pleased, that the deliberations of this session of the General Assembly should be presided over by so distinguished a person as Mr. Paul Lusaka, one of the most eminent leaders of African unity. From the very beginning, Zambia and Colombia have shared the ideals of independence defended by the United Nations Council for Namibia, so wisely guided by Mr. Lusaka.
219.	We should also like to congratulate Mr. Jorge Illueca, who worked so excellently during the last session of the General Assembly. We agree with him on the ideals of peace which have taken shape in the Contadora Group.
220.	I take this occasion to welcome the State of Brunei Darussalam as a new Member of the United Nations.
221.	I also congratulate the Secretary-General on the report on the work of the Organization which he has presented to the Assembly for consideration, in fulfilment of the guiding role entrusted to him by the Organization.
222.	Only 15 years remain before mankind embarks upon the third millennium of our era. This century has been characterized by sharp confrontations and by wars, but also by the most dynamic technological and cultural progress. Yet, equitable development and peace still elude vast segments of the world.
223.	Many of the political problems we are now experiencing stem from the distribution of power since the Yalta agreements, which established spheres of influence that have often clashed with the national interests of States. This situation still persists—in essentially the same guise—in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America.
224.	Indeed, the American continent has not been immune to the effects of this theory of world power. Over the past several decades we have witnessed the imposition of dictatorships against the popular will—totalitarian regimes that have disregarded lawful means of expression. As is well known, the advent of such regimes, of the left or of the right, has invariably been the prelude to constant violations of human and other basic rights.
225.	We must, therefore, establish a policy which will protect mankind from ideological polarization involving violent confrontation. This can be done only by advocating the sound principle of pluralism as the essence of dialogue and as recognition of differences of opinion.
226.	It was that concept which prompted my country, in all good faith, and in co-operation with Mexico, Panama and Venezuela, to strive to prevent open confrontation in Central America and thus avert the social and economic upheaval that would result from a fratricidal war bound to have grave consequences for the stability of our continent.
227.	What we advocate for the region is the promotion of democratic systems, free interplay of political parties, respect for the rights of others, and tolerance as the corner-stone of the political process. This position stems from the fact that by peaceful means we have overcome our temporary differences with our sister States of Latin America. Hence, we cannot believe that armed confrontation or an internationalization of the problems of the region is the way to a brighter future—one which we truly desire—for a continent made up of countries characterized more by similarities than by differences. That is why we ask the nations gathered here to give their political backing and support to the current peace efforts of the Contadora Group.
228.	Twenty days ago, the Foreign Ministers of Mexico, Panama, Venezuela and Colombia submitted Contadora Act on Peace and Co-operation in Central America, the main sections of which emphasize the non-use of force, non-interference in internal affairs and respect for the rights inherent in sovereignty. The Act proclaims the need to restore peace and confidence in the region by means of the right of peoples freely to select the kind of political, economic and social system best suited to their own interests.
229.	To that end, the Contadora Act establishes that no territory shall be utilized for acts which violate the sovereign rights of other States. We advocate the creation, promotion and strengthening of democratic systems by means of efforts at national reconciliation, with a view to achieving lawful popular participation in political agreements.
230.	In that document on peace and development we also advocate the implementation of agreements by means of a relaxation of tension and the promotion of confidence. Hence we have specified the functions of the Verification and Control Commission for Security Matters, composed of four commissioners, representing States known for their impartiality, who will verify the dismantling of foreign military installations. Furthermore, we ask for the immediate withdrawal of the foreign advisers involved in training and in operations. In addition, the signatory countries are requested to abstain from conducting within their territories activities designed to destabilize Governments in the region.
231.	There is now a real possibility of an agreement that will make it possible for the Central American States to tackle their own development problems without internal or external threats of war. We have come before the United Nations in the hope of finding support from the Organization, which was established precisely to preserve peace.
232.	It would be naive to deny that the serious economic problem affecting the entire region of the continent is at the root of the crisis gripping Centra! America. One of the objectives of the meeting to be held at San Jose, Costa Rica, at the end of this week is the convening of the Foreign Ministers of the member countries of the European Economic Community [EEC], Spain and Portugal, together with their counterparts from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Mexico, Panama, Venezuela and Colombia, to discuss possible formulas for direct economic assistance and other forms of co-operation so that this region of Latin America may have better prospects of development.
233.	I cannot let pass this opportunity to commend the attitude adopted by the 10 member countries of the EEC, along with Spain and Portugal, in their desire to participate in a solution based upon the support of all nations of goodwill in the search for genuine political balance and for the diversification of economic opportunities.
234.	The countries members of the Contadora Group, in compliance with the mandate entrusted to them last year, have this afternoon reported to the Secretary-Genera! on the work they have accomplished and on the progress of their talks. We have submitted the revised Contadora Act to be circuited as an official Assembly document. We also intend to inform the Security Council, in compliance with the provisions of its resolutions.
235.	In addition, the Contadora Group will submit a draft resolution for discussion by the General Assembly, thereby complying with the provisions of the resolution adopted by the Assembly at its last session entitled "The situation in Central America: threats to international peace and security and peace initiatives"
236.	Once the Contadora Act, which has met with broad support from the countries of Central America, has been signed, and once we have received the final comments from those Governments, an additional protocol will be opened for signature by all countries. It will reflect in concrete legal terms the unanimous support the international community has given to the Contadora process from its very inception. The adherence of the super-Powers and the industrialized countries to the Act is especially necessary in order that our objectives may be successfully attained. Nor is it superfluous to add that it will be solely and exclusively the political will of the signatory States, free from any interference, that will decide the fate and future of the region.
237.	In this same context of the constant search for peace on all levels, the Government I have the honour to represent here, headed by its President, Belisario Betancur, has embarked with special resolve upon a labour of peace for the benefit of all its citizens.
238.	It is a special characteristic of my country's present Administration that we are practising at home what we preach in the international arena as a solution for Central America. It is fitting that this should be so, since political leaders are often subject to criticism for the lack of consistency that is perceived between what is preached at the international level and the actions that their Governments in fact take.
239.	Colombia is confident that, as the very essence of democracy, dialogue is better suited to national interests than confrontation and unbridled struggle. We have carried out a policy based on "national dialogue" in which our political system has never been threatened, much less our institutions and our legitimately established authorities, which have rightly been praised on all sides.
240.	I should now like to draw the Assembly's attention to one of the issues that is of greatest importance to the international community, namely, foreign debt. At a recent meeting we discussed the difficulties of strengthening the democratic system if the adverse consequences of indebtedness were allowed to persist and if Latin America remained subject to a constant drainage of its resources that are being transferred to the creditor countries and thereby creating effects that are clearly disastrous for employment, production and growth.
241.	The Latin American region, far from having progressed, has in 1983 and thus far this year regressed to 1976 levels. In other words, all the political. financial and social efforts of the past eight years have been in vain. The widely publicized recovery of certain industrialized countries remains confined to their economies. The passage of time has thus confirmed that we were right when we stated in 1981 that recovery in the North would not automatically generate recovery in the South.
242.	We are forced to reflect on the futility of the efforts of the Organization in sponsoring the first and Second United Nations Development Decades, six sessions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the development of the new international economic order, and the promulgation of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, which today, given the crisis in the developing world, seem to be mere historic facts.
243.	Latin America now transfers 3 per cent of its gross national product to the developed countries. Over the past three years, this has represented a capital loss of almost $50 billion. How paradoxical this seems when we read the commitments made in the 1960s by which the industrialized countries were to transfer 1 per cent of their gross national product to the developing countries. We have rechanneled and rendered futile the real efforts of eight years and have derogated the political efforts of a quarter of a century.
244.	Hence, and for good reason, on 21 June of this year, 11 Latin American countries met at Cartagena de Indias to consider carefully and effectively the political and material consequences of the heavy burden of a $350 billion indebtedness and in order at the same time to find, for the purpose of individual renegotiations, areas where problems converge and where solutions might be shared, to evaluate them together, not to propose either a unilateral moratorium or the oft-mentioned debtors' club, but rather to work out the best way to fulfil our financial commitments and meet our financial obligations through the reinitiation of a development process that has been allowed to stagnate in our region.
245.	The validity and timeliness of the Cartagena Consensus	will be proved either by success in dialogue or by the bankruptcy of debtors and creditors if that dialogue is not achieved. It highlighted as main points of analysis and discussion the need to find real levels of interest rates consistent with the growth of the world economy and the ability of the debtors to pay; the need to establish special compensatory facilities to cover the overhead caused by present financial conditions; the need to make the credit terms of the multilateral financial agencies more flexible; the urgent need for the IMF to contribute to the creation of a new world liquidity aimed at alleviating the debt burden and opening markets through the elimination of protectionist barriers.
246.	The first follow-up meeting to the Cartagena Consensus was held at Mar del Plata just two weeks ago. There, in spite of the optimism of the communications media and of some Governments of developed countries over the temporary success of some individual renegotiations, we concluded that no substantive solution had yet been found to the indebtedness problem. As was stated by the negotiators themselves, the rope has loosened a bit but the knot is still not untied. In these circumstances, we find ourselves faced with the need to invite the developed community to establish a direct political dialogue with the Governments of the debtor countries. Only governmental decisions on all sides with great foresight can save the world economy from strangulation in the near future. 
247.	My country wishes to reiterate in the Assembly its interest in the proposed dialogue. We cannot imagine that this mechanism, which has so often saved mankind from its deepest crises, might through fear or lack of understanding be disqualified as a means of achieving lasting solutions to the problem. Recent rises in the rate of the dollar demonstrate that it is urgent for all countries, including the industrialized countries, to study the international financial problem together.
248.	On 10 August 1984, at Quito, as was very eloquently stressed this morning by the President of Venezuela, the Presidents of Bolivia, Ecuador, Venezuela and Colombia and the Vice- Presidents of Nicaragua and Panama declared that the traffic in and illicit use of narcotic drugs was a threat to the public health of peoples, affecting their development and posing a constant danger of subversion.
249.	They also recognized that the narcotics traffic is an activity planned and carried out at the international level through organizations having vast resources and that the struggle against it must be waged equally by producer and consumer countries and must include concerted international action. Towards that end, there is a need for a specialized international conference, under the auspices of the United Nations, which would declare narcotics traffic to be a universal crime, establish action at the world level to combat it and create an assistance fund for the producer countries that are endeavouring at great cost to eradicate it.
250.	Colombia has suffered from this scourge at an incalculable cost, to the extent that this year it brought about the death of its Minister of Justice, cruelly assassinated by the drug underworld, which he was valorously combating.
251.	My Government is continuing that combat, but it knows full well that that trade would not exist if the consumer countries were to tackle it with equal energy. This is why we propose to the Assembly that a pitched and universal war be waged against traffic in narcotics.
252.	At the thirtieth session of the General Assembly, in 1975, Colombia for the first time referred^ to the need for a legal definition of outer space, and in particular the need to ensure the rights of the equatorial countries to the limited natural resource of the geostationary orbit, which has assumed extreme importance as a result of accelerated technological and scientific advances, the new industrial potential of outer space and the risks of its militarization.
253.	In the Legal Sub-Committee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, meeting at Geneva from 19 March to 6 April 1984, we submitted, on behalf of the equatorial countries, draft general principles governing the geostationary orbit, which the Group of 77 consider to be a good basis for negotiation. The draft principles represent a serious legal statement having broad scientific support; they urge that the resource be placed at the service of mankind and that the present situation of monopoly and inequity be redressed. In 1982, at our initiative also, the new International Telecommunication Convention, adopted by the Plenipotentiary Conference of the International Telecommunication Union, held at Nairobi, included recognition that there are countries such as ours that have a special geographical situation.
254.	The growing concern of the developing countries over the prevailing congestion of frequencies and in certain orbital positions has led to the convening of a World Administrative Conference of Space Radio communications, which we hope will deal with all these issues in a spirit of justice.
255.	Just as we have contributed to the definition of the law of the sea, a successful endeavour of the international community, we believe that at present we must in the same spirit establish the laws of outer space, taking duly into account the special circumstances of the equatorial countries and recognizing the needs of the developing countries.
256.	In the effort to strengthen peace and avoid the destruction of civilization, Colombia believes it is making a concrete contribution with its proposals on the regulation of the geostationary orbit, and we invite the spokesmen of the space Powers to explore the path towards harmony and consensus formulas. We want outer space to be a way of reaching our shared destiny and never a springboard for destruction, hatred and war.
257.	We have repeated, almost to excess, the way in which my country understands and puts into practice its belief in the ideology of the purest humanism. We have never taken up arms except in defence of our territorial integrity. None of the sister countries bordering ours—in the Caribbean as in the Pacific, on the Orinoco as on the Amazon—can say that we have called into question the sanctity of treaties and good faith in their fulfilment, Today, as in the past, we advocate acceptance, urbi et orbi , of the express commitment of a State.
258.	That is why we strongly reject interference or military intervention by one country in the affairs of another, whether in Afghanistan, Kampuchea or Namibia, in Mozambique, Angola or Chad, in Nicaragua, El Salvador or Honduras. Wherever such activities have occurred we have seen a succession of countless corpses and injustices, as well as misery, in various continents, leaving a trail of hatred, pain and insecurity for the human race.
259.	We must affirm here that foreign troops and military advisers must return to the camps from which they came. If we want every State to be the master of its own wealth, the architect of its own economic development and the creator of its own cultural identity, each must be able with complete autonomy to follow its own course towards peace, justice and progress.
260.	We have defended the right to be different, without affecting the universality of international organizations.
261.	We are concerned about the situation in the Middle East, which is why we call for a solution recognizing the right of the Palestinian people to a sovereign State, without calling into question the existence of the State of Israel and its desire to live in peace within its own borders. That is what we also hope for Lebanon, where we should like to see the restoration of the peace and harmony that characterised that nation for so many years, so that there may be no more bloody acts against humanity such as those that we have witnessed with horror recently.
262.	Similarly, we stress that Great Britain and Argentina should once again sit down at the negotiating table to resume the dialogue, unilaterally interrupted, which will make it possible to reconcile Argentina's sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands with the interests of their inhabitants.
263.	We welcome the resumption of relations between Spain and Guatemala, announced on 22 September in our capital, Bogota, after the successful mediation of the President of Colombia.
264.	It has rightly been said by representatives of all the schools of thought into which today's international politics are divided that the arms race between the two major Powers has gone beyond the bounds of rationality. Simple logic would prompt us to reflect on the madness of stockpiling enough weapons to destroy the enemy 10 times over. Where can this frenetic and absurd race lead, if not to total destruction?
265.	Let us pause to reflect on many reasons to celebrate in the near future the triumph of life over death, to sow peace in fields now devastated by war and to guarantee the existence of the millions of human beings who share this planet with us, so that the intelligence of man shall never be so evil or perverse as to prefer nuclear holocaust over the expectations of progress and fraternity among all the peoples of the world.
266.	A year ago, in this same Hall, at the Assembly’s thirty-eighth session, President Belisario Betancur stated that: "Peace is not achieved solely by the abolition of the arms race; it is necessary for us to disarm in spirit and in action"
267.	We do not want mankind of today and the future to awaken to a nuclear threat that has become an obvious, unchangeable fact. That is why, together with Chile, Peru and Ecuador, we protested against the nuclear tests carried out in the South-East Pacific, tests that endanger the marine ecosystem of those regions of the southern seas. If, as we were haughtily told, those tests have no effect on the marine environment of those regions, why were they not carried out in the seas near the coasts of those conducting them? My country is sure that it is joined by the overwhelming majority of those represented here in supporting the idea of a nuclear agreement, as mentioned by President Reagan in his statement here giving the world hope of arriving safe and sound in the third millennium of our era.
268.	We express the following thought against all types of injustice. How can we not support the rights of the Namibian people in its struggle for independence? Or how can we not support the black race, which has not given up its legitimate appeal for an end to the unnatural practices of apartheid in South Africa? How can we forget the millions of innocent refugees who die at the hands of mercenaries of authoritarian, violent regimes or who are defenceless victims in the waters of the Pacific?
269.	Colombia supports everything that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees can do in this regard, in the hope that his work will help millions of human beings throughout the world. We must study means that will guarantee them a return to their own countries, with respect for their personal integrity and with no danger to their lives.
270.	Likewise, we ask that the question of the Korean peninsula be resolved by peaceful means, through dialogue between the parties directly concerned, so that negotiations may be resumed without hostility.
271.	The world today is on a razor's edge, threatened on all sides by the military confrontation of the two blocs. That is why the Movement of Non- Aligned Countries is necessary. The Movement, of which Colombia is a member, is needed in order that the world shall no longer be a battlefield for those vying for supremacy. We welcome the policy that stems from the foresight of Marshal Tito, Prime Minister Nehru and President Nasser, which inspired dozens of newly-independent countries to think for themselves, to struggle for their freedom, to define their own political, economic and social system with universal values.
272.	It has rightly been said that the United Nations was established on the basis of two principles involving the very fate of the human condition, principles intended to save mankind from annihilation. The first concerns the right of States to have their territorial integrity respected, as a basis of international law, together with recognition of their autonomy and the peaceful settlement of disputes. The second principle concerns the progressive development and improvement of the standard of living of the various nations of the world.
273.	There can be no doubt that the Organization has partially fulfilled its purpose in respect of decolonization; in affirming the principles of economic and social justice; and in serving as a political forum, so that all ideas may be heard, since politics consists to a large extent in reaching understanding with the adversary. My country, as a peace-loving country, as a signatory at San Francisco of the Charter of the United Nations—whose principles continue to inspire us to seek agreements such as those sought by the Contadora Group—would like to propose a return to those principles. We would like to propose that we make of them a constant practice, a daily endeavour, an imperative for all men of good will.
274.	A return to principles is a sound policy, above all at a time when, in the midst of grim expectations, we lose our way and no longer find the compass at hand. There is no doubt recognition of the fact that this community of nations, based, as is any other, on respect for the rights of others, as was emphasized by Juarez, and on tolerance for other ideas, remains a valid system for the airing of disputes among States. Never before have we found such validity in the words of the French philosopher who described a decent way of life and of thinking which, if applied strictly and with understanding, could be a way of shared existence for all countries: "I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it."
275.	In this statement, my country has endeavoured to share with the Assembly its highest ambition—peace; but we fear that we may be alone, that in this tower of Babel, this confusion of languages, not only are words different but also the concepts that they express. We must recognize that for the developed world, the socialist and capitalist countries, peace is a concept closely related to disarmament and the need to prevent a nuclear holocaust. It is, in a word, the solution of the East-West conflict. For the developing world, however, that third world which includes three quarters of our planet, peace is a concept which is inevitably linked to those of poverty, hunger and injustice — in other words, it means a solution to the North-South conflict. 
276.	Colombia wishes to invite the international community to work together to find a common denominator for the East-West and North-South conflicts, so that we may all arrive at the same idea of peace and therefore unite all our energies in order to achieve peace, in progress and justice, for all peoples.


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
At the outset allow me to express Colombia's grief at the tragedy in Mexico. We wish to restate our solidarity with that fraternal people. Together with the Latin American Group we shall be sponsoring a draft resolution associating the United Nations with the efforts to deal with the disastrous events in that country.
My country owes a great deal to Spain, as does mankind as a whole, which thanks to that country was enriched by the meeting of two major cultures five centuries ago.
From the ancient times of Suarez and Vitoria, Spain was the founder of the law of nations. It is significant that the presidency of this fortieth session of the United Nations General Assembly has been entrusted to one of its experienced diplomats, skilled in dealing with its items. I wish to convey to Mr. de Pinies the congratulations of the delegation I have the honor to head, with our wishes that his work will be as fruitful and meaningful as the anniversary we are commemorating this year.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar, an illustrious Latin American and son of a brother country with which we maintain close links of friendship, conducts the work of our Organization with a skill and oven-handedness acknowledged by us all. His report will be a helpful guide in our discussions.
This forum has been the stage from which, during four decades, men of all races and ideologies, who have built the contemporary world, have expressed their thinking and the will of their people in the difficult times of the age in which we are living. We have come here today to pay a tribute to what it represents as a symbol of men's will to live in peace with others.

We must remind those who take a disdainful and skeptical view of the importance of the United Nations that it constitutes the best barrier against final destruction: a place for dialog and rational means of ironing out, on an equal footing, differences that might appear to be impossible to overcome.
We wish to honor the memories of the United States President, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, and the British Prime Minister, Sir Winston Churchill, who both expressed in the Declaration of the Atlantic their belief that "the disarmament of the aggressor nations was essential until it was possible to come to establish a wide and permanent system of general safety".
That statement bore in it the seed of our Organization which later bore positive fruits for humanity. Its policy served to smother the embers left behind by the barbarism of the world wars; because this is where we strive to combat the war and destruction that have always been the harvest of the senselessness of the human race.
It was the pride of the generation before us to raise the structure of this Organization; and, to our good fortune, it did so with a wide sense of co-operation, of respect for the views of the small countries which, like us, in the daily exercise of a practice that became enshrined in legislation, appealed to law to bring controversies to an end. For the first time in history, our views were sought and we had a right to speak and to vote, in order to lay the foundations of a new era. Gone were the days when Powers took authoritarian decisions on the absolute control of peoples and regions.
The Latin American States stoutly defended the regional agencies that had long been at work and, it pleases me to recall, on the initiative of the Colombian delegation attending the San Francisco Conference the rule of good will in the fulfillment of the obligations and duties of all the members of the new community was included.
 Throughout these 40 years, succeeding Colombian delegations have reaffirmed the spirit of the founders of the United Nations. In that period there has been evidence of antagonistic positions on the means to ensure the primacy of reason over force, of law over arbitrariness, of freedom over all forms of slavery. However, my country has always favored dialog as the means to settle differences between opposing positions, considering that it is better for the world to witness j the clash of dissenting ideas than that of arms.
The true revolutionary aspect of the system established by the victorious Powers after the Second World War was that it created a machinery accessible to all where the rule of numbers was imposed, that is, decision making through the oldest and most democratic of powers, that of majorities, which best expresses the will of nations.
We were therefore opposed, during the San Francisco Conference, to the inclusion of the veto right in Security Council decisions. Our delegation explained the reasons why Colombia voted against the Yalta formula. It was evident that the noting system proposed would place questions of war and peace in the hands of one of the five Powers, contradicting the principle by which the problems of the international Organization should be resolved by simple majority.
In that regard, former President Alfonso Lopez Pumarejo, the head of our delegation, stated:
"The veto means that the interests of five major Powers shall be subjected to the will of one Power. The result will always be an agreement not to act. This lack of action will cause the Council and the great Powers to lose prestige, and will lead to the decline of the Organization. It is unwise to make future amendment impossible".
 We may now be sufficiently mature for the creation of a compulsory international jurisdiction that will lead countries to the peaceful settlement of all their controversies. Thus we should bring more clarity to one of its essential principles: the equality of all States.
The moral strength of the United Nations is based on the fact that in it are represented all the peoples of the world. Thus, no one questions its legitimacy, and no State should impose its law over and above a clearly established order that seeks, by definition, respect and equality.

Far beyond any selfish considerations, therefore, we must preserve and defend the Organization and the wide range of agencies to which it has given rise, agencies that have brought to many places in the world the succor of their activities to combat hunger and disease, to disseminate knowledge, to protect children, refugees, employment and the environment, and to struggle for development.
A result of this commemorative session must be a strengthening of this moral force so that its beneficial action can, as it has over the past four decades, prevent a conflict between the super-Powers from leading us to disaster.
That is why Colombia belongs to the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries: Our membership has its basis in a historic tradition rooted in our very quest for freedom. Our political beliefs encompass principles advocating the right of all peoples to choose their own path of progress, respect for the self-determination of each country, and pluralistic co-operation preventing confrontations such as those generated by a policy of blocs.
In our view, the time has come to delete all references to "enemy States" from various Articles of the Charter; they constitute a true anachronism in view of the political make-up of the present world, which has overcome the ruins which separated the fighters of the great war.
It is only natural that mankind should be unable to forget the Hiroshima holocaust, except in the beautiful way that that city has chosen to do so: not in a spirit of retaliation or vengeance, but as a living testament to what another nuclear tragedy could bring.
The Charter of the United Nations was drafted with the intention of eliminating the hardships then endured by the human race. He are now experiencing a new wave of attacks against human dignity which have gravely jeopardized that intention in today's world. I speak of terrorism, whose defiance and destruction daily claim a greater number of innocent victims all over the world. States must take more effective action to fight this crime, which claims political aspects. The international community cannot shirk the determination of Member States to impose sanctions against those harboring movements which commit such reprehensible acts as the kidnapping of the daughter of President Duarte of El Salvador.
This new kind of warfare - so appropriately called the "dirty war" because of its cowardice and unfairness - is a greater scourge upon mankind than conventional warfare itself. While our Organization has begun consideration of this subject -as a fitting homage to the anniversary we are commemorating - we should undertake to sign a convention against terrorism.
We were surprised to note recently that developed countries refrained, on the basis of the questionable argument of its cost, from supporting the Secretary-General's proposal to call a meeting of plenipotentiaries to deal with the subject of drug trafficking. We wish to place on record that our position in this matter is to support any initiative towards that end, for this traffic is a threat to the integrity of mankind.
Colombia reiterates its decision to combat this scourge. In fact, we are doing so together with many other countries, and with all of our neighbors. At the recent meeting of Foreign Ministers of the Andean Group - whose members are Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela - we agreed to work on a multilateral agreement to supplement existing bilateral agreements, which will bear the name of our former Minister of Justice, Rodrigo Lara Bonilia, who was infamously murdered for his struggle against drug trafficking. We intend in this way to strengthen international action against the narcotics trade.

We stress the thesis that the limitation of conventional weapons is essential for developing countries, since it is with such weapons that they fight both at the domestic level and among one smother. It is time for the international community to confront this question, which involves so many vested interests. Thus, we have raised the question several times at the Organization of American States, but we consider that this is not an exclusively regional subject.
Clearly, we must express our best wishes for the success of the Geneva talks on the incrementation of the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and for the achievement of new agreements which will enable mankind to live in the certainty that this fragile voyager in space - Earth - will not be annihilated by the demented games of the great Powers.
Moreover, we favor a greater number of denuclearized zones, such as those established in Latin America by the Treaty of Tlatelolco and those proposed for the Indian Ocean, Africa and the Antarctic.
To complete the task of decolonization, the United Nations must bring about the independence of Namibia, with which Colombia reiterates its solidarity. In no way can we acknowledge the government installed by South Africa to inherit its colonialist legacy; in this connection, our Organization has taken decisions guaranteeing the self-determination of the Namibian people. We shall fight all necessary diplomatic battles until freedom and justice are restored in that esteemed African Territory.
A blemish persists on this planet: Racial discrimination is still present in South Africa. The latest events in that country have once again shown the truth about the infamous Pretoria regime, which, in the words of Pope John Paul II, undermines the entire human race.

He reaffirm the need for both Argentina and Great Britain to return to the negotiating table and resume the dialog that will enable them to reconcile Argentine sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands with the interests of the islanders.
It pleases us to see that talks between the two Koreas have been resumed, along with exchanges of visits by economic, sporting and Red Cross groups from both countries. He are convinced that the peaceful route of mutual understanding is the only way to come to a satisfactory agreement.
He also express our firm hope that a just and viable solution will be found for the question of Cyprus, in conformity with United Nations resolutions; we renew our support for the mission undertaken by the Secretary-General in this connection.
It was 10 years ago in this very Assembly that Colombia first stated its position with regard to the rights of equatorial States such as ours in the synchronous geostationary orbit. Since then, we have participated intensively in the appropriate forums to obtain universal acceptance of our theses, based on an assertion of our sovereignty and on the search for equity in the framework of a new body of space law, which was inaugurated only in 1957, with the launching of the first SPUTNIK and which covers one of the most breath-taking adventures of twentieth-century man.
Colombia looks forward to an open door on active and equitable international co-operation, taking into account the rights of developing countries and the special geographical location of the equatorial nations.
The idea is that access to this limited natural resource will serve to close, not widen, the technological gap in space, as one of the elements that must define the new international economic order for which we are striving.
Extremely important decisions have been taken during these 10 years; more specifically, at Vienna at the United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE-82), where the main principles of equity were laid down for the peaceful use of the geostationary orbit in the service of all mankind, and not only of the great space Powers.
At the Conference of Plenipotentiaries of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) in Nairobi, also held in 1982, on the basis of a proposal by Colombia, articles 10 and 33 of the International Telecommunication Convention were modified to permit an equitable, efficient and economic use of the geostationary satellite orbit, taking into account the specific needs of developing countries and the special geographical location of certain countries.
In the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, Colombia, together with Ecuador, Kenya and Indonesia, submitted a draft containing principles designed to permit establishing special set of legal rules for the geostationary orbit, a draft regarded by the developing countries as the basis for negotiations to establish a sui generis legal regime that takes into account the technical, legal and economic aspects of the problem.
Recently, the Conference on the use of the orbit and the planning of the space services that would use it, convened by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) in Geneva, declared itself incompetent to decide on our sovereign rights in the orbit, and it empowered the Secretary-General of that United Nations specialized agency to address the Secretary-General of the United Nations and, through him, the Committee on Outer Space, in order to have this basic question analyzed and defined.
We have thus entered a new stage in which the United Nations will be able to confirm, as in the case of the law of the sea, its capacity to reassert the sovereignty of countries occupying a specific geographical location.
In recent years we have helplessly witnessed a process of deterioration in multilateral co-operation as a result of the growing preference of States for bilateral relationships from which they expect to obtain political and even economic dividends. Multilateralism is the most appropriate and fair mechanism for disseminating the products of generosity and goodwill to the neediest countries, without any form of conditions or discrimination.
There has been an unfortunate weakening of some United Nations agencies that have rendered invaluable services to humanity in the past as a result of the application by many developed countries of the criterion of zero growth in their contributions to those agencies. That has forced the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), for example, drastically to reduce the World Food Program (WFP), at the very time when the entire world is witness to one of the most dreadful famines ever experienced. We should perhaps follow the example of those young singers who have placed themselves at the service of this cause and for whom compassion has no color or political slogans.
International trade is the outstanding means of co-operation through which wealth and resources could be more efficiently distributed. Multilateral action co-ordinated through agencies such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and mechanisms such as the Generalized System of Preferences, should provide us with the international economic environment needed for economic development.
It is essential to halt the alarming deterioration in the terms of trade of developing countries - mainly the result of the fall in real prices of their commodities, many of which have fallen to levels never before seen in this century.

We must do away with the protectionism that is spreading to all corners of the world, found especially in the industrialized countries which have now embarked on the harshest of trade wars - as was recognized only yesterday by the Ministers of Finance of the five most developed countries - without considering the consequences for the world economy, and above all for third world countries.
The United Nations cannot play a secondary role nor act after the fact in conflicts arising as a result of a lack of solutions for under-development and poverty. The United Nations cannot ignore the surreptitious moves to nullify measures to enable us to come closer to a new international economic order, as for example in the case of the various Decades for Development, the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, or UNCTAD resolutions.
The same powers granted to it for the very effective struggle against colonialism must be extended to regulate the machinery and practices now used to manipulate the great economic differences between States. The same decisive action must be undertaken in the commercial and monetary spheres, which cannot be regarded as an area reserved for the consolidation of inequality and the predominance of power.
We hope that the next round of negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) will contribute to overcoming the crisis and the inclusion of concepts that will benefit developing countries.
An erroneous view is often no more than a truth stated before its time. When discussing the Treaty of Versailles, Lord Keynes, the representative of the British Government, declared that if Germany was to be squeezed, it was vital that it should not be ruined, and he proposed that President Wilson should launch a vast financial program to save Europe. The United States Treasury was horrified at the proposal. However, 30 years later, a similar scheme, the Marshall Plan, was accepted, making use too late of a scheme that, if adopted in time, could have prevented the Second World War.
Authoritative voices have recently been heard proposing something similar for Latin America, where the most serious problem is no doubt the heavy burden of its foreign debt. Let us hope that those voices are heeded in time, and not after a cataclysm has occurred, as the President of Brazil has so eloquently warned us night happen.
Mr. Henry Kissinger, referring to the Latin American debt, has stated that "... the dialog with debtor countries should change from the collection of interest to the task of economic development ..." and that, otherwise,
"... there would sooner or later be a collapse, not only of the foreign debt structure but of the political institutions of Latin America and co-operation in the Western Hemisphere would be seriously jeopardized".
That thinking coincides with some of the guidelines contained in the Cartagena Consensus, of which Colombia, together with 10 other debtor countries of the region, was a promoter and founder. In that document we stated that the foreign debt is an obligation individually contracted by each specific country, and thus it should be treated on a case-by-case basis. However, the problem amounts to more than mere accounting and banking arrangements, because of the social and political effects of the debt servicing and the drastic depressive results of the adjustment processes.

That is why it is essential that as proposed by the Presidents of the 11 countries at the recent Bonn summit, the establishment of a political dialog between debtor and creditor countries in order to overcome this problem in a real and permanent way be no longer delayed.
In the present circumstances, Latin America must pay 800 billion dollars in the next 15 years on account of its debt. This level of servicing will absorb a large portion of domestic savings and the inflow of foreign exchange, to the extent that it is impossible to expect an increase in the per capita income of the 380 million Latin Americans in the next 15 years. That would make development impossible. Therefore Latin America must cease to be an exporter of capital and internal savings.
Colombia, which has always honored its debt, has already reached a complete agreement with its creditors, guaranteed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which enables it to obtain fresh resources destined for major productive projects, such as the exploitation of our large fields of coal, oil and ferro-nickel, and for the reactivation of our foreign trade.
We have adopted a process of self-discipline, monitored by the Fund, which has already begun to reactivate our economy.
We are fully aware that the problem of the Latin American foreign debt remains and that the arrangements made so far through tremendous effort on the part of some countries cure just temporary solutions. As indicated by the President of Colombia, Belisario Betancur, the debt bomb has not yet been deactivated.
The countries of the region cannot consult their income from exports beyond the levels required for their productive activity and for the gradual improvement of the living standards of their peoples.
Throughout this year Colombia, together with Mexico, Panama and Venezuela, the other members of the Contadora Group, has continued to work intensively and to
 offer its co-operation to the Central American countries to bring about the signing of the Contadora Act on Peace and Co-operation. The difficulties that have arisen in the negotiations sponsored by the Group have not been serious enough to overcome the craving for peace, but they have caused delay in reaching agreement.
He regret the recent incidents along the border between Costa Rica and Nicaragua and between the latter and Honduras, which indicate the need to expedite the process of negotiation and to maintain channels of communication between the countries so as to overcome problems through dialog. The Contadora Group has reiterated its willingness to provide its co-operation and good offices in the search for permanent solutions to this type of incident, which hampers the good relations that should exist between States.
The Contadora Group has had the support and admiration of the Latin American Governments, and, in general, the community of nations. I must highlight here the important event that took place in cur Cartegena de Indias on 24 and 25 August last when the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Contadora Group met with their colleagues from Argentina, Brazil, Peru and Uruguay, who had established themselves as a support group in Lima, to consider the working modalities that they could offer the Contadora Group.
This is the clearest proof of the political will of Latin America and of its desire and ability to devise a strategy of its own for resolving regional problems. That meeting gave evidence of Latin America's solidarity with the countries of Central America and its concern over the Central American crisis. It was decided to encourage the rapid completion of the negotiation process under way, since that crisis necessarily affects the future of our hemisphere. The meeting constituted a positive and unquestionable reinforcement of the work of the Contadora Group.

The eight Foreign Ministers agreed on the urgent need to tackle actual and potential conflicts and acknowledged that these have their origin in social and economic imbalances and the structures that restrict the freedom of speech and the participation of the people in true political processes that reflect the essential expectations of every society.
The response to the present economic situation in Central America has had as one of its most positive elements the participation of the European Economic Community (EEC). This example of international co-operation fosters our hopes and encourages the negotiating effort; to which we are committed. This coming November, a new meeting of the Community will take place in Luxembourg with the participation of the Foreign Ministers of Central America and the Contadora Group. At that meeting the Community will formally demonstrate its support for the cause of peace by specific agreements aimed at ensuring the economic development of Central America.
We are battling against time. Thus, on 12 and 13 September last, at the meeting held in Panama with the Foreign Ministers of Central America, the Contadora Group delivered the final draft of the Act, which included the observations made by the Central American Governments on the text of 7 September 1984, which was submitted to the last session of the General Assembly. This exemplary legal instrument sets the basis for peaceful coexistence and encompasses comprehensive agreements which are a result of the consensus of the Governments of the isthmus.
Aware of the deterioration of the regional situation, we agreed to convene a final meeting of plenipotentiaries for 7 October to discuss, during a 45-day term that may not be extended, only those aspects of the Act that are pending in relation to the control and reduction of arms, the implementation and follow-up mechanisms in matters of politics and security, and military maneuvers, and to negotiate the operational aspects essential to the fulfillment of the commitments entered into.
 The Foreign Ministers of Central America also agreed that any incidents that might occur in the region should not be the subject of negotiation by the plenipotentiaries or condition the holding of the meeting, in order to guarantee its effectiveness.
Thus, we expect that once this stage of the negotiations is completed we shall be able to sign the Contadora Act in a joint Foreign Ministers conference. Regarding our work during the past year, we shall submit our report to the Secretary-General in keeping with the resolution adopted by the General Assembly at its last session.
We wish to reiterate in this forum today our call to countries with interests in the region to contribute, with understanding of and respect for the standards of international law and the self-determination of peoples, to the consolidation of peace, freedom and development, the ultimate goals of our efforts. As stated by the President of Colombia, Belisario Betancur,
"we seek in Central America countries that realize their own being in a peace that is more arduous than war itself."
This is why it is encouraging to note that the democratic processes in our hemisphere have expressed themselves in a movement towards pluralistic societies characterized by participation in the voting process and free election of their Governments. This process has gained force during the current year and is in total agreement with the free political processes that have been practiced by Colombia for many years and have served as a means of expressing the differences and tensions characteristic of every society in evolution. A great pontiff of the Church taught us that
"Man possesses an intrinsic dignity through which he is able to discover the marvelous order that rules over the forces of nature and forge the tools with which to master those same forces and place them at his service."
 Thus, true progress must be understood as progress aimed at the moral and material refinement of all men, since it consists not only in the production of larger quantities of material goods but also in the qualitative growth which makes society more equitable and more responsive to the total well-being of its members.
That is our great responsibility and, 40 years after having accepted it, we have to ask ourselves if we have been equal to such a challenge. Let us then become fully involved in the struggle to offer all peoples of the earth a safer and better future, when we hope all men will be brothers.




===== Session 41 - 1986 =====
First of all, I wish to convey my greetings and congratulations to you. Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. Your vast experience and proven diplomat skill assure us that you will guide our deliberations with intelligence and even-handedness.
I also wish to thank and congratulate Ambassador Jaime de Pinies for his endeavors during the fortieth session of the General Assembly.
Similarly, I wish to express my support and admiration for the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, whose report to the Assembly reveals not only his thorough knowledge of international problems but also his faith in multilateral solutions based on the principles of the United Nations.
As the head of State of Colombia, I come here to reaffirm my country's confidence in the role of the United Nations in this disturbing period of history and to urge that the serious problems of our region be duly dealt with. My country contributed effectively to the founding of the United Nations and of the inter-American system. Our legal tradition gives us authority to offer our good offices whenever required and also our firm support for the aspirations and hopes of the international community and its representative organizations.
As I had occasion to state quite recently, at the General Assembly of the Organization of American states, we have faith in the principles of coexistence regulated by law. Hence our concern about the deterioration of peaceful coexistence in Central America, and hence our readiness to continue with our good offices in the Contadora Group. We are motivated by an undeniable commitment to peace and the desire to avoid a generalization of the conflict situation in that area of our continent.
The influence and the prestige of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries will increase only to the extent that it acts dynamically and independently, serving the interests of developing countries, and to the extent that it serves as a democratic and positive link between conflicting Powers. Only thus will it contribute to world detente, to arras control, to the peaceful settlement of conflicts and to the building of an international economic order based on justice and respect for the right of every people to choose freely its own future.
One of the factors having the greatest effect on the prospects for progress in our developing countries is foreign debt. The statistics are overwhelming. Many countries suffer mass unemployment, in some cases more than 15 per cent of the labor force, as well as a generalized trend to recession, which is showing few signs of abatement - all this added to a worrisome decrease in international trade.
Yesterday, at the forty-first annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, I referred to the various aspects of the critical situation of indebtedness in several countries of our continent and to the prospects for overcoming the situation. I did the same in October 1985 in letters I addressed to Fidel Castro, President of Cuba, end Aldwin Clausen, President of the World Bank, with regards to the Assembly to be held in Seoul. I referred to the disquieting phenomenon of the flight of capital from Latin America, a region which, because of the problems of foreign debt has become a net exporter of capital and, in those letters, I analyzed the adjustment programs begun under the sponsorship of the IMF.
I also referred! to the need to avoid any form of protection ism on the part of the industrialized countries and to provide preferential access to their markets for the commodities, manufactures and services of the developing countries. The specialized agencies of the international system and the United Nations have very clear responsibilities at this time. We must stop the flow of resources from developing to industrialized countries.
Similarly, with all due considerations, there should be plans for adjustment programs and restructuring. The burden that this places on debtor countries should not be borne by the poorest classes of society, thus making an already explosive situation more difficult and untenable. In the case of Africa, even though its debt is moderate compared with that of Latin America, its economic capacity is extremely fragile and thus the situation is no less serious.
Terrorism and the drug traffic constitute crimes against mankind which put to the test the sturdiest defense mechanisms of our societies. In this forum we have heard condemnations of these crimes, and today, more than ever, when so many innocent lives have been lost in vandalistic attacks, we must denounce such crimes. On this occasion I join in the justified and outraged universal condemnation of these outbursts of barbarism.
Colombia is fighting a head-on battle against the production of, trading in and consumption of narcotic drugs. In this heroic struggle magistrates, judges and government officials have died, among then a sinister of justice; and members of the armed forces of the Republic, well-known journalists and ordinary men and women have also sacrificed their lives in the line of duty.
Although we have paid an extremely high and painful price, I wish to state in this Assembly that ray country will not waver in its struggle against such barbarous crimes. For this struggle to be successful it is essential that the countries with the highest levels of consumption of these degrading substances put into practice, as is finally being done, co-ordinated programs to penalize and discourage the consumption of and trade in drugs of this type. Here, as well as in other fields of our joint battle against terrorism, it is imperative to have understanding and co-ordination among all civilized nations. Colombia is ready to participate in agreements and action along these lines.
The enormity of the sums of money States devote to developing new technologies of annihilation and to manufacturing instruments of death and destruction makes even the strongest spirits fearful. The resources used up in this endeavor could well be devoted to alleviating the sufferings of mankind and speeding its development and progress.
Latin America, which seemed to be far removed from the risks of nuclear contamination, must now carefully examine what is happening elsewhere in the world, including the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and must exercise care in its own utilization of such energy.
Last year, the world reviewed with justified pride the achievements of the
United Nations. There had been 40 years of maintaining world peace and striving
towards development and international justice. More than 60 world leaders came
here on the occasion of that anniversary celebration to renew their confidence in the Organization.
We must now look ahead. We are less than 14 years away from the third millenium of our era. War and peace, development, human rights, the rational use of outer space and of the oceans, all these are matters for which the United Nations provides a natural forum for international discussion and for the attainment of effective compromises, through negotiations, in order to move forward.
But side by side with those international problems, there are others, seemingly domestic, that call for the solidarity of the international community. I refer to the increasing disparity between those who share in the benefits of civilization and those who are inexorably shut off from them.
The poor, the victims of discrimination, the unemployed, peasants who cannot produce what they need, children who perish daily because of hunger and disease that could, without too much effort, be cured, refugees. South African blacks: those are injustices, those are inequalities that become more intolerable with each day on a planet which - and this is true - is able to overcome them.
Alone, a way out of such situations cannot be found? together, we can create a better world. Mankind, if it wishes to do so, can alleviate hunger, poverty, disease and ignorance. The means exist. The technology exists. However, resolve is lacking.
If that were forthcoming, we would have a world Organization devoted to building a more just society, and that enhanced society would better serve the world Organization.
Hops must once again arise and inspire the actions of the international community. The Organization must adapt to the vision of the different world for which we hope, a world vastly different from the world of the founders at San Francisco. In order to do this, action is needed in at least four areas.
The United Nations must establish a limited list of priorities and promote and administer them with the best possible expertise and effectiveness.
The Secretary-General, who acts on behalf of the large, the medium-sized and the small States alike, must have the necessary instruments and support to carry out his delicate task to the full.
The peoples of the United Nations must have greater access to our deliberations and greater responsibility in program implementation.
The financial costs of the Organization, once its purposes have been restated, must be more generously borne by all Members, including the poorest. That is the only way in which we can prove our commitment.
So far we have managed to avoid another world conflagration. The awareness of poverty and inequality must lead to their elimination with the same vigor with which we have repudiated war. This is the ideal of our time: to wage war against injustice and inequality. If we make up our minds to do so, it will take us less than 40 years, and we will have consolidated the peace.
Today, I would ask the international community to reaffirm its commitment to the total eradication of poverty. Among the many threats confronting our world, none has been as constant as poverty. The so-called progress made over the 41 years of the United Nations can be measured in terms of the number of people who continue to live in utter poverty. In recent years that number has grown significantly, and today it includes one fourth of mankind. No other problem requires swifter or more urgent action. I shall return to this point in greater detail later in my statement. When I assumed the presidency of the Republic of Colombia last August? I invited several Heads of State and representatives of friendly Governments present in my country to join in an all-out battle against utter poverty, which is the root cause of so many political, social and economic ills.
At that time, I voiced some ideas that I should like to repeat here today. I
said:
"Extreme poverty cannot be accepted as the inevitable consequence of natural differences between men, nor can it be accepted as a characteristic of still-backward societies beset by want. I am convinced that for those who will in the future have the responsibility of governing, the major challenge will be to overcome the barrier poverty has set up before us." The maintenance of harmony and the achievement of peace have a special significance in each country, one that can be identified only with the constant and determined search for social justice. Yesterday, before the Assembly of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, I stated that problems of the developing countries are not only extremely serious but that they have become even worse because of the weaknesses of the present international economic situation.
Here, before this Assembly, I do not wish to conceal the fact that in my own country, Colombia, despite efforts to achieve development and the wellbeing of the people, we are at present confronting a tragic reality with regard to poverty. Of the population of Colombia, 25% - in other words, 6.5 million people - are living in abject poverty. Overt unemployment and underemployment affect more than one third of the economically active population.
Faced with that situation, ray Government has taken urgent measures. It has sent to Congress bills to introduce prompt and effective reforms in the structures of the agrarian and urban economies. It has ordered immediate action in programs for improving drinking water supplies, housing, health and nutrition, and it is preparing to implement an emergency employment plan aimed at drawing up a set of programs and projects for the elimination of what is classified as abject poverty.
I appeal to the countries of Latin America, and to the whole world, as well as to international organizations, to take united action against this degrading social scourge, and to that end we hope we can continue to enjoy the support of the United Nations Development program.
I therefore wish to ask the Secretary-General to convene the responsible officials of all the relevant agencies of the United Nations system to establish the bases of a program for immediate action against abject poverty, with the particular aim of submitting it to the Governments of Latin America and the Caribbean. Such action would help create the impetus and the means to enable us to build a new society in our countries in which everyone can be sure of a minimum level of well-being.
The results will come about more quickly and will be more substantial if that action goes hand in hand with an emergency financing program with the participation of the industrialized countries and the international agencies.
We know very well that the primary responsibility rests with each of our countries, and we have assumed that responsibility, calling for support and sacrifices from all social sectors, especially those at the higher income levels. But we are also aware that the situation we face makes it necessary to have the co-operation of the industrialized countries. This task is one of unknown dimensions and calls for united decision-making and efforts.
Colombia offers to host a meeting of all the countries of the region, the industrialized countries and the developing countries which may wish to make proposals and exchange information about useful experience in the great battle of our civilization against abject poverty.
I ask you, Mr. President, and all representatives to accept the gratitude and commitment of a Colombian, a South American, who hopes to see the whole continent a beacon of peace, well-being and freedom for the human race.

===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿Mr. President, on behalf of my country, Colombia, one of the oldest and most robust democracies on earth, I wish to congratulate you on the honour conferred on you, which is no more than the recognition due to your eminent personal and intellectual gifts.
The Assembly, as it convenes at its forty-second session, is an affirmation once again of the vital importance of coexistence as a binding force among sovereign nations. This league of States in voluntary association has demonstrated that there is a minimum set of common rules for the harmonious regulation of their relations, and that the foundation for such regulation is to be found in international law.
Among the concerns being debated by the international community there are three central elements which most urgently demand concerted action. I refer to peace, out overriding aspiration, and hand in hand with it, the concept of human dignity and the need for a just and equitable international order.
Colombia, which was well represented in the League of Nations and is a founding Member of the United Nations, has always endeavoured to model its international policy on these principles, and has striven for the necessary coherence between foreign affairs and domestic policy.
I wish today to reaffirm before the world Colombia's unwavering commitment to peace. Its armies have never crossed the borders of their homeland except to contribute with their blood to the great work of liberation undertaken by the heroes of the independence of the Americas or, in response to an appeal from this Organization or friendly countries, to help by their presence to preserve peace and democracy. This line of conduct will not change. We shall remain committed to the objective of striving together for prosperity, development and peace. 
We strongly repudiate the arms race mentality, not only the kind that means rushing headlong towards world confrontation and nuclear annihilation, but also that of some States which, in spite of the enormous economic and social difficulties they face, employ force or coercion in an attempt to advance claims which, if valid, should be settled by means of peaceful solutions based on the rule of law.
It is for this reason that my country firmly supports the affirmation by the Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament, and Development of the need to check the unbridled expansion of the arms race, the heavy economic cost of which has to be met by diverting resources that could be used to eliminate the inequalities that undermine the stability of societies. The Assembly should continue to study measures directed towards effective disarmament and the elimination of nuclear weapons, which today jeopardize the very survival of mankind.
My country sees an encouraging sign for mankind as a whole in the coming together of the great nuclear Powers and the success that they are achieving in their negotiations, and hopes that the prospects of death and destruction through armed conflict may be averted once and for all.
We endorse most firmly and resolutely the solution of disputes by peaceful means, including recourse to conciliation, arbitration and judicial settlement, especially when extremely lengthy direct negotiations fail to result in agreement. The international community may rest assured that Colombia, adhering faithfully to the principles which have guided its international policy, will not resort to force to resolve any differences with other States. 
Happily for the Americas and for world peace, recently there have been signs of hope for a solution to the Central American conflict, following the agreements arrived at in Guatemala by the five Central American Presidents and the establishment of the International Verification and Follow-up Commission, made up of the Foreign Ministers of the Contadora Group, the Support Group and Central America together with the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Organization of American States. Similarly encouraging are the first steps taken towards devising an emergency plan of technical and economic co-operation for Central America. It is clear that the regional conflict is caused to a large extent by economic and social problems which it is essential that we overcome. The time has come for all the parties concerned, with the vital co-operation of countries having ties or interests in the region, to establish lasting peace.
My country, together with the other States of the Contadora Group and the Support Group, will spare no effort to promote this goal, for peace in Central America is also our peace.
We welcome the effective work being done by Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar and his representatives in all those parts of the world where conflicts have arisen, in the diligent fulfilment of the responsibilities for the preservation of international peace and security laid down in the Charter. We hope to be able to continue to rely at all times on the Secretary-General's constant and effective co-operation.
Colombia is a whole-hearted believer in dialogue and wishes the dialogue in the Korean peninsula to be reopened as promptly as possible with a view to bringing about peaceful reunification. We also hope that dialogue will continue to be a useful implement in the negotiations on the question of the sovereignty of the Malvinas Islands, in keeping with the spirit of the resolution of which we were a sponsor at the last session of the Assembly.
The Government of Colombia is convinced that respect for and the promotion of human rights go beyond mere exercises in rhetoric in international forums. They are a moral obligation borne by all States that must be faithfully fulfilled in all its aspects, ranging from the treatment accorded to minorities settled within a country's own territory to truly authentic freedom of expression.
It should be kept in mind that the peoples of the developing world have yet to attain the minimum conditions for well-being; the benefits of health care, proper nutrition, housing, education and employment, as the necessary foundation for individual freedoms. Prevision for these needs, truly the bedrock of democracy, is bound up on the world level with the establishment of a mote just international economic order based on co-operation among States.
Although my country is not as hard-pressed as other sister nations in Latin America by the problem of the repayment of external debt, we should not lose sight of the fact that this is a problem which, if not adequately resolved, will bring social disorder and oppression in its wake. 
Colombia has participated with interest in many international forums in discussion of the world financial problem. We particularly welcomed the consensus achieved at the last session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). We hope that the Assembly will make further progress on this matter. Today more than ever before the community of nations is duty-bound to take a joint approach to problems which cannot be tackled otherwise than in a global manner. I am thinking especially of the phenomenon of narcotic drug trafficking, which has exacted a heavy toll in pain and blood from my country. Colombia remains steadfast in its battle against that problem, as it reaffirmed in Vienna at the International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking.
This crusade, affecting as it does the whole of mankind, cannot be an isolated one; nor can it be carried out successfully by a single country or group of countries. Concerted international action is necessary to tackle the problem in its entirety and in its various phases of production, consumption and control of the financial resources stemming from this destructive traffic.
In this regard, we recognize the importance of the efforts of the United Nations and, in particular, of the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control.
Addressing this Assembly a year ago the Colombian Head of State spoke of the urgent need for concerted action to combat the extreme poverty which afflicts vast sections of the earth's population. In response to that appeal, the United Nations Development Programme has been engaged in effective work in Latin America, with the initiation of the regional project designed to foster and provide advisory services for programmes to assist the marginalized sectors of our continent. Many countries of the region are now benefiting from this support. Colombia has resolved to take up as a national priority the challenge of eradicating poverty, while at the same time working for concerted action on the international level to combat this scourge. It has offered to host a regional conference on the question, with the support of the united Nations Development Programme and the participation and backing of the Latin American community, which shares Colombia's anguish over the plight of the marginalized populations.
Colombia looks forward with optimism to the results of the debate in the Assembly on the recommendations contained in the report, entitled "Our Common Future", of the Commission of eminent persons presided over by the Prime Minister of Norway, Dr. Gro Harlem Brundtland. It is evident that the future of this earth is closely tied to the success we achieve in confronting the challenges involved in managing the environment.
My country hopes that the ideals of harmonious coexistence, human dignity and international co-operation will be reinforced during these deliberations by the political will of the States represented in the Assembly and that the pact among nations may be translated into reality through the establishment of an order of equity and peace for all peoples, based on the full effectiveness of the principles of international law and the lofty values which are the underpinning of the Chatter of our world Organization.


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿Allow me first of all, on behalf of the people and the Government of Colombia, to congratulate you most warmly, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this Assembly. We are all confident that your well-known ability and your devotion to democratic values will contribute to the success of our work.
The forty-third session of the General Assembly is taking place in an atmosphere of optimism generated by the climate of detente that has emerged from the agreements between the great Powers. That climate and the intelligent endeavours of the Secretary-General are restoring faith in and credibility to the United Nations system.
We believe that this is an auspicious time for making of this forum a real centre of world understanding, not merely one that will continue to strive to avert confrontation and foster the settlement of disputes but one that will be a genuine setting for conciliation where we can find effective instruments to guarantee true, stable and lasting peace for all States. Although the Organization has shown signs of having the energy and capability to undertake substantial changes and convincingly to propose measures to establish higher standards of living and better patterns of development suited to the various regions of the world, the great Powers must be prepared to make use of this effective machinery to attain those objectives. Let us hope that we are witnessing a strengthening of the United Nations that will give it the kind of role it has never had before in safeguarding peace and achieving more rapid development for the poor nations of the Earth.
As they strive to consolidate their fragile process of development, third-world countries confront phenomena that pose agonizing threats to them in such vital areas as the food crisis, violence, underdevelopment, economic problems and, at times, political instability.
No less significant is the situation caused by destabilizing factors such as drug trafficking and terrorism. One of our major concerns in this regard is the way in which representatives of groups involved in these practices obtain the resources with which to strike at the legal order and democratic institutions. The wrong, senseless traffic in weapons which goes on unchecked all over the world bears with it disruptive elements that involve grave consequences for the countries that must endure these factors and that destabilize democratic, popularly elected Governments through interference in their internal affairs. When we look into this matter, universal hypocrisy becomes evident, foe at times
those very countries that profess to defend peace and security ate the ones that are supplying arms to those fighting to destroy them in other parts of the world. Often certain arms manufacturers encourage the commercial aspects of this traffic, and the whole world, without exception, is the victim of a travesty nurtured primarily by economic interests and private greed. For that reason, therefore, we believe that this issue must be tackled squarely and courageously, for we cannot continue to ignore the seriousness of the matter nor to turn a blind eye to its injurious consequences while at the same time, on the international scene, the great Powers are destroying a portion of their nuclear arsenals.
We wish likewise to condemn the use of chemical weapons. There is no argument that can possibly justify their use. We call on this Assembly to denounce and condemn not only those who employ such weapons but also those nations which supply the raw materials and technical assistance for their manufacture, for in this case the responsibility is shared equally by those who use such weapons and those who facilitate their use for motives of profit, or for whatever other reason.
We reaffirm our unconditional adherence to the resolution of disputes by means of the peaceful settlement procedures set forth in the United Nations Charter, We reiterate our continued hope that it will be possible to reach an understanding in the Central American conflict on the basis of the immutable principles of non-intervention and the self-determination of peoples.
We accordingly reaffirm our shared commitment, along with a group of other democratic Latin American countries, to the establishment of a permanent political consultation and co-ordination mechanism to safeguard our countries' autonomy and respected position and to guarantee a future of peace, democracy and social and economic progress for generations to come. 
We today express the hope that the negotiations aimed at resolving the Malvinas Islands sovereignty issue may be resumed as early as possible. You, Mr. President, are well aware that my country is in solidarity with your own in these endeavours.
We also place on record our satisfaction at the heartening signs of dialogue emerging in the Korean peninsula, and we shall be happy at this session of the Assembly to hear the views of representatives of both parties concerned.
We share in the whole world's feelings of satisfaction and optimism about the solutions now developing to such sensitive conflicts as those in Afghanistan, southern Africa and the Western Sahara and, of course the cessation of hostilities in the war between Iran and Iraq. Let us hope that next year we will be able to welcome among us in this forum representatives of a free Namibia.
We are hopeful that in the case of any other conflict the Security Council will act, in conformity with the terms of the Charter, in the same conciliatory spirit to promote peace for all mankind. The Security Council's potential should be used to the full.
It is with this conviction that Colombia has put forward its candidacy for one of the Security Council places allocated to Latin America. Colombia feels that in that position it would be able to make a constructive contribution in the next biennium to resolving the problems besetting international peace and security. We have the honour to be endorsed unanimously by the Latin American and Caribbean Group and we hope likewise to be worthy of this Assembly's vote of confidence.
The issue of South Africa and apartheid is once again on the agenda of this Assembly, and rightly so, for although we take the view that South Africa is not the only place in the world where there is racial discrimination, the racial discrimination in South Africa takes a uniquely repugnant form and is consequently morally indefensible and inhuman. We therefore reaffirm our solidarity with the South African people, which is suffering the consequences of the present perverted system, and with the countries of southern Africa that are directly involved in the struggle.
We have a cast-iron commitment to finding formulas to strengthen peace that actually work. In particular we are committed to identifying in terns regarding co-operation measures that will bring about speedy and balanced development in all the countries of the third world. For this reason we are pleased to be able to inform this Assembly that the request made by our President, Mr. Virgilio Barco, in his address to this forum two years ago, when he called for a meeting of
"... the responsible officials of all the relevant agencies of the United Nations system to establish the bases of a programme for immediate action against abject poverty, with the particular aim of submitting it to the Governments of Latin America and the Caribbean" (A/41/PV.18, p. 16) has borne fruit with the holding last month in Cartagena de Indias of the first Latin American and Caribbean Conference on Absolute Poverty, whose conclusions, at the request of the participants, I shall be placing before this Assembly for consideration.
In this context, we believe that the external debt issue, a daily growing source of disquiet and complexity, must be addressed without delay. It is disillusionment and nothing else that has led to this issue's being left in the hands of those who have no option but to declare themselves impotent in the face of unbreakable undertakings. Indifference and ambivalence are of no assistance in freeing us from this abyss in which we have been trapped by an economic blunder that must be tackled with by debtors and creditors simultaneously. A similar point needs to be made with respect to drug trafficking. It is not possible for the burden of this struggle to be laid, as has been done with unparalleled hypocrisy, solely on the shoulders of a small group of countries whose societies are not the ones which, dissatisfied in the midst of abundance, have resorted to drug use. The war against drug trafficking must be the shared responsibility of all and should go hand in hand with effective controls on the interdiction of consumption. We are gratified to see that this position is now shared by the whole of Latin America and the Caribbean and that voices have been heard that prompt us to hope that in future the consuming nations will unequivocally accept their responsibility in this regard. 
Colombia, one of the oldest and most robust democracies in Latin America, is committed, in the midst of the threats of terrorism and drug trafficking, to the protection and promotion of human rights. We actively and unconditionally support the activities of governmental and non-governmental human rights bodies alike, but we would issue a warning that the attempt by some to politicise these efforts in the service of certain interests must be checked if the actual advancement of human rights is to be achieved.
The prevailing climate of optimism prompts us to propose the convening in 1990 of a special session of the General Assembly devoted to development. We believe that a setting of that kind would enable us to arrive at an objective assessment of the world economic situation and the measures needed to speed up development in the poorest countries. As long as human beings continue to go hungry, to be homeless and to suffer disease, those who have the resources cannot remain unmoved.
Solidarity must be a prerequisite for the continued survival of peoples and nations.


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿On behalf of the people and the Government of Colombia please accept our congratulations and good wishes on your election, Sir, as President of the General Assembly. I am sure that you will preside with distinction over the deliberations of this body, which brings together the community of nations. Let me also associate myself with those who have already praised the splendid work done by your predecessor, Mr. Dante Caputo. In addition, may I pay tribute to the efforts of the Secretary-General, Xavier Perez de Cuellar, towards achieving world peace.
This is the last time I shall address the General Assembly as President of Colombia. However, I am here today not only as President of my country but also as a citizen of the world. This is the last time I shall address the General Assembly as President of Colombia. However, I am here today not only as President of my country but also as a citizen of the world.
The terrible carnage of the Second World War gave birth to this body in the hope that nations standing together united could prevent the global madness of 50 years ago from ever happening again. Since then, in spite of the persistent efforts of the United Nations, mankind has continued to follow the destructive path of war in conflicts around the planet. Only the unimaginable devastating consequences of nuclear war have restrained us from falling once again into a world-wide conflagration. Yet, in spite of the fragile armed peace thus generated, the world has remained at war. Conflicts generated by ideology, poverty, injustice, excessive ambitions, and new increasingly by narcotics, have scarred the peace.
Respect for national sovereignty underlies all our strategic thinking. Indeed, it is the basis for this United Nations. Yet now we find this newest threat, narcotics, and the accompanying terrorism that pays no respect; to borders. We, the community of nations gathered here, find ourselves under assault from an international criminal enterprise that respects none of our norms of sovereignty, borders or laws.
To meet this new challenge we must, avail ourselves of those core founding values of the United Nations If we cannot act together in the face of this menace, then we will be abetting unrestrained growth in the use of drugs and the violence they generate. I am certain that Colombia will defeat the drug traffickers. But if this effort is not accompanied by a global commitment, then no victory can be achieved.
The recent global outpouring of solidarity and support for Colombia has been a great encouragement to us in these difficult times. A new era is upon us, an era as critical as the one that led to the establishment of the United Nations. A new world war is being waged by an aggressor unrestrained by the traditional rules of engagement or by the responsibilities of national sovereignty. This aggressor is an insidious, global criminal network with enormous power and resources, a criminal enterprise that feeds on the illegal profits from the trafficking of drugs. As the Secretary-General states in his report to the Assembly this year,
"Illicit use and traffic of drugs is now recognized as a social plaque afflicting both developed and developing countries. Although efforts to combat this scourge have intensified in recent years, estimates suggest that the monetary value of drug trafficking has recently surpassed that of international trade in oil and is second only to the arms trade. It is   chastening observation that humanity is so deeply mired in the commerce of degradation and death." (A/44/1, p. 23)
The members of these criminal cartels were born in many nations, and many of their leaders are called Colombian. But while some may have been born in my country let me be clear: they are Colombian in name alone. They are international fugitives on the run. They have no home. Colombia is not their homeland.
I am here today at the United Nations to lay out the stark realities of this war against drug trafficking. Colombia is on the front line of this battle. For us this is no war of words. In Colombia the casualties of our struggle have been mounting for some time. About one month ago we suffered the tragic assassination of one of our finest national leaders, Luis Carlos Galan. In many ways his death has galvanized our nation and focused the attention of the world on this problem. But our war on drugs has been taking its toll for years. We have lost 12 Supreme Court Justices, an Attorney General and a Minister of Justice. We have lost members of Congress, judges, mayors, scores of journalists, thousands of soldiers and policemen and tens of thousands of Colombian citizens who were committed to the cause of democracy.
Following my announcement last month of drastic measures using executive powers available under a stage of siege, the traffickers in narcotics have continued to engage in a cowardly reign of terror. They have threatened and retaliated against innocent families; they randomly strike at our cities and have bombed institutions such as our newspaper El Espectador that dare to speak out clearly against organized crime. In their aim to protect their illegal activities, the drug traffickers seek to destroy the will of our people and undermine our most precious institutions. Hear me well - they will fail. Colombia, one of the oldest and most stable democracies in Latin America, will prevail and emerge from this new trial stronger yet.
In these past few weeks we have won some important victories. We are methodically breaking the back of the cartels, not just by confiscating and destroying many tons of cocaine Colombian authorities actually capture almost 80 per cent of the cocaine seized in the world. But our offensive goes far beyond that. Those responsible for the assassination of Luis Carlos Galan have already been captured. Thousands of suspects have been apprehended and millions of dollars in property - processing plants, bank accounts, communications equipment, aircraft, boats, houses and ranches - have been seize."
But all these victories will not be sufficient to win this war. That is why I am here today. Only through concerted international action can we hope to defeat the scourge of narcotics. The drug cartels have declared total war. This declaration of war is against the entire community of nations, against those whose young people are being poisoned by drugs and against those who, like Colombia, see their democracy and their institutions threatened by violence and terrorism. There are no boundaries to the death caused by the narcotics conflict, there are no safe havens from narco-terror - and now, there must be no safe haven, anywhere in the world, for the narco-traffickers. In this war, the time has come for the community of nations to choose sides.
It may be difficult for many here to agree that this is a global wars they may see it as a scourge of this hemisphere alone. Many, in fact, do believe that cocaine is a scourge only of the Americas - produced in South America and consumed in North America. But that is not so, because, even as we meet here today, the tentacles of drug trafficking are reaching into Europe and the Par East. The aggressive search for new markets is no more respectful of oceans than it has been of borders. Wherever there are consumers there will be suppliers. And, indeed, cocaine is only one ugly manifestation of a much wider narcotics crisis. Make no mistake - this scourge touches us all.
In solidarity, as a community of nations, this should be our plan of action. First, we simply must effectively stop the demand for these illicit drugs. It is the insatiable demand for drugs that fuels narco-terrorism and is one of the greatest threats to democracy in Latin America. Those who consume cocaine are contributing to the assassination of my people by the criminal drug cartels. No doubt somebody a few blocks from this Hall, in one of this city's fashionable neighbourhoods, taking his usual dose of cocaine in the civilized calm of his living room, would balk at this description. Yet as surely as if he pulled the trigger he is the slayer of those Colombian judges and policemen who have paid with their lives for trying to uphold the law and democracy.
Every tact and every weapon in the war against narcotics pales into insignificance when compared to the need to reduce demand. The illegal profits produced by drug consumption are simply too great. I am sure that in Colombia we will defeat the drug traffickers, but someone, in some country, somewhere, will supply the drugs as long as the business remains so profitable. This happened in the case of marijuana: when it became too expensive for drug traffickers to operate in Colombia, because of effective law enforcement, they moved to California, Hawaii and other places. The only law that the drug traffickers do not break is the law of supply and demand.
No society, no matter how rich, can afford to have its sons and daughters poisoned by cocaine, heroin, marijuana or any other deadly drug. In this regard, President Bush's national drug control strategy is a first, step in the right direction. We must insist on the message that illegal drugs are neither fashionable nor harmless, whether consumed at the glittering parties of the wealthy or in the ghetto. Drug users need to understand that in this war they are in the camp of the enemy, along with those who produce and push drugs. Let me take this opportunity to say how much I appreciate the initiative and leadership of the Prime Minister of Great Britain in her call for an international conference on the reduction of demand for narcotic drugs. Mrs. Thatcher has honoured me with her invitation, which I have accepted, to address the conference at its opening meeting next April.
Secondly, our efforts to reduce the supply of cocaine also depend on international co-operation in stopping the illegal trade in chemicals which are essential to the processing of this drug. Generally, much attention is given to the production and processing of drugs; for example, too much emphasis has been placed on the cultivation of coca leaf in countries like Peru and Bolivia. Unfortunately, in contrast, little attention is given to controlling the supply of chemicals which are used to process cocaine and which come mainly from North America and Europe. None of them is manufactured in Colombia - all of those chemicals are snuggled into our country. Tightening controls on the manufacture and sale of those chemicals, as well as strengthening sanctions against their illegal shipment, must be one of our highest priorities. It takes more than coca leaf to produce cocaine. Without the needed chemicals there would be no narcotics. Let us exert pressure on the suppliers of those chemicals as firmly as we do on the poor peasant growers of coca leaf.
Thirdly, the weapons used by the drug cartels to intimidate, maim and kill my people are not manufactured in Colombia. They are found on the international arms market where even the most sophisticated weapons are easily and legally bought. Let us make no mistake about this: those who sell arms to the narco-terrorists are even more guilty than the addicts whose demand for drugs fuels violence. Last year Colombia presented a draft resolution calling for restrictions on arms sales, but unfortunately consensus could not be found at the United Nations. We can no longer wait while this deadly trade continues. It is essential to adopt special measures to reduce and control arms sales to drug traffickers and terrorists. I call on all the nations of the world to stop this madness and stop it now.
My Government also views with extreme seriousness the activities of foreign mercenaries in training and assisting narco-terrorists in Colombia. The international community must strengthen its condemnation of the murderous association of mercenaries with terrorists and drug traffickers. My Administration has not only condemned the presence of foreign mercenaries in our territory, it has also criminalized their activities and ordered their capture. These developments in Colombia make an urgent and indisputable case for this Assembly to approve the convention outlawing these criminal activities.
Fourthly, international co-operation is an essential element in efforts to halt money-laundering. The drug cartels depend on the international banking system for the transfer of funds. A significant part of the criminal profits is invested in the industrialized nations - in bank accounts and bonds, in properties and in legal businesses. Somehow our sense of justice is warped when a poor farmer who feeds his family by growing coca is seen as a greater villain than the wealthy international banker who illegally transfers millions of dollars of drug money that finances terrorist actions against innocent people. If the international banking system co-operates, we can in the short term make great progress in the fight against the drug traffickers.
Fifthly, each of us present here must press for the prompt ratification of the Vienna Convention. Painstakingly negotiated for many months, this Convention includes specific action on a wide variety of fronts, from penalties for consumption to seizure of ships on the high seas and confiscation of properties. Upon my return to Colombia, I shall introduce the Vienna Convention to the Colombian Congress for consideration and study. For this Convention to be effective, it must be ratified and implemented by the entire community of nations.
In addition, I wish to recommend to this Assembly two other multilateral initiatives: the first is to call a special session of this General Assembly addressed to all aspects of the global drug problem - consumption and production - which would consider urgent actions including those I am suggesting today; the second step - and perhaps the most important way of making concrete progress – is to establish an international working group at ministerial level, which would meet periodically to co-ordinate and refine specific anti-narcotics actions and to evaluate progress.
Sixthly, central to political stability and maintenance of Colombia's democratic institutions is the strength of its economy. This is why international co-operation to maintain a strong and stable economy is so vital. In spite of the enormous destabilizing power of drug trafficking, Colombia has been able to remain firm in its will to fight that international criminal organization.
It is critical to note that our economy is not dependent on the income from this illegal drug trade. In Colombia, that money is concentrated in speculative real estate activity and in money laundering. Its contribution to the growth of our economy is marginal. Colombia is not - and will not be - a narco-economy.
Three years ago, I addressed the Assembly on the urgent - need to fight absolute poverty. Since then, my Government has embarked on an ambitious programme of social change aimed at transforming the living conditions of regions traditionally excluded from the benefits of development. The results can already be seen.
In spite of the massive resources that the drug war requires, we will not relent in our pursuit of social change and economic progress. To that end, Colombia requires international and financial co-operation, but even more important is the adoption of commercial and trade measures which allow our economy greater access to markets in the industrialized countries and fair prices for our exports.
The prime example is coffee, the traditional and principal source of income for Colombian farmers. The International Coffee Agreement has recently collapsed, with the result that Colombia will lose more than $400 million this year in income. Sixty-one developing countries stand to lose a total of 35 billion in income next year.
We need the help of the United States and other countries to get the Coffee Agreement signed again. We cannot afford to talk idealistically of crop substitution in the case of the coca leaf while sabotaging Colombian farmers' main cash crop and the country's largest export. It is encouraging to note that President George Bush recently expressed his willingness to co-operate in finding solutions to the problems that led to the rupture of the Coffee Agreement. We expect that all other countries involved understand the seriousness of the situation and the need to revive one of the most successful examples of international economic co-operation.
The weakening of the commodities market only aggravates the debt crisis. Foreign debt is a heavy burden for Latin America and is hindering economic growth. What is even more important, it is worsening the conditions of poverty for millions of Latin Americans. We must work together to find realistic and effective solutions to this vital problem. There is yet another - and related - struggle which has drawn the attention of the world and must be one of our highest priorities in the decade of the 1990s. It is, of course, the destruction of our natural resources and the deterioration of our environment.
As I said recently in Manaos, in the meeting of member countries of the Amazon Co-operation Treaty, the industrialized countries have an ecological debt to all humanity. In less than two centuries, not only have most of the native forests of Europe and North American been razed, but industrial production has brought pollution, acid rain and destruction to the ozone layer. This is an ecological debt to future generations of all the countries of the world who will have to live with the consequences of the mindless way in which the developed countries have handled their natural resources.
The way in which the industrialized nations can pay this debt is by directly contributing to third-world alternatives which preserve the environment, especially the tropical rain forests. I believe that these issues should be dealt with at the highest level of all Governments and of the United Nations. In Colombia we have already made progress in this respect. My Administration has already set aside more than 20 million hectares of rain forest and Indian reserves in the Amazon region, an area much larger than many European countries. Let us pledge to pay this debt for future generations.
If the narcotics problem were not a priority at this moment I would have spoken to the Assembly today about another wars the struggle of the developing countries to eliminate poverty and social injustice. We should not lose sight of these fundamental goals. I would also have spoken in detail about the many important development projects we are promoting, the most important of which for the international community is the proposal to build a land bridge to link the Pacific and Atlantic oceans through Colombian territory. The railroads, highways and pipelines to be built will provide vital new links for global shipping.
This is indeed a historic moment, and future generations will judge our actions. In this war on drugs there have been many heroes of many nationalities willing to give their lives. Many are well known, but even more are unknown. Luis Carlos Galan died because he dared to speak out. Guillermo Cano, the editor of El Espectador, was gunned down because he would not be silenced. The thousands of soldiers and Colombian citizens who have fallen have died because of their commitment to this struggle. These brave men and women have not died in vain. The entire community of nations must build on their sacrifice to defeat the curse of drugs.
The record of human history is strewn with the wreckage of failed civilizations. We now face a new and global threat. We must act now before it is too late. If we confront the narcotics menace with boldness and determination we can win. With international commitment and co-operation, we can make this plague of the twentieth century obsolete. It is my cherished hope that the school children of the twenty-first century will learn about drugs and about terrorism only from their history books - the history of great plagues that were eradicated.
We should be under no illusion? about the burdens that lie ahead. Victory will take time. Winston Churchill might have been describing the road before us today when he told the House of Commons in 1940: "Death and sorrow will be the companions of our journey, hardships our garment, constancy and valour our only shield. We must be united; we must be undaunted".
Let us declare today that together we shall use the last decade of this century to bury the international scourge of drugs, "together we can and must succeed.


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿At the outset, I should like to make a special appeal to all the countries represented here in the name of a country which has demonstrated its resolve to withstand the most cowardly and inhumane form of violence. I call on every one of you to make one last effort, an effort to seek a new formula and exhaust all avenues of reason and intelligence in order to achieve peace in the Persian Gulf. We must attempt to rescue thousands from the risk of death and desolation. If, at the end of the process, folly wins the day and the use of force becomes necessary, let it be clear that it will be because of the intransigence of those who resorted to violence and not because of a lack of will or generosity on the part of those of us who truly believe that the only worthwhile victory is the triumph of life and peace.
I would like to express my heartfelt congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the Assembly. Your country, although a small one, has always played a key role in this institution. I would also like to express our gratitude to Mr. Garba for his splendid work at the last session. I would also like to pay a tribute to Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar, a distinguished Latin American, for his excellent leadership at the helm of this institution. 
Colombia joins in greeting Liechtenstein and the new Yemen, both sitting for the first time as full Members of this Assembly.
Each time that a Colombian Head of State addresses the Assembly, he has begun by reading a long list of names of important officials - young leaders, judges, soldiers and policemen - who have lost their lives at the hands of the drug traffickers. This list was followed by a call for concerted action by all nations to stand with Colombia against the drug scourge. We have made this call because Colombia has paid the highest price in this struggle. That list of names has increased significantly since former President Virgilio Barco spoke to this Assembly less than one year ago.
Today, I am not going to read the list. I would however like to tell the world that today the list is even longer and bloodier than ever. We still face very difficult days ahead.
In the course of the last electoral campaign alone, the drug terrorists assassinated three presidential candidates, including Luis Carlos Galan, my friend, and the candidate I was associated with as campaign manager. This is what has happened as far as our political leaders are concerned. It is, however, the civilian population, ordinary Colombians, who are paying the highest price.
The drug terrorists have placed dozens of car bombs in the streets of our cities. On the day we innocently celebrate as Mother's Day in Colombia, cars filled with dynamite exploded at shopping centres crowded with children. Many of them lost their lives. A commercial airplane exploded over Bogota because of a high-powered bomb placed under a seat by drug terrorists. The building which housed the administrative security department was entirely demolished by a blast of a ton of dynamite placed inside a bus. The terrorists offered to pay the sum of 2 million pesos, almost $4,000, for each policeman killed. Close to 300 policemen were murdered by the paid assassins. It was thus that Colombians came to realise that our mourning would be more frequent than everyone else's.
In today's world addressing the General Assembly of the United Nations is a significant event in the life of any public figure. It is a unique and splendid opportunity to address all the peoples of the world. I believe that my commitment to this audience and this institution requires me to say something useful and meaningful. It should be something that adds to the experience of the Assembly, an organisation endowed by its founders with the unique quality of bringing together all the peoples, all the cultures, all the religions that encompass and guide the human race.
It may be useful to recall the words spoken by William Faulkner 47 years ago, when he addressed the Swedish Academy:
"One should teach oneself that there is nothing more disgraceful than to be afraid."
Colombia is not a powerful country; it is not a wealthy country. Our wealth and our power come from the tenacity with which we maintain our democratic ideals and with which we adhere to the Charter of the United Nations. Our belief and our firm attachment to those fundamental values are our real strength.
Optimism over the inevitable advance of democracy and freedom should not, however, blind us to the obstacles to world stability.
With the abatement of the East-West conflict, which for more than 40 years hung over us like a spectre of war, it is becoming clear that peace does not depend on avoiding the nuclear annihilation of humanity. Today the conflicts and threats that hang over the world community are of another kind, one that is no less dangerous than the arms race or the overweening belligerence between the super-Powers. 
As the Secretary-General stated in his report:
"The Charter of the United Nations governs relations between States. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights pertains to relations between the State and the individual. The time has come to devise a covenant regulating relations between humankind and nature." (A,4SS1. p. 22)
Colombia has one of the widest biological bases in the world. In our country there is unique wealth as regards the presence and variety of vegetable and animal species. We believe that that heritage is our own but it also belongs to all of mankind. For this reason in the Orinoquia and the Amazon we have protected an area larger in size than Great Britain. But the responsibility and the cost of preserving the environment should not rest solely on those developing countries that still have the luxury of possessing vast forests and virgin lands. It is inadmissible that those industrialised countries that devastated and continue to exploit natural resources, within the framework of unbridled development, are trying to shirk their responsibilities. The industrialised world has an ecological debt to mankind.
There is on the horizon a dangerous threat of ecological disaster for the developing world imposed by those countries that are primarily responsible for the deterioration of the world environment. If we do not act soon to find more effective machinery within a multilateral framework, the question of the environment will become a new source of conflict between North and South. 
Colombia will therefore participate actively in the preparation of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development to be held in Brazil in 1992.
There are other threats to peace and stability, particularly for the developing countries, and 1 am referring to the conventional arms race and the illegal traffic in drugs. Colombia has repeatedly stressed the latter because we have personal experience of the carnage it causes. We hope that nest year the General Assembly will adopt the recommendations of the group of experts crested at the request of my country, which is now working on this subject.
Nor can we disregard the significance of the deliberations of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
We hope that the developing countries will concede the liberalization of commercial services, telecommunications and high technology and that at the same time there will be a real opening up of markets for agricultural goods in the industrialized countries, which at present are scanty and not very significant. This imbalance could endanger continuation of the multilateral trade negotiations.
I am sure that at the World Summit for Children, at which so many world leaders will be brought together, with the signing of the final act we will give great momentum to work being done for children and young people throughout the world. My nine-year-old child accompanied me here so that he will be able to bear witness to the efforts that Governments and leaders are making.
The conflict in the Persian Gulf is the greatest threat to world peace in recent times. But paradoxically it gives us an opportunity further to develop detente throughout the world. If the world can stand as one in confronting all acts of aggression and violations of international law and human rights, by whatever aggressor nation, then we shall establish a precedent for co-operation that can serve to bring about stability. On relations with the community of nations are constantly guided by the principles that guarantee civilised coexistence among peoples. Defence of and respect for human rights, the legal equality of States, the peaceful settlement of disputes, respect for rejection of the use of force, and above all non-intervention and the self-determination of peoples - they are the principles that guide our international policies. They give us an active mandate which, as a clear expression of those convictions, determines our actions in the Security Council and in multilateral organisations.
We do not believe it is possible to build peace without pluralism, without tolerance for others’ ideas. That is what we believe in Colombia, and that is why Mr. Antonio Havarro Holf now serves on our Council of Ministers, while barely six months ago he was taking up arms and fighting as a member of the M-19 guerrilla group. Like the hundreds of former guerrillas of that now demobilised insurgent group, he has found in Colombia a climate in which he can leave the armed struggle without renouncing his ideals of social change. The seriousness of his commitment deserves firm electoral support.
I should like to recall that in recent times violence has knocked at the door of every Colombian and has sorely tried the character of the nation. Those who advocate violence failed to realize that our country would rise up in the face of adversity; that in the face of death and suffering, life and hope become greater. Colombians responded to bullets and bombs by voting. They went to the polls and overwhelmingly voted in favour of a democratic and peaceful country.
Drug trafficking may not be as tangible a threat to peace as tanks and combat aircraft, but it is just as real and no less devastating. It has become one of the worst enemies of social integrity and democratic stability. Sooner or later, we will uproot drug trafficking, but if the rest of the international community does not make sacrifices similar to those of Colombia, mankind will never be free of its ferocious grip.
A considerable portion of the billions of dollars drug consumers pay to dealers ends up in the hands of the drug-traffic terrorists who violate the right to life and threaten our institutions. But we have learned to give no quarter to organized terrorism. Drug trafficking is primarily responsible for violations of human rights in countries where traffickers are active.
The world community has been able to activate global co-operation to face possible war and to defend international law. We have in less than a month mobilized enormous war power from one end of the world to the other, and if we can do that I am convinced we are able similarly to achieve satisfactory results in the fight against drug trafficking.
No other nation has fought drug trafficking and its organizations more than Colombia. No other nation has obtained the results Colombia has achieved. In this long struggle, we have struck heavy blows against the drug traffickers and their terrorist structure.
A highly significant percentage of all cocaine seized and destroyed in the world has been the work of the Colombian authorities. This is reflected in the considerable increase in drug prices in the streets of this city as well as in the poor neighbourhoods of Washington, DC. At the other end of the chain, coca-leaf prices have plummeted below the cost of production.
As long as demand does not decrease in the developed world, there will always be more laboratories and the drug traffickers will become increasingly wealthy, regardless of their nationality. To be sure, there are some encouraging signs. The measures adopted by President George Bush against drug use in the United States are beginning to show results at middle-income levels. 
That is why, following inexorable market forces, the drug traffic is shifting towards other countries and regions, such as Europe and part of Asia. We do not want even to think about the consequences in Colombia and in high-income countries, such as Japan or the European nations, of a demand for drugs, such as that of the United States.
We have before us a great opportunity. If we take advantage of the current low prices of the coca leaf to push for a massive alternative crop development, and if the world community acts promptly and takes harsh measures to break the other links of the chain, such as the laundering of dollars, the traffic in precursor chemical products and weapons, and increased consumption, it is possible we may then be close to adopting a policy capable of putting an end to this phenomenon.
Colombia actively promotes initiatives which seek concerted international action against the laundering of dollars and the trade in the dangerous precursor chemicals used in the processing of cocaine. We support the call for world conferences to address these important issues in the fight against drugs.
The war on drugs cannot, however, be the sole responsibility of one country or even a small group of countries. Drug trafficking is fed by a network of activities that cross every boundary on the planet and involves, in one way or the other, almost all nations. No one is safe from this threat. Until we have definitively defeated this enemy all over the world, without exception, nobody can rest assured that his sons and daughters will be free of this vice and violence engendered by drugs.
Colombia considers especially important the creation of an international penal jurisdiction in the fight against drug trafficking. That is why we view with the greatest interest discussions on this issue in the International Juridical Committee. 
Drug trafficking is, then, an activity which requires multilateral solutions. It is not enough that the United States, Peru, Bolivia and Colombia - the signatories to the Declaration of Cartagena - are resolute in their willingness to face the problem. To be effective, all countries must be involved. No institution is better suited to the task than the United Nations. For this reason, we support the United Nations current effort to evaluate the work being carried out by its bodies in the area of narcotics. 
It is necessary to create a single authority within the United Nations with sufficient capacity to face the problem. We expect to play a leading role in such a forum, and we seek to participate actively, regardless of the institutional mechanism finally adopted.
In the light of the recent crisis in the Persian Gulf, President Bush requested and obtained economic assistance to offset the costs of the United States effort and thus help guarantee the effectiveness of the United Nations decisions.
Fighting an enemy even more dangerous to humanity, Colombia has received repeated expressions of solidarity, but very few real measures of support. While nations have demonstrated their economic support for the United States, on the other side of the world, Colombia, fighting against that other enemy of humanity and suffering economic and social hardship has, in fact, received no compensation at all.
It is time that repeatedly announced initiatives be converted into concrete actions. We are waiting for the European Economic Community to translate into concrete action its offers to help Colombia and the other Andean nations. We have been awaiting the adoption of the preferential trade system for the countries that signed the Declaration of Cartagena, also known as the Andean Initiative, and its prompt approval by the Congress of the United States. We hope, too, that there will be initiatives in this area by Japan and the countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations.
We would like to see, within the framework of the Initiative for the Americas, the adoption of a special and speedy procedure of negotiations with those countries most seriously affected because of their firm stand against drug trafficking. Our military, judges and policemen know how to do their jobs. They have received minimal specific aid. We are grateful for that aid, but we insist there is a need for solidarity with the Colombian people, who have borne the brunt of this struggle. 
Friends of the United Nations, let us consider for α moment the role of principles in world events. In the Persian Gulf the principle of non-aggression has united the most diverse countries in the world and consolidated the power of the Security Council as an organ designed to impose international law.
In Central and Eastern Europe, where emerging democracies experienced oppression in the past, freedom and democracy have blossomed into a revolution of great historical significance.
In South Africa, the discussions between Nelson Mandela, who was recently released, and the Government are opening a window of hope that the principle of the equality of men, regardless of race, shall prevail.
In Chile, millions of citizens said no to the dictatorship, and chose representative democracy instead.
In Nicaragua, the Sandinista regime honoured its electoral promises.
Throughout Latin America, the principle of democracy is being applied with new strength and vigour.
In Colombia, the people have faith in the future, and have turned optimism into one more reason to continue struggling for peace. We are the Latin American country with the most marked growth in this past decade, and we are continuing to grow. Our democratic principles, tolerance, freedom and respect for the ideas of others continue to strengthen in spite of attacks from violent sectors.
We are speaking about major achievements that seemed unlikely a few years ago. These are exciting times, when sew leadership based on old principles is coming into bloom everywhere.
Within this greet setting^ and under the aegis of this Assembly, rests the responsibility of keeping this flower alive, of caring for its fragile roots and protecting it whatever the cost. 
As a tribute of my people, I bring the Assembly its affirmation of an ambitious and comforting rule: courage does pay off. Colombians are willing to defend their right to live free of fear. Colombians will never surrender their basic principles. Colombians will continue to defend their most sacred values in the face of violence, whether or not they stand alone in the world.
As I learned from the words of a peasant of my country, "The most beautiful flowers of the garden may be destroyed, but nothing can stop the arrival of spring."


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿In the name of the people and Government of Colombia, allow me to congratulate Ambassador Shihabi of Saudi Arabia on his election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. We place great hopes in the results of the work of the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly under his illustrious leadership. It will be the task of the Assembly to point the United Nations in the right direction in order for it to carry out the purposes and principles of its Charter at this crucial phase of our history.I should also like to express the appreciation of the Government of Colombia for the work of the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Peres de Cuellar. Ten years of intelligent and unstinting effort in the service of international peace and justice give the measure of this man. We acknowledge the scope of his contribution and salute him as a Latin American who has brought honour to our region. He is aware of our admiration and appreciation and is familiar with the wishes that were expressed collectively by the Heads of State of Latin America at the summit meeting at Guadalajara.I welcome the admission of the Republic of Korea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands to membership of the Organization and I welcome their participation in the General Assembly's debates.We are living in a time of profound change, which will have a formidable impact on the future of each of our countries. However, the ambitious mandate of the United Nations remains in force. That speaks well for the vision of those who were its founders. It would be very hard for us to cast this mandate in different terms today. The maintenance of peace, the defence of citizens' rights and the attainment of the collective well-being through growth and development continue to be the guiding principles in relations between States.Yet a significant change can be seen in the very rapidity of the adjustments and transformations we are witnessing. Hence, we call upon members urgently to pursue the objectives referred to and to take advantage of this session of the General Assembly to reflect on the challenges of our times.Colombia has always been an enthusiastic supporter of multilateralism and cooperation as the irreplaceable cornerstones of an international system that is committed to meeting the needs of the developing world. Without peace there can be no growth or development, and it is only by establishing social justice and eradicating poverty that lasting peace can be achieved. A stable peace requires that nations establish the social and economic conditions necessary to deal properly with their principal needs.In the light of the relaxation of East-West tensions, and since there must be a constructive dialogue between North and South, it will be up to the United Nations system to ensure and protect the right of States which, unlike the great Powers, do not have effective defence mechanisms. For such countries, the United Nations has to be the guarantor of rights, most especially those of sovereignty and self-determination. While it is clear that there have been major advances in the international political arena, as demonstrated by the end of the cold war, the growing respect for human rights and the progress of democracy, this is not the case in the economic arena, where considerable uncertainty still prevails. Despite the sacrifices and adjustments made by many developing countries and the opening up of their economies to trade a d investment flows, access of their goods and services to the principal markets is constantly being hindered by various new obstacles and barriers. The most vehement defenders of liberalised trade are engaged today in a major confrontation that is threatening the very stability of multilateralism and, in particular, the fate of the developing countries, whose interests are subordinated to the competition between the major economic blocs.The Ministerial Declaration signed in Caracas by the Latin American Foreign Ministers at the Preparatory Meeting for the Eighth Conference on Trade and Development, refers with concern to the fact that those countries that are pressing most urgently for an open international system are precisely the ones that stray the farthest from the rules of the game by increasingly applying practices that distort international trade.For example, the coffee industry is facing a drastic situation, owing to the lack of economic clauses in the International Coffee Agreement. Current price levels, in real terms, are the lowest they have been in the last 50 years; this has serious consequences for the economies of the coffee-producing countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America. In order to correct this difficult situation, this week the producer nations in London presented an emergency plan designed to put some order in the market; in this regard, Colombia has asked for the support and cooperation of the industrialised nations.Colombia comes before the Assembly and into the international arena with new credentials. It is a country with a promising future, which has succeeded in facing the challenges of the present with honesty, transparency and boldness, making changes of major importance in its 100-year old National Constitution. The new Colombian Constitution, a reflection of the political will of the various sectors of public opinion, opens the institutional doors of the Republic in a democratic, civilised way so that new ideas regarding, political participation and citizens' rights can be introduced.The new Colombia is encouraging young people to become involved in running the State. It has mechanisms to make the application of justice more flexible and expeditious. It generously extends to groups that have taken up arms the possibility of being honourably reintegrated into civilian life. The new Colombia seeks, both nationally and internationally, the redistribution of opportunity to individuals and nations so that we can all enjoy the fruits of growth and development and so that the gap between the haves and the have-nots will not continue to grow wider.In the Bill of Rights that we have adopted, power rests with the individual. The State exists to serve the citizen, to protect him and to promote conditions that will enable all Colombians to develop freely. The Constitution enshrines a broad range of civil and political rights, safeguards social and economic rights, recognises group rights and establishes mechanisms to provide for their effective protection.We see in this new Colombia arising from the efforts of President Cesar Gaviria - a young and bold leader who dared extend an early welcome to the future barely 13 months ago - an example of what can be achieved when there is a desire for consensus, the political will to attain it and generosity in handling complex situations.He present these changes with pride and dignity and with the conviction that we have found the peaceful path on which new generations of Colombians shall travel, sowing along the way the seeds of a just, prosperous and equitable future. That is the new Colombia, which is now attending this General Assembly.In addition, waves of change and renewal can be seen in Latin America and the Caribbean region. As regards peace, democratic participation, human rights and integration, our continent is moving forward at a rapid pace. Multilateralism has become a dominant force, as demonstrated by the various processes of association that are being carried out jointly and in parallel. It would be difficult to find a time of greater harmony and integration among the member countries of our region. The Rio Group, the Group of 3, the Cartagena Pact, the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR) and the strengthened efforts towards integration in Central America and the Caribbean region are a reflection of the processes of cooperation now under way. These are political, economic and cultural dialogues that are increasingly strengthening our roots, our experiences and our future, resulting in a firmer commitment among our nations to pool efforts in the joint action required to overcome obstacles that are common to us all and that we could not overcome individually. The negotiated solution reached by Argentina and Chile in their border dispute and the establishment of diplomatic relations between Guatemala and Belize are a reflection of the climate of political harmony and resolve in our region.As regards the initiative for the Americas, Colombia welcomed it from the very moment of its promulgation as an ambitious plan for cooperation, and appreciated the multilateral character of some of its components. Consequently, Colombia hopes that Europe and Japan will Join with the United States so that the multilateral investment fund can become a reality in the immediate future.A united, future-oriented continent, which is capable of solving the basic needs of its people in peace, will be a source of support for United Rations efforts to achieve an open and integrated economic order.This reference to our continent would be Incomplete if we did not mention the sense of obligation in our region to promote a rapprochement between the United States and Cuba. The same suspicions and mistrust that for so many years polarised relations among so many countries, and that led to the cold war that we all went through, now undermine the trust between these two Member States of the United Nations.We are aware of the profound differences that separate them, but we believe that the new climate of peace and cooperation that has so swiftly suffused international relations could well serve as a basis for the frank and open discussion of unresolved matters. We hope that the winds of renewal and democratisation that are blowing throughout the world can be incorporated autonomously by Cuba into its political order. On the other hand, no one should underestimate the deep historical, geographic and cultural roots that unite Cuba with our region.The changes that have occurred on the international scene since the creation of the United Nations, along with the appearance of new and complex problems, have emphasized, among the Member States of this Organization, the need to reflect on the most appropriate way to respond to the reality of today's world and on its future prospects. The new world scene demands a renewed United Nations. For this reason, the Rio Group has submitted for the consideration of all States certain guidelines as to our concept of the modernization of this Organization.We believe that the process of revitalizing the United Nations ought not to be limited to simplifying and correcting its procedures or its operating patterns. The substantial increase in the Organization's membership, the new political realities and the new power structure in the world all call for a review of the existing criteria regarding the representation of the Member States at all levels of the system and their effective participation in the decision-making process. Achievement of these objectives would help to guarantee that the mandates issued are a clear and balanced reflection of the aspirations of the international community, and in particular those of the developing nations.It is necessary to strengthen the General Assembly so that it can be a faithful interpreter of the will of the States. This must be the forum in which matters of global interest are debated and where efforts are made to promote an understanding of the importance of multisectoral action that will lead to successful international cooperation directed towards the social and economic growth and development of all peoples.Just as important as strengthening the General Assembly is the need to strengthen the office of the Secretary-General. This office must be provided with the instruments that will permit the independent exercise of its functions and the faithful attainment of the principles and objectives of the Organization.Improved coordination among United Nations agencies requires re-evaluation of the Security Council. It is necessary to give it a form in keeping with new realities and to study mechanisms to prevent excessive influence on the part of a few countries. Since 1945, Colombia has been opposed to the power of veto and believes that this is a good time to re-examine its advantageousness.My country has urged that international relations be governed by International Law and by the principles of the United Nations Charter. We consider the work done by the International Court of Justice to be of vital importance. Today, more than aver, international cooperation is required to combat organised crime. President Cesar Gaviria has reiterated that the links in the chains of crime are reaching farther into all countries and that criminal groups are becoming true multinational organisations. Today's criminals pay no heed to nationalities or borders. The internationalization of crime must be opposed by the universalization of justice.Closer cooperation must be sought between judicial power and the authorities of the various States. Colombia is developing a strategy aimed at expediting the procedures for furnishing evidence and probative material requested by foreign authorities. Me believe it is the moral and legal obligation of all States to make available any evidence they have against criminals, particularly if these criminals are involved in crimes of multinational scope such as drug trafficking and terrorism. These actions must be reinforced by promoting legal mechanisms and programmes within the framework of the United Nations. One problem that is of great concern to my Government is that of arms dealing. Clearly, in order to reduce or limit arms dealing, as in any business, it will be necessary to reduce the demand as well as the supply. We believe that this is a most propitious moment to move ahead it this area.The end of the cold war offers us a great opportunity to invest in development, using resources devoted to military expenditures. The "peace dividend" should be backed up by plans to switch over to civil production. In addition, efforts for disarmament should be complemented by measures to reduce the pressures that lead to arms production and exportation. The authorities of all our countries should commit themselves to giving priority to the establishment of effective control over the licit and illicit transfer of arms, especially when they are being sent to areas of conflict or to regions affected by the violence generated by criminal activity.The international community must  recognise the consequences of poverty for world stability. For a number of years now, Colombia has pressed initiatives in various forums in the search for a solution that should be approached with the same sense of urgency that other crisis situations have aroused.Priority must be given on the international agenda to reactivating the economies of developing countries by opening up the markets of industrialized countries to their exports. This is the type of solidarity that we seek from the developed world.The relaxing of tensions between the super-Powers has not put bread on the table of the poor. Neither poverty nor social injustice has been eliminated. On the contrary, for most countries, the conditions for development continue to be adverse: technology is beyond their grasp, the major markets for their products continue to be highly protected, and their status as debtors keeps them in the position of being net exporters of capital.Colombia has offered to be the host country for the eighth United Rations Conference on Trade and Development (UHCTAD) in 1992. In order to ensure the success of the eighth UHCTAD, we must reformulate the criteria and mechanisms related to the economic and social development of our countries. It will be an opportunity to create new channels of communication between the North and the South around themes that have traditionally created controversy, but that we must now examine from the perspectives that currently characterize international dialogue. The backdrop for the meeting is the future functioning of the Organisation and the evolving negotiations of the Uruguay Round.The eighth UNCTAD has to be the start of a new phase, of an era in which to take advantage of the opportunities that have opened up for International cooperation following the end of the East-West conflict successful restructuring of UNCTAD, based on cooperation between the various groups of countries that comprise it, would be a good precedent for the reforms that need to be made in the United Nations system.Colombia looks forward with optimism to the forthcoming Conference on the Environment and Development which is to take place In June 1992 in Rio de Janeiro. This "Earth Summit" will have to strengthen the mechanisms of international cooperation around this global theme. Neither the application of a model of rapacious development in the South nor the abandonment of economic growth is an option for solving the environmental crisis. Based on the joint responsibility of the nations of the North and of the South, it is necessary to open up possibilities for a model of sustainable development. The industrialized countries have to pay the ecological debt they have incurred with mankind.In the field of human rights, the Organisation can justly claim that it has performed a successful task of universal scope. It is high time for the culture of human rights to become part of our civilisation.Advances in democracy and progress in solving conflicts require conditions of development and social justice that allow the full play of economic, social and cultural rights. The World Conference on Human Rights in 1993 will therefore be one of the most important events of this decade.Despite the various national perspectives, we believe that a consensus is gradually building as to the kind of international environment that we must all promote and the contribution that all of us from the various regions and groups of countries can make to that new global context for peace and development. The developed countries must act with imagination and generosity to ensure that the developing countries have ample and sufficient resources to enable them to undertake the productive investments that they could not manage to make alone.There is no better place than this to call for peace. The success the Salvadorian people and Government have achieved, with the support of the United Nations, is the best tribute to, and example of, Latin America's contribution to world peace.Today we have an unprecedented opportunity to face up with optimism to a new era for our Organization. We must jointly and severally accept this historic opportunity as authors of the promising future of mankind.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
I should 
like to begin by extending a warm welcome to the new States Members of the 
United Nations. Colombia hopes to be allied with all of them as they strive 
to consolidate the growth of democracy. I should also like to congratulate 
the President on his election to lead this session of the Assembly, and to 
express our recognition of the leadership and effectiveness shown by 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in making the United Nations the home 
of peace, development and progress for humanity. 
I address all gathered here today at the General Assembly with a profound 
feeling of sorrow, because at this moment thousands of defenceless people are 
victims of the war against Bosnia and Herzegovina and because in Somalia 
thousands are dying of hunger. I would urge the General Assembly of the 
United Nations to take at this session a decisive step forward in resolving 
these world conflicts. 
Among the trends that nourish our hopes for the future of mankind, we 
should highlight the decisive role that the United Nations has undertaken to 
play as a catalyst of the new global agenda. But the Organization still has 
many of the features inherited from the cold-war period. Reforms must move 
forward with prudence and patience, but also with the certainty that the 
decision-making mechanisms of the United Nations will be more democratic, more 
equal, more representative and more effective. Only then will we be able to 
advance the future role of the United Nations. The "Agenda for Peace" 
presented by the Secretary-General is certainly a guideline for our 
achievement of these objectives. 
In the past, when the world was divided into two- irreconcilable poles, it 
was almost impossible to reach agreement even on the simplest of ideas. But 
now conditions exist for multilateral organizations to become the principal 
actors of the new world order. But here too we must call for caution. The 
key problems of the new world agenda cannot be resolved without the active 
participation of developing nations. This new principal role in the 
management of the international agenda must be recognized by the 
industrialized countries if we are to make truly viable a multilateral 
approach based on mutual cooperation. 
At the same time, the industrialized nations cannot continue using 
multilaterism selectively. Also, the developed countries will have to abandon 
the practice of using multilateral organizations as mere instruments to 
legitimize their unilateral decisions. This is a double standard that puts at 
risk the success of multilateral solutions. 
Five hundred years ago, thanks to the courage of Columbus, the meeting of 
two worlds that were separated by fear and ignorance became possible. Because 
of his accomplishment the planet became one, awakening mankind to undreamt of 
horizons of progress and well-being. 
Only a few decades ago the cold war separated the world into two once 
again. During that time people were not separated into isolated continents 
but into opposing blocs divided by an immense ocean of distrust and hate. 
Now, as the world celebrates the five hundredth anniversary of the discovery, 
humanity once again has an opportunity to forge a truly global community. 
The joy of liberated peoples dancing on top of crumbling walls is, alas, 
fleeting. Democracy in Europe and America has shown that it is not enough to 
defeat dictatorship in order to achieve true freedom. The tyranny of poverty, 
drugs, terrorism, fratricidal war, stagnation and paper democracies continues 
to be an unavoidable threat to peace, security and well-being. Perhaps things 
did seem easier in the past when we believed we had just one enemy communism 
or militarism. Now we can see more clearly the real evils afflicting mankind. 
Even though there are powerful reasons for optimism about the future, we 
cannot give up our enthusiasm thinking these difficulties have now all been 
overcome. We have a new agenda which we must begin to undertake with the same 
effort and dedication with which the cold war was fought. 
The road to a new international order is plagued by paradoxes. While the 
developing nations are embracing the benefits of free trade, the 
industrialized nations are sticking to protectionist barriers and creating new 
restrictive trade procedures. At the very moment these trends are occurring 
the industrialized nations are cheerfully proclaiming to the four winds the 
triumph of the free market. 
If the world economy continues along the road of protectionism the 
possibilities of creating a new international order based politically on 
democratic principles and economically on individual freedoms will continue to 
recede. Without access to markets we will not be able to achieve the levels 
of economic development necessary to defeat poverty and to promote a climate 
of world peace. Confronting this return to protectionism must be one of the 
principal contributions to peace and the progress of mankind. 
It is equally paradoxical that, when events signal a new era of 
international solidarity, symptoms of growing isolationism exist. The 
industrialized countries are focusing increasingly on their internal affairs, 
sidestepping their obligation to contribute to peace and progress in the 
global community. 
A world in which hundreds of millions live in poverty without any hope of 
a better life cannot afford the luxury of egoism. The wealthier countries 
cannot turn their backs on these multitudes by proclaiming that all of 
mankind's problems will be resolved by the invisible hand of the 
market-place. Now more than ever solidarity is essential. 
When East and West extended their confrontation to the furthest corners 
of the planet the developing countries enjoyed the most perverse dividend of 
the conflict. There was never a lack of external resources to feed the 
euphoria of war. Now that the guns have been silenced, international 
assistance for democracy and for alleviating poverty is elusive. Now that 
there is a need for generosity, and solidarity is the only argument put 
forward in support of it, the helping hand is withdrawn and the back is turned. 
The Earth Summit was certainly a milestone in the history of mankind. 
Rio de Janeiro is the beginning of a long road that must be travelled to 
reconcile man with nature. Unfortunately there are dangerous trends in the 
industrialized countries threatening international cooperation on 
environmental problems. 
For example, there is the unilateral imposition of barriers and 
environmental conditions for our countries. This is not good policy. It 
could lead to an unacceptable situation in which the North continues to 
advance and pollute and the South remains poor in order to reduce the global 
environmental degradation caused by the industrialized nations. This new form 
of environmental protectionism is a source of conflict that must be dealt with. 
I know all too well that when Colombia's name is mentioned in the great 
capitals of the world people inevitably think of drug-trafficking. 
Unfortunately this has been so because my people, armed only with their 
strength and their courage, have had to take on an unequal and heroic lone 
battle against the most powerful and most perverse criminals known to mankind. 
Colombia is a victim of the uncontrollable appetite for drugs throughout 
the world. Three days ago the bullets that killed a valiant Colombian judge, 
Myriam Rocio Velez, were bought with money from cocaine consumers. The bribes 
that corrupt the law enforcement and prison authorities in our country come 
out of the pockets of drug addicts in the major capitals of the world. The 
dynamite used in car bombs that assassinate innocent citizens in the streets 
of Colombia is paid for with the money of those who consider their insatiable 
vice as harmless and innocent. 
It hurts us even more that those who point an accusing finger at a 
courageous people who have endured so many sacrifices are precisely those who 
have no problem ignoring a neighbour who uses drugs, launders money, traffics 
in arms, illegally exports precursor chemicals or runs drug distribution 
networks in streets and cities. 
There is no doubt that in Colombia we have lost some battles and have 
suffered severe setbacks, including the recent and widely publicized escape 
from prison of a group of well-known drug-traffickers. In spite of that 
bitter medicine we can say with pride that no other country in the world has 
fought the scourge of drugs with such resolve and success. 
The treason of some corrupt officials who gave up their dignity for a 
handful of dollars does not negate the sacrifices of the thousands of 
Colombians who are fighting in defence of democracy and mankind. Hear me 
well: it is true that Pablo Escobar escaped from jail but he will not escape 
from the firm resolve of Colombians to see justice done. 
I am convinced that by keeping to our legendary firmness, Colombia will 
soon be liberated forever from violence and crime. But, unfortunately, 
drug-trafficking is an international crime that threatens mankind in every 
corner of the planet. It is not enough for only the Colombians to be valiant 
and victorious. 
Today in Colombia we have drug-traffickers, tomorrow they will be in 
sister nations. Today their enterprise is cocaine; tomorrow they will be 
looking for other new, lucrative products such as heroin. Today they are 
making millions from the demand in the United States; tomorrow they will be 
getting even richer with money from Europe and Japan. We are already seeing 
these changes and these adaptations. 
Drug-trafficking is a hydra-headed monster; it is not enough to cut off 
just one head or only a few heads. To eradicate this scourge once and for all 
we need to take decisive, collective action, international and multilateral 
action, against this evil on all fronts. 
Two years ago I stood before the Assembly and called on all Members to 
work together against drug-trafficking. Now we must ask the question: what 
have we achieved since then? 
Two years ago the drug cartels looked invincible, were even threatening 
to destroy democracy in Colombia and impose a reign of terror and violence. 
Today most of those enemies of society are dead or in jail. 
Two years ago the industrialized world, with an accusing gesture, held 
responsible for the problem those very countries that are in fact victims of 
the production and processing of drugs. Today we know that the consumers of 
drugs, are the source of the problem and cannot evade their responsibilities. 
Two years ago international financial centres were accepting funds from 
the most dubious sources without regard as to the propriety of their actions. 
Today we have started to see a change in attitude. 
Two years ago, drug trafficking was growing out of control. Today, from 
one end to the other of the western hemisphere, we have achieved unprecedented 
levels of drug interdiction. 
Two years ago, the epidemic of drug use looked uncontainable. Today, we 
are certain that the demand for drugs can be controlled if the necessary 
economic resources are made available. 
Two years ago, no one recognized the close ties between poverty, the 
absence of economic opportunity and the emergence of drug trafficking. Today, 
we know that alternative development, trade opportunities and economic aid are 
needed to overcome the drug problem. 
But all this progress real progress is not enough. Drug trafficking 
adapts itself easily to the efforts of society to stamp it out. Criminal 
organizations, now not only in Colombia but practically all over the world, 
have entered into this illegal business. While consumption is dropping in the 
United States, it is growing in Europe and Asia. 
Today, more than ever before, we must strengthen international 
cooperation in the struggle against this enemy of humanity. Today, more than 
ever, we need a vision of the future to guide our efforts and guarantee our 
people that the problem can be overcome. That is why I want to challenge the 
international community today. I invite you join me in establishing clear 
goals and measurable commitments so that all of us will know where we want to 
go and when we hope to get there. In this way, we will be able to guide 
political decisions to generate the necessary resources. 
That is also why I propose that the United Nations define global, 
regional and country targets for controlling the problem of drugs. We must 
commit ourselves to reducing the supply of drugs and the demand for them by at 
least 50 per cent by the year 2000, by 70 per cent by the year 2005, and free 
humanity for ever from the scourge of drugs by the year 2010. 
As of now, before the international community, Colombia assumes the 
responsibility of complying with these objectives in its territory. We intend 
to enter the next century with sales of arms, the sale and diversion of 
precursor chemicals and money-laundering activities under control. 
The need to free humanity from the scourge of drugs requires a plan for 
global action. This is why I call on the General Assembly to hold a United 
Nations conference on the problem of illicit drugs where the necessary 
commitments and programmes would emerge to make it possible for drug 
trafficking to be defeated completely in the next decade and a half. 
It is beyond doubt that international criminal organizations have 
consolidated their extensive network of ties and contacts much faster than the 
judicial system is capable of investigating and prosecuting those 
responsible. The Italian judges Giovanna Falcone and Paolo Borsellino and the 
Colombian judge Myriam Rocio Velez, along with very many others who have 
fallen in the fight against international organized crime, were facing 
powerful enemies; the existing laws and the mechanisms were not enough. 
The individual courage of these heroes of justice is also not enough. 
There must be no borders or barriers if those who have decided to unite in 
evil are to be prosecuted effectively everywhere on Earth. We need justice to 
be universal, and for it to work in as coordinated a manner in all countries 
as the international criminal organizations do. The Mafia, cartels, camorra, 
and yakuza are just different names for the same thing. The time has come to 
treat organized crime as an international crime. 
As I said in my inaugural address, it is vital to develop an 
international criminal jurisdiction against drug trafficking, money laundering 
and the illegal export of precursor chemicals. Wherever the guilty live or 
serve their sentences, it must be possible for the courts in all countries to 
be able, voluntarily, to have recourse to international courts where, in a 
secure manner and with all the evidence available world wide, these many and 
serious crimes can be tried. Now is the time for the United Nations to tackle 
this question in a serious, dedicated way. 
Also, we must improve the machinery at our disposal for judicial 
cooperation between countries. That is why we would like to see a United 
Nations convention for judicial cooperation on felonies that would facilitate 
the flow of evidence, the standardization of testimony and supporting 
documentation, and reduce the bureaucratic procedures and legal obstacles to 
coordinated action by the criminal legal systems of different countries. 
We would also like to see real involvement by the European Community and 
by Japan and other countries in Asia in the Cartagena and San Antonio 
agreements and commitments. In Cartagena and San Antonio, the participating 
countries agreed a set of strategies at all levels in the fight against drug 
trafficking. This effort has already yielded results, but the moment has come 
to extend this cooperation to the rest of the world community. 
Lastly, let me say that I believe that the experience acquired through 
all these years of the difficult fight against drug trafficking has given our 
authorities some knowledge which, beyond a doubt, is of great value to many 
other countries which are starting to experience the consequences of the 
global spread of drug trafficking. This is why Colombia has decided to 
establish an international centre for the fight against drug trafficking; this 
will allow us to make available to the global community what we have learned 
through so much sacrifice. I invite the United Nations and all Member States 
to contribute to, and participate in, this initiative. 
I know that in a short time, supported by my compatriots' courage and 
resolve to fight, by the valour of the judges of Colombia, by the greatness of 
the people of my country, we shall not have to talk about violence and drug 
trafficking here within the walls of the United Nations. Wars do not go on 
for ever, and I do not recall a single criminal who has resisted the pressure 
of the will of an entire people; and, if my call today has been heard, those 
criminal organizations will be even less able to resist the united will of the 
international community. 
Perhaps then, soon, when we leave behind the dark night of drug 
trafficking, the world will see the other, friendlier face of my country, and 
discover what we really are: we are the strongest and oldest democracy in the 
region. We are the most dynamic economy in Latin America. Our country has 
grown at a sustained rate of nearly 4 per cent per year for the last three 
decades. Our management of the economy has been prudent and thoughtful, and 
has kept us clear of the problems associated with indebtedness, 
hyperinflation, stagnation and unemployment. 
When someone comes to my country and meets my people, and does not 
encounter all the horrors that have sometimes been painted in the press, he 
becomes our compatriot, and he learns that to be Colombian is a form of pride, 
of hidden tenacity and sharp wit. He also knows that you do not have to be 
born in our country to be a Colombian for ever. 

===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
Nearly all those who stand at this rostrum
represent the dreams of their countrymen. Many who come
to this Hall bring with them the hopes of their peoples,
which have been shattered by violence, intolerance,
selfishness or misunderstanding. But all, without exception,
bring with them their own vision of the world; the sum of
those visions will provide a model for the world in which
we live and die and in which our children will live and
grow. It is therefore a great honour for me to address once
more so many men and women of all origins and all
destinies. The world listens expectantly to what we say
here, for the world has confidence and faith in the
commitment of the United Nations to action on behalf of a
better future for all mankind.
Today, as we begin this session, I believe that those of
us who have worked for the triumph of peace and
democracy are living at a crucial moment. Without doubt,
there is room for optimism, but our work is far from done.
The end of bipolarism has not by itself brought the
feeling that peace, progress and justice are now nearer or
more possible. While bloc confrontation has disappeared,
we are seeing the resurgence of harsh ancient nationalisms
and fanaticisms that threaten peace and stability, and the
presence of extreme poverty and social injustice in the
majority of the world’s countries.
Even as we meet here, thousands are dying, victims of
racism, xenophobia, fratricidal wars, hatreds which have fed
on themselves for centuries, territorial disputes, or the simple
and terrible inability of mankind to provide everyone with
that which all are promised: freedom and equal opportunity.
At the same time, we feel increasing pain at the
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in areas of Africa,
in many Eastern European nations and in other parts of the
world.
During this session we will also hear of hopes and of
dreams of peace and reconciliation that until now seemed
impossible. I speak, for example, of the gradual abolition of
racial segregation in South Africa. I point also to the fact
that rivals like Israel and the Palestinian Liberation
Organization have had the courage to declare mutual
recognition and respect. That Yitzhak Rabin and
Yasser Arafat can negotiate with courage and fortitude,
amidst their own memories of war, proves that when history
is written, the greatness of the human spirit can flourish and
prevail.
Although we know that the road ahead is still long and
difficult, the Israelis and the Palestinians have the
recognition and support of the international community for
their efforts to find peace. The agreements reached are
further proof that the political will to reconcile is capable of
healing even the deepest wounds.
Much of the history of the twentieth century has been
written with the blood of victims of war, religious disputes
or blind quests for power. Too much history has already
been written by tyrants.
The builders of the twenty-first century must be men of
peace and work rather than of violence. The arms they use
to build the future must not be cannons and bullets, but
rather the wisdom, ingenuity and vision of men of initiative.
Political activity, with its great capacity to transform
reality, has in a few short years generated far-reaching
changes in the former Soviet Union, Central and Eastern
Europe, the Middle East and my own region, Latin America.
Never before have so many millions of people around the
world enjoyed freedom.
We Colombians, for example, have in just a few years
achieved significant political, economic and social changes
aimed at developing a new democratic century that is more
open, more participatory, more pluralistic, more
decentralized and more just.
Our new Constitution was conceived with the
participation of all sectors of public opinion, including
ex-guerrillas, indigenous people, industrialists, human-rights
activists, environmentalists and millions of ordinary citizens.
Our 1991 Constitution is the navigational chart of a new
Colombia heading for the next millennium.
On the economic front, we have replaced our old model
of a closed economy with an open one, in which external
markets have to become, increasingly, the engines of growth.
We are integrating our economy with the world and are
hence demanding that other nations open their markets to
our products. We are advocates of free enterprise, economic
integration and free trade. The results have been very
satisfactory: we have diversified and increased our exports,
significantly lowered inflation, reduced unemployment and
increased economic growth.
On the social front, we have substantially increased
public resources available for financing new programmes of
investment in our people. With this effort we shall double
our present per capita income by the beginning of the next
decade. By that time life expectancy in Colombia will be
similar to that of many industrialized countries. Our
illiteracy rate will be less than 3 per cent and our infant
mortality rate will be lower than 18 deaths per thousand
births.
In Colombia we understand that political democracy
must go hand in hand with economic opportunity, because
a lasting true democracy can be achieved only through
economic development and social justice. It would be
difficult, after all, for people who had fought so hard for
freedom to find that the tough road to democracy led to
poverty, marginalization or social stagnation. Political
freedom with economic opportunity: this is now the
definition of democracy.
The developing world has placed its hopes in
international trade as the instrument to create prosperity for
all. In a global economy it is impossible to achieve social
well-being without economic freedom, competition,
productivity, efficiency and growth.
Perhaps we now have, more than ever before, the
conditions for an unprecedented increase in the flow of
goods, services, technology and knowledge between the
industrialized countries and the developing countries and,
therefore, for economic growth and the creation of
employment and social well-being for all.
For these reasons, this hemisphere’s liberalization
processes, such as the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA), the Andean Group, the Group of
Three, the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR)
and the integration of Central America and the Caribbean,
are not just integrative trade agreements, but also represent
real remedies for poverty.
I wish to stress the importance of NAFTA as a decisive
step in the right direction to liberalize trade relations, to our
mutual benefit, between north and south. It is time to leave
behind outdated fears and commit ourselves to a relationship
that will undoubtedly result in stronger economic growth and
hundreds of thousands of new jobs for all. Those of us who
are supporters of an integrated, open and dynamic
hemispheric economy fully support the visionary efforts of
President Bill Clinton to achieve final approval of this treaty.
And on a global scale it is critical to conclude the
Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) successfully. This will be possible only if we
truly respect the multilateral character of that organization.
It cannot be a matter of the most powerful agreeing among
themselves about what is in their own interests. We hope
for the conclusion of the Uruguay Round, but not at any
cost. We seek effective solutions to address the concerns of
the least developed countries, with emphasis on dismantling
agricultural protectionism.
We are deeply concerned that the attitude of many of
the principal actors in the global economy has come to
resemble dangerously that of another era, the years before
the Second World War, when nations isolated themselves
within their borders and produced goods for captive
domestic markets.
Defending at any cost the selfish interests of privileged
rural minorities in the industrialized countries takes bread off
the tables of millions of poor peasants who only want the
right to compete on an equal footing. That selfish attitude
is the greatest cause of poverty in the poor countries.
We live in a world where frontiers between nations
ought to be seen as points of convergence, not of division;
where cries for independence should be replaced by shows
of interdependence; where, for many developing nations, the
euphoria of political change has passed and what is needed
is economic growth and the creation of jobs.
Protectionism and isolationism belong to outdated,
perverse rhetoric. Do we really want to live in a world
turned upside down, where the largest and strongest
economies deny the smallest ones the right to compete, or
where the origin of goods and services is more important
than their quality or value?
The world must see that open markets and free trade are
perhaps the best hope for serving the collective interests of
both north and south, not simply favours graciously granted
to the developing world by the industrialized world. Free
trade is truly good business for everyone.
The economies of the developed world are made up for
the most part of mature markets that have already
experienced their greatest periods of expansion. The short-
sightedness of protectionism lies in its ignoring the growth
potential represented by investment in and trade with nations
that represent the future of the world’s economy.
As President of Colombia, I want to reaffirm my
nation’s commitment to the defence of free trade, for we
have invested in it our hopes for development and
well-being. So, too, we see in free trade the best
contribution that the industrialized world can make to
consolidating democracy and freedom in developing
countries. Colombia is asking for free trade, not economic
aid; the opening of markets, not mere assistance;
competition, not insurmountable barriers.
From its inception, the United Nations has had the dual
mission of maintaining international peace and security and
of promoting the social and economic development of all
peoples of the world. Even though we have been successful
in advancing collective global security, we cannot say the
same as concerns the areas of social welfare and economic
development. Today, I call upon the international
community to achieve, with courage and dedication, an
agenda for development. Only then will the goal of a lasting
and stable peace be reached, for without social justice, peace
cannot be permanent.
I should like also to mention Colombia’s renewed
commitment to three issues of great global importance: the
defence and promotion of human rights, the fight against
organized crime and the preservation of the environment.
In Colombia, we have made a major and successful
effort to create a culture that promotes, respects and defends
human rights. Today, we have the institutional foundations
to ensure that Colombia’s society will overcome human
rights violations. The efforts to strengthen Colombia’s
judicial system has borne fruit. We are defeating impunity.
In our fight against international organized crime, which
profits from narcotics trafficking, terrorism,
money-laundering, arms trafficking, the flow of illegal
chemicals and various forms of corruption, my country many
years ago took a clear decision: Colombia will not rest until
these criminals activities are wiped from the face of our
land.
Innocent Colombians are continuing to lose their lives
in the fight against evil multinationals. My deepest
convictions and my respect for the memory of so many
countrymen who have sacrificed their lives compel me to
call once again on all nations to contribute to the solution of
a problem that is global in its scope.
My people’s brave efforts alone - or nearly so - cannot
put an end to international organized crime; this will require
determined action with courage and political will, on the part
of many more nations. We cannot counter sophisticated
international organized crime by simply developing national
or bilateral strategies. We require a comprehensive,
multilateral effort that focuses on legislative cooperation;
coordinated initiatives; the exchange of intelligence
information; a sufficient commitment of financial and human
resources; cooperation in the judicial field; and, perhaps
most important, strong political will.
To this end, we will participate with great interest in
the high-level meeting that, on our initiative, will soon take
place during this plenary session. Its main purpose will be
to review the global strategy against the plague of narcotics
trafficking, with a view to seeking coordination of concrete
measures, the renewal of specific commitments and, finally,
the strengthening of the decision to continue with this joint
struggle.
With regard to the preservation of the environment,
Colombia is fully aware of the importance of its magnificent,
varied and sometimes fragile ecosystems and of its
biodiversity. Accordingly, we have adopted institutional
changes that will allow us to fulfil in its entirety a
commitment that stems not only from our Constitution but
also from our collective conscience and our stewardship of
a treasure we shall not squander.
Colombia supports sustainable development, respects
the terms of the agreements reached at the Earth Summit and
is working with its neighbours, with other nations and its
own communities to devise strategies that will allow it both
to benefit from and to preserve its natural resources.
I wish to conclude by congratulating the President of
the General Assembly, the Ambassador of Guyana, Mr.
Samuel Insanally, an outstanding representative of my
region. We also welcome the new States Members of the
United Nations. On behalf of Colombia, we welcome them
to this universal fraternity, which is enhanced by their
presence.
At the same time, I want publicly to express my
country’s satisfaction at having coordinated the work of the
Group of 77 this year. Thanks to the collaboration and
harmony that prevailed among all its members, we made
important advances in defence of the interests of the
developing world.
But the satisfaction of seeing the United Nations
strengthened each year by the presence of new Members
should not hinder us from reaffirming Colombia’s position
in favour of the restructuring of this Organization, especially
with regard to reforming the Security Council and to
redefining the relationship between the General Assembly
and the Security Council. We hope that in this respect an
open and a democratic and multilateral debate will take
place.
I have come here today to ask a question that has been
on the minds of all peoples, in all parts of the world, who
have been on the side of the revolution of freedom: why
have so many millions of people in the former Soviet Union,
in Central and Eastern Europe, and in countries throughout
Asia, Africa and Latin America fought so hard? What is it
that so many hoped to achieve by taking, at the cost of
immense sacrifices, the road to democracy and its freedoms?
I believe that the only answer is that they have seen, for
the first time, the possibility of transforming these dreams
into realities. And they have taken that road because they
want to a leave a legacy of freedom to their children and to
future generations.
With the help of God and our strong solidarity, we are
certain that they will prevail.


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====
It is a great honour for me, as President of
Colombia, to speak in the General Assembly, which, as the
Organization reaches the fiftieth anniversary of its
establishment, remains the principal forum for the
discussion of topics of concern to mankind and for the
search for peaceful solutions to its distressing problems.
Fifty years ago, when the United Nations system was
created, the world hoped that the spectre of war was finally
being laid to rest. But lack of understanding between
nations, ideological fanaticism and the politics of force led
to the world’s polarization into two antagonistic blocs. For
many years, the cold war put on ice the hopes held at the
beginning for developing a world-wide system of
coexistence. Such coexistence reappears today when we
see a black person at the helm of South Africa; when we
see Palestinians and Jews discussing fruit groves in the hills
of the Golan; and when we see all Berliners drinking good
Colombian coffee on the spot where the wall of infamy
once stood.
Before the end of this century, we shall have to strive
to resolve peacefully the most important conflict to outlive
the cold war: the conflict with the brotherly Republic of
Cuba.
We now have the happy opportunity of reviving the
spirit of the San Francisco Charter and of reinitiating the
deferred task of building a new world system based on
solidarity, respect for the self-determination of peoples
and the real search for better living conditions for all - as
was stated a few years ago before the General Assembly,
by a distinguished Colombian, Indalecio Liévano Aguirre,
in his capacity as its President.
The history of the 1990s must not be one more
record of the frustration of our aspirations to peace, well-
being and justice. Our objective can be nothing less than
the human person. Our actions must be directed towards
the struggle against poverty and for the attainment of
social justice. Our commitment is to make the arbitrary
use of power and abuses of human rights things of the
past.
But this task - this vital task - is not free of threats.
Neoprotectionism threatens the free-trade prospects of
developing countries. It is true that tariff protectionism
has come to an end, but a new and dangerous form of
protectionism is now emerging: non-tariff protectionism:
barriers to the export of plants and vegetables, customs
barriers, quotas, anti-dumping clauses, social clauses, the
rationale of "reasons of State", and fears of losing
elections. We developing countries are no longer
struggling against the barbed wire of hostile tariff
barriers: we are struggling against an army of invisible
enemies moved by the most diverse interests and
systematically opposed to the rhetorical aspiration to free
trade - an aspiration that would seem to have something
in common with our feelings about paradise: we all want
to get there, but not quite yet.
Impoverishment is another threat. Granted, we are
all committed to the openness of our economies, but that
must not mean that we can ignore the need to manage the
obvious social costs. Unemployment, the postponement
of social investment programmes and neglect of the living
conditions of the rural population can ultimately
delegitimize in vast regions of the world - this, at least, is
true of Latin America - the efforts made over many years
to democratize our political systems. The only thing
more serious than poverty is impoverishment, and it is
beginning to make itself felt in many parts of the world.
Either we leaders renew our commitment to the people or
the social costs of economic change will in the end
destroy our achievements in political consolidation.
Finally, there is the threat of the formation of blocs.
The development of economic blocs runs counter to the
6


idea of a world based on the democratic rules of free trade
for all on an equal footing. What is at stake today is not
the exchange of goods and services but rather the exchange
of the means necessary to produce those goods and
services.
Selective appropriation of the means of production
puts those of us in the developing countries in the worst of
worlds. We do not have the means of production nor do
we have fair access to them, but we do have the arduous
responsibility of competing on an equal footing with the
world’s most industrialized countries.
It is not a matter of repeating the third-world litany of
complaints and demands. The point here is to define new
rules that can enable us to gain access to technology and to
finance our infrastructures on favourable terms, that can
enable us to reach acceptable levels of competitiveness, that
can enable us to break with dependency on the cartels of
service companies and to buy market outlets in a world
where what counts and what is important is not producing,
but selling.
That aspiration to develop new conditions that can
enable us to play a vital role within the new spectrum of
world forces must take the shape of a new development
model for our countries, an alternative model which I
should like to discuss with you this afternoon in this Hall.
I am speaking of an alternative model that will be an
alternative to the protectionist system of the 1960s, for the
globalization of the economy requires not only open and
competitive economies but an alternative to the
neoliberalism that irresponsibly leaves it to the market to
correct all imbalances.
I am speaking of an alternative to the old assistance
populism, for there must be social change based on
economic criteria, and for an alternative to fierce
capitalism, which sets up the rule of every man for himself
as a form of social selectionism.
I am speaking of an alternative to the blind criteria of
public interventionism as well as an alternative to attempts
to sell out the State to the highest self-interested bidders, to
the Government abandoning its own responsibilities with
regard to the unprotected masses.
I am speaking of an alternative to anachronistic
concepts of representative democracy but also of an
alternative for meeting attempts to reduce the free play of
democracy to sterile confrontation between private interests.
The objective of this alternative model, the model of
the South, should be the establishment of a new and more
productive citizen in the economy, a citizen who
participates to a greater degree in politics and who is
more supportive in the social sphere.
Words and phrases like "social investment", "good
governmen t" , "ag r i cu l tu ra l deve lopmen t" ,
"competitiveness", "harmonization" and "gradualness" are
all part of a new alternative vocabulary that will enable us
to speak the language of a new identity, of our own
identity as countries seeking our own way.
The new model of development, if it is to be
genuine and not simply an abstraction, must take into
account some basic elements.
First, it must allow for the modernization of our
productive structures. We gain nothing if we continue to
open markets when we have nothing to sell, because we
produce nothing or very little.
Modernization goes hand in hand with the
development of an adequate infrastructure of
transportation and communications and the optimum use
of energy sources.
We must develop new conditions of productivity,
especially in the field of technology, and adopt more
efficient and environmentally sustainable production
processes. The world today is not divided between the
haves and the have-nots but, rather, between those who
know and those who do not, and we, the developing
countries, are among those who lack knowledge. We
must buy, develop and assimilate new technologies.
Secondly, there is the concept of social solidarity.
Our greatest challenge in this sphere is to give legitimacy
to a new economic system through real social-
development proposals. Investing in the human being is
the best business. Investment in health, education and
housing is highly profitable, not only in social terms but -
especially - in economic terms.
Thirdly, in addressing those two great revolutions of
competitiveness and solidarity it is necessary to change
the ideas of those who today act as agents of the
economic process.
What should the role of Government be? Above and
beyond the dilemma of privatization or nationalization,
the dilemma of whether or not to reduce the size of
7


Government, it is imperative that Government work, and
that it do so honestly. Good governance must be our goal
in reforming Government.
Good Government means building a new type of
Government, one that promotes efficiency. It means the
training of technically skilled bureaucracies. It means
transparency and the streamlining of administrative
procedures in such a way that the roots of corruption are
extirpated. It means administrative decentralization and
citizen participation, and it means the organizing of civil
society on bases other than the old contradictions between
capital and labour.
Fourthly, and lastly, we must bear in mind that this
process is occurring in the context of the globalization of
the world economy and of interindependence among
peoples. The principal problems affecting every country
today are no longer merely national in nature; they are
global, and for that reason they require the coordinated
action of all nations.
The new cooperation the international community
requires is based on adjusting domestic policies to global
objectives within a framework of respect for the
sovereignty of States, the principles of international law and
domestic legislation. Only if we can attain a new concept
of cooperation will we avoid the pitfall of interventionism,
which threatens to make its way through the open door of
interdependence and globalization. Cooperation, as an
alternative to intervention, is the route that can ensure for
the community of nations the fulfilment of its aspirations
for peace and stability.
I come from Colombia, a country that respects
international law and the principles that ensure peaceful
coexistence; a country that has placed its faith in Latin
American and Caribbean integration; a country with a
dynamic Constitution and an economy sound as few others
in Latin America; a country that is moving forward thanks
to the sacrifices and steadfast labour of its people, creative
people avid for progress and imbued with a sense of the
magic of life about which García Márques, our Nobel
laureate, has written; a country searching for peace because
it so loves life.
The times we are now living in are times of crisis, but
also of opportunities. In Colombia we have had to learn to
live with terrible difficulties, always inspired by the biblical
invitation to maintain a vision as a people in order to
prevail as a nation.
I know that some here must have asked themselves
why I have not referred in this speech to the problem
with which my country is everywhere associated: the
problem of drug trafficking. I have not done so because
in Colombia we believe that we are entitled to be
recognized by other, positive factors: those that identify
us as an honest, hard-working people that offers respect
to friendly countries and expects respect in return.
Of course, we have struggled and will continue to
struggle out of conviction, while paying a high price to
fight the scourge of mankind that is drug trafficking. But
I must confess that we sometimes feel alone in this task.
We feel alone when we see the drug consumption rates
increase in countries that request our help to defeat a
problem whose origins and consequences concern all of
us. We feel alone, very much alone, when we see
mayors who are avowed chronic drug users elected by
popular vote. We feel alone when, after extensive efforts
to eradicate illicit crops, the doors are closed to us when
it comes to selling exactly those products that we have
managed to cultivate, with great effort, as alternative
crops.
Therefore, in the midst of this lonely struggle that
has left many victims dead in the fields, a struggle of
which I count myself a fortunate survivor, what many of
us want is for Colombia to be looked at from a different
perspective - that it be recognized for the soundness of its
economy, that Colombia be taken into account when it
comes to investment decisions. We want those present
here to get to know the Colombian people - my people.
We want visitors to see our country so that many more
people the world over will be as much in love with my
country as are those of us who were born, who live and
who will die in that privileged corner of Latin America -
Colombia.


===== Session 50 - 1995 =====
On behalf of my Government I congratulate
Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session,
a crucial time in the history of the Organization. I should
like at the outset to express our full readiness to make a
major contribution to the success of the deliberations under
his leadership.
I should also like to express our appreciation and
gratitude to Minister Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for his
excellent performance as President of the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session.
The peoples of the world believed that the end of the
cold war would bring peace and prosperity — and they are
still waiting. Indeed the changes that have taken place in
international relations have not been accompanied by
changes of a similar magnitude in the relations between the
industrialized North and the impoverished South. On the
contrary, the situation of developing countries, far from
having improved, is deteriorating further. The international
trade system does not meet the expectations that there
would be access to markets and transparency in the rules of
the game. Poverty has not been reduced, social
development is at a standstill, the scientific and
technological development of the South continues to lag
and the external debt problem is still a heavy burden on our
economies.
It is our duty now to realize the dream of those who
wrote the San Francisco Charter — something that has been
postponed for 50 years by a cold war and dozens of
regional conflicts and overshadowed by the grief of the
victims of armed conflicts.
The period of transition through which the
international system is passing should not lead us to accept
so-called unilateral solutions to problems that are global in
nature nor to permit the emergence of a new era of
intervention in matters that lie within the domestic
jurisdiction of States. There is an imperative need to
concert policies and coordinate strategies to face
international problems and to foster constructive links
between North and South.
The United Nations, which was a stage for the cold
war, must now cooperate in eradicating poverty, in
making sustainable human development viable, in
guaranteeing equality of rights between men and women
and in giving full effect to human rights — in other
words, it must work on behalf of human beings — all
human beings — without distinction of any kind
whatsoever. The United Nations has the responsibility to
strive to make the hopes and expectations that arose at the
end of the cold war a reality and not the source of new
frustrations.
The current situation requires a modern United
Nations attuned to the new times, a pluralistic and
democratic Organization that will be an instrument for the
promotion of a world order that can make the right to
development a reality and achieve peace. The building of
a new international system to replace the hegemonic,
weapons-based and unilateral practices of the past is a
goal towards which we must work from within this
Organization.
The international system we aspire to create is one
compatible with interdependence and autonomy, with the
strengthening of the international organization and with
full respect for the sovereign equality of States, one
compatible with economic development and devoted to
the significant improvement of the living conditions of the
poorest segments of the population.
It is indispensable to forge a new economic model
that can satisfy the needs of our people, one characterized
by social justice and equity, efficiency and
competitiveness. At the same time, we are convinced that
genuine and representative democracy, free from foreign
interference, must be the key element in preserving peace
and observing the basic principles of respect for the
fundamental rights of the human person and of economic
and social development.
For the preservation of peace, security and
international stability it is indispensable that the nuclear-
weapon States act responsibly and immediately
discontinue nuclear testing. In this regard, we deplore the
recent nuclear tests that have been carried out,
notwithstanding the opposition of the international
community to that practice.
Next month the Eleventh Summit Meeting of the
members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries will
take place in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia. My country
looks forward to the attendance of leaders of developing
32


nations and is prepared to shoulder the creative challenge
of presiding over the Movement for the next three years.
In recent decades, under the leadership of His
Excellency President Soeharto of Indonesia, the Non-
Aligned Movement adopted a new course, one in tune with
current reality, abandoning the confrontational context in
favour of cooperation as the central focus of its action. We
shall continue to pursue that task with enthusiasm.
With the same determination with which it succeeded
in its struggle against colonialism, the non-aligned countries
must now face the challenge of eradicating poverty and
closing the vast gap between rich and poor and between
developed and developing countries.
In the twenty-first century non-alignment will mean a
commitment to peace and to the well-being and progress of
our peoples, as well as action against poverty and
marginalization. It will also entail a commitment to
cooperation in dealing with global problems and a struggle
for participation and against unilateralism and imposition.
In facing the next century, non-alignment must
participate actively in the reform of international
institutions, including the United Nations and the Bretton
Woods institutions. Non-alignment must also promote the
needed changes in the structures of cooperation and the
dynamic modalities by which developed countries and
international institutions provide resources for the
implementation of projects and programmes of South-South
cooperation.
One of the global problems that calls for an effective
multilateral strategy headed by the United Nations is that of
illegal drugs. This is not an issue that can be dealt with by
a single country or small group of nations. This is a
transnational crime of vast proportions, overwhelming
dimensions and the greatest perils. It is a crime without
nationality.
We Colombians have suffered more than anyone from
the devastating effects of this problem. We have suffered
death and corruption as a consequence of the huge profits
to be derived from this illegal activity. We find it
surprising, therefore, to note that the international
community is not fully aware of the real nature and
dimensions of the problem of illicit drugs.
We are dealing with an illegal economic activity with
dimensions that have been compared with those of the oil
industry. It is seven or eight times greater than the gross
national product of a nation like Colombia; it operates in
dozens of countries and entails a number of linked
activities, including money laundering and the deviation
of chemical precursors. Such linked activities generally
take place in developed countries and are as important as
the growing of coca leaves or their transformation into
cocaine.
Many studies indicate an increase in the
consumption of illegal drugs in industrialized countries as
well as an increase in new markets throughout the world.
World statistics demonstrate that deaths from drug abuse
have trebled since 1988 and that an increase of 1000 per
cent has been observed in medical emergencies due to
cocaine overdose between 1978 and 1993.
My country has battled, with more success than any
other, against the producers of and traffickers in illegal
drugs. Colombia eradicated marihuana crops in the 1970s,
destroyed the Medellín Cartel in the 1980s and dismantled
the Cali Cartel in the 1990s.
Colombia is responsible for more than 50 per cent of
the poppy crops eradicated worldwide and for the
confiscation of more than a quarter of the total amount of
cocaine and cocaine base seized globally.
The eradication of illegal crops in Colombia must be
accompanied by similar efforts to bring about the
eradication of marihuana crops in other countries,
including in some industrialized countries in the North.
During the first year of President Ernesto Samper’s
Administration, the anti-drug cartel policy has produced
results that no prior administration in Colombia, or in any
other nation, has been able to achieve.
Thanks to Colombia’s success, the world now has a
historic opportunity to defeat drug trafficking once and
for all. Yet this opportunity could be missed if adequate
measures are not immediately adopted to combat money
laundering, the deviation of precursor chemicals and
permissive consumption.
My country has proposed creating a special unit of
the Economic and Social Council to oversee measures of
international cooperation, the adoption of an inter-
American convention against money laundering and the
convening in 1997 of an international conference to
evaluate the results of the Vienna Convention and to
make the necessary adjustments to it.
33


There is still time for the international community to
face up to its responsibility to bring about the final defeat
of this international scourge.



===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
﻿Allow me at the outset, Sir, to congratulate you
on your election as President of the current session of the
General Assembly. I salute you in my capacity as Chairman
of the Non-Aligned Movement, which has found in your
background a close identity with the defence of the interests
of the developing countries. The same is true of the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who
honoured us with his attendance at the last Non-Aligned
Movement summit, held at Cartagena de Indias.
Over the past several years in Colombia, we have been
waging a difficult war against drug trafficking. In that
battle, judges, police officers, journalists and innocent
civilians have lost their lives: more than 20,000 people in
the last 10 years. In fact, last week in the southern part of
the country more than 50 soldiers of the Colombia army
who were destroying illicit crops and cocaine processing
laboratories in the jungle region were massacred by
guerrillas engaged in the defence of drug trafficking
interests. The mother of one of those murdered young
men — a 17-year-old soldier — asked me the following
day with tears in her eyes: “Why”?
Allow me today to try to answer that mother and all
those who have been victims of this war, not only in
Colombia, but around the world. Values, democracy and
national security are threatened. We are waging this war
to preserve and protect those values; to protect and
preserve our youth and our democratic form of
government; but above all to protect our national security.
No country in the world must ignore the battle against
drugs. This war is occurring today in every country,
owing to the broad power of powerful international
criminal and terrorist organizations which have extended
their tentacles over the entire planet.
Now that the cold war has ended, the United Nations
and the world must design and develop a strategy to put
an immediate end to the greatest threat to the world’s
security and stability today: the threat of drugs. It is an
epidemic that, more than any other war, can undermine
the value structure which supports the governability of
democratic systems.
As we prepare for the twenty-first century, I invite
all world leaders present or represented here today, to a
collective and above all sincere reflection on this


proposal, which Colombia presents with the moral authority
it has been granted, having been the nation which has
suffered most, which has invested most, and which has paid
the highest social and economic costs in this struggle
against drug trafficking.
In recent years, Colombia has spent 14 times more
resources fighting drug trafficking than what is invested
annually by the international community through the United
Nations system for the same purpose. Thanks to this
determined effort, Colombia has been able to avoid the
annual distribution throughout the world of more than
6 billion doses intended for drug users.
I, too, have been a victim of drug trafficking. Several
years ago I was the target of an assassination attempt that
almost cost me my life. I received 11 bullet wounds, and
still carry four bullets in my body. More recently I fell
victim to another assassination attempt, this time of a moral
nature. I was accused of having allowed money from a
cartel to infiltrate my campaign. Despite that, from the very
first day of my Administration we have worked
successfully to arrest the criminals and completely destroy
the powerful Cali cartel.
I thank God that I survived that assault too. The
Congress of the Republic of Colombia, which, under our
Constitution is the judge of the President, completely
exonerated me of all charges after a long trial that I
personally requested be held in public. Barely 48 hours ago,
before coming to the Assembly, I was the victim of yet
another attempt. Heroin was smuggled onto my aeroplane
in order to shame Colombia and its democratic
Government. This new attempt proved that the criminal
organizations have the power and the capability to penetrate
almost every institution in our society, anywhere in the
world. However, I stand here today, before this world
Assembly of democracy, with complete dignity because
nobody will stop me from presenting to the world
Colombia’s proposals to deal with the drug organizations.
I am speaking to the Assembly today bearing the
painful scars of those encounters. Similar scars are borne
by all Colombians who have been physically injured by
drug terrorism or morally wounded by international
misunderstanding. I am not here to complain; I am here to
propose a solution to this modern-day epidemic. I am
convinced that the world is losing the war against drugs.
The solution will have to be as global as the problem itself.
It will have to be as swift and irreversible as the damage
that drugs and crime are causing to the minds of the young
drug users of the world.
The achievements of Colombia and other countries
do not imply that the problem of drug trafficking has
been eradicated throughout the world. The drug problem
will be resolved only when all countries, without
exception and without hypocrisy, shoulder their own
responsibilities, which cannot be delegated to others.
To achieve this, we must set out the parameters for
a great anti-drug alliance, which include immediate and
decisive action. If we do not accomplish this, drug
trafficking, the most sinister transnational enterprise in the
world, whose resources equal $500 billion per year —
more than those of the world-wide petroleum industry —
will continue to corrupt and contaminate our peoples.
The statistics on international action to date are not
very encouraging. Drug use continues to increase under
the tolerant attitudes of some Governments, and the level
of drug seizures and confiscation barely exceeds 10 per
cent of the total of such drugs circulating in the world. In
the face of this demoralizing reality we have only two
alternatives: mutual recrimination, or cooperation. Either
we continue to criticize each other, or we work together.
Multilateral focus on the problem is the only alternative;
interventionism is not the way. The only end that
unilateral or interventionist measures achieve, as we have
seen recently, is to break mutual trust, weaken the ability
of Governments to take action, and open the way for the
consolidation of criminal organizations.
Colombia proposes an agenda of global action
against drugs, based on the principles of shared
responsibility, equality and an integrated approach: shared
responsibility, because we are all responsible for the
problem of ethical, political, social and economic
contamination produced by drug trafficking throughout
the world; equality, because no country should assume the
right to judge the conduct of another on a subject that
involves the responsibility of all on standards of
behaviour that are worldwide and collective; and
integration, because every phase of the process — from
agricultural production, to industrial processing, transport,
distribution, consumption, and money laundering — must
be addressed simultaneously, and with the same energy.
Colombia wants to be part of the solution. We do
not want to continue to be demonized by the world when,
in fact, we are victims, as all peoples are. The issues for
the global agenda against drugs are as follows: first, with
regard to the establishment of a social machinery for the
eradication of illegal crops, it is not enough to eradicate
2


such crops if we are not capable of offering alternative
solutions for small peasant farmers.
Colombia endorses the innovative proposal of French
President Jacques Chirac to create a mechanism to enable
the purchase of produce grown as alternatives for illegal
crops at prices that closely approximate those paid for coca,
opium poppies and marijuana. The establishment of this
mechanism should be accompanied by a commitment to
aerial and manual eradication over five years, which would
lead to the elimination of these illicit crops throughout the
world.
Secondly, we need controls on the trafficking of
chemical precursors and weapons, which are speeding drug
trafficking and the violence that it generates. The United
Nations system must define, within the framework of the
Vienna Convention, specific guidelines to regulate the pre-
shipment certification of chemical precursors to
drug-producing countries, and contribute to producing
effective systems to control arms sales to those same
destinations.
As regards a mandate to combat money laundering,
only decisive action against the profits generated by the
drug business can stop the recycling of these resources into
production and distribution centres. Eighty per cent of drug
trafficking money circulates through the economic and
financial channels of the industrialized nations. We need
much stricter controls on the banking system and on
industries whose smuggling of goods and services are being
used to launder this drug money.
We propose that the mandate of the European
agreement governing money laundering, investigation,
seizure and forfeiture of assets derived from drug
trafficking be extended to the global level. Concurrently, we
should expand globally those decisions reached at the
World Ministerial Conference on Organized Transnational
Crime held at Naples in 1994.
As regards a worldwide intelligence centre for
cooperation in operations against cartels and drug
trafficking networks, we believe that in dealing with
international crime which starts in one place, continues in
another and ends at the point of consumption, the combined
action of all countries is required to develop the necessary
intelligence and police operations to seize shipments,
dismantle networks and pursue domestic drug dealers and
distributors. Colombia proposes such an organization of a
worldwide intelligence centre against drugs. This centre
would coordinate the collection of evidence from every
police force in the world to fight the unified multinational
drug traffickers with an equally unified response.
As regards programmes which effectively curb
demand, statistics worryingly show that consumption is
growing, not declining, and that it is doing so in the most
vulnerable sectors of our society: among young people
and ethnic minorities. Unless we curb demand, the task of
fighting supply will be ineffective in achieving a
definitive solution to the problem.
One cannot place the entire burden of drug fighting
on drug-producing countries, which are the weakest link.
We are speaking of a market that must be controlled from
both sides. Starting with an agreement on the goals for
the reduction of consumption, we propose the adoption of
an integrated plan that includes prevention campaigns,
action by non-governmental organizations and public
health initiatives accompanied by stricter laws against the
distribution and consumption of illegal drugs.
Finally, we propose a world treaty of judicial
cooperation in the war against drugs and terrorism which
must have no frontiers. Recognizing the sovereign right
of every nation to apply justice in its own territory for
crimes committed within its boundaries, no nation should
agree to be used as a refuge or sanctuary for organized
crime. Judicial reciprocity and assistance in the exchange
of evidence, the criminalization and judicial seizure of
assets derived from drug trafficking and terrorism,
extradition and the creation of high-security prisons with
standards subject to international monitoring must be an
integral part of this strategy.
Without undermining bilateral or regional
agreements, these judicial cooperation agreements would
establish the basis for the eventual formation of an
international tribunal against organized crime. Signatory
countries would submit international criminals such as
arms dealers, drug traffickers, money launderers and
terrorists to the jurisdiction of this tribunal according to
the terms of their participation agreements.
Colombia proposes to this Assembly the formation
of a group of experts who would be charged with
developing a timetable and action plan for this proposed
global agenda for the war against drugs. An initial review
of the group’s progress could be made at the 1998 special
session of the General Assembly which has been
proposed by the Government of Mexico. The group of
experts should be formed in four months’ time, and
Colombia will be pleased to host its first meeting. I call
3


on world leaders to communicate to Colombia their
recommendations on how best to organize the work of this
group of experts.
The globalization of problems in today’s world is
taking place much faster than the globalization of solutions.
Terrorism, and drugs and arms trafficking do not respect
either national boundaries or barriers. Developing countries
have fewer opportunities and more limited resources to
confront the invasive power of these threats, in the face of
which there are neither weak nor strong, only victims.
I invoke the memory of those killed by these wars
which will also exist in the next century. I invoke our
children’s future, threatened by bombs, illegal drugs and
guns. I invoke the plain cause of the coexistence of the
world in order to commit ourselves to this formidable task
of blocking the path of organized crime which today
challenges our right to govern the world in peace. Finally,
I invoke the tears of all the mothers and youths of the
world who have been sacrificed in the fight against drugs
or through their use. May God illuminate our path that we
may continue this battle.









===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿As President of Colombia and Chairman of the
Non-Aligned Movement, I would like to extend to you,
Sir, my sincere congratulations on your appointment to
preside over this most important session, and I also wish
to thank Ambassador Razali for his diligence in
performing his duties during the fifty-first session of the
Assembly.
Over the decades the United Nations has shown that
its founders were not mistaken when they entrusted to it
the mission of developing a new model of co-existence
for our planet, thanks to which we defeated colonialism,
fought against apartheid, prevented territorial
confrontations, extended our hand to help children,
defended the rights of women and protected the
environment.
However, we find ourselves today at a crossroads
similar to that which led us to sign the San Francisco
Charter. The globalization of the world has brought about
the internationalization of problems such as drug
trafficking, terrorism and corruption, all of which
seriously threaten our systems.
Certain industrialized nations are behaving selfishly
in defining new rules of the game for free economies.
Unilateralism and conditions imposed by the powerful
upon others are rampant throughout the world. The spare
capacity of the military industrial complex since the cold
war is encouraging the beginning of a dangerous arms
race. The open wound of foreign debt is still an obstacle
to the development of many of the poorest countries. The
violation of human, political, social and economic rights
is also the order of the day.
The new United Nations, which the Secretary-
General has proposed we should reflect upon as the
century comes to an end, will surely not deal only with
armed conflicts. We must be prepared to face other
kinds of war: social war against poverty; judicial war
against organized crime; political war against
interventionism in our sovereign economies; and moral
war against the violation of human rights.
We cannot yet assert that the process of
globalization really represents progress for all of
humankind. While globalization has generated great
economic and technological advances, such progress
continues to be the privilege of the industrialized
nations and very small segments of the population of
the rest of the world. True progress for humanity
cannot be brought by phenomena which generate new
and more profound imbalances in the quality of life for
individuals. We must work hard to ensure that States
and multilateral organizations such as the United
Nations, direct their efforts to guaranteeing that the
benefits of globalization do not remain in the hands of
a few.
Therefore, any reform of the United Nations must
begin with the return of the concept of solidarity which
inspired the San Francisco agreements, and which is the
very raison d’etre of our Movement. We want not more
summits, but more compliance with the summits not yet
complied with; a summit on compliance with other
summits would be welcome.
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) is not being properly complied with.
Important members have yet to ratify the Chemical
Weapons Convention. There seems to be no interest in
making progress on fundamental agreements to restrict
the conventional arms markets run by the world’s
merchants of war. Government aid, as a proportion of
the resources transferred to developing countries by
developed nations, has dropped from 42 per cent to 24
per cent in recent years. Funds for military operations
within the United Nations system have increased 17
times compared with increases in funds for social
programmes.
We must find new paths for the United Nations to
follow. The reform of the United Nations system
proposed by the Secretary-General must encompass all
spheres of the United Nations system as a whole.
In the first place, there is the economic sphere.
The Bretton Woods organizations — the World Bank
and the International Monetary Fund — which were
born as part of the agreement of March 1946, have
6


progressively been removing themselves from the original
direction exercised by this Assembly over their economic
and social policies. They have ended up by configuring a
development model which they impose on developing
economies, without those economies being able to discuss
their own priorities. Reform should include matters such
as having greater international liquidity, greater flexibility
in the management of multilateral debt, concessionary
credit flows for social investment and coordination with
economic bodies representing the interests of developing
countries, such as the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the Economic and
Social Council and the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO).
The situation of the United Nations social sphere is
the most worrisome. The greatest burden of the
Organization’s budgetary crisis has fallen upon the bodies
involved, whose financing has dropped by many millions
of dollars during the present decade. Some developed
countries have inexplicably withdrawn from bodies
devoted to children, culture, population, employment and
the environment, such as the United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF), the International Labour Organization
(ILO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the World Food
Programme (WFP) and the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme. The report of the Secretary-
General contains interesting proposals to restore the
activities of such bodies, which constitute the very heart
of the United Nations.
In a world where 1.3 billion people still survive on
less than a dollar a day, in a world where, for the price
of one combat plane, 57,000 children in Africa can be
fed for a year, it is impossible to conceive of a reform of
the United Nations whose priority is not to strengthen the
work of its institutions and programmes dedicated to
social issues.
Finally, there is the matter of the political
relationship between the Assembly and the Security
Council. The proposed strengthening of the Security
Council cannot be carried out at the expense of taking
power away from this Assembly, the highest democratic
body of the system. Any expansion of the Council must
take into account that developing countries by their
nature and as spokesmen for various regions of the
world, need to have greater representation. The
instrument of the veto should be abolished because it is
anti-democratic, since it places in the hands of one
country the power to ignore the will of the majority. If
the veto cannot be eliminated, it should be restricted to
those matters truly fundamental for world security, and
the right to appeal vetoes before judicial or political
bodies, such as this Assembly, should be established.
A few months ago the Secretary-General presented
to the United Nations a very interesting proposal for the
reform for the Organization. The Non-Aligned
Movement, which I represent, is reviewing this
initiative and considers that a number of its proposals
would contribute to the revitalization of the United
Nations.
We do not want a United Nations divided between
rich and poor, with Members having first- and second-
class status according to their economic contributions.
The United Nations is not a private company, but the
forum of solidarity in which all the countries of the
world come together.
I wish to take this opportunity to appeal to the
United Nations, and the international community at
large, to confront the grave problem of arms
proliferation with a clear and well-defined strategy that
will lead us to concrete results. To that end, I wish to
propose five points for effectively dealing with of this
matter.
First, I propose the declaration by the developing
countries of a two-year, worldwide moratorium on the
high-technology-weapons trade.
Secondly, I propose the expansion of the United
Nations Register of Conventional Arms to include light
weapons, as well as production and storage, with a
view to strengthening its role as a means of promoting
confidence.
Thirdly, I propose that the Governments of arms-
producing countries commit themselves to the
establishment of a moratorium on the sale of high-
technology weapons in regions in conflict, as well as to
converting their weapons-production industrial capacity
and workforce to other economic sectors.
Fourthly, I propose the follow-up and verification
of all multilateral commitments and existing treaties in
this area.
Fifthly, I propose that the regulation of trade in
light arms, as well as in high-technology weaponry,
7


should be a subject of deliberations at the fourth special
session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament.
This initiative is designed to deal with the various
facets of the grave phenomenon of arms proliferation,
which — besides draining vast resources that could be
devoted to the social and economic development of our
peoples — constitutes the most dangerous threat to the
peace and security of the world.
Much water has flowed under the bridge that we
built in San Francisco half a century ago to make the
world a better place to live.
We have, without any doubt, progressed, but we
cannot claim to be satisfied despite what we have
achieved. So long as there is a sad, hungry child in the
world, there will be a United Nations. So long as there is
a weapon raised to kill a neighbour, there will be a
United Nations. So long as entire populations are
displaced from their homes by violence, hunger and
intolerance, there will be a United Nations. So long as
thousands of young people do not have access to
education because they must struggle every day to
survive, there will be a United Nations. So long as the
whims of the powerful continue to defy the aspirations of
the powerless, there will be a United Nations. So long as
drugs on the streets threaten the future of our children,
there will be a United Nations. So long as terrorists and
violators of human rights continue to run loose, there will
be a United Nations. So long as there is a need for
solidarity, love and joy in the world, there will be a
United Nations.








===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
Mr. President, as I address the Assembly for the
first time as President of Colombia, I should like to offer
you, on behalf of my Government, our warmest
congratulations on being elected to guide our debates
during this session.
A few weeks ago, the most important democratic
elections in Colombia’s recent history took place. Despite
the problems that have besieged our nation in the last few
years, our institutional structure has faced one of the
sternest tests ever and has again shown that it is solid. In
June, more than 12 million people — one of the highest
electoral turnouts in the history of the Republic —
expressed their free, spontaneous and conscious choice.
Today, Colombia is looking towards new horizons.
We have restored confidence in our country. We have
started the changes which will enable us to face our
internal problems with determination and which will win
us a more positive and dynamic place in the international
community.
Our most urgent task will be to build for peace. That
is the unshakable commitment of my Government and the


heartfelt desire of all of the Colombian people. We are
aware that any process designed to root out the causes of
conflict for all time will be highly complex. But all our
efforts will be dedicated to this noble goal, and we will
strive for it tirelessly.
It is for this reason that I have personally taken the
lead in building peace. We are working hard on the
preparation of an agenda for this purpose. We are
convinced that representatives of all sectors of society
should play a part, and that at the end of the road we will
find a guiding light that will lead our country again to
peaceful coexistence. Peace in Colombia will also be
founded on a clear strategy for economic development and
a bold policy for social justice. Only in this way will it be
possible to forge a fruitful and lasting peace.
As we travel the road to peace the support of the
international community will complement our own efforts.
We will advocate respect for fundamental rights and
full application of international humanitarian law among all
those involved in conflict. We will learn from the valuable
experiences of other countries in the solution of internal
conflicts, and we will adopt whatever is applicable and
appropriate to our own situation.
Peace in Colombia will demand very substantial
investments in social sectors and infrastructure in the zones
of conflict. For this, we will create a “Peace Fund”. A
significant portion of the money required will come from
internal sources. We will also be looking for contributions
from the international community, from which we have
already received expressions of encouragement, solidarity
and interest.
All these actions will be part of what we have termed
“diplomacy for peace”. It will be diplomacy with social and
economic content. It will be diplomacy expressed in
investment and in the mobilization of human, technical and
financial resources, so that our peace will have a firm and
lasting foundation.
The achievement of peace in Colombia will be an
important initial contribution to the liberation of mankind
from one of the twentieth century’s greatest evils: the
global problem of illicit drugs. To the extent that we can
find agricultural alternatives for our peasant farmers, with
fair prices for their products at home and abroad, they will
become less dependent on illicit crops. The support of the
international community will be crucial in this. The
eradication of illicit crops will be one of the central
elements of the peace talks that we intend to undertake
with the groups engaged in armed conflict.
It is true that the end of East-West confrontation
brought into being a system of international relations
based on détente and on a decline in the role that military
power had played during the cold war. The spectre of a
nuclear cataclysm seemed to have vanished, and all
humanity embraced new hopes for the future.
It was thought that the end of the cold war would be
the salvation of the many countries and the millions of
people who had been forgotten in the midst of tensions
and feuds between the two superpowers. But now, almost
10 years later, those initial expectations are far from
becoming a reality. Ethnic and religious rivalries, regional
confrontations and grave new threats to peace have
emerged.
I must say most clearly that my Government and the
people of Colombia absolutely reject all kinds and modes
of terrorism, whatever their origin or motive. There can
be no truce with terrorism. All States must fight together
to defeat it. This is surely one of our greatest challenges.
Corruption is buffeting democracy in a growing
number of countries and is becoming a cause of political
and social breakdown. Illicit drugs continue to be one of
the worst scourges of today’s society, bringing irreparable
harm to the new generations and, therefore, to the future
of humanity.
Human rights are still not properly respected.
Women are still the target of abuse and discrimination.
Children are the victims of disgraceful practices. Fifty
years after the adoption of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, the more vulnerable groups often have no
access to the protection that States are obliged to provide
for them.
Unsustainable consumer and production practices
still continue. The planet’s natural resources are being
depleted, its biological wealth is being looted, and our
rivers and oceans are being contaminated. Poverty
continues to affect huge segments of society. Economic
growth in some countries and the prosperity of some
levels of society contrast dramatically with the
marginalization suffered by the majority of the world’s
population.
This situation is occurring in an international
environment in which the right to development is
2


indissolubly linked to the existence of a favourable
international climate. We are going through the most
serious financial crisis since the end of the cold war, but
there does not yet seem to be sufficient clarity and political
will to face it and overcome it.
All Latin America has voiced its concern at the gravity
of the crisis. Its origins are outside our region, in which
countries have made structural reforms to achieve healthy
economies that will enable them to meet the social
expectations of their peoples.
We are aware of the risk of a world recession, and we
consider it essential that the more developed countries, the
Group of Seven and the international financial organs adopt
suitable measures to prevent any new collapse. Such a
disaster would irreversibly affect the developing countries
first. The measures should enable the financial markets to
recover their stability and provide a rapid solution to the
current crisis in the world economy that has caused so
much concern.
Among the proposals which Colombia made at the San
Francisco Conference and which were included in the
United Nations Charter, there are two I would now like to
mention, because they belong to the common heritage of
our foreign policy: first, compliance in good faith with the
obligations assumed by the Member States of the United
Nations, as an underlying assumption for the validity of its
universal action; and secondly, recognition of the role
played by regional arrangements and agencies in the
maintenance of peace, in international security as an
integrated concept and in the peaceful settlement of disputes
between States.
Colombia believes that universalism and regionalism
are complementary and should support each other
harmoniously. Therefore, one of the aims of our diplomacy
is to strengthen the regional agencies within the concept of
universalism. It is thus essential that we join our efforts to
regain the momentum achieved on the occasion of the
fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United Nations, so
that the Organization will be revitalized and ready for the
beginning of a new millennium.
The various levels of action required are all based on
the credibility of the multilateralism which the United
Nations embodies and the trust which our peoples have in
it. Some support the approval of certain reforms that the
experience of this period of history and the changes on the
world scene have in themselves made imperative. The
United Nations cannot be expected to possess magic
formulas that we ourselves do not have for solving
problems and situations that concern us all, within the
context of the interdependence and internationalization
characteristic of our times. But we certainly need to adapt
them to this moment in history, when we face such wide
horizons and colossal challenges. We need something of
the idealism and pragmatic spirit which could be inspired
by solidarity among the human race.
The reasons for the creation of the United Nations
not only remain intact, but also have rapidly even become
more relevant in the second half of the twentieth century.
The principles which inspired its creation have become so
important that any action taken unilaterally or by a group
of States turns out to be inadequate or limited in effect.
Therefore, it will be useful to identify what we can do to
make the proposed reforms truly worthwhile. One must
seek a genuine consensus for the agenda of priorities for
the new millennium.
Colombia is ready to help reconcile existing
disputes. This is not a question of a simple, formal
agreement or of a quest for utopian reform, but of a
meeting of wills and a methodical and open-minded
consensus regarding proposals which are designed to
bring us closer to an era of greater justice and balance.
We must eliminate the contradiction in which more
responsibilities, actions and programmes are demanded
from the United Nations while at the same time some
States fail to meet their obligations or do not show any
willingness to increase their contribution in proportion to
their capacity. Without doubt, the United Nations must be
properly funded. The adaptation of structures, regulations
and modes of operation means that the Organization must
have the personnel and the funds it needs, through
efficient and exemplary management.
Cooperation for development must receive a massive
injection to save it from decline, and this must be in
accordance with the text and spirit of the Charter and of
countless commitments, within an overall concept that
includes encouragement of respect for human, individual,
social, economic and cultural rights.
My Government has a policy of encouraging broader
participation by the new actors on the international stage,
such as non-governmental organizations and the private
sector. New sources of funding for certain social,
development and humanitarian programmes should be
sought, which should extend the scope of action of the
3


United Nations and ensure that it continues to steer the
common course of international solidarity.
We need multilateralism with social content, in which
the human being is the central priority and in which
development is the guiding principle in decisions. I stand
before you to appeal to all nations to contribute to the
burial of the post-cold-war period, to see it as no more than
an interregnum, and to open the door wide to an era of
creative and more humane multilateralism.
The original principles of the Organization are of
course still valid, but we need to make some adjustments.
We need to reconsider certain modes of international action
and heed the voices of the peoples who desire development
and fight for it in the midst of difficulty and conflict. We
need to strengthen communication and dialogue between
North and South and to correct unreasonable imbalances.
We believe that the time has come to make an
objective review of the present state of negotiations for the
reform of the Organization, in order to ensure that social
and economic matters are properly related to the legitimate
aspirations of developing nations. There must be
instruments to encourage rapport between the organs
originating from the San Francisco Charter and those
institutions born at Bretton Woods.
We know that the responses of individual nations or
groups of States are insufficient. Therefore, there is an even
more urgent need to coordinate global responses through
vigorous multilateralism. There is an obvious dichotomy
between de facto globalization, science and technology,
instantaneous communications and the world market, on the
one hand, and, on the hand, the absence of genuine social
order and human advancement.
We must revive an authentic and productive North-
South dialogue, based on a concept of solidarity which is
more substantial than declarations or good intentions and
which is expressed in specific action. It must take account
of the needs of the more vulnerable groups and of those
excluded from progress. It must replace the logic of
confrontation and of the division between poor and rich
countries with the logic of cooperation, shared
responsibility and solidarity inspired by justice as the
golden rule of multilateralism.
His Holiness Pope John Paul II summed up this
position perfectly on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary
of the United Nations, when, addressing this same
Assembly, he urged us to unite our efforts to build a
civilization of love, founded on the universal values of
peace, solidarity, justice and liberty, to overcome the fear
which darkens human existence at the end of the
twentieth century.
We firmly believe that the Charter and all the
institutions of the international system must promote
dynamic cooperation, each enriching the shared universal
heritage with its own particular character.
The United Nations must not be merely a forum for
the sovereign expression of States. It must be the place
for negotiation and synthesis in the political, cultural,
social and economic life of the nations.
It is reassuring to see that the grand designs that
inspired the Charter remain valid. It is now our task to
maintain them and to interpret the new situations that
arise in the course of history.
We know, for example, that conflicts within States
are conceptually different from the old wars between
States. We have a greater understanding of the link
between peace and development and of the way in which
politics and socioeconomic interests are related. We
believe that it is appropriate to consolidate a minimum
international order and to replace violence and terrorism
with peace and coexistence, which should then thrive
naturally through multilateralism.
Colombia encourages the efforts undertaken in arms
control, with the systematic quest for disarmament as the
ultimate goal, and supports the priority allocation of world
and regional resources to development. We believe that it
is therefore essential to make progress in the control and
gradual elimination of weapons of mass destruction and
to exercise effective control over the illegal arms trade, to
which thousands of men, women and children fall victim
daily throughout the world, and especially in the
developing countries.
We need a realistic and methodical strategy to secure
peace in our time and in the coming century. We need to
promote monitoring mechanisms for treaty compliance,
the negotiated solution of conflicts and the creation of
nuclear-free zones with effective verification systems. In
this respect, the United Nations will need to perfect early-
warning systems to evaluate events so that its actions will
be efficient and genuinely preventive.
I have come here today to reaffirm Colombia’s
unbroken tradition as a nation devoted to the great
4


principles that underpin the very existence of the United
Nations. We are prepared to offer, with thoughtful
optimism, our support for the achievement of its purposes
and its reforms. We believe it would be useful to review
and appraise the results of the various summits held in
recent years, so that we may follow up their results and
plans of action. This will serve both as a gauge of their
effectiveness and as the central element of the analysis of
the coordination of the various institutions of the United
Nations system as a whole.
Our people rightly demand more effective action and
less empty rhetoric. We cannot betray billions of human
beings who yearn for a world at peace, with democracy and
freedom, and above all just, united and equitable.










===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
Allow me, on
my own behalf and on behalf of my country, to express our
congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of
the General Assembly for the current session. I am certain
that, with a person of your qualities and experience at the
helm, the Assembly will achieve the desired results.
I wish to express my congratulations and gratitude
to your predecessor, my friend Chancellor Didier Opertti
of Uruguay, for his efficient work.
I would also like to express my appreciation to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan,
for his dedication and his contribution to the renewal of
the Organization, and to reiterate to him our confidence
in his work and his leadership.
This session of the General Assembly is the last one
of the twentieth century. In the last hundred years, despite
two disastrous global conflagrations, the nations of the
world have come to the collective realization that all wars
are civil wars, all killing is fratricidal, and that any minor
conflict could, by escalating to the nuclear level, spark
humankind’s final war. It has thus become clear that in
order to survive and prosper, nations must be united in a
basic agreement on the prevention of war and the
protection of human rights, with the preservation of the
human race as a first priority.
Today, on the eve of the new millennium, after half
a century marked by setbacks as well as by major
successes, the United Nations must renew its mandate as
a source of social and economic development and as a
force for peace.
Here I would prefer to avoid pro forma statements
and present instead some concrete and explicit
considerations, as we believe that this Organization must
be the catalyst of a fair and realistic response to the
challenges of our common destiny.
No one could argue with the lofty principles
underlying the Charter of the United Nations. Its
unquestioned universality is one of the characteristics of
the second half of the twentieth century. We agree that
respecting the Charter must mean, above all else, applying
those principles effectively, without interpreting them in
ways that distort the purposes of the Charter.
Our collective experience of over half a century has
shown that the proper application of the Charter of the
United Nations is indeed the best and safest way of
achieving and consolidating the benefits of world peace.
One of the Charter’s cherished principles is the obligation
of States not to interfere, directly or indirectly, in the
affairs of other States, as sovereign equality excludes
8


interference in the internal jurisdiction of other countries. It
also implies complying, in good faith, with agreed
commitments; observing the principles underlying them;
and simultaneously respecting freedoms and human rights.
This is a fundamental aspect of international affairs.
The founders of the United Nations — and my
grandfather was among them — were not mistaken in their
belief that international peace is based on the sovereignty
of Member States. Nor were they wrong when, ruling out
the unilateral use of threats and force against the integrity
and independence of States, they envisaged the use of
effective collective means.
Over the past year, we have worked with
determination to put an end to the 40-year-old conflict in
Colombia. We have reached agreement on an agenda for
negotiations between our Government and the Colombia
Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARC), the oldest and largest
of the guerrilla groups. But as the world knows, we are
negotiating in the midst of conflict, without benefit of a
ceasefire, so the killings, kidnappings and attacks by the
guerrillas and the “self-defence” groups are still taking a
high human, social and economic toll. Achieving peace will
require time, patience and optimism in order to successfully
overcome the obstacles and doubts inherent in this process.
When I last stood upon this rostrum, one year ago, I
outlined a new direction for my country: to work to put an
end to the corruption and violence in Colombia. I must
admit that the past year has been difficult; the challenges
we face are complex. The most important lesson we have
learned is that peace is a primary goal for Colombia. Not
peace at any price, but a genuine peace that strengthens our
democracy, preserves territorial unity and gives every
Colombian his or her rightful place in our common destiny.
The quest for peace is not limited to dialogue and
negotiation or to putting an end to armed conflict.
Achieving peace requires much more than convincing the
parties to sit at the negotiating table and reach
compromises. It requires rebuilding a society and State in
which the causes of conflict have been eradicated, which
strengthens the State and helps to create the foundations of
a stable and lasting peace.
We Colombians have taken seriously the responsibility
of achieving peace. As our recent history makes clear,
international support is also necessary for us to face our
challenges. Colombia needs financial support from
multilateral organizations, from friendly countries and from
non-governmental organizations to complement my
Administration’s efforts. Such support is key for
Colombia.
To this end, we have formulated a strategic package
for peace, economic prosperity and the strengthening of
the State; it is called Plan Colombia. It synthesizes our
economic, political and social views and aims to defend
Colombia from the threat of drug trafficking, to
strengthen our democratic institutions throughout the
national territory, and to guarantee the security of our
citizens and the full enjoyment of their rights and
freedoms. For that reason, we are counting on the
solidarity and contributions of the international
community.
Given the complexity of the process, it is clear that
cooperation for peace must be carried out with the utmost
caution. Careless actions can thwart these efforts. That is
why we are increasingly concerned by the groundless
rumours of alleged military interventions in Colombia,
whose supposed purpose is to help my country in the
struggle in which it is engaged.
I would like from this rostrum solemnly to state that
Colombia, true to the principles that govern our Republic,
rejects any foreign interference or intervention in its
internal affairs. We Colombians will work to overcome
our own challenges. These are times of cooperation, not
intervention.
My Government also believes that the peace process
is key in winning the fight against the worldwide problem
of drugs. That immoral trade, which ruins lives, fuels
violence, promotes corruption and destroys our ecosystem,
must be opposed by all nations, by all available means.
To that end, we must coordinate our efforts regarding
production and consumption as well as the numerous
links between these two evils.
Over the past two decades, Colombia has been on
the front lines of this battle, facing down the drug cartels
and their campaigns of intimidation and terror. In the
process we have lost many of our finest citizens, to whom
we owe an immeasurable debt of gratitude.
But as the major Colombian cartels are wiped out,
the illegal drug trade has become a kind of hydra — more
spread out, more international and less public, and
therefore more difficult to defeat. To vanquish it requires
a genuine partnership among the countries that consume
and produce illegal drugs, underpinned by the principles
of joint responsibility, reciprocity and fairness.
9


Increased efforts must also be made to confiscate from
drug traffickers the money and property they have obtained
from that illegal trade. In particular, we must fight the
smuggling of industrial products to Colombia, which serves
to launder drug money and ends up suffocating Colombia’s
industries. We must also halt the flow of precursor
chemicals needed for the production of narcotics. And
multinational corporations that benefit in one way or
another should be held accountable for not taking the
necessary precautions to prevent their helping and
participating in drug trafficking through negligence.
There will be no peace in Colombia as long as the
greedy businesses of drug trafficking and the black market
in weapons continue supplying irregular groups. We are
very concerned about the significant amounts of various
types of weapons illegally entering Colombian territory.
There is an urgent, inescapable need for all Governments to
cooperate to control and halt this unacceptable traffic in
death and destruction.
For the last two years, since the first shock wave of
the so-called Asian crisis, the economy has been suffering
the difficulties of instability and slow-down. This crisis has
shown that no State, however powerful, is immune, and that
the poor countries have suffered the most from its
consequences.
The hypothesis that capital flows would promote
accelerated and sustained economic growth has faded in the
light of the facts. We have seen the growth of enormous
sums of virtual money, whose uncontrolled movements
have brought economic turbulence, unemployment, more
poverty and even, in some cases, political instability. Latin
America has become the most recent victim of the crisis.
We must, therefore, give the most serious consideration and
priority to the design of a new financial structure. This will
be viable and efficient only if it involves increased
resources from multilateral financial institutions. It must
also involve support mechanisms to lessen the social impact
of structural adjustment programmes, especially those
affecting the most vulnerable. The Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi Annan, said so when he spoke about the need to
respect essential values to give a human face to the global
market.
At the end of the twentieth century, we are moving
into an era of powerful changes, accompanied by
worrisome tensions. Globalization is deepening, but it
coexists with forces that encourage fragmentation. As the
peace processes move forward in many regions, new
violence explodes in others. Wealth is expanding to
unprecedented levels, but alienation and poverty persist.
The technological means that promote interdependence
and development also support networks of organized
crime, drug trafficking, money laundering, terrorism and
arms trafficking. New struggles and conflicts have
appeared, some using means for which the international
community does not seem to be prepared.
Global confrontation is a thing of the past, as are the
old plots resulting from strife and spheres of influence.
These are times to think in terms of a real community of
nations, as competing partners, but mainly as partners that
share a common destiny.
There is, nevertheless, a perception that not
everything is going well. The world is still not satisfied
with itself. There are forces of destabilization and
imbalance which put at risk the achievements made to
date. Many millions still suffer from malnutrition,
illiteracy, disease and exclusion.
We must, therefore, revitalize international
cooperation to make the best of globalization, to distribute
its benefits more fairly so that development and peace can
complement each other efficiently and productively.
Revitalizing cooperation is not an option; it is a duty.
After over five decades of existence, the United
Nations has partially fulfilled its promise. It has been able
to avoid the horrors of a new world holocaust. But the
anticipated order, wherein the United Nations would
guarantee peace, security and development for all peoples,
remains to be built.
After the progress achieved with the Secretary-
General’s reform proposals, we see with great concern
that the pace of change has slowed. Reform must be a
continuing process. The United Nations must continue
adapting ever more effectively to new conditions and
realities. But this cannot simply take a form that is a
product of the post-cold-war era. We need a concerted
will. From various directions there are calls for the
Security Council to become more effective, to consult the
spirit of the Charter and to balance the realities of world
power with the just aspirations of those peoples which are
least strong.
The system of collective security is one of the
cornerstones of multilateralism. It is the rational response
to interventionist or isolationist tendencies, the maximum
guarantee of the principles to which we all adhere.
Colombia reiterates its confidence in these principles of
10


collective security and its commitment to work, decisively,
with the different sectors of the international community in
order to invigorate the capacity of the Security Council to
respond to problems and crises in all regions. That is why
my country has submitted its candidature for a seat on the
Council for the period 2001-2002.
The time for simple reform intentions is past. With the
arrival of the new millennium, the historic moment has
come to begin anew real negotiations in the different
institutions. We need to find genuinely universal paradigms
to ensure that multilateralism leads to the globalization of
solidarity. It is necessary to leave behind generalities or
fragmented criteria in order to find a comprehensive vision
of the United Nations system. A great effort of coordination
is required between these institutions and the new
international actors, including non-governmental
organizations, and the promotion of a real association
within a globalized but fairer system. The twentieth century
has demonstrated that, alongside the horror and cruelty,
there has prevailed what was once considered utopian: the
United Nations.
Our paramount commitment must be to the human
condition, the ethics and culture of peoples, solidarity and
respect for others, regardless of ethnic, ideological, religious
or any other considerations. We cannot give in until the day
when the freedom and democracy proclaimed in our
documents have become a universal reality. When we have
liberated the human spirit so that it may fully develop its
enormous potential, we will have laid the foundations of a
world truly at peace.
Colombia, amidst its difficulties and problems, does
not want to be, nor will it be, simply a witness to the
changes of these times. Colombia is not a military or
economic power. Nonetheless, it is respected by the
community of nations for its unlimited and unconditional
support for the norms and principles of international law.
We offer our contribution — modest, but part of the
common effort — to a better future for all mankind.












===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election as President of the General Assembly at the
current session. I am confident that under your able
guidance our deliberations will yield success. I also
wish to thank your predecessor for his leadership and
for the his exemplary work as President of the
Assembly during the fifty-fourth session. I also have
the honour to extend convey my greetings to the
Secretary-General and to acknowledge his firm
leadership and his continuing interest in the search for
practical and innovative solutions.
For Colombia, this session represents a historic
challenge: the challenge to forge new relationships
aimed at carrying out the mission agreed upon by heads
of State or Government at the Millennium Summit.
They have defined the parameters of the world in
which we wish to live and the conditions for creating a
new international political and economic order. My
country had the honour to submit the Cartagena de
Indias Declaration (A/54/929), a commitment adopted
by heads of State of the Rio Group, which enunciates
the aspirations of our region and is an exceptional
contribution to the future of the United Nations. We
will now undertake a careful follow-up of these
initiatives so as to translate them into realities for the
benefit of humankind.
Perhaps the dawn of the new millennium will
enable us to face this challenge with optimism, to
signal a break with the legacy of half a century and
with the many proposals that have so often met with
indifference. It represents an opportunity to translate
our collective aspirations into tangible reality.
In large part, our expectations relate to the
meaning and scope of globalization. Sweeping
revolutions are taking place in the fields of
transportation, communication and the electronic
media. Every day we are astonished by advances in
technology and by the discoveries of applied science.
The main purpose of the United Nations and of its
various forums and agencies is to channel this
enormous store of technological and scientific
knowledge towards the poorest and most vulnerable
sectors of the population.
Information technology is bringing structural
change to the international economy and unprecedented
opportunities to promote creative cultural interaction
among peoples. But the information revolution can also
become a source of exclusion. We face the risk of
creating a new form of illiteracy: cyber-illiteracy. We
must bridge the digital divide and convert information
technology into a positive factor for education and
poverty-reduction so that the information revolution
may become truly global. Failure to do so will increase
the gap between rich and poor.
One of our principal challenges is therefore to
globalize globalization and to make it an imperative for
the twenty-first century. It is, in other words, to bring
the benefits of this process to more regions, nations
and individuals by democratizing access to new
technologies, eliminating barriers to trade and
investment and recognizing that the resources with
which nature provides us are the common heritage of
future generations.
Here, preservation of the environment is a key
element. We have an obligation to respect nature and to
build a sustainable future. We must put an end to the
destruction being caused by the irrational use of natural
resources and by unsound patterns of consumption and
production. This requires greater political commitment
to control climate change, eliminate sources of water
pollution and put an end to the loss of our forests. The
provision of financial resources and transfer of
environmentally safe technologies are issues still to be
resolved. The international community must honour the
commitments it has assumed in this field before it is
too late.
For their part, the United Nations and the
multilateral financial institutions must develop a new
framework to prevent and respond to risks and
economic crises. We need a stable, ordered, transparent
and predictable financial system, one in which we can
strengthen our early warning capacity, effectively
control the volatility of capital flows and ensure
sufficient liquidity to provide timely support to
countries affected by crisis. Another urgent priority is
to create social protection networks that can be used in
times of financial crisis.
The beginning of the millennium is marked also
by new concerns and threats to peace and security. The
proliferation and illicit trade in small arms is one of
these. The illegal traffic in such arms has reached
31

unacceptable proportions; its impact has been even
more devastating than that of weapons of mass
destruction. Despite this, the international community
is not giving it the importance and priority which this
grave problem demands. Urgent and effective measures
are needed to halt and completely eliminate this illegal
trade.
Countries affected by this phenomenon must not
remain exposed to the criminal activities of the
networks of arms traffickers who, taking advantage of
the absence of monitoring and oversight mechanisms,
are causing irreparable damage to our societies.
Governments have the political and moral
responsibility to act decisively against illicit arms
exports and to bring all the force of the law to bear
against the merchants of death and violence who profit
from this nefarious trade. My country, Colombia, has
paid a very high price in human lives as a consequence
of this criminal activity.
Countries that are exporters of small arms must
establish controls on intermediaries and refrain from
authorizing sales if there is a risk of improper use.
There is a need for greater transparency and for the
exchange of information on the modalities and routes
of this trade. We must urgently create mechanisms to
provide financial and technical assistance so that
affected countries will be better able to implement
effective controls. We have a responsibility to ensure
that the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade
in Small Arms and Light Weapons in all its Aspects, to
be held in 2001, results in concrete commitments and
effective action.
The global problem of illicit drugs, for its part,
continues to be one of the most serious threats of our
time. It is a factor for violence and corruption,
economic disruption and impoverishment, erosion of
the social fabric and instability in democracies. It is
also a cause of alarming environmental disasters.
No nation has suffered as tragically as Colombia
from the consequences of this global problem. Every
day, lives are lost in Colombia through the action of
outlaw groups whose activities are financed from
resources obtained from the traffic in drugs. Now,
when all our efforts are focused on the difficult battle
against this problem, we need increased support and
the effective solidarity of the international community.
Only by accepting and fully implementing the
principle of shared responsibility will humankind be
able to free itself from the scourge of illicit drugs. We
ask for no more. Let us all assume the cost that is our
share to bear in order to wipe this illegal activity from
the face of the earth.
Colombia is making extraordinary efforts to
advance towards a solution to its internal conflict. It is
a fundamental objective that we will never renounce.
We are aware that the building of peace takes time, but
we are making steady progress. In the midst of the
complexities of our situation in Colombia, and despite
the cruelty of the present conflict, we have made
progress in confidence-building, in the dialogue, in the
discussion of the thematic agendas and in the
participation of civil society. We know full well that
the achievement of peace requires in-depth action in
the economic and social fields that could give real and
lasting content to these efforts.
A number of countries have joined in this
process, at the request of the Government. Today,
peace in Colombia is important for the world. I appeal
to the international community to reaffirm its solidarity
and offer its material support to our peace process.
One of the most important developments of the
last two decades has been the increasing commitment
to respect for human rights. We have made some
progress in defining economic and social rights as an
indivisible component of so-called traditional rights or
individual freedoms. The old objections that prevented
us from proclaiming the universal validity and
application of human rights are gradually losing way
and States have accepted their responsibility for
ensuring compliance.
In recent years, civil conflicts have become a
major expression of violence. International
humanitarian law is essential to deal with the
consequences of these confrontations. Its enforcement,
however, requires agreement on the minimum rules of
respect for the civil population and the interests of
States. The key to that enforcement is that
humanitarian law  its postulates, norms and
mechanisms  should be equally applied by all parties
in conflict.
The movements of people, including refugees or
migrants, must also be recognized as a priority issue.
They are protected by a concrete framework of human
rights. In a world that promotes the free movement of
capital and free trade, it is unacceptable that unjustified
32

restrictions continue to be applied to the movement of
people.
The solution to concrete problems on the
international agenda necessarily requires concerted
action and multilateralism; Colombia has always been
and will continue to be firmly committed to it. We
believe that this multilateralism can be supplemented
by convergent regional initiatives and bilateralism as
part of an approach to reduce distances and
imbalances  in other words, a multilateralism that
serves as a bridge for rapprochement, solidarity and
shared responsibility, concepts upon which the entire
building of the contemporary international order must
be constructed.
Our peoples, in whose name the Charter of the
United Nations was conceived, yearn to see how the
fulfilment of the purposes and functions of the United
Nations can be reflected in the satisfaction of their
hopes and aspirations. Even though in many respects
we are still far from this objective, we must preserve
the gains achieved. An attitude of passivity is not
convenient for the Organization. This Assembly must
adopt decisions to reactivate the process of United
Nations reform, on realistic grounds, but without
further delaying the measures that require urgent
implementation. There are many initiatives that can be
realized without the need for reform of the Charter. The
only thing required is the will to show solidarity and to
make timely political decisions.
The United Nations acts as the world's
conscience, requiring greater priority in order to meet
the needs of the poor countries. Strategies must be
urgently developed to mobilize funds to remove the
causes of underdevelopment. The growing gap between
the wealth of the prosperous and the poverty of those
who are marginalized from progress is in itself an
appeal for attention which should be listened to and
should lead to the translation of words into deeds.
In this connection, we welcome the growing role
being played by non-governmental organizations,
whose activities should be accompanied by a proper
definition of their responsibilities. For their part, the
transnational corporations, which play such an
important function in the global economy, should give
serious consideration to the United Nations through
financial support to the Organization, which is in
urgent need of additional resources. This support could
well be channelled towards United Nations poverty-
reduction programmes.
The reform of the Security Council continues to
be one of the principal reforms anticipated from the
expected adjustment of multilateral political
institutions. But in this area we need a gradual, less
maximalist approach. Formulas must be explored to
ensure greater participation of developing countries.
We must take effective steps to promote greater
representativity in the Council, on the understanding
that this does not constitute a privilege, but rather a
responsibility. Broader regional representation,
restrictions on the use of the veto and greater
transparency in the decision-making process could
bring the Security Council closer to a reality that is not
the same now in the twenty-first century as it was in
1945.
The election of new members to the Council will
take place in a few weeks. Colombia has the support of
Latin America and the Caribbean to be elected as a
non-Permanent Member of this important organ. Once
our entry is approved by the General Assembly, we will
assume this responsibility as of 1 January. It will be an
opportunity to reaffirm Colombia's commitment to, and
confidence in, multilateralism and its resolute and
unconditional commitment to the norms and principles
of international law. We will also reaffirm our
conviction that peaceful and negotiated solutions to
disputes and respect for international humanitarian law
by all parties to a conflict are essential in order to build
firm and lasting foundations for peace and security. We
will promote better functioning of the Council,
especially in terms of information and consultation
with States that are not part of that organ, and we will
foster a more permanent and closer relationship with
the General Assembly as the supreme organ of the
United Nations.
Never before has humankind had the prospect
like the one now afforded at the beginning of the new
millennium to make steady progress towards peace,
progress and international stability. It is an opportunity
for the leaders of the world to make a decisive political
step in that direction. Let us give our peoples new hope
that the change in the millennium will signify not
merely a chronological change but also the beginning
of a true political and social transformation. Only thus
will future generations recognize that we had the
courage to assume our obligations with responsibility.

===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿Allow me, on behalf of the Government of Colombia,
to express our satisfaction at your assumption of the
presidency of this session of the General Assembly.
Your experience and leadership are valuable credentials
for bringing our deliberations to a fruitful result. I wish
also to pay tribute to your predecessor, the Minister of
Foreign Affairs of Finland, His Excellency Mr. Harri
Holkeri, whose diplomatic skills contributed decisively
to the Assembly’s work.
I want, further, to speak of the Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, whose authority, dedication and
5

meaningful contribution will serve as inspiration for
the decisions that Member States must take at this
session.
Let me take this opportunity to reiterate our
satisfaction at the honour accorded to the United
Nations and to the Secretary-General through the
award of the Nobel Peace Prize. That was a well-
deserved tribute to our Organization, to the values
shared by its Member States, and, in particular, to the
Secretary General, whose personal commitment and
visionary approach have given new life to the United
Nations and have helped to consolidate its international
credibility. That decision was more than an
acknowledgement of past achievements; it provided
encouragement that inspires the work of the United
Nations in the light of the challenges of the new
millennium.
Two months ago the entire world was shaken by a
series of unprecedented terrorist acts. We have all
spoken of the dreadful effects of these attacks. We have
all expressed our solidarity to the people of the United
States. And we all agree that those irrational acts not
only affected one single country but were in fact an
attack against all mankind. But we must go even
further; we must understand why such events occurred
and what we must do to ensure that similar acts never
happen again – never again.
The tragedy of 11 September had the positive
effect of uniting us all against a common enemy:
terrorism. And it did something else: it removed the
dissembling from our words; it stripped the hypocrisy
from our discourse; it moved us out of the world of
grey tones to which we were so accustomed. Now we
must work to replace it with a black-and-white world
that is free of ambiguity.
And what were those greys that are so evident
today? They were the ambiguities we all expressed in
respect of violence and the money that finances it. In
the past, when an act against civilians anywhere in the
world suited our interests, we would speak of a
humanitarian crisis, of defending democracy, of
reasons of State. And we continued on impassively,
with a clear conscience. But when an act against
civilians anywhere did not suit our interests, we would
take a firm stand, we would react with indignation and
we would speak of terrorism, of attacks against
mankind, of treacherous attacks against democracy and
human rights.
Let there be no more ambiguity or equivocation.
The time has come to define our position, with no
vague half answers: either we side with mankind, its
dignity and its integrity, or we do not.
Whenever human dignity or civilians are
attacked, that is an act of terrorism. It does not matter
whether it is perpetrated by a group of religious
fanatics or by an organization claiming to have
political ideals. There is no pretext for attacking
defenceless civilians. The dividing line is very clear:
either we respect human life and dignity or we stand
against humankind.
The horrendous acts of 11 September do not
represent a collision of civilizations, religions or
cultures. The only collision is between a violent
fanatical minority on the one hand, and all forms of
civilization on the other. We cannot accept any further
attempts to justify violence. No matter how much it
costs us — even if it goes against our present
interests — there is something far more valuable than
anything else in the world: human life and human
dignity.
Today, we must all stand together and
unreservedly condemn all acts of violence against any
human being, regardless of the pretext. If we do not
cast our lot in favour of mankind and human values,
what will be left for us? What right will we have to call
ourselves the leaders of a civilization gone adrift?
I address the Assembly today with the
overwhelming responsibility and authority vested in me
as President of a country, Colombia, that for decades
has endured an internal conflict where every new day
brings more deaths and kidnappings because of the
intransigence of illegal groups seeking to impose
themselves at the cost of the lives of their compatriots.
And I address the Assembly today representing a
country, Colombia, that has been the main victim of
worldwide drug addiction, a country that has suffered
too many deaths, that has sacrificed natural and
financial resources to combat a crime that is not its
own. It is a global crime whose vast illegal proceeds
remain outside our borders.
In those two capacities, I address the international
community, represented in the General Assembly, to
demand, head held high, that we move from rhetoric to
action. The world is distressed by this ominous
terrorism. I say candidly that we ourselves have also
6

suffered from such terrorism for quite some time. But
we have not always felt the pulse of the international
community beating firmly by our side.
We all know that the world market for illegal
drugs is the number-one source of financing for
worldwide terrorism and death. Yet the international
community has been content simply to suggest or
demand that production centres control drug trafficking
through law enforcement and through eradication and
interdiction action, forgetting that this scourge is much
more than just a problem of cultivation and trafficking.
It is a global problem with global ramifications.
Colombia has always said, and my Government
has repeated again and again in every possible
international forum, that it is necessary to control
illegal drug production, but that we cannot forget that
this is a very complex transnational business and that
the vast proceeds of narcotics trafficking do not stay in
our country. No, indeed: those profits move freely
through international financial markets where
seemingly respectable financiers and businessmen
prosper, enjoying the tolerance of the entire world.
We must also learn from our misfortunes —
especially from our misfortunes — and we have
learned something from the events of 11 September.
We have learned that lax control of financial
institutions and the existence of tax and banking
havens are like giving criminals a letter of marque to
make and multiply their profits, to amass the fortunes
that finance death.
The shared responsibility that my country
demands in the fight against illegal drugs must also be
applied to the fight against terrorism. This new
international conviction that we have all been late in
implementing — perhaps because we are still numbed
by the so-called post-cold-war era — must be
translated into acts that go beyond rhetoric. There must
be no more coexisting with money laundering, even if
it means going after the major financial conglomerates
of the world.
There must be no more uncontrolled production
and sale of the chemical precursors used in illicit drug
production.
There must be no more illegal or uncontrolled
manufacturing and sale of the weapons that propagate
death.
Only if we, beginning with the developed
countries, translate those principles into reality, with
concrete action and with political will, will we give
meaning and effectiveness to the fight that my country,
Colombia, has been waging for many years against the
cultivation and production of drugs.
No country is free from the destructive
consequences of illegal drugs. There are no epicentres
in this illegal business. This criminal activity is global
in nature. The drug problem, and organized crime in
general, undermine the institutional framework,
conspire against democracy, compromise governance
and sow death and violence. They are a hothouse of
corruption; they erode judicial systems and they thwart
the rule of law. Shared responsibility, therefore, means
the responsibility to defend democracy, our principles
and institutions.
The year 2003 will mark five years since the
twentieth special session of the General Assembly, the
so-called world drug summit. We should now begin to
promote an in-depth review of all the accomplishments,
the obstacles encountered along the way, the new
challenges to be faced and the additional action we
must take to break, once and for all, the links that
support this global phenomenon.
But we must do so without losing ourselves in
grey tones. The commitment of the international
community must be real and concrete so that we can at
last attack the finances of the traffickers of death. Let
us combat the business in which they make all their
profits.
Fortunately, the Security Council has taken
important decisions in this regard, moving the fight
against crime in the right direction. Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001) and the measures being taken
by all the Governments of the world to combat the
financing of international terrorism are an essential
step forward that Colombia supports without hesitation.
We must work together to dismantle the structure
of the extremists’ financial support. That is the only
way to create a safer world for our children. It is the
only way to defeat the plague of violence and terrorism
at its roots: the transnational empires of drugs.
A year ago, we gathered in this same Hall on the
occasion of the Millennium Summit. None of the
priorities identified at that time was stressed as much
as the need to ensure that globalization benefits all the
7

peoples of the world. The reality of globalization is one
of inequality; it has led to dissatisfaction and conflict.
We need, through deep reflection, to become aware of
our responsibility for humanizing globalization and
ensuring that it reflects the interests of all countries and
regions.
The Conference on Financing for Development to
be held early next year in Mexico is particularly
important in this light. Unless we mobilize the
necessary financial resources and move towards a new
architecture ensuring a stable international financial
system, the commitments and the course set out at the
Millennium Summit will be a dead letter.
Those same criteria must guide next year’s World
Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg.
On that occasion, we must consolidate a positive vision
and devise a road map for achieving real harmony
between economic growth, social development and the
preservation of the environment.
This is the last time I will address the General
Assembly as President of Colombia. Each year since
1998, I have spoken before the Assembly about the
commitment of my Government and of the people of
Colombia to achieving peace, democracy and progress
in social justice.
More than any other leader of my country I have
fully devoted myself to achieving peace. I do not regret
having done that, because we Colombians are tired of
violence, intimidation, crime and kidnappings. I hope
that all groups living outside the law will make the
right choice at this crucial juncture, not only in the
history of Colombia but also in the history of all
humankind. It is up to them to decide how they want to
be treated: as terrorists and drug-traffickers or as
political insurgents. They must define themselves
through their actions. If their actions lead them to be
treated as mere terrorists, then they must clearly
understand — and I say this vehemently to the
world — that Colombia and the international
community will honour their commitments and carry
out the measures adopted by the Security Council to
combat terrorism.
History goes on; it does not stop. Leaders come
and go, but peoples continue along the path laid out
before them. Even today, I believe that peace is
possible if the will to make peace exists. I still believe,
with the firm hope of someone who knows the values
of his people, that the road we started on will not be
barren.
During my mandate, the international community
has shown an unprecedented solidarity with the people
of Colombia and its quest for peace. I am grateful for
that from the bottom of my heart.
I must give special recognition to the Secretary
General’s Special Adviser on International Assistance
to Colombia, Jan Egeland, for his assistance, and to the
generous contribution of friendly nations during the
talks with insurgent groups. The world has sided with
peace in Colombia, and that is a gesture we understand
and appreciate in its full worth.
Today I echo the strong and determined voice of
40 million Colombians, who are all fighting for a better
and more dignified life, and I reaffirm before the world
a message to the international community that proposes
and demands clarity.
The time for lamenting is over. It is time for
definitions.
Let us put aside the empty speeches. Let us leave
behind the moral double standards that measure acts
that suit us with one yardstick and the acts that do not
with another. Let us advance, united together, against
all forms of terrorism, whatever their rationales.
No more ambiguity. No more justifications of
violence. Let us never forget that there is nothing more
sacred, more valuable or worthier than human life.








===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
﻿I greet
you, Your Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech
Republic, President of the General Assembly, which I
address for the first time.
A short distance from here, on the fateful day 11
September, 2,801 citizens of the world died. In
Colombia, violence claims the same number of victims
every month. Forty three million Colombians, peace-
loving people, are experiencing one of the world's
worst humanitarian crises. Every year Colombia buries
34,000 of its own, victims of violence. We have lost 10
per cent of our youth. Last year the country registered
the highest homicide rate in the world: 63 per 100,000
inhabitants.
During the past five years, we have experienced
8,000 acts of collective destruction, more than those
recorded for any other cases of violence in the world;
280 villages were the object of guerrilla and
8

paramilitary attacks with serious consequences for
local civilians and the armed forces. The terrorist
attack carried out during my inaugural ceremony killed
21 ordinary people. Two million people, 40 per cent of
them children, have been forcibly displaced under
pressure from violent groups. That is the equivalent of
the simultaneous displacement of the communities of
Washington and Manhattan. During the past five years,
16,500 people have been kidnap victims. Yesterday, six
children were kidnapped and one of them is still being
held.
Just as the 11 September terrorist attacks moved
the entire world and triggered justified and universal
condemnation, mankind should be shaken by attacks
such as the one carried out by guerrillas on 2 May
2002, in Bojay·, a village of 1,000 inhabitants. They
killed 117 civilians who had taken refuge in the church.
Such violence makes our people poorer every
day, discourages investments, hampers economic
growth, diverts valuable resources and prevents us
from overcoming our economic and social
backwardness. Violence absorbs four per cent of my
country's gross domestic product. Hijackings,
kidnappings and assaults are daily occurrences on our
main highways, including the one that joins our two
largest cities. Imagine a similar situation between
Brussels and Paris, or New York and Boston.
Today, Colombians are making a great effort to
address the problem with public order policies, State
reform aimed at defeating corruption and political
chicanery and greater economic growth and social
investment. The main objective of our democratic
security policy is to restore the rule of law. Security is
not for persecuting real or imagined ideological
enemies or maintaining a one-party regime. The aim of
democratic security is to protect all citizens in a
pluralist nation, open to fraternal and creative debate.
Democratic security is for all Colombians and is
intended to ensure that peasant farmers are not driven
from their land; that members of the business
community are not kidnapped; that journalists are not
threatened; and that the missions of bishops, priests,
nuns, preachers and educators are respected. It is also
intended to ensure that union leaders can freely
exercise their actions; political leaders can move about
without fear; and that human rights advocates can work
without threats.
As civilian commander-in-chief of the armed
forces, I am committed to rigorously observing and
respecting human rights. Failure in this regard may
lead to appeasement, but it would never bring
reconciliation. Our emergency measures do not restrict
human rights, but rather demand the observance of
rules, for example with regard to the mobilization of
citizens, in the name of freedom of movement, to
prevent explosives from continuing to be transported to
assassinate people.
We respect debate. The security policy that is
being implemented is not aimed at silencing criticism,
but rather at confronting violence. That policy is
irreversible.
The number of military and police personnel in
Colombia is low: 3.9 per 1,000 inhabitants. New York
has 42,000 police officers, while all of Colombia has
75,000. We must strengthen our armed forces. We have
decreed a wealth tax that will be paid by high-income
businesses and citizens. The additional tax revenue
should amount approximately to 1 per cent of the gross
domestic product.
As part of the implementation of the democratic
security policy, our Government has called on the
solidarity of a million citizens to cooperate voluntarily
with the armed forces and justice officials. An essential
element of a socially oriented constitutional State is
citizen support for its legitimate institutions. It
constitutes the individual's commitment to the
community, without which the State loses its social
nature. We must break citizen fear of the guerrillas and
paramilitaries, and we must create community-based
links with democratic institutions. To a large extent, the
efficacy and transparency of the armed forces depend
on citizen cooperation.
The Colombian problem jeopardizes the
democratic stability of the region. We need the world's
assistance to resolve it. I ask for the world's help
because my Government has made the decision to
defeat terror and to ensure that these four years do not
end in a renewed victory for crime or in new evidence
of State and societal vacillation before the arrogance of
the violent.
It is imperative that the sources of terror
financing be eliminated. That is why we must conquer
drugs and kidnapping.
9

There is concern about weapons of mass
destruction within the United Nations, and we share
that anguish. But we must understand that drugs have a
massive capacity for destruction, equivalent to that of
the most feared chemical weapons.
We are determined to eliminate them. We request
the same level of commitment from the world. We
cannot continue with timid half-actions and decisions.

While we delay action, more drugs are produced
and traded by terrorism. I call on fellow members: do
not send us your weapons. Eliminate your markets for
drugs and chemical precursors. Help us with aerial
interdiction and drug seizures in the Pacific and in the
Caribbean. We need resources to pay our farmers to
destroy drugs and work to restore our forests.
Last week, Carlos Enrique Arenas, a 29-year-old
pilot serving with the Colombian navy  father of a
2-year-old daughter and a second child on the way 
and his co-pilot, Roberto Enrique Guardo  the father
of three young children  disappeared in the ocean.
The helicopter they were piloting crashed after
intercepting a speedboat carrying more than two tons
of cocaine. Sacrifices such as this demand the support
of all nations to defeat drugs, especially since until
now we have only managed to seize 20 per cent of the
drugs that are shipped from our country.
A United Nations resolution  Security Council
resolution 1373 (2001)  orders the seizure of bank
accounts, investments and other assets of individuals
who commit terrorist acts. That resolution has
remained a dead letter in those countries where the
resources that finance terrorist acts in Colombia
circulate.
My Administration's commitment to security is
not opposed to dialogue. Quite the contrary, we want
dialogue. This is why we have requested the good
offices of the United Nations through a special adviser
of the Secretary-General. That is the way to begin a
serious peace process, one that starts with the cessation
of violence.
The United Nations Charter tells us that dialogue
with those who commit acts of terror is possible only if
those acts are halted. The pain of thousands of
Colombians caused by the kidnapping of their loved
ones  the list includes former presidential candidate
Ingrid Betancourt; several members of Congress;
members of state assemblies; the Governor of my own
state, a former minister and tireless worker for peace;
members of the armed forces, and hundreds of ordinary
people  demonstrates that we need humanitarian
action that does not fuel violence but that leads us
along the path of reconciliation.
The world has plenty of analysts of Colombian
problems, and plenty of critics of our society and our
successive Governments. We need less rhetoric and
more action  that is, real contributions to solving the
problem. We call for effective cooperation, because the
violence is financed through the international drug
trade and is waged with weapons not made in
Colombia.
Like other nations, we suffer dire poverty,
injustice, low investor confidence, high debt and a
budget deficit. We have always honoured and will
continue always to honour our international financial
commitments. We are making unprecedented efforts to
freeze operating expenditures and to increase taxes.
But we need significant bilateral and multilateral
economic support to invest and to expand
employment  to begin to pay the social debt. A
victory over violence will trigger economic growth and
create resources for social development, which in turn
will consolidate peace.
One thought: the price of a pound of Colombian
coffee was once more than $3; it is now around 60
cents. International banks and cooperation agencies
should redouble their commitment and resources in
Colombia. The money will not to be used for wasteful
expenditures or to salvage bankruptcies, but will rather
be invested, in the interest of the poor, to ensure
governability.
The people of Colombia are proud, hard-working,
democratic and sensible; their spontaneity has not been
stifled by their suffering. The nation has the most solid
democratic tradition, widely recognized long-term
economic performance, a highly diversified industrial
base, a productive structure increasingly geared
towards international markets, and an enormous
potential for small democratic enterprises.
Representatives of the peoples of the world: with
your commitment and support, and with our own
determination, Colombia will be freed from the slavery
of violence and will be more prosperous, with greater
justice.




===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
﻿I
should like to congratulate you, Sir, upon your election
as President of the General Assembly, and to wish you
every success in the performance of your duties.
Despite the anxiety that we feel in the face of the
terrorism that is affecting so many countries, we
reaffirm our commitment to fight that scourge until we
have defeated it. Colombia reaffirms its faith in
multilateralism as the most effective system through
which to seek peace, security and human, economic
and social development. The United Nations is
irreplaceable, even if, for the good of the humanity, its
structure and procedures must be constantly updated so
as to increase the efficiency of its anti-terrorism
activities.
The United Nations itself recently suffered a
terrorist attack, an act that resulted in the death of
Sergio Vieira de Mello, a tireless campaigner for the
coexistence of peoples. We deeply regret the loss of
those who have sacrificed their lives as they worked to
put an end to terrorism. Our obligation to reciprocate is
all the greater as a result of the solidarity expressed by
the United Nations towards Colombia.
A year ago in the General Assembly I set out my
democratic security policy, developed to free the
Colombian people from terrorism. That policy is
designed to protect the rights of all citizens, regardless
of their social or economic status, political ideas or
religious beliefs. The policy affords equal protection to
business and union leaders as well as Government and
opposition politicians. It is based on the dream of a
pluralist nation that shares in an ongoing constructive
debate in a spirit of brotherhood and without hatred.
In an area of Colombia covering almost 1.2
million square kilometres, about 400,000 of them
consisting of jungle, terrorists have taken advantage of
the absence of a State presence in many places. A year
ago, out of a total of 1,100 municipalities, 170 did not
have a police presence. That number has been reduced
to 151, and we hope to extend coverage to all the
municipalities within a few weeks. Hundreds of smaller
towns, however, lack a police force. We now have
soldiers and marines — known as soldiers of the
people — in 439 municipalities, under a programme
that allows them to carry out their military service in
their home town. The results thus far have been
positive, and when the soldiers have completed their
active duty, we hope to rely on them as permanent law-
enforcement leaders.
Such efforts, together with others that we have
undertaken in similar areas, must continue so that the
Government can rid the country of terrorism.
I would like to share with the Assembly some of
the achievements of my Administration during the first
nine months of this year. The murder rate has
decreased by 22 per cent when compared with the same
period in 2002 — down from 21,253 to 16,531. The
total of 1,485 kidnappings represents a reduction of
34.7 per cent over the same period last year; the
number of victims of illegal road blocks decreased by
49 per cent, and the number of operations to rescue
kidnapped people increased by 22.8 per cent. But what
country could accept 1,485 kidnappings in nine
months?
The number of massacres and the number of their
victims have decreased by 35 per cent and 41 per cent
respectively. We will be able to claim victory only
when we have completely eliminated these attacks.
Every terrorist act brings suffering to the whole nation.
FARC carried out the car bombing of the club El
Nogal, used a bomb in a boat in the rural town of
Puerto Rico and exploded a truck bomb in the small
town of Chita. These bombings together killed 47
people and injured 233. And just a few hours ago, in
Florencia, another bomb has left 12 dead and wounded
46.
The number of union members assassinated has
declined from 120 to 36. Several of those responsible
are now in jail, as a result of our determination to fight
impunity. Sixty teachers were murdered in 2002. This
year, 24 such cases have been reported. The number of
journalists murdered has dropped from 9 to 5.
The decrease in overall crime is significant, but
the numbers are still staggering. No country could feel
safe under such circumstances. I reaffirm our
democratic desire to protect, in particular, our teachers,
union leaders and journalists.
9

I acknowledge with great sorrow that the number
of indigenous people murdered has increased from 72
to 75. Illegal self-defence groups were responsible for
33 of those cases, with various guerrilla groups being
responsible for the remainder.
During the first six months of 2003, 73,586 cases
of forced displacement were reported. This represents a
decrease of 66 per cent. We are beginning successfully
to return families to where they came from. I reaffirm
our commitment to fight to protect the indigenous
communities and to put an end to forced displacement.
Of the 246 mayors who in August 2002 were in
exile from their municipalities as a result of threats,
191 have now returned, thanks to the improved security
situation. The progress we have made in regard to the
protection of our citizens encourages us to continue
making efforts in that direction.
Between 7 August 2002 and 7 August 2003,
2,544 members of illegal self-defence groups were
captured, which represents an increase of 146 per cent.
The number of those killed in combat by the armed
forces has increased by 38.7 per cent, the number of
guerrillas captured has increased by 126.3 per cent and
the number of those killed in combat has increased by
78 per cent.
Because of my pure democratic conviction, I
reaffirm our commitment to human rights. We have
extended the stay of the Office of the United Nations
Commissioner in Bogota. We agree with many of its
recommendations. We have no doubt about seeking
their implementation, and we will discuss the cases on
which we disagree.
Our requirement for the soldiers and the police is
efficiency and respect for human rights. We encourage
and care for our armed forces, as we demonstrated
recently with the improvement of our social security
system. However, we will not hesitate to send to jail
those who break the law.
The sacrifice of our soldiers and policemen has
been enormous. This year, because of anti-personnel
mines alone, 109 soldiers have been killed and 334
have been wounded, many of them mutilated for life.
If we request international support, it is because
we are open to international monitoring. We respect the
human rights organizations and their workers who
proceed seriously and we respect their criticism and
constructive suggestions. Those organizations
contribute to improving democratic conditions. That is
why we agree with the Human Rights Watch report on
the recruitment of children by terrorist groups. We
reserve the right, however, to disagree with false
reports which distort our efforts to consolidate a
democratic concept of security.
As the United Nations has acknowledged, we
have made substantial progress in destroying illicit
drugs. We have eradicated 70 per cent of illicit crops,
and we will not stop until we rid our country of that
serious scourge. We have authorized the extradition of
94 persons for drug-trafficking crimes.
We have hired 5,400 families as forest rangers, as
part of our goal to recruit 50,000 families. They receive
economic compensation to replace illicit crops for the
purpose of replanting and taking care of the rainforest.
A more effective law designed to confiscate illicit
drug wealth has allowed for the increase in the number
of rulings in one year from 5 to 68.
In Colombia’s current situation, terrorism, illicit
drugs, violence and insecurity are really the same
thing. We plead for a commitment from the world so
that we are able to completely defeat drugs. We
implore the world not to harbour our terrorists, to help
us confiscate their goods and to open their doors only
to help peace processes.
Our country is a State based on law. We want to
overcome terrorism and be able to look to the
international community with the certainty that we
have acted in strict compliance with the law. In order to
fight impunity, we have incorporated the accusatory
penal system and oral procedure, which will begin in
2005.
At the present time we are introducing a
constitutional change to allow the armed forces to
proceed with specialized personnel, in cases of
terrorism, to carry out raids, conduct property searches
and undertake interceptions. Those actions will be
conducted with democratic safeguards, allowing for an
independent attorney to intervene quickly. The
attorney’s office and Congress will be informed. The
proposed measures are infinitely less rigorous than the
current laws of democracies that do not have the high
levels of terrorism that we have in Colombia.
10

This Government found approximately 30,000
people who belong to illegal terrorist organizations,
defined in this way because of the nature of their
actions. Consideration and reflection on that figure
dictates the need to continue with a strong authoritarian
policy and of opening avenues for negotiation once
hostilities have ceased.
I welcome the efforts made by the Secretary-
General this past year to seek paths to peace with the
FARC. The Government supports his good offices,
which, until now, have been unsuccessful because of
the lack of willingness on the part of the terrorists.
That group has kidnapped hundreds of Colombians and
some foreign citizens, most of whom are kept in
concentration camps that recall the Nazi era. I reaffirm
to the Secretary-General my commitment to find a
solution, to be recommended by him, to free the
hostages, under conditions that are in keeping with
legal norms and that do not intensify violence.
Since the last Colombian Government, we have
sought, through Cuba, on the one hand, and several
additional Governments on the other, a peace process
with the National Liberation Army (ELN). We have
made every effort, which, to date, has been futile. The
leaders of that group who are in jail have received the
best treatment possible. On 30 June, through a
facilitation commission, I offered to examine an ELN
prisoner release proposal, in exchange for their
renunciation of armed activity and their dedication to
help achieve peace. I did not get a positive response,
but I will continue to insist on this.
The ELN is holding seven foreign citizens whom
it should release, in keeping with its promise to cease
its crimes during the current electoral process.
Since the last Government, we have also sought a
peace process with the illegal paramilitary groups, with
the mediation of the Catholic Church. The condition is
the same — the cessation of hostilities. Groups of those
organizations, which represent 10,000 or more people,
have expressed the willingness to demobilize. The
Government is making progress in that process.
During my Administration, 2,250 members of
terrorist groups have been demobilized; 70 per cent of
them belong to the FARC, 18 per cent to the ELN and
12 per cent to illegal paramilitary groups. To
reintegrate members of the various groups into civilian
life, Colombia requires a judicial framework that
realistically defines how to achieve justice, repair
damage to the community and ensure peace. The
alternative sentence proposal, submitted by the
Government for congressional consideration, sets forth
a legal and transparent procedure that will allow for
progress towards a negotiated peace solution with the
illegal paramilitary groups, the FARC and the ELN.
I understand the concern raised by offering
diminished sentences for grave crimes. But, in a
context of 30,000 terrorists, it must also be understood
that a definitive peace is the best justice for a nation in
which several generations have never gone through a
single day without experiencing an act of terrorism.
The proposal has prompted national and
international controversy. We are looking for the
broadest possible consensus. We invite everyone to
examine the various options and to achieve, through
the process of amendments, the best final text.
We have no doubt about defeating terrorism.
However, there are times that call for adjusting the
equation between justice and peace in order to reach a
consolidated peace.
We agree with what was expressed by Secretary-
General Kofi Annan, who has proposed an excellent
balance between the need for justice and the need to
save innocent lives. To protect our communities, we
need to pursue terrorists relentlessly and not miss
opportunities to obtain peace agreements with them,
provided that, through their actions, they convince the
Colombian people and the world of their good faith and
their desire for rectification.
Our problem is an international threat. If
Colombia does not destroy illegal drugs, illegal drugs
will destroy the Amazon Basin. If Colombia does not
stop terrorism, it will jeopardize the democracies of the
region. The President of Ecuador, Lucio Gutiérrez, and
the Rio Group, have understood that. The Rio Group
endorsed the proposal that the United Nations continue
to make efforts for negotiations with the Colombian
terrorists, or, if that is not possible, to seek alternatives
to overcome the problem.
Our rule of law calls for a social commitment.
Poverty and inequality have worsened as a result of
terrorism. We are making progress with limited
resources in applying the seven tools for equality: an
educational revolution, expanded social protection, an
economy based on the principle of solidarity, rural
social management, management of public services,


building a country of owners and improving the quality
of urban life.
As examples of this, we have created new
capacity for 500,000 children in schools, but we still
have 1.5 million children who do not have access to
primary education. Microcredit has increased by 50 per
cent, but we are still far from being a country of
owners. The social task is arduous, but with our
characteristic determination we will overcome every
obstacle in order to build a just society.
Security is the most important human right of the
poor, who need our policy to be successful so that there
can be peace, confidence, investment, employment and
equity.
Amidst tragedies, the Colombian democracy is
vigorous. On 25 October, our citizens will decide
whether to accept a referendum to defeat corruption
and to strengthen social investment. And the following
day the people will elect 30 governors from among 133
candidates; 914 mayors from among 3,441 candidates;
398 deputies from 373 lists composed of 2,723
candidates; approximately 9,000 municipal council
members from 6,105 lists with 56,590 candidates; and
local administrative boards from 3,156 lists with
13,387 candidates. Today, we live in a pluralistic and
enthusiastic democracy, despite the challenge of
terrorism.
It would be a tragedy if the civilized world does
not unite its efforts once and for all to defeat terrorism
and to support the democracies that are fighting against
it. We need the unity of all democratic people in order
to defeat terror.










===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
I am
addressing the General Assembly once again, at a time
when the people and the institutions of Colombia are
making great progress in their struggle to achieve
democratic security. Such security would enable all
citizens to live in peace, express their political views
without putting their lives in danger and to support or
oppose the Government while fully respecting different
opinions.
That policy has made significant progress in
reducing murders, kidnappings and other terrorist acts,
as well as population displacement and the growing of
illicit drug crops. There is still a great deal to be done,
but if we are persistent we will prevail.
Democratic security is one of Colombia’s highest
priorities if we are to regain credibility and if our
citizens are once again to have confidence in our
institutions. When trust is destroyed, the ties between
the citizen and the nation are broken. Such trust
requires transparency in public and private actions, as
well as economic revitalization and social cohesion.
Social cohesion builds trust among citizens and
between citizens and the State. Social cohesion is the
enemy of poverty and helps to promote equal
opportunities. Colombia has established a legal
framework to ensure that the benefits of economic
growth lead to poverty eradication. Yet Colombia’s
growth, which during the 1960s and 1970s was
averaging 4.5 per cent a year, fell to an average of 2
per cent after 1980. That decline encouraged the
informal economy, and was accompanied by poverty.
The contrast became increasingly obvious between the
formal private sector — which was fair with its
workers and complied with its tax payments, but which
grew at a slow pace — and the informal sector, which,
with its overwhelming influence, drew in the destitute
masses.
Drug trafficking, which bankrolls terrorism,
reversed the trend towards land distribution, through
agrarian reform and the natural process of inheritance
from one generation to the next.
Between 1994 and 2000, unemployment among
heads of household grew from 4 per cent to 10 per
cent, and overall unemployment grew from 7.5 per cent
to 19 per cent. In relatively few years, the deficit
2

increased from 1.5 per cent to 4.2 per cent of the gross
domestic product (GDP), public debt rose from 24 per
cent to 54 per cent of GDP and 40 per cent of the
public budget was allocated to debt servicing and
repayment. Very low levels of private investment only
made the situation worse.
Defeating poverty requires strong and sustained
economic growth. This in turn requires physical and
legal security, transparent regulations and
macroeconomic stability. Last year, Colombia forecast
growth of 2.5 per cent — but growth was close to 4 per
cent. This year we are endeavouring to achieve 5 per
cent growth. We are able to do because we are
restoring confidence among investors. With such
growth, unemployment has fallen three points,
although it is still quite high. A positive sign is that
jobs are being created in sectors that will provide for
social security and fair wages for workers. All that has
happened despite fiscal restrictions to public
investment and in the midst of an intense struggle to
eliminate illicit drugs, which have become so
significant that they now affect whether there will be
positive or negative growth in our agricultural sector.
At one time, my generation explained violence as
the result of social inequities. My country’s experience
over many decades allows me to affirm that terrorist
violence has increased poverty and has destroyed the
possibility of eliminating social inequity. Violence has
worsened poverty and has exploited it to perpetuate
itself.
Our goal is to reduce poverty at a rate equal to or
higher than economic growth. To a great extent, our
social investment programme depends on sound and
sustained economic growth. Therefore, our social
investment programme goes hand in hand with our
democratic security policy. If we neglect security
measures that respect democratic values, terrorism will
grow, we will lose momentum in defeating it,
investment will be affected, the strength of our
economic recovery will weaken and we could be left
without resources for social investment.
Today’s equality lies in economic and social
opportunity. That is why we have placed so much
emphasis on education. We have increased elementary
school enrolment by 750,000, but the country still
needs classroom space for 1.25 million new pupils. In
25 months we have increased technical training by two
and a half times, promoting basic employment skills to
enable young people to join the work force while
continuing their studies. In the cities and in the
countryside, we have been carrying out a silent
revolution in technical training that will reach 4
million young people a year by 2006.
A subsidy is being paid to 340,000 poor families
to improve their children’s nutrition and ensure school
attendance. There are now 503,000 children in the new
breakfast programme for children under five; that
number will double in 2005. That, together with the
school cafeterias and the “Community Mothers”
programme, will reach more than 6 million children
under various nutrition programmes.
By December, when this Administration will
have been in office for 28 months, more than 4 million
poor Colombians will have enrolled in the subsidized
health programme, in addition to the 13 million who
were already protected. We are carrying out legal and
administrative reforms to increase coverage, with
improved transparency and an effective and efficient
use of resources.
Colombia has more than 600,000 senior adults
living in extreme poverty. In the past, 60,000 of them
received a cash subsidy. This year, we have raised the
number to 172,000 of our elderly compatriots. We are
now starting a new programme to deliver one meal a
day to 400,000 more who do not receive the cash
subsidy. In addition, this year we are paying more than
$100 million in subsidies to provide electricity to low-
income members of the population.
We are also subsidizing more than 7,000
reintegrated former members of various violent groups.
This is part of a huge, silent, but effective peace
process. When one of those persons is reintegrated, he
sees the support of the State and the community,
reconciles himself with civic institutions, embraces
democracy and coexistence and rejects any justification
for violence. We hope that many more thousands will
follow, but we will require international cooperation
for this programme.
We are subsidizing 21,000 forest ranger families,
who were formerly involved in illicit drug crops and
are now committed to eliminating them and to
recovering their tropical forests. Their task is essential
for mankind, considering Colombia’s rich biodiversity
and its 578,000 square kilometres of jungle, which are
threatened by illicit drugs. To guarantee their food
security, we are also subsidizing 700,000 farmers, and
3

that number will soon reach 1 million; we are also
subsidizing the crops of farmers’ associations until they
become productive and competitive. Poverty indicators
should take account of such subsidies, which are
usually not included when measuring the income of
those families.
Colombia has suffered a tragedy in the form of
internal displacement. We have reduced its incidence
by 40 per cent, but it is still high. We have facilitated
the return of more 70,000 people and we expect that
number to increase. One State agency alone has
multiplied eightfold its budget to care for displaced
persons.
As a result of a law approved at the beginning of
this Government’s tenure, the process for “ownership
extinction” for illegally acquired assets has moved
more quickly. We expect that that mechanism will be
used to advance constructive agrarian reform.
By paying additional taxes, the Colombian people
are making an effort to finance security measures and
restore social investment levels, for a total that
represents 2 per cent of our gross domestic product. We
have received the support of the multilateral banks, but
we require greater understanding from the financial
markets: longer-term loans and lower interest rates. We
are engaged in an intense struggle, and we need better
access to the markets of the industrialized countries.
I would like to reaffirm Colombia’s commitment
to multilateralism. Multilateralism must continuously
improve if it is to become more effective and restore
the lost consensus for safeguarding international peace.
Building that consensus requires each State to feel that
it is being heard and that it is being taken into account.
I am grateful for the support of the United
Nations agencies in social matters. We are fully
prepared to back the efforts of the international
community to consolidate democracy and security in
the region, especially in Haiti. Colombia will be part of
the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. We
will cooperate with police experts in the fight against
drug trafficking, as well as with the humanitarian
presence.
Mr. Baali (Algeria), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
We must all join in an effective international
solidarity movement with our Caribbean brothers, who
are so seriously affected by the hurricane season.
We need the total commitment of the
international community in the struggle against
terrorism in Colombia. Terrorism in one country feeds
and strengthens terrorist networks throughout the
world. The widows and orphans of violence in our
country ask why we attach so much importance to
terrorism in other parts of the world, and why some
attach so little to the terrorism that besets Colombia. I
make this appeal from the depths of our profound
democratic conviction. It is difficult to find another
country facing such a challenge of terrorism while
simultaneously strengthening its democracy.
Today, Colombia offer effective guarantees for
the exercise of political pluralism by means of our
democratic security policy. Our institutions combat
terrorism with the unflinching political will of the
Government. They do so with courage, selflessness and
transparency. A dirty war has no place in our policies.
A democratic State has the right to ask the world
to demand that the terrorists return their kidnap victims
rather than clamouring for lopsided agreements with
terrorists. We ask the world for more decisive and more
effective support. If it is broadened, the violent groups
will have no option but to abandon terrorism and to
accept peace.
With the people of Colombia, its democratic
institutions and the international community united, we
can make Colombia an example of the capacity to
defeat terrorism and observe human rights. And we can
make Colombia an example of the ability to defeat
terrorism and of the will to build social justice.
We will expel terror with the help of legitimate
institutions and of a community of solidarity and
justice, with opportunities for its poorest members.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
We
congratulate you, Sir, on your election and wish you
every possible success in the ongoing reform process.
The celebration of the sixtieth anniversary is an
ideal moment to reiterate my country’s commitment to
the goals and principles of the United Nations. We
express our support for the task of reforming the
Organization.
Colombia’s adherence to multilateralism is based
on its active participation throughout the United
Nations process, from the signing of the Charter in San
Francisco on the June 26 1945 to today, with many of
its agencies present in my country supporting our
national policies to solve the problems we face.
It is a source of pride that many Colombians have
left their mark on the Organization. It is worth
mentioning, among others, former President Alberto
Lleras Camargo, one of the first and most fierce and
efficient defenders of the principle of legal equality
between States. He was also a champion of common
defence, which compels democratic States to come to
one another’s defence should one of them be the victim
of aggression.
Colombia had the privilege of presiding, through
Eduardo Zuleta, over the opening of the first session of
the General Assembly. His vision of the Organization
is as valid today as it was 60 years ago, as you, Sir,
recently acknowledged in your speech to the Assembly.
The diversity and evolution of thought are human
gifts. To exercise those faculties, it is necessary for
States to guarantee democratic opportunities that allow
each individual to contribute to and compete in the
quest for the collective good. There can be no room for
any form of ideological stasis, which would discourage
emulation, fail to recognize intelligence, and paralyse
creativity in the search for solutions to people’s
problems.
Recognizing diversity and the evolution of
thought is the source of our vocation for pluralism. It
guides the struggle against terrorism that we have
carried out with democratic conviction for three long
years. Now that dictatorships are expressions of the
past and democracy is an indestructible paradigm, it is
time to review certain concepts that are becoming
obsolete and must be replaced with more useful and
contemporary ones.
The mindset that characterizes Governments as
being of the left or of the right is a simplistic view that
produces a polarized political atmosphere. It has
triggered irreconcilable emotions and sensitivities that
are inconsistent with the actions of our Governments
and threaten the unity of our countries.
I dare suggest that, in their place, we use five
parameters to qualify our democracies. They are
security with a democratic scope; the effective
protection of public freedoms; transparency as a factor
of confidence; social cohesion as a principle of
democratic sustainability; and the independence of
institutions. With these parameters, we can define a
democracy as institutional or only skin-deep; as
governed by judicial order or by personal whim; as
progressive or backward, inclusive or exclusive.
Colombia is working on a concept of democratic
security, enshrined in global security. We call it
democratic because it differs from the doctrine of
national security that was applied in the continent and
used to suppress freedoms, punish democracy,
stigmatize the opposition and frustrate dissent. Our
security is aimed at deepening democracy. We have
gone to great lengths to ensure that this process of re-
establishing security is recognized as a democratic
value by all schools of thought. We are determined that
security shall be provided on equal terms, efficiently
and transparently, to those closest to the Government,
as well as to its most hardened opponents.
In Colombia, the security problem has been the
product of the weakness of the State in facing
criminals. We wish to reconfigure the equation and to
finally have a State that is strong enough to guarantee
Colombians the effectiveness of their freedoms and
protect them from all threats. Given a democracy that
is deep-rooted and without ambiguities, no violent
action can enjoy a veneer of legitimacy; on the
contrary, it must be disqualified and branded as
terrorist. We therefore express our solidarity with those
who have suffered from the actions of terror.
For three consecutive years, the number of
homicides, kidnappings and other terrorist crimes has
fallen in Colombia. We have not yet won the struggle
against terrorism, but we are winning it. That victory
22

will bring peace and progress to our country and, with
illicit drugs uprooted from our soil, the world will feel
great relief. To that end, we need the participation and
support of the international community.
The opposition in Colombia has always had
safeguards, but today those guarantees are truly
effective thanks to democratic security. Colombia has
always embraced the cause of human rights, but those
are now enjoying more tangible respect thanks to
democratic security.
While strengthening citizen’s confidence in their
institutions, the concept of security that we profess and
practice requires those who opt for violence to cease
hostilities and prepare to negotiate a lasting peace. The
decisive and firm action to thwart those who practice
terror, along with a generous policy for those who
choose to abandon armed intimidation, have allowed
the demobilization and reintegration of 20,000 out of
some 50,000 terrorists. The Government’s door
remains open to negotiation so long as the agreement
on cessation of hostilities remains accepted.
We need the world to support our plans for
reintegration. I ask members to imagine the magnitude
of the challenge. We have 20,000 former
combatants — a number that could double in coming
years — individuals who have hitherto lived by the gun
and are accustomed to killing. What better contribution
could there be to peace than the definitive rejection of
illegality? To that end, we need the world’s help in
providing new opportunities for rehabilitation and
social integration.
We are implementing a law on justice and peace,
which is applicable to all terrorist groups. By
comparison with earlier Colombian laws and those of
other countries, our law raises the bar in terms of
justice and reparations for victims.
We have increased fumigation to rid our country
of the illicit drugs that finance terrorism, and we are
optimistic with regard to manual eradication. By the
end of 2005, some 30,000 hectares of illegal crops
should be destroyed. We require greater support from
the international community in order to provide our
peasants with alternative opportunities.
Democratic security has allowed investors to
regain their confidence, and we have begun to see early
signs of declining unemployment. In that way, we will
find the resources to face yet another challenge — that
of overcoming poverty and building a nation based on
total social cohesion. Our social policy is framed by a
long-term vision and short-term goals under constant
review, in keeping with the Millennium Development
Goals, the fulfilment of which we reaffirmed yesterday
in this Hall.
I wish to cite three of the seven chapters of our
social policy. The educational revolution is an axis of
social cohesion and the road towards equality, the
redistribution of income, and the opening of new
channels for social mobility, without which democracy
will remain incomplete.
Promoting a country of owners emphasizes the
financing of medium, small and micro enterprises in
order to overcome the barrier of access to credit, a
hateful form of discrimination that hinders democracy.
Comprehensive social protection, which in three
years’ time will provide health insurance to all people
living in poverty, has allowed us to register progress in
the provision of child nutrition, to ensure access to
education and to improve the well-being of the elderly.
This year, 500,000 families will be involved in
Colombia’s programme — poor families that receive a
State subsidy to feed and educate their children. In the
near future, that number will rise to 1 million, in
addition to the increase budgetary efforts undertaken
under the aegis of the educational revolution. In 2006,
10 million children will benefit from our nutrition
programmes, and 570,000 elderly citizens will receive
stipends to cover their most pressing needs.
Our social policy also comprises ongoing efforts
to strengthen alternative development programmes in
order to allow us definitively to overcome the problem
of illicit drugs. Through such programmes, the
international community has a unique opportunity to
contribute to and implement the principle of shared
responsibility.
The “forest-keeper families” programme,
involving some 33,000 families committed to
maintaining their areas free from drugs and to
supervising the recovery of the tropical forest, as well
as a programme to provide care to the displaced and
reintegrated, will cost Colombia some $300 million
dollars next year.
We stand firm in the fight against terrorism and in
our conviction that a sustained and permanent victory
depends upon the success of each individual country in
23

the struggle for social cohesion. In projecting our
security policy as a mainstay of the State, we believe it
to be intrinsically linked to the ongoing improvement
of the social conditions of our people. The distinction
between authority and social policy is erroneous. Peace
stems from authority, but lasting peace will require us
to weave a social fabric of equity.
Let this be an opportunity to draw attention to the
threat of rising oil prices and the lack of energy
alternatives for poor countries that are net importers.
There are already signs of disturbance that could lead
to grave disruptions of institutional stability. Ignoring
that problem could raise greater obstacles in our fight
against poverty and prevent us from achieving the
Millennium Development Goals. Many countries,
including brotherly countries in Central America and
the Caribbean, require immediate action to help
finance the supply of fuel and the development of new
fuel sources.
I would like to reiterate the gratitude of the
Colombian people for the effective presence and
solidarity of the United Nations in our country.
We hope that the debate on the issue of reform
will further strengthen multilateralism. We also hope
that the Organization will emerge strengthened from
that debate, in order that it may effectively promote
institutional democracy governed by progressive and
inclusive legal processes in every country comprising
the community of nations.
Led by the United Nations, contemporary
diplomacy must become more austere in its spending
and rely more upon the Internet and modern
communications than on travel, in order to avoid
becoming a heavy and debilitating burden upon
countries and to ensure that the resources saved on
organizations, expenditures and contractors can truly
reach communities in need. I wish to reiterate that the
issue of austerity vis-à-vis world diplomacy is absent
in our approach to United Nations reform, and we
should include it.
Every country, as well as the United Nations, as
our universal Organization, can contribute to making
these hopes a reality and to bringing peace, security
and comprehensive development to our peoples,
thereby reaching the goals we set for ourselves for the
early years of this century.
Our warm regards go out to the people of the
United States, which has been battered by Hurricane
Katrina. We wish to express our resolute solidarity
with those who have been its victims. It is our hope
that, in a few days, relief and rescue experts from
Colombia will be on the ground in affected
communities in the United States.
We are all committed to one task, namely,
meeting the social goals of the millennium.

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
I 
congratulate you, Madam President, and wish you the 
greatest success in this session. 
 Four years ago I attended this global forum for 
the first time to announce that Colombia was beginning 
an era of democratic security. I explained why security 
in our time is a democratic value without which 
freedoms cannot prosper; it is also a centre of 
resources, in whose absence investment does not flow 
and the possibility of eliminating poverty and building 
equality remains elusive. 
  
 
06-52988 6 
 
 Four years ago I explained to the Assembly why 
our concept of security is democratic and thus deserves 
the support and confidence of all peoples and of the 
United Nations. 
 I am aware that I could not address the Assembly 
today to propose a theory of democratic security; 
having been President of my country for four years, I 
feel compelled to present the results of this policy. 
Colombia has held four general elections and countless 
local elections over this period. The referendum and 
the election of mayors and governors in 2003 were 
events that tested our democratic meaning of security. 
This year the presidential and congressional elections, 
held on two separate dates under a high threat of 
terrorism, were nonetheless among the most peaceful 
in many decades. All political groupings enjoyed 
effective guarantees, regardless of their level of 
support for or opposition to the Government. 
 Under democratic security, Colombia has elected 
mayors, governors and members of Congress of all 
political colours. Security has contained terrorism in 
order to give democracy free expression. 
 There is still much to be done in the area of 
security, and a definitive peace is not yet within sight, 
but progress is undeniable. The effective protection of 
Colombians translates into the reduction in the number 
of homicides, kidnappings, acts of terrorism, crimes 
and threats against journalists and trade union leaders. 
All governors and mayors exercise their powers in 
their own jurisdictions, overcoming the nightmare of 
exile that many were subjected to as a result of terrorist 
actions that were not countered by the State. 
 To guarantee the sustainability of security over 
time, our citizens must give it credibility. Our task is to 
build credibility based on effectiveness and 
transparency. Consequently, human rights are an 
imperative of security. In recent years we have 
increased our security forces by 30 per cent, military 
operations have tripled, and at the same time 
complaints against the security forces have fallen by 38 
per cent. This is all the more important because we are 
a country with full internal democracy, completely 
open to supervision and international criticism, as 
borne out by the presence of an office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. 
 In spite of the work still to be done, the most 
important achievement is our citizens’ positive 
assessment of security and the collective determination 
to consolidate it. 
 We regard organized violence for fictitious 
political motives as terrorism, and security as the path 
to peace. When a country has a pluralist, vigorous and 
guarantee-granting democracy, armed actions against it 
are pure terrorism. To deny this would erase the 
difference between armed combat against dictatorships, 
which merited the recognition of insurgent groups in 
other countries, and the violent aggression suffered by 
our democracy, which is terrorism. 
 The demobilization of more than 40,000 members 
of violent groups, as a result of democratic security, 
and the efforts proposed by the country to reintegrate 
them into constitutional life, prove that for us security 
is the path to peace and reconciliation. 
 Talking about 40,000 demobilized is easy; 
tallying them up is very difficult; demobilizing them is 
even more difficult; and reintegrating them is a 
monumental task. Amidst understandable controversy, 
we have made progress in dismantling irregular forces. 
Today the vast majority of illegal self-defence 
groups — which, together with the guerrillas, until two 
years ago seemed like powers greater than the State — 
are demobilized, and a large percentage of their leaders 
are being held by our justice system. These results are 
more eloquent than rhetoric ever could be. I must add 
that the number of demobilized guerrillas is higher 
than the number killed by official forces. 
 I have come to the United Nations today to ask 
for resolute support for our security policy and our 
reintegration programme. The violence in Colombia 
has received much international media coverage, 
constant criticism of the Government and little support 
to overcome it. It is time for the international 
community to urgently call on violent groups to make 
peace without any further delay. The Government is as 
firm in implementing security as it is rigorous in 
respecting democratic rules, and is open and generous 
in looking for peace. A sincere willingness for peace 
will not face governmental obstacles to a definitive 
reconciliation. 
 The international community must support our 
security policy more decisively. This will bring quicker 
results from our overcoming violence and seeking 
peace. 
 
 
7 06-52988 
 
 The financing of violent groups by illicit drugs is 
one of the fundamental aspects that differentiate those 
groups from former guerrillas in other Latin American 
countries. This criminal, bottomless and autonomous 
financing is the main obstacle to peace.  
 It grieves me to say that progress in the fight 
against illicit drugs has been small compared with the 
sacrifice made by the people of Colombia and the 
Government’s willingness to eradicate those drugs. The 
number of extradited citizens, the confiscation of illicit 
wealth and the areas sprayed represent enormous 
efforts, but the results are not proportional. For the 
second straight year, we have a programme for massive 
manual eradication, which will mean 70,000 hectares 
of coca destroyed. 
 Production and consumption require a global 
commitment transcending formal declarations, so as to 
increasingly apply programmes that reflect actions of 
shared responsibility. 
 There are successful alternative development 
projects. A few weeks ago, the United Nations 
positively assessed the forest keeper families 
programme, which covers 43,000 rural families that 
have replaced drug cultivation with protection of the 
forest and the growing of alternative crops. Some, such 
as those in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, offer 
ecotourism services. According to the United Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime, drugs have been 
eliminated in 80 per cent of the area of the forest 
keeper families, covering 2 million hectares. More than 
136,000 hectares of tropical forest have been 
reclaimed. Thanks to payments by the Government, 
these families have already acquired more than 30,000 
hectares of productive land. Nevertheless, to protect a 
high percentage of the Colombian Amazon jungle and 
tropical forest, we need to reach 120,000 families. That 
is a great budgetary challenge, requiring more general 
and decisive international support. 
 The programme halts the cutting down of tropical 
forest and the Amazon jungle, which have suffered the 
destruction of nearly 2 million hectares because of 
drugs. I ask the world: why is there not less rhetoric 
and a greater and more effective commitment, so that 
Colombia, which is absolutely willing to achieve it, 
may finally and definitively overcome the scourge of 
illegal drugs? 
 We Colombians do not want to be left with efforts 
and sacrifices; we require results. We are willing to 
revise our strategy and improve it, but we need the 
entire world to get involved with us. I ask the United 
Nations for additional efforts to help us find ways to be 
effective. 
 We reiterate our enthusiastic commitment to meet 
the Millennium Development Goals. Social cohesion, 
overcoming poverty and building equity are essential 
aspirations of our democracy. In 2002 poverty reached 
almost 60 per cent of the population; in 2005 it was 
down to 49 per cent. We will do everything possible to 
ensure that it does not exceed 35 per cent by 2010 and 
to reach the goal of 15 per cent by 2019, the second 
centenary of our independence. Fortunately, the Gini 
coefficient is beginning to show a trend towards 
correction in income distribution. 
 Our goals for the upcoming four-year period are 
ambitious: achieving full coverage in health and basic 
education and significant progress in basic sanitation 
and providing microcredit for 5 million poor families.  
 We want a modern democracy with security, 
freedom, social cohesion, transparency and 
independent institutions. This is our dream; this is what 
we are fighting for. We want a nation without 
exclusions and without class hatred, with harmony, 
rectitude and prosperity; a nation in permanent 
democratic dialogue, with fraternity and without 
insurmountable antagonisms; a nation integrated into 
multilateralism, grateful for the efforts of the United 
Nations, receptive to the international community’s 
suggestions and willing to share its experiences and 
improve its results. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
Allow  me to congratulate Mr. Kerim on his election as 
President of the General Assembly and to wish him the 
greatest success in his work. 
 After five years in office, we come to the General 
Assembly once again to inform members on issues 
crucial to Colombian democracy. 
 We have rejected the dismantling of the State and 
refuse to enter into a statism that would wither private 
initiative. We have reformed 420 State entities and are 
determined to work to that end until the last day of our 
Government. We seek a more efficient State at the 
service of the community and not owned by political 
machinations, union excesses or interest groups. 
 We are committed to the development of an 
entrepreneurial society, in opposition to State or private 
monopolies, in a nation with a consensus centred on 
productivity, discipline and equity. We provide every 
space for private initiative with social responsibility, 
which must be expressed in the transparency of 
relations between investors and the State, in 
entrepreneurial solidarity with the community beyond 
the legal minimums, and in labour relations framed by 
fraternity, contrary to savage capitalism and class 
struggle. 
 In sectors such as electricity, metallurgy and 
health, we have encouraged participatory trade 
unionism, with simultaneous responsibility in the 
social field and entrepreneurial management, distinct 
from traditional entitlement organization. We have 
increased by 40 per cent the affiliation of workers to 
social security through the improved performance of 
the economy and our fight against evasion. In the past 
five years, the minimum wage has grown by 8 per cent 
above inflation. Our per capita income has gone from 
$1,851 to $3,517. After adjustment in terms of 
purchasing power, it has increased from $6,468 to 
$9,456. For the first time in decades, the Gini 
coefficient of income distribution has started to 
improve. 
 From the first day of my Government, with our 
democratic security policy we made the decision not to 
tolerate the murder of any Colombian and to defeat 
impunity. The security situation has improved 
substantially. In 2002, Colombia suffered 29,000 
homicides, of which 196 were perpetrated against trade 
unionists, and we closed 2006 with a 40 per cent 
reduction in general violence and a 70 per cent 
reduction in violence against trade unionists. This year, 
there are 6,714 Colombians with individual protection 
from the State, of which almost 1,200 are workers 
belonging to trade unions, at a budgetary cost of almost 
$39 million. 
 In our struggle against impunity, between the 
budgets for 2002 and 2008 we will have increased the 
resources for the judicial branch and for the Attorney 
General’s office by 76 per cent and 78 per cent, 
respectively. The budget for the special unit of the 
Attorney General’s office devoted to cases of the 
murder of trade unionists has increased by 40 per cent. 
The unit oversees more than 300 cases prioritized by 
trade union movements. 
 The fight against impunity for the murder of 
unionized workers is being carried out under the 
guidelines of the International Labour Organization 
(ILO), in agreement between Government, workers and 
employers. Reports on the progress made, submitted by 
the ILO office in Colombia, have been positive. 
 Allow me to affirm before the United Nations 
that murders and kidnappings have been the work of 
terrorists. First, it was the Marxist guerrillas who, in 
introducing their perverse scheme of a so-called 
combination of all forms of struggle, murdered, 
kidnapped and penetrated sectors of workers, students, 
politicians and journalists. Then came the 
paramilitaries, and they did the same, murdering 
workers and accusing them of collaborating with the 
guerrillas, which in reciprocity murdered those whom 
they believed to be friends with the paramilitaries. In 
certain parts of the country, the confrontation between 
the two guerrilla factions that still exist leads to the 
murder of workers. 
 Overcoming that scourge once and for all is an 
inalienable objective of our democratic security policy. 
In that regard, our three Government objectives are to 
consolidate democratic security, strengthen investor 
confidence, and achieve our social programme, which 
is more ambitious than the millennium social goals that 
we hope to meet before the date set by the United 
Nations. 
 With regard to democratic security, we are 
winning, but we have not won yet. With persistence 
and transparency, Colombia will overcome terrorism 
financed by illicit drugs. We have a long-lived, 
respectable and ever-deepening democracy. We are 
approaching the fifth electoral contest presided over by 
my Government, and the transparency and 
effectiveness of the guarantees offered to all 
contenders are increasingly evident. There are 86,347 
registered candidates of 235 different political origins 
to fill 18,332 posts by direct election. This is 
happening in a country that, five years ago, was facing 
60,000 terrorists, and where about 11,000 still remain. 
To fight them, we deepen democracy instead of 
restricting it, protect liberties instead of suppressing 
them, and stimulate dissent instead of silencing it. Our 
fight against terrorism is being observed by national 
and international critics, who can be in the country and 
say what they please without restriction. 
 Our democratic practice gives us the political 
authority to say that those who take up arms financed 
by illicit drugs are not insurgents against oppression 
but terrorists against liberty. We will not refuse to 
negotiate with them if they cease their violent actions, 
but we will not allow for negotiation to become a trap 
that enables the destruction of our democracy. We have 
achieved the demobilization of 46,000 members of 
different factions and we are carrying out a costly and 
complex reintegration process with them that requires 
truth, justice and redress for the victims. 
 Thus, I now turn to the humanitarian agreement 
to free kidnapped people being held by terrorists of the 
Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia   
Ejército del Pueblo (FARC). Most of those were 
kidnapped before or during the time of the Caguan 
demilitarized zone, which lasted 42 months. We do not 
understand why FARC should ask for a demilitarized 
zone to release the kidnapped when it had that option 
for so long and did not free them. The country was 
without law and order for many years, and with no 
security, which allowed its almost complete takeover 
by guerrillas and paramilitaries. Citizens do not want 
terrorists; they plead for the exclusive presence of the 
State in all regions. We are open to a humanitarian 
agreement, but we cannot allow demilitarized zones, 
which are ultimately concentration camps run by 
terrorists, nor can we permit those who are released 
from prison to return to crime, since it would be an 
affront to the sacrifice of the country’s soldiers and 
police. 
 We have unilaterally freed 177 FARC members, 
as well as Rodrigo Granda, a high-ranking member of 
that organization, who was freed at the request of the 
President of France, Nicolas Sarkozy. We have given 
our consent for many people and institutions to be 
facilitators. The only answer from the terrorists has 
been the treacherous murder of 11 assemblymen from 
Valle del Cauca, who were held hostage for more than 
five years, and the ongoing assassinations of defenders 
of democracy, such as those perpetrated last Saturday, 
in which the victim was Julio César Marentes and 
Alberto Martínez Barbosa, two candidates for mayor in 
Villarrica and Río Blanco, Department of Tolima, and 
members of a political party from the Government’s 
coalition. 
 The options open for the release of kidnapping 
victims   including a French female citizen who is 
also Colombian, and three American citizens   are not 
options for the political positioning of terrorism. 
Colombia will not permit the recovery of its legitimate 
and democratic sovereignty to be frustrated by 
restoring national or international space to the 
murdering power of terrorism. If terrorists want to be 
involved in politics, they have to renounce their bloody 
activities and submit to the Constitution. 
 Recently, the Government gave its permission to 
Senator Piedad Córdoba, who is in the opposition to 
the Government, to play a role as facilitator of the 
humanitarian agreement. We also accepted the help of 
President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela, who will meet 
shortly with representatives of FARC. President 
Chávez has invited some congressmen from the United 
States to join him at that meeting, with my 
Government’s support and suggestion that the 
American delegation be bipartisan so as to preserve a 
bipartisan approach in its relations with Colombia. We 
celebrate the positive willingness of the Government of 
the United States. 
 We have established certain reservations in order 
to defend our democracy’s higher interests, and we 
encourage both President Chávez and Senator Piedad 
Córdoba in their tasks because we are committed to the 
release of those being held hostage. The dismantling of 
paramilitarism, the weakening of the guerrillas, the 
restoration of effective guarantees for democracy 
beyond rhetoric, and the protection of a free press in a 
country where 15 journalists were once murdered in a 
year   this year there has been one case   are results 
that allow us to look the world in the eye and demand 
full support for our democratic security policy. 
 Today there is no paramilitarism. There are 
guerrillas and drug traffickers. The term “paramilitary” 
was coined to refer to private criminal organizations 
whose objective was to combat guerrillas. Today, the 
sole entity that combats guerrillas is the State, which 
has recovered the monopoly it should never have lost. 
 With the backing of the United Nations, we are 
striving to assist displaced persons and to restore their 
dignity. We have multiplied by a factor of 10 the 
budget to protect them. The phenomenon remains, but 
has shown a significant reduction. 
 Today, Colombians feel more confident. The 
investment rate has risen from 12 per cent of gross 
domestic product to 26 per cent. Deficit and 
indebtedness are moving towards a net reduction. 
Unemployment, which stood at around 20 per cent, is 
now at 11 per cent, and we are struggling to lower it to 
7 per cent. We are seeking to reduce poverty, which 
stood at close to 40 per cent, to a level no higher than 
35 per cent in 2010.  
 We are advancing towards the goal of achieving 
universal access to basic education. We have built an 
excellent technical training system. We have gone from 
300,000 to 1.5 million families living in poverty that 
receive a subsidy for their children’s nutrition and 
education. We aim in the next three years to meet the 
goal of universal access to health services. We are 
working hard to fulfil, during the current four-year 
period, the target of providing 5 million microcredits to 
an equal number of families with scarce resources, as a 
basic strategy to overcome factors of exclusion. We 
have gone from 3.7 million to 9 million children who 
have benefited from our food programmes; we expect 
to reach 12 million in 2010. Our programme 
“Together”, undertaken to eliminate extreme poverty, 
combines a variety of social tools to cover 1.5 million 
families. 
 We reaffirm our commitment to fighting global 
warming. We have gone from 37,000 natural gas 
vehicles to nearly 300,000. We have moved forward in 
the construction of mass transportation systems in nine 
cities to reduce individual transportation. With 
indigenous communities, we have advanced in the 
construction of a series of villages that compose a 
barrier for the complete recovery of the Sierra Nevada 
de Santa Marta. Our new forest law prohibits the 
destruction of the rainforest and changes in land use. 
Colombia has 578,000 square kilometres of tropical 
forest, which constitutes a lung of the planet. We will 
soon have 80,000 forest-keeper families, who are 
remunerated by the State and are committed to 
abandoning illicit drug production and to supervising 
the recovery of destroyed forests. One national 
objective is the production of bio-fuels, for which we 
have 44 million hectares of savannah, which will allow 
greater development, initially in sugarcane and African 
palm, without jeopardizing food security or destroying 
a single square millimetre of rainforest. 
 I thank the United Nations system for all its 
support for Colombia, and I would like to highlight 
four areas. The United Nations Office on Drugs and 
Crime has been the guarantor and supervisor of our 
forest-keeper families programme to protect the 
rainforest from the destructive threat of drug 
trafficking. The International Labour Organization 
carries out excellent work in our workers’ protection 
programme. We have extended the mandate of the 
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to 
maintain its presence in Colombia for the remainder of 
my Government’s term of office. Furthermore, various 
United Nations entities provide valuable support in the 
task of assisting displaced people. 
 We continue working for a society without 
exclusion and without class hatred, in permanent 
constructive debate; one that looks for options, that 
does not stagnate in insurmountable antagonisms, that 
is respectful of the Democratic Constitution and guided 
by a long-term vision, and that sustains itself on an 
inclusive dialogue every day. 
 I thank the international community for all its 
support. I invite everyone to visit Colombia, to talk to 
our fellow countrymen and women, and to experience 
the collective spirit to fight for the greater happiness of 
future generations. Colombia should be known not 
through bad news, but rather through a great 
relationship with Colombians themselves. I reiterate 
the invitation to visit our country. 


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
Speaking once again before the General Assembly, I 
would like to congratulate you on your election, 
Mr. President, and to wish you every success. 
 Colombia continues to fight so that each and 
every citizen can trust that he or she will live, work, 
undertake projects, study and be happy in his or her 
homeland. That trust is sustained by democratic 
security, security for socially responsible investment 
and the construction of social cohesion. 
 Crimes against the safety of citizens continue to 
decrease, but we are not satisfied. So far this year, the 
number of crimes has fallen by 30 per cent in 
comparison to the same period last year. We have 
prioritized the protection of union leaders, teachers and 
journalists. Of the 11,204 homicides committed as of 
10 September, 36 were of workers and teachers 
affiliated with trade unions or independent teachers. To 
date, not a single journalist has been murdered. The 
Government grants individual protection to 8,612 
citizens, 1,462 of whom belong to trade unions. 
 Our determination to combat impunity is 
ongoing. Between 1991 and 2001, only two 
convictions were handed down. Thanks to efforts in 
recent years in terms of budgeting, the strengthening of 
the judicial system, the security policy and the 
tripartite agreement among workers, business leaders 
and the Government, sponsored by the International 
Labour Organization, 199 persons have been convicted 
for the murder of workers and 134 of them are in 
prison. Of the 123 sentences handed down, 85 have 
occurred in the past three years. 
 In the past, terrorist organizations penetrated the 
labour movement, resulting in the murder of workers. 
The dismantling of the paramilitaries has eliminated 
that source of suffering, but terrorist guerrillas persist 
in committing such crimes, as recently happened in the 
south of the country with the murder of a group of 
teachers by the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de 
Colombia-Ejército del Pueblo (FARC). 
 Recently, our tranquillity in the absence of 
terrorist attacks was shattered by a car bomb set off by 
FARC, which destroyed the palace of justice in the city 
of Cali and left several people dead and others injured, 
as well as many poor families with their small 
businesses and homes destroyed. 
 Of the approximately 60,000 terrorists that 
ravaged the country at the start of the Government’s 
term of office, 48,000 have abandoned their criminal 
organizations and joined the reintegration programme, 
which is a great challenge for Colombia. As of 
  
 
08-51839 14 
 
17 September this year, 2,436 guerrilla members —
2,147 of them from FARC — had been demobilized. 
 In a democracy of opinion such as ours, the 
sustainability of democratic security depends on its 
credibility, which in turn is based on effectiveness and 
transparency. That transparency is tantamount to the 
observance of the fundamental human rights we all 
enjoy. From that foundation comes our respect for 
liberties in the midst of the fight against terrorism and 
for openness, vigilance, criticism and debate at the 
national and international levels. 
 Furthermore, a formative, world-leading effort in 
human rights within our armed forces is crucial, as is 
the ongoing adjustment of operative protocols through 
such measures as that requiring soldiers to wait for the 
presence of a judicial delegate before moving the body 
of a member of a criminal organization killed in action. 
We are also resolved to investigate and assist in the 
investigation of any type of accusation and the 
modernization of military criminal legislation. 
 On 10 December, our country will voluntarily 
submit our human rights record to the Universal 
Periodic Review, a new mechanism created by the 
United Nations that is an additional contribution to the 
public discussion of our new road map on the matter. 
Our work with the Office of the High Commissioner 
for Human Rights and with the Organization of 
American States on the policy of truth, justice and 
redress for victims must, along with our historic 
memory, heal wounds and help to extinguish the flames 
of violence forever. 
 There are intangible results of democratic 
security. Citizens have greater faith in the State and 
turn to it for protection, overcoming the past 
indifference of some and the inclination of many to 
solve problems by their own means. Additionally, we 
have recovered the State monopoly on weapons and on 
official justice. Citizens have lost their fear of 
denouncing others, testifying and cooperating with the 
armed forces and the justice system. Victims are no 
longer fearful and today are coming forward to claim 
their rights. 
 One year ago, I looked out at this Assembly in the 
frustration of not having been able to rescue Ingrid 
Betancourt and those held in captivity with her. Today, 
thanks to the heroism, planning and bloodless 
effectiveness of our soldiers, Ingrid Betancourt is a 
symbol of freedom — the freedom to which we aspire 
as we liberate those who remain in captivity and put an 
end to such shameful crimes in our homeland. 
 Social cohesion validates security. Meeting the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) set for 2015 
is an urgent need for us as an essential part of building 
social cohesion. We are close to reaching the goal of no 
more than 3 per cent of children under the age of five 
being malnourished. We are determined to reach zero 
and are now beginning to provide early schooling to 
those children. 
 By 2010, we hope to have reached 100 per cent in 
basic education coverage. Towards the goal of 
averaging 10.6 years of education for the population 
between ages 15 and 24, we have already achieved an 
average of more than nine years. The number of 
students having to repeat a grade has decreased from 
6.1 per cent to 3.3 per cent, towards a goal of  
2.3 per cent. 
 Mortality rates for children under five years of 
age have fallen from 37 to 20 per 1,000 births, with a 
goal of 17. That same indicator for children younger 
than one year has decreased from 31 to 15.6, with a 
goal of 14. Vaccination coverage is almost at 
95 per cent, the percentage defined in the MDGs for 
2015. Our great challenge is to reduce the pronounced 
disparities between regions. 
 Despite the economy’s problems, we are still 
fully determined to meet the social goals through such 
programmes as Families in Action, Bank of 
Opportunities and the Together Network, which 
focuses social tools on the poorest spheres. That is all 
supported by very ambitious goals in the areas of child 
nutrition, educational quality and coverage, vocational 
training, health insurance, connectivity and good 
management of social resources. With regard to the 
latter, our administrative reform, which has already 
been extended to 411 State entities, seeks to prevent 
the State from being discredited, eliminating 
bureaucratic wastefulness and achieving social 
efficiency. 
 The mortgage and financial crises are minor 
problems compared to the threats to the environment. 
Although Colombia produces 0.35 per cent of world 
greenhouse gas emissions, we are highly vulnerable to 
the ravages of climate change resulting from melting 
ice and floods. More than 51 per cent of our territory is 
preserved as rainforest and is a major net contributor of 
oxygen. 
 
 
15 08-51839 
 
 Some of our most important environmental 
programmes include the building of mass 
transportation systems in nine cities, with plans under 
way for 10 more; a network of 66,000 rural families 
working as forest rangers, who are paid by the State to 
maintain collective areas free from illicit crops and to 
supervise the recovery and conservation of forests 
under the oversight of the United Nations; the 
conservation of 257 protected natural areas; the 
implementation of aqueduct and basic sanitation 
projects in the country’s 32 departments and the 1,102 
municipalities; and the promotion of alternative energy 
sources such as wind power and biofuels. 
 There are three common objections to biofuels: 
the risk of destroying the rainforest, the elimination of 
areas for agricultural food production, and the small 
amount of energy generated compared to that used to 
produce it. Colombia has 578,000 square kilometres of 
rainforest and 43 million hectares of savannah. We will 
not allow the rainforest to be touched. Protecting it is 
our main contribution to combating global warming. 
With the available savannah, we can expand our 
agricultural production concentrated in 5 million 
hectares, increase the number of livestock to 24 million 
heads of cattle and, without affecting food production, 
develop a large biofuel industry that generates good 
quality jobs, increases income and becomes an 
alternative to coca, which fuels terrorism. Our 
productivity is high, thanks to sources of energy such 
as sugar cane and the African oil palm, which also 
protects the soil from direct sunlight and prevents 
erosion. For every energy unit used, 8 energy units of 
ethanol are produced, or 6.5 units in biodiesel. 
 Illicit drugs are a great enemy of the 
environment, and they fuel terrorism. Colombia still 
suffers from violence because of illicit drugs. We speak 
of shared responsibility not to assign exclusive 
responsibilities to consumer countries, for, unfortunately, 
our young people also use drugs. We speak of shared 
responsibility to spur the world to combat production, 
trafficking, consumption, asset laundering and 
chemical precursors on an equal basis. Our 
Government requests that consumption be punished in 
our country and across the international community. 
We have extradited more than 800 persons. This year, 
we must spray 130,000 hectares of coca crops, while 
another 100,000 must be manually eradicated. Over the 
past five years, 10,000 properties have been 
confiscated. However, there has been no significant 
reduction in illicit crop areas and consumption is on 
the rise.  
 Let us consider that situation. It is more difficult 
to carry out prevention and rehabilitation efforts 
against the backdrop of exponential growth in 
consumption resulting from a permissive attitude. The 
destruction of the rainforest to plant coca, the erosion 
of the soil and the pollution caused by chemical 
precursors are enormous affronts on the environmental 
balance. Whoever buys a personal dose of illicit drugs 
encourages a child to become a distributor and, later, a 
feared criminal. Whoever buys a personal dose of illicit 
drugs helps to set off a car bomb in Colombia and to 
destroy four trees from our Amazon rainforest. 
 Investors from all over the world are coming to 
Colombia every day. Twice as many tourists, from 
every corner of the world, are visiting our country as 
were five years ago. Many of those who looked on our 
country with scepticism and spoke about Colombia as a 
failed State can now discern clear signals of 
institutional strength and democratic boldness. 
Colombia today generates more trust and respect, but 
the work goes on. To free us all from the horrors of 
drug trafficking, terrorism and poverty, we need more 
resolute support from the international community. I 
would very much like to thank the United Nations for 
its very significant presence in our country. 

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====
I 
would like to congratulate the President of the General 
Assembly and reiterate to the United Nations our 
gratitude for its positive presence and cooperation with 
the Colombian people. 
 The Government over which I preside aims to 
enhance the confidence of the national and 
international community in Colombia. This quest for 
confidence is based on three pillars: security with 
democratic values, the promotion of investment and 
entrepreneurship with social responsibility, and social 
cohesion with freedoms. 
 We continue with our security advances, but also 
there are some outstanding challenges. I would like to 
highlight some intangible achievements that attest to 
the democratic credentials of our security project.  
 We have recovered two monopolies that we 
should never have lost: the monopoly of institutional 
forces to fight criminals and the monopoly of justice 
that the terrorists tried to dislodge. We have dismantled 
paramilitarism, a term that emerged to describe private 
criminal gangs whose objective was to fight drug-
trafficking guerrillas. Today, the State is the only entity 
that fights all those criminals. Those criminals in all 
their forms — narco-guerrillas, criminal gangs — are 
part of a mafia-type relationship that unites them or 
pits them against each other to distribute or fight over 
the gains of the criminal drug business.  
 Justice, with the Supreme Court that was attacked 
in 1985 by drug traffickers and guerrillas; justice, 
which was tormented by the threats to and 
assassination of judges and was dislodged in many 
regions by the terrorists leaders of guerrillas and 
paramilitary groups that attempted to replace it; justice 
has, throughout the entire country, regained its full 
effectiveness. 
 Victims did not complain out of fear of retaliation 
or because they thought it was pointless. Now, thanks 
to the recovery of our security, we have registered 
239,758 victims, whose situations we are determined to 
remedy, a remedy that is never complete but which will 
lead little by little to reconciliation by overcoming of 
the spirit of vengeance and hatred. 
 We have regained the independence of 
decentralization and of political exercise. Terrorism 
had displaced 30 per cent of our mayors, stolen and 
corrupted municipal and departmental budgets and 
exercised coercion within the public sector. Mayors 
have regained their security so that they may freely 
carry out their duties and transparently manage their 
resources. Politics is now expressed freely in all 
spectrums of thought. This terrorist threat has been 
tackled without martial law, with full civil and political 
guarantees and absolute respect for the freedom that we 
promote with security.  
 We are working to improve the effectiveness of 
our public forces as well as respect for human rights. 
We do not hesitate to punish those who violate them, 
but neither do we refrain from defending our soldiers 
and policemen who sometimes have been victims of a 
dirty legal war. Colombia has voluntarily presented 
itself to a United Nations human rights review.  
 Furthermore, despite the suffering caused by 
landmines that had been planted by terrorist groups, the 
State destroyed those that were used by its public 
forces for training purposes. Our country is one of the 
leaders of the Ottawa Convention to destroy these 
landmines and will host the next meeting of States 
parties in Cartagena. 
  
 
09-52228 14 
 
 We tackle terrorism with the utmost 
determination, and we practise democracy fervently. 
That is why the doors of Colombia have been open 
without restriction to international vigilance. We 
deliberate and disagree, but both impartial observers 
and biased critics have had complete freedom to 
express themselves in Colombia. 
 Our interest does not lie in the fanatical 
confrontation between left and right, which is as 
dangerous as it is obsolete. Rather, we are betting on a 
modern democracy, a democracy that is safe and free, 
that builds social cohesion, a democracy with 
independent institutions and with confidence that stems 
from the transparency that is based on a high level of 
civic participation. 
 We have not been able to completely overcome 
the problem of displacement, but we have increased 
our budget twelvefold to help displaced persons. We 
promote trust between public forces and communities 
so that those who fight drug trafficking are not 
thwarted by the displacement that is caused by drug 
traffickers. 
 We have demobilized 51,783 members of terrorist 
groups, whose numbers have dropped from around 
60,000 to fewer than 8,000. We have been extremely 
generous with those who have been demobilized and 
extremely severe with the 7 per cent who have returned 
to crime. The Justice and Peace Law, which covers 
them, made it possible to report 29,555 criminal acts, 
12,104 confessions, the discovery of 2,043 graves with 
2,492 corpses, the identification of 708 bodies and the 
return of 581 to their families. The participation of 
victims and new procedures for restitution and 
restoration of their rights are a decisive component of 
this demobilization process. 
 Terrorism cannot be ignored in the name of good 
international relations. To the contrary, multilateralism 
and diplomacy must lead to collaborative action among 
States to overcome this tragedy and its corollaries, 
including arms trafficking, illicit drugs, money and 
asset laundering and terrorist havens. 
 We reaffirm our commitment to multilateralism in 
all its legitimate expressions, from organizations of 
neighbouring countries to the most global 
Organization, but we believe that multilateralism must 
demonstrate that it is effective in defeating 
international crime. 
 Colombia has acknowledged its internal problem 
of narco-terrorism. We have carried out a heroic 
struggle that will ultimately prevail. We cooperate with 
the international community and we ask for more 
effective cooperation. We are cooperating with Mexico, 
Guatemala, Panama, Costa Rica, Haiti, the Dominican 
Republic, Peru, Afghanistan and other countries. We 
acknowledge the efforts of the United States to work 
together with us to make progress in dismantling 
narco-terrorism. We request greater cooperation from 
more countries and from the international community. 
Our objective is to restore domestic security and never 
to participate in the arms race for the bloody game of 
international warfare. Our tradition is one of respect 
for the global community. 
 We are concerned that, instead of progress 
towards greater cooperation to ensure the security, 
peace and tranquillity of the citizens of all countries, 
there is an acceleration of the arms race. Some justify 
it by citing the need to modernize their military 
equipment, while others admit their desire for war. 
 Multilateral agencies, led by the United Nations, 
must strengthen their action so that Governments will 
fulfil their duty to protect their citizens and their 
obligation not to attack the international community. 
 In Colombia, the only reason for terrorism is the 
drug trade. Its violent criminals used to deny being 
involved in narco-terrorism and to try to appear 
ideological; today, having lost all sense of decency, 
they cannot hide their criminal enterprise or feign 
ideological postures, which are negated by their cruelty 
towards their victims and those whom they have 
kidnapped. The democratic transparency of our 
country, which they tried to destroy, ensures that they 
will never be acceptable. 
 We have a different view of co-responsibility and 
of the proposal that drugs be legalized. The former 
division between producer and consumer countries has 
disappeared. Colombia began as a trafficking territory, 
burst into production and now suffers as a consumer. 
Those who began as consumers increase production. 
All peoples are exposed to the risks of drug production, 
trafficking and consumption. Co-responsibility must 
thus be exercised in accordance with its real meaning: 
a task that belongs to all of us, without any 
reservations. 
 We believe that, instead of advocating the 
legalization of drugs, we should consider the need to 
 
 
15 09-52228 
 
criminalize consumption. There is no consistency 
between toughness when it comes to production and 
trafficking and permissiveness when it comes to 
consumption. That has led to deadly micro-trafficking 
in cities, the promotion of consumption by adolescents 
and young people and the involvement of children in 
the criminal trade. We are making progress in the 
constitutional process of criminalizing consumption, 
taking care not to confuse the sick addict with the 
criminal distributor.  
 Our Government is promoting investment and 
entrepreneurship as ways to overcome poverty and 
build equity. Colombia is moving forward in terms of 
competitiveness and confidence. Investment must 
perform a function of social responsibility to acquire 
popular legitimacy in democratic societies. Social 
responsibility — not speculation — is inseparable from 
capital as a significant factor in social-wealth creation. 
The economic crisis is a crisis of speculation, rather 
than of creative free enterprise. We are confident that 
the necessary conventions will be adopted to avoid the 
risks created by speculative money transfers and 
financial market speculation. We fear a new era of 
protectionism and the selective closure of developed 
economies, which would impede sustainable economic 
recovery. 
 Social responsibility is inseparable from the fight 
against climate change. Colombia is a net producer of 
oxygen and emits insignificant amounts of carbon 
dioxide. However, we are highly vulnerable, as shown 
by the winter tragedies in recent years, which have 
caused losses in terms of human life, production and 
high service costs. We support tougher international 
conventions to protect the environment. We hope that 
the Copenhagen conference will produce effective 
binding instruments so that it will not be another dead 
letter. 
 Our main contribution to the fight against climate 
change is the preservation of our 578,000-square-
kilometre rainforest, which constitutes more than 
51 per cent of our national territory and the majority of 
which lies along the Amazon. We have as a concrete 
policy the forest ranger family programme, which has 
involved more than 90,000 rural families in the 
collective effort to protect the rainforest, keep it free 
from the shadow of illicit drugs and ensure its recovery 
where it has been destroyed. The State pays a bonus to 
those families. The programme, supervised by the 
United Nations, has received the highest rating from 
the Organization. 
 In Colombia, forest ranger families protect the 
Amazon rainforest from predatory drugs; elsewhere in 
the world, a similar model could preserve trees in order 
to mitigate climate change. 
 Clean energy, mass transportation systems and 
the protection of water sources are essential actions in 
our contribution to the fight against global warming. 
Colombia, at more than 1 million litres per day, is the 
second-largest Latin American producer of ethanol 
from sugar cane and, at 1.8 million litres per day, the 
largest producer of biodiesel from African palm. The 
conditions in our country make it possible to increase 
those outputs without destroying the rainforest or 
limiting food security. 
 We have introduced incentives for other clean 
energies such as solar and wind energy, the 
development of which remains small despite their great 
potential. 
 We are working on building nine mass 
transportation systems in major cities and are now in 
the process of incorporating another 10 that are 
proportionally sized, with a view to replacing 
individual transportation with collective transportation. 
 Eleven per cent of our national territory has been 
designated a protected area. In natural sanctuaries such 
as the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, which is the 
highest coastal sanctuary in the world, agreements with 
indigenous communities are being implemented. In 
exchange for security, the recovery of lands and the 
building of seven out of nine promised villages, they 
have once again taken over the noble task of preserving 
forests and water sources. 
 We gain nothing from security, investment, 
health, education or any other social cohesion policy if 
we do not attach equal importance to the environment. 
We understand this in a “mega-diverse” nation that 
contains 14 per cent of the planet’s diversity and ranks 
second — behind Brazil — in terms of plant and 
animal species and first in terms of amphibians and 
birds. 
 Our fervent desire is to increase the Human 
Opportunity Index in order to eliminate poverty, build 
equity and guarantee every possible alternative for new 
generations. We propose to include in the measuring of 
the Index progress and setbacks in environmental 
  
 
09-52228 16 
 
policies. Opportunities are pointless without 
environmental protection. Let us be effective in our 
fight against climate change so that we do not condemn 
the future inhabitants of the Earth to a planetary 
holocaust.

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====

With reverence and an immense sense of responsibility, 
I come to this historic forum for the first time to 
reiterate the commitment of my country and more than 
45 million Colombians to the fulfilment and success of 
the founding principles of the United Nations. As this 
Organization proceeds in its reform process, we 
support its adoption of the criteria of good governance, 
efficiency and transparency in order to realize those 
principles and to achieve a more effective international 
system of cooperation. 
 We believe that the United Nations should focus 
on achieving concrete results that transform realities 
rather than deepen conditions of dependency or 
perpetuate assistance programmes that often do more 
harm than good in developing countries. It is in this 
belief and with faith in the future of the Organization 
that I express today before this Assembly my country’s 
aspiration to become a member of the Security Council 
for the period 2011-2012. We seek that position on the 
basis of respect for the principles of the United Nations 
Charter and with the commitment to providing our 
fullest cooperation to the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 
 Colombia — which, along with other Latin 
American nations, commemorates its two-hundredth 
year of independence this year — has a long and 
successful democratic and institutional tradition. Our 
Republic has suffered the attacks of terrorism and the 
ravages of international crime, but we have always 
faced them within the framework of our Constitution 
and laws, following the most rigorous democratic 
procedures. We are confident that our long and painful 
experience can be very useful to all States Members of 
the Organization in matters in which we have 
developed a strong technical and operational capacity, 
such as security, the struggle against terrorism and 
drug trafficking, the fight against the illicit trade in 
small arms and light weapons, the progressive 
eradication of anti-personnel mines, humanitarian 
assistance, the disarmament, demobilization and 
reintegration of illegal armed groups, and — of 
particular importance — how to do so while always 
protecting human rights. 
 As advocates of peaceful coexistence, we 
Colombians are proud to participate in peacekeeping 
and peacebuilding operations, such as the United 
Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, the 
Multinational Force and Observers in Sinai, and the 
United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in 
Sierra Leone. This participation reflects our 
commitment to peace anywhere in the world, which we 
reaffirm today. 
 That is why we want to be the voice of Latin 
America and the Caribbean in the Security Council at 
this very special moment for our region. Latin America 
and the Caribbean, a region of some 600 million 
inhabitants, is our area of natural interaction. The 
region includes countries with multiple political 
visions and diverse positions on many specific topics. 
But we are united in the interest of overcoming 
poverty, improving the living standards of our people, 
integrating ourselves successfully into the global 
market, and protecting our environment. 
 Latin American nations are beginning to assume a 
global leadership role on economic, environmental, 
security and development issues. In my inaugural 
speech on 7 August, I said that, given the significant 
progress achieved by my country, the time for 
Colombia had come. Today, in this global forum, I 
wish to go further and state with absolute conviction 
that the time has come for Latin America. 
 We Latin Americans have assumed the 
management of our economies with responsibility. As a 
result, we were one of the regions least affected by the 
global economic crisis. Today, our countries are 
growing on the basis of economic, social and 
technological pillars that are stronger than ever and 
attracting investors from throughout the world. We are 
a subcontinent where the majority of the population is 
young, with immense talents and ability to work, with 
cities and natural wonders that attract tourists and 
 
 
5 10-54965 
 
investors from all over the world, and with 
unparalleled environmental wealth. 
 In these times, when the world demands food, 
water, biofuels and natural lungs for the Earth such as 
the tropical forests, Latin America has millions of 
hectares ready for cultivation without affecting the 
ecological balance, and all the willingness necessary to 
become a supplier of all the goods that humanity needs 
for its own survival. 
 More than 925 million people living with hunger 
and malnutrition are a challenge that cannot be 
postponed. Latin America can and wants to be part of 
the solution. Ours is the region richest in biodiversity 
on the planet, with the most megadiverse country in the 
world, namely Brazil, and the country with the greatest 
biodiversity per square kilometre, namely our country, 
Colombia. The Amazon region alone holds 20 per cent 
of the global supply of fresh water and 50 per cent of 
the planet’s biodiversity. 
 Colombia is not a country with high levels of 
polluting emissions, but we want to assume our 
responsibility to the planet and its future. We therefore 
support the international initiative known as Reducing 
Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, 
which seeks to generate and allocate the resources 
necessary to reduce tropical forest loss and associated 
emissions. We Colombians want to be a model country 
for the world in monitoring its forests, carbon 
emissions and the state of its biodiversity. 
 Latin America as a whole must be a key region in 
saving the planet. We call for a new agreement to 
replace the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012, to 
ensure the commitment of all — starting with the big 
industrial Powers  to emissions reduction. With 
appropriate economic compensation, we have an 
enormous capacity to reduce deforestation and plant 
new forests, changing the history not only of the region 
but of the world as a whole. 
 When the twenty-first century began, Latin 
America and the Caribbean were just starting their 
march towards integration into the global economy. 
Today, 10 years later, in the light of our political and 
economic stability and agricultural, energy and 
environmental potential, I want to send a message to 
the other nations of our region. The world’s eyes are 
upon us. Now is the time for us to open our own eyes, 
to overcome any persisting differences among us, and 
to think big. If we do so, and given everything I have 
just said, we can declare with one voice, as I do today 
at the dawn of the second decade of the third 
millennium: This is Latin America’s decade. It will be 
a decade in which we can grow and advance, and first 
and foremost in which we can serve our peoples and 
the well-being of humankind. 
 Two days ago, I had the opportunity to present 
Colombia’s results in its progress towards the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. I 
am not now going to repeat our achievements — which 
have been many — or our remaining challenges, which 
are many more. I simply want to underline that, more 
than any other problem, poverty, with all its related 
consequences, is the greatest calamity in our world.  
 I want to call attention in particular to the twofold 
tragedy faced by a brother Caribbean country, which, 
along with its endemic poverty, is coping with the 
effects of a devastating natural disaster. I was in Haiti a 
couple of months ago and I must say, before this 
Assembly of the nations of the world and with a 
saddened heart, that its unbearable reality surpasses the 
worst nightmare. The pledged international aid is yet to 
arrive in its entirety, or at least it is not visible. 
Haitians are still fighting and surviving with dignity 
and courage, but without the due attention we must 
give to their situation, which can bear no delay. I call 
on the Security Council to consider transforming the 
United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti into a 
true development operation that responds to Haiti’s 
needs and achieves concrete results. 
 In these difficult economic times, especially for 
industrialized nations, with high unemployment and 
stagnation, global solidarity tends to vanish from 
among our priorities. That is a mistake. Turning one’s 
back on international cooperation and trade helps no 
one, and we are convinced that selfishness harms 
everyone, and the industrialized world more than any. 
Where else are consumers going to come from if not 
from the millions of poor who have until now been left 
at the margins of progress? Who, other than societies 
filled with enthusiastic young people, can contribute to 
the dynamism  that mature nations need? What 
economic space, other than the developing world, is 
available to satisfy the needs of humankind in the 
coming decades? Collective prosperity has advanced 
the most precisely when millions have been involved in 
development, and the darkest moments of our planet’s 
economy have been those of exclusion and barriers. 
  
 
10-54965 6 
 
 I cannot close without referring to two global 
scourges — terrorism and drug trafficking — that feed 
off each other, because it is often the money from illicit 
drugs that finances terrorists acts and groups. Perhaps 
more than any other country, Colombia has been a 
victim of these phenomena, but it has also been a 
model in the fight against them and a champion of the 
need to act together with the international community, 
under the principle of shared responsibility. 
 Our democratic security policy — a policy of 
security for all with respect for the law — is also a 
human rights policy because we have been able to 
dramatically reduce the crimes and behaviours that 
most threaten the lives and fundamental rights of our 
people, such as homicide, kidnapping and 
displacement. We were the first country to 
comprehensively apply the principles of truth, justice 
and reparation in the demobilization of illegal armed 
groups. The Colombian State and society are 
committed to defending and promoting human rights. 
We do so out of conviction — deep conviction — and 
not by imposition. 
 We have achieved great results in the fight 
against drug trafficking. There has been a substantial 
reduction in hectares where coca is grown, and we are 
committed to pursuing this task until those crops are 
completely eradicated. We have hit hard the mafias that 
control this business, including guerrilla groups that 
have become veritable drug cartels. We will continue to 
fight them relentlessly and without quarter. We will 
spare no effort. Just yesterday, from this very city, I 
announced to the world the news of the death of the 
highest-ranking military leader of the Revolutionary 
Armed Forces of Colombia in an operation impeccably 
conducted by our armed forces. This is the most 
important and decisive blow against that terrorist group 
in its history, and we hope it will bring us closer to 
peace. 
 We want to achieve peace either by reason or by 
force, and we will achieve it so that we can dedicate 
and focus all our energies on achieving development 
and prosperity for our people. In the fight against drug 
trafficking, we have lost many of our best soldiers, 
policemen, leaders, judges and journalists. Still, their 
blood has not been shed in vain. From a failed State in 
which violent actors, financed by drug trafficking, had 
distorted our democracy, today we look at the world 
from a thriving democracy rising towards democratic 
prosperity for all. We defeated the big drug cartels, but 
this business has not come to an end yet. That is why 
we will keep on fighting it, because for us it is a matter 
of national security. 
 We are concerned and distressed that our relative 
success has led to other countries of the region 
suffering the growing presence and activities of drug 
trafficking in their territories. The world needs to open 
its eyes, because to be in denial with respect to this 
problem could be fatal. It happened to us at a very high 
cost. 
 We Colombians are more than willing to 
cooperate with States that need it, and we are already 
doing so with several countries in Central America and 
the Caribbean, with Mexico and even in Afghanistan. 
But, it is very important that we be consistent on this 
issue. I say this as representative of the country with 
the highest moral authority to speak of this scourge, 
because no other nation has suffered like ours the 
disastrous consequences of drug trafficking. 
 We note with concern the contradictory stance of 
some countries that, on the one hand, demand a head-
on fight against drug trafficking and, on the other, 
legalize consumption or study the possibility of 
legalizing the production and trade of certain illicit 
drugs. How can I or anyone tell a peasant in my 
country that he or she will be prosecuted and punished 
for growing crops for drug production, while in other 
countries such activity is being legalized? These 
contradictions make it urgent — and on this matter we 
join the call by President Leonel Fernández Reyna of 
the Dominican Republic — that we agree to review the 
global strategy against illicit drugs in order to draft a 
single global policy that is more effective and within 
which all countries will contribute equally to this 
effort. 
 Thanks to the significant security, economic and 
social achievements accomplished in recent years 
through the efforts of many Colombians and the 
leadership of my predecessor, President Álvaro Uribe, 
today Colombia finds itself at the dawn of a new 
morning. I came to office with the commitment to fight 
poverty and unemployment and to lead my country 
towards not only economic but also social prosperity 
that reaches everyone, above all the poorest. I have 
proposed a Government of national unity in which all 
Colombians are united to create jobs and greater 
welfare. I foresee with great optimism our future as a 
nation. 
 
 
7 10-54965 
 
 Today, I present myself before this global forum 
with respect, humility, a sense of history and an 
awareness of our own limitations to say that we can do 
nothing alone, neither in my country nor in the world. 
Only united and only with respect, solidarity and 
tolerance will humankind be able to know a better 
tomorrow.

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====

During the past year we have witnessed events and 
popular uprisings that are changing the face of the 
planet, both politically and economically. As President 
of a country that firmly believes in multilateralism, I 
come to the General Assembly today to emphasize how 
important it is for the United Nations to assume the 
fundamental role that belongs to it in the face of such 
crises. Crises in and of themselves are neither good nor 
bad; their results depend on how we manage them. 
They can often become genuine opportunities.  
 The political transformations we are seeing in 
North Africa and in the Middle East, for example, if 
they lead to a strengthening of democracy and the rule 
of law in the affected countries, can be a factor in 
global stability. What the peoples request, what the 
peoples seek, is freedom, respect for their rights, the 
ability to choose their leaders and democracy. The duty 
of the international community is to support them. If 
we do not, if we turn our back on them, we may see a 
protracted period of civil wars and conflict, which we 
should avoid at all cost. 
 Therefore, we must commit ourselves to 
strengthening and applying the methods of peaceful 
conflict resolution described in Chapter VI of the 
United Nations Charter. The more efficient we are in 
the use of preventive diplomacy, the less need there 
will be for intervention.  
 We should advocate effective mediation with 
conviction, mediation that does not seek the leading 
role but one that is given the time and tools required to 
establish trust and to reach solutions that are 
advantageous to all parties. 
 I am pleased to be able to affirm today that 
Colombia does not just believe in mediation and 
peaceful solutions; we have successfully put them into 
practice. My Government succeeded in normalizing 
relations with two countries: Venezuela and Ecuador. 
We did this on the basis of conciliation and respectful, 
direct dialogue. 
 The former President of Argentina, Mr. Néstor 
Kirchner, then Secretary General of the Union of South 
American Nations, lent his good offices to the 
rapprochement between Venezuela and Colombia. His 
management was extremely effective, a great legacy he 
left to our region. 
 In Latin America we have learned that 
Governments and States may have differing, even at 
times opposing, political concepts, but that this does 
not mean they cannot live together and cooperate in 
peace. We have also made important contributions to 
the search for dialogue, negotiation and mediation in 
our region. Honduras is an example of that effort. 
Venezuela and Colombia joined forces to support the 
Honduran parties in their reconciliation through 
dialogue and rebuilding trust. This succeeded in 
bringing Honduras back into the Union of South 
American Nations. 
 What I have said so far can also be applied to 
long-standing conflicts, such as that between Israel and 
Palestine. Advances can be achieved if, and only if, 
direct dialogue and effective mediation are employed. 
Along with the rest of the international community, we 
are concerned by the suspension of peace negotiations, 
and we urge — in fact, we implore — both parties to 
return to the negotiating table as soon as possible. That 
is the only — I repeat, the only — path that leads to 
what we all wish to see: two States living in peace and 
security. 
  
 
11-50692 42 
 
 On a positive note, we can offer as an example of 
appropriate cooperation and negotiation the efforts that 
led to the creation of the Republic of South Sudan, the 
most recent Member of the United Nations, to which 
we give the most effusive welcome. 
 As a current member of the Security Council, 
Colombia has brought to the agenda the situation of 
Haiti, a country struck by natural phenomena and 
affected by unacceptable poverty. The solution there 
must remain a priority for all of us. Peace in Haiti will 
be the fruit not just of peacekeeping operations, but of 
the empowerment of Haitians themselves in handling 
their own problems and solutions, with sufficient 
international support for their economic and social 
development. 
 By virtue of its place as the country with the 
greatest biodiversity per square kilometre in the world, 
which makes it highly vulnerable, Colombia is 
committed to measures that mitigate the effects of 
climate change and enable us to adapt to them. 
 We are participating in the preparations for the 
upcoming United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development, Rio+20, which will take place in July 
2012, with a proposal we have been developing in 
consultation with other countries. We believe that one 
of the main results of Rio+20 should be the 
establishment of a set of sustainable development goals 
based on the agenda that was approved in the first 
conference and echoing the Millennium Development 
Goals. 
 The guiding principles were established in Rio in 
1992, and an implementation plan was agreed on in 
Johannesburg in 2002. Today, 20 years later, we need 
to define a set of goals that allow us to measure 
achievements, identify shortcomings and determine the 
opportunities for advancement. The planet and its 
future demand that we work with goals, with specific 
indicators of results that ensure the efficacy of our 
efforts. 
 A year ago I said that thanks to advances in 
economic and social security, Colombia was at the 
threshold of a new dawn. Today I can state with 
realism and well-founded optimism that the first rays 
of that new dawn are beginning to warm us and light 
our way. 
 My Government is one of national unity, in which 
the main political parties have converged around the 
fundamental objectives of the nation. This unity has 
afforded us a significant measure of governability and 
has enabled us to have historic laws and reforms 
approved in our Congress that will help us to have a 
more prosperous and safer nation, one that is more 
equitable and more egalitarian. 
 Among the initiatives that have been approved, I 
wish to point to a law concerning victims and the 
return of land that guarantees that the State and society 
work to make reparations and to return stolen lands to 
hundreds of thousands of farmers affected by the 
violence of the past several decades. We are paying a 
moral debt to the victims. This is the first time in the 
history of the world that this is happening before the 
end of an internal armed conflict. We have decided that 
justice, truth and reparations must not have to wait.  
 It is worth pointing out that Secretary-General 
Ban-Ki Moon joined us in Bogotá the day that law was 
passed. He emphasized the advance it represented and 
offered the assistance of the United Nations in ensuring 
its proper application.  
 Also thanks to the governability guaranteed by 
our new national unity, we were able to establish a 
more equitable distribution of resources originating 
from oil and mining to ensure that they reach our 
neediest population and regions. 
 In addition, at this time of global financial and 
economic volatility, we have introduced into our 
Constitution the element of fiscal sustainability, and 
have enacted a law to ensure that the State maintains 
discipline in its management of public finances. Such 
responsible initiatives have increased investor 
confidence, had a positive impact on our country’s risk 
rating and will lead to a more stable economic future in 
which we believe we will be able to focus on reducing 
unemployment and poverty, my Government’s two 
main priorities. 
 Colombia, to a degree unlike any other country in 
the world, has had to deal with the global drug 
problem. We have had much success, but a great many 
challenges remain. We know how terrorists benefit 
from drug-trafficking, and there can be no doubt that 
drugs and terrorism threaten democracies and the rule 
of law. Colombia will continue to combat these 
scourges, because for us they represent a national 
security problem. We are actively cooperating in the 
region, and will continue to do so, to combat 
transnational crime. We can only succeed if we 
 
 
43 11-50692 
 
cooperate and work together in this struggle, which 
affects every country equally. 
 A year ago, from this rostrum (see A/65/PV.15), I 
said that we should call the decade that was then just 
beginning the decade of Latin America and the 
Caribbean. I reaffirm that prediction now. Our region is 
an area of political and economic stability that is firmly 
determined to move forward with social policy. We 
have both the capability and the willingness to provide 
the world with solutions in the areas of the 
environment, water, energy, food and labour. But our 
region cannot grow or progress in isolation. We want to 
advance hand in hand with the world, sharing the 
principles of respect and tolerance. We welcome 
progress in prosperity wherever it occurs in the world. 
 That is why I would like to conclude by calling 
on the nations of the world and on the Organization 
that brings us together here to continue to work 
together to make use of the peaceful means at our 
disposal, with a new goal: to turn the crises we are 
experiencing today into opportunities for a better 
tomorrow. The future, as has always been the case, 
depends on us. With determination and positive 
leadership, we can convert these storms into winds 
favourable to the whole of humankind.

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿Two years ago, during my first address before the
Assembly as President of Colombia (see A/65/PV.15), I
expressed my country’s aspiration to become a member
of the Security Council for the period 2011-2012.
We assumed the responsibility of participating in
making decisions about critical situations that threaten
world peace in a spirit of absolute independence and
well aware of the enormous commitment required to
work for international peace and security. It has been
a particularly turbulent time, but one during which the
aspirations of many peoples who had suffered long conflicts and armed confrontation have been furthered.
Countries like Liberia, Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire
are now making strides towards peacebuilding and the
rule of law.
In Libya, a ruthless tyranny in place for more than 40
years was dismantled in a process in which the Security
Council played a decisive role. My Government did
not hesitate to condemn the violent repression of the
civilian population justly clamouring for the exercise
of their fundamental rights. That is why we joined the
Council’s decisions furthering a transition towards
a democracy that, although still fragile, enjoys the
support of the international community as it seeks to
entrench itself. There are still violent groups that want
to sabotage that process by terrorist methods. I take
this opportunity to condemn in the strongest terms the
despicable attack perpetrated against the United States
consulate in Benghazi. Extremism, terrorism and
disregard for human life cannot be allowed to persist.
Today, the Arab world is experiencing a
fundamental political transformation, opening the
way towards democracy. If the process is to last, it
will require respect for people’s rights and the creation
of conditions conducive to sustainable economic
development. We hope that participation by citizens,
especially women, will continue to increase and foster
democratic systems and opportunities for development
and welfare.
With regard to the dire situation in Syria for more
than a year and half, I must express our deep frustration
with the inability of the international community to put an end to the tragedy that every day takes more and more
Syrian lives. From this rostrum, we reiterate our call
for an end to the attacks and for a political negotiation
that will meet the legitimate aspirations of all sectors
of Syrian society. Implementing Kofi Annan’s six-point
plan would greatly contribute to facilitating a Syrian-
led political transition. We strongly support the new
Joint Special Representative of the United Nations
and the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi,
and wish him much success in his very complex and
difficult task.
As a representative of a country that is currently
a member of the Security Council, I would like to
brief ly turn to the matter of its reform, which has
been under discussion for 20 years. Colombia believes
that consensus should be our guide in developing a
comprehensive approach that includes change in both
the Council’s composition and its working methods so
as to promote more effectively the United Nations goals
of peace, well-being and humanity.
In our hemisphere, one country that requires
comprehensive peacebuilding is Haiti. We continue to
work for Haiti. Its recovery will require our continuous
support in strengthening its capacities, institutions
and productivity so as to generate employment, reduce
extreme poverty and promote the United Nations work
for development in the country. I urge everyone to
persevere in that cause.
A key event for the world this year was the United
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development
(Rio+20). Inspired by the Millennium Development
Goals model, Colombia led the proposal to establish
the sustainable development goals, which was the
most important outcome of the Rio+20 process. Today,
the sustainable development goals promise to be a
fundamental component of the planet’s development
agenda, and the Secretary-General himself has
identified them as one of the five priorities of his
legacy. We are therefore especially pleased that our
Foreign Minister has been invited to be a member of the
high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda,
which held its first meeting yesterday.
This year, the sixth Summit of the Americas gathered
in Colombia, with 30 Heads of State and Government
from the western hemisphere in attendance. It was a
fruitful gathering, which for the first time we organized
simultaneously with a business summit attended by the
leaders of the premier companies of the Americas. We
also held a social forum that brought together people
from diverse social organizations on the continents.
The Summit of the Americas in Cartagena was
characterized by frank and open dialogue about the
most crucial issues for the region and the world. The
Governments of the Americas agreed to undertake
an analysis and discussion of the track record,
effectiveness and future prospects of the so-called war
on drugs, as well as possible alternatives to it. It is our
duty to question with scientific objectivity whether we
are doing the best we can or if there are better options
to more effectively combating the scourge. To that end,
we mandated the Organization of American States
to begin an analysis and discussion, inviting other
entities — the first of which would be, of course, the
United Nations — to participate.
That is only a first step, but it is of great importance
because it is the beginning of a discussion that the
world has avoided for many years. We hope that it will
ultimately yield concrete results. The debate about
drugs that have caused so much harm throughout the
world and to my country must be frank and, most
certainly, global.
Similarly, in my statement before the General
Assembly two years ago, I expressed my conviction
that the dawning decade should be the decade of
Latin America and the Caribbean — a decade that
would consolidate that region of the world as a region
of peace, progress and solutions for the rest of the
planet. Today, we are pleased to note that our region
is indeed experiencing a favourable moment with solid
economies, functional democracies and no current
conflict among the nations of which it is formed.
Regional coordination mechanisms of relatively
recent establishment, such as the Union of South
American Nations and the Community of Latin
American and Caribbean States, are evidence of the
resolve of our countries and peoples to cooperate. I
would like to highlight the enormous potential of the
Pacific Alliance that was formalized this year among
Mexico, Peru, Colombia and Chile. The Alliance is
open to the participation of other States with which we
seek to strengthen not only trade but also political and
human ties, as well as to the nations of the immense
Pacific basin.
I cannot conclude without referring to the special
moment that our country is currently experiencing.
Against the backdrop of international turbulence, we have been successful in maintaining a healthy economy
that has generated over 2 million new jobs over the
course of two years, attesting to the major progress
we have made in reducing poverty. We have put in
place initiatives of great social impact, such as a law
for victims, which is the only legislation in the world
that seeks to return lands to displaced peasants and
to compensate the victims of a conflict that remains
ongoing; or major hydrocarbon and mining royalties
reform to more fairly distribute the revenues generated
by such activities, and thereby promote more effective
social development.
Nevertheless, our progress, which has been
remarkable, has been curtailed by an absurd conflict
that has now lasted half a century. Today, Colombia
is suffering through the most prolonged internal
armed conflict in its hemisphere, indeed perhaps one
of the longest-lasting in the world — an ever-more
anachronistic and inexplicable conflict. Above all, it
is inexplicable in the light of the development of our
democracy and of our social progress.
Aware of that, and without neglecting the
protection and security of the Colombian people and
without ceding an inch in the fight against terrorism
and crime, my Government is resolved to move forward
prudently, seriously and firmly, and without repeating
the mistakes of the past, by entering into conversations
with the guerrilla forces in order to achieve an end to
the armed conflict.
After two years of exploratory contacts, we have
announced to the country and to the world that a
phase of talks will be initiated on a short and concrete
agenda, which we hope will allow us to achieve the
desired outcome. The talks will begin in Oslo during
the first half of October and will continue in Havana,
thanks to the goodwill of the Governments of Norway
and Cuba, which will serve as guarantors. We will also
have the backing of the Government of Venezuela, to
which we are grateful for its valuable support, and of
the Government of Chile, which will be working with
us during the second phase.
Today, before the General Assembly, I wish to
thank the international community for the support it has
expressed at outset of the talks and for its willingness
to cooperate and help in any way that is necessary. We
embark upon the talks with moderate optimism and in
the absolute conviction that it is an opportunity that
we cannot squander to achieve a peace that is good not
only for Colombia but for the entire region. With regard to my statement today, a few days ago I
asked the Colombian people through social media what
message they wanted me to bring here to the General
Assembly. Among the many messages I received, I
want to share one from my compatriot Henry Rodríguez
Chacón: “An entire generation wants to wake up one
day to the news of a peace agreement.” That is the most
heartfelt wish of the Colombian people.
Aware that the process must have brief deadlines
and precise terms if it is to be successful, I trust that
I will be able to deliver to the Assembly next year a
positive outcome of the effort, which we undertake
enthusiastically with a view to ending our 50-year
conflict.
We do not want to talk just about peace; we want
to build conditions for peace. That is what we are doing
on a daily basis with the actions of our Government and
now with the talks that we are initiating. Today, with
great hope, we present the world with this new special
moment for my country, Colombia.

===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
I 
should like to depart slightly from protocol and start 
my statement by speaking about a humble woman, a 
Colombian named María Zabala, who has to bear the 
burden of immense pain in her heart day in and day 
out. Two decades ago, armed members of illegal groups 
arrived outside her house located on the Colombian 
Caribbean coast, determined to impose their rule 
of terror. In front of her and her small children, they 
murdered her husband and two other relatives. They 
forced her to leave her house and then they burned 
everything down. She barely managed to remove the 
corpses from the ashes. She buried them right there 
and fled from her parcel of land with her children 
and without any belongings. All she carried was the 
immense weight of her tragedy.

Today, María Zabala is a courageous and inspiring 
leader, a leader of victims, who is working for peace 
in my country. In Colombia, sadly, there are many 
thousands of cases like María Zabala’s. It is estimated 
that over the past 50 years, over 220,000 people died 
because of the conflict. That is more than twice the 
death toll of the Bosnian war in the former Yugoslavia, 
which was an open and ruthless conflict that moved the 
entire world. And to that, we would have to add the 
injured, the people mutilated by anti-personnel mines, 
those who have suffered the infamy of kidnapping and 
those uprooted from their own land, who could amount 
to almost 5 million people.

That is the harsh and ugly reality of a conflict that 
unfortunately persists to this day. It is the oldest and 
the last conflict in the western hemisphere. In spite 
of the conflict, Colombia has achieved unprecedented 
progress in recent years on matters of security, in 
the fight against poverty and inequality, and in its 
economic performance. We have achieved much — a 
great deal — in the midst of a confrontation. Imagine 
how much more we could have done without the 
confrontation. And I must confess to the Assembly that 
for me, as the head of the Government, it would have 
been easy to continue to move forward on the path that 
we were on and to leave the conflict unresolved, because 
waging war — and I know how to wage war — is easier 
than seeking peace.

It would have been easier, but not responsible, 
because continuing to coexist with the conflict would be 
like sentencing millions of people to many more years 
of violence, fear, poverty and victimization. It would 
not be responsible towards Latin America or towards 
the world, as they also suffer, in different ways, from 
the effects of the Colombian conflict. And it would not 
be responsible towards my own conscience, because we 
have the best possible opportunity before us today — a 
real opportunity, and maybe the last — to put an end 
to the conflict. I could not die in peace if I failed to do 
everything within my power to seize the opportunity 
presented. 

My generation has not seen a single day of peace, 
and my dream is for my children and the children of all 
Colombians to have the opportunity to know peace. I 
hope that the guerrilla forces understand that the time 
has come to leave this 50-year confrontation behind; 
that the time has come to move from bullets to votes, 
from weapons to discussion; that the time has come for 
them to continue their struggle, but within democracy.

Today, before the General Assembly, we Colombians 
want to thank the international community for the 
support we have received in the endeavour to bring an 
end to our conflict through dialogue. With the world 
as our witness, we wish to assert our right to achieve 
the peace. We are tired of being afraid, we are tired of 
violence, we are tired of a conflict that pits the children 



of the same nation against each other and delays our 
development. María Zabala is one victim among many, 
all of whom are entitled to justice, truth and reparations 
and to not seeing history repeat itself. That is what we 
are working on in our country.

My Government has promoted our most ambitious 
bill yet, recognizing and compensating victims in the 
midst of a conflict. I had the honour of ratifying that bill 
in the presence of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. But 
our commitment goes beyond serving the victims of the 
past; our most urgent obligation today is to eliminate 
the possibility of new victims being claimed by the 
conflict. Our obligation is to end the conflict now and 
to ensure that the spiral of violence and pain will not 
continue to recur. We are doing that in accordance with 
our democratic tradition — of course respecting, as we 
always have, the rule of law — and in compliance with 
our international obligations. We wish to achieve an 
end to our conflict without relinquishing justice, much 
less the truth and due care of the victims. 

I take this opportunity to offer my thoughts to the 
General Assembly on the role of the United Nations and 
the multilateral organizations in our peace process and 
its future implementation. The subject is relevant and 
current, since Colombia is possibly the first country in 
the world to engage in a process of that nature since 
the entry into force of the Rome Statute, which will 
make us a model for other cases where dialogue is given 
priority over armed solutions, as should be the case. 

Former United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights Louise Arbour of Canada recently stated 
that international doctrine had not been successful 
in finding practical answers as to how to resolve the 
real tension that exists between peace and justice in 
a negotiation process. Ms. Arbour recalled examples, 
such as International Criminal Tribunals for the 
Former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, which had been given 
immense resources but had yielded very poor results.

The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, 
established in 1994, has managed to dispose of only 
40 cases out of the nearly 800,000 murders committed 
in a single year. In 20 years, the International Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia has resolved barely 
100 cases.

Therefore, how can we simultaneously achieve 
the end of armed conflict, fulfil our obligation to 
investigate and prosecute and realize the rights of 
victims? That dilemma must be confronted with 
honesty and seriousness, and that is what we are doing 
in Colombia.

We have adopted an integrated strategy for 
transitional justice that addresses the issues of truth, 
justice and reparations, which we hope will enable 
us to make the transition towards peace. We can say 
that we have been pioneers in the implementation of 
transitional justice measures in the midst of conflict, 
giving priority to satisfying the rights of victims. No 
one in my country wants the perpetuation of violence.

What we are asking from the United Nations and 
the international community is that both Colombia’s and 
every nation’s right to seek peace be respected We ask 
for continued support in that effort, along with respect 
for our decisions and our approach, with confidence in 
the fact that our actions have never deviated from the 
values of the international community.

We cannot investigate every action committed over 
half a century of violence, prosecute each and every one 
of those responsible and then find ourselves unable to 
follow through. But what we can do is to build a realistic 
and transparent strategy that may satisfy the rights of 
all the victims in the best possible way. If we understand 
justice and the fight against impunity in a transition as 
a set of measures aimed at satisfying the victims and 
not just as the administration of criminal processes, 
it will be possible to find a comprehensive solution 
for everyone. I refer to measures such as genuinely 
establishing the facts of events, the acknowledgment 
of responsibility, the recovery of trust, access to 
reparations, and measures aimed at ensuring that there 
will be no recurrence. In that way justice becomes — as 
it should be — a support for, rather than an obstacle to, 
peace.

I want to be clear: there will be no impunity for 
crimes against humanity or war crimes committed 
in a systematic fashion. On the contrary, this is the 
first time that Colombia is seriously assuming the 
obligation of fighting impunity for crimes committed 
in our armed conflict. The purpose is not to sacrifice 
justice to achieve peace, but rather to achieve peace 
with maximum justice. I am saying that out of deep 
conviction. There is much at stake, that is, no less than 
an end to the half-century long conflict, as well as the 
fate of 47 million Colombians.

We have been involved in talks for one year 
now, but we have reached agreements on just one of 
the six items on the agenda. I am still optimistic, but 



the patience of the Colombian people is not infinite. 
The guerrillas will have to decide whether they opt 
for an honourable and lasting peace, or whether they 
will continue to wage war. From this rostrum, I call 
upon them to understand that history has led us to this 
decisive moment. The time for decisions has come. If 
we leave empty-handed, we will doom our nation to 
many more years of bloodshed and pain. We cannot 
miss this opportunity.Future generations and history 
will not forgive us.

Moreover, our conflict, with all its violence and 
cruelty, has been affected by a poisonous scourge that 
fuels it and is fuelled by it: drug trafficking. That illicit 
activity has been the main funding source for violence 
and terrorism in my country — and I would say in the 
whole world as well in recent times. Without the grim 
influence of drug trafficking, which fuels the fires of 
our war, I am certain that the war would already have 
ended. That is why we have included the topic of illicit 
drugs as a specific item in the agenda of the discussions 
with the guerrillas.

If we manage to have the guerrillas change sides, 
once they have demobilized, and become an ally of 
the State in order to definitively curb drug trafficking 
and eliminate illegal crops, just imagine what could 
be accomplished. A Colombia without coca crops and 
without a conflict was once a utopia and an impossible 
dream, but it is one that we can now realize for the 
benefit not only of Colombians but of the whole world.

Almost a half century ago, in this very place, the 
Convention that gave birth to the war on drugs was 
adopted. Today we must recognize that that war has not 
been won. I say that as the President of the country that 
has suffered the most deaths, the most bloodshed, the 
most sacrifices in that war, and also the country that 
has achieved the most results in the fight against this 
scourge and the mafias that underpin it. 

Last year, when chairing the Summit of the 
Americas, fully aware of that dilemma, I led a proposal 
to debate and explore different scenarios in the fight 
against the global drug problem, aimed at evaluating 
what we are doing and at seeking ways to be more 
effective. We commissioned the Organization of 
American States to conduct studies with experts, 
academics and people with different approaches on 
how to face the problem. Those studies were delivered 
to us in May. Different Governments are evaluating 
them and they should serve as inputs for discussions at 
all universities and think tanks, and in the context of 
different forums, not just from Latin America but from 
the whole world, because it is a global problem that 
requires a global solution. Because of that — because 
it is a global problem — we expect their conclusions 
to also be discussed in this body, the United Nations, 
which has already called for a special session on the 
drug problem to be convened in 2016. 

If we act together on the drug problem and adopt a 
new, modern and comprehensive vision that is free of 
ideological or political bias, imagine how much harm 
and violence we will be able to prevent. I am not just 
speaking about harm to people, but also harm to nature, 
because drug trafficking has become a major destroyer 
of our tropical forests and forests in general, in what 
can be termed a veritable ecocide.

Colombia is deeply committed to environmental 
protection. At the Rio de Janeiro Conference on 
Sustainable Development, we put forward the proposal 
to establish sustainable development goals as a 
mandatory benchmark in the development agenda for 
the coming decades. We are taking an active part in 
the design of those goals, and they can and should 
be incorporated into a visionary and ambitious 
development agenda for all countries as of 2015. In fact, 
we were a member of the High-level Panel on the Post-
2015 Development Agenda, convened by the Secretary-
General and co-chaired by the Prime Minister of the 
United Kingdom, David Cameron, which has already 
presented its report. 

Colombia, for its part, is continuing to do a great 
deal. For example, a few weeks ago, we doubled the 
area of the largest national park in Colombia, the 
Chiribiquete National Natural Park, located in the very 
heart of our Amazon region. We designated that area a 
natural reserve and prohibited mining and deforestation 
activities in an area roughly the size of Belgium, and 
not just in any place, but in the area where the Amazon 
region has the greatest biological and cultural diversity. 

This very morning we are launching, with the 
Prime Minister of Norway and five other countries, 
the New Climate Economy initiative. With the support 
of the most respected research institutes, we will seek 
the best way of making economic efficiencies and the 
fight against poverty compatible with the preservation 
of the environment. In that way we are shouldering our 
responsibilities with respect to climate change, which 
has already had an impact on Colombians. We will 



protect the sources of oxygen and water necessary not 
just for Colombia’s survival but that of the entire planet.

I will conclude by stating that in my country we are 
working and will continue to work to prevent the plight 
of María Zabala and millions of other victims from ever 
recurring. Never again! I hope that the President of 
Colombia will come to the Assembly next year bearing 
the good news that the conflict has come to an end.


===== Session 69 - 2014 =====
First, on behalf of the Government of Colombia, I would 
like to congratulate Mr. Kutesa for his election to the 
presidency of the General Assembly and to express 
Colombia’s support for his work in promoting a post-
2015 development agenda that responds to humankind’s 
current challenges. The sustainable development 
goals recently adopted after an open, transparent and 
inclusive negotiation process should be at the centre of 
that agenda.

In a world full of bad news, war, terrorism and 
disease, I would like to bring a ray of hope to the 
Assembly: that, after more than half a century of 
conflict, Colombia will soon enjoy peace. If we achieve 
this goal, which Colombians have unsuccessfully 
sought for so long, there is hope for peace anywhere in 
the world, despite how difficult things may seem right 
now. Today, I can say to the international community 
that we are closer than ever before to achieving that 
peace. The process that has been taking place in 
Havana over the past two years with the guerrilla group 
known as the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de 
Colombia (FARC) has been serious, realistic, credible 
and effective and has produced concrete results.

We agreed on an agenda with five substantive 
points, of which we have achieved agreements on 
three: comprehensive rural development, political 
participation and the illicit drug problem. In the first 
of those areas, we have agreed to unprecedented 
investment in agricultural development, working to 
give farmers access to land and to generate a better 
standard of living for farming families. Regarding 
political participation, what we are striving for is very 
simple. We want to broaden our democracy in order 
to build peace and promote citizen participation, and 
to forever sever the link between politics and arms. 
Regarding the illicit drug problem, we have agreed 
to continue dismantling the drug mafia structures, 
promote a national crop substitution and alternative 
development programme and address the issue of 
consumption from a public health perspective. The 
agreement also includes a commitment on the part 
of FARC to contributing effectively to a definitive 
solution to the illicit drug problem and to ending any 
relationship it may have had with it.

A Colombia without coca and without conflict 
was an impossible dream just a few years or decades 
ago. Today, I can affirm that it is a real possibility. 
We have already begun discussions on the last two 
substantive points of the plan: the victims and the end 
of the conflict. This war has left in its wake millions of 
victims who never had a voice before and who are now 
at the centre of the process. We are working to fulfil 
the rights of victims to justice, truth, reparations and 
non-recurrence. Above all, we are working to ensure 
that there are no more victims.

In an act that I believe to be without precedent in 
the history of the world, representatives of the victims 
are explaining their situations, exposing their pain and 
setting out their expectations before the Government 
and guerrillas. The victims are the main protagonists 
and the main beneficiaries of the peace that we seek. 
Constanza Turbay, who represents the courage of our 
women and who lost most of her family at the hands 
of the guerrillas, had the opportunity to confront her 
victimizers, look them in the eye and to directly hear 
their expressions of sincere remorse. In her own words, 
Ms. Turbay stated that the victims are “replacing 
their pain with the hope of peace”. Another woman, 
Ms. Juanita Barragan, who spent several years of her 
youth within the ranks of the FARC, was able to tell her 
former leaders in Havana: “Please do not enlist more 
children to fight your war”. Today, Ms. Barragan wants 
to be a lawyer and to work for children. There are so 
many cases and so many voices that are finally being 
heard.

We have also created a subcommittee that 
includes active military and police personnel. This 
subcommittee is beginning to consider the details of 
a definitive bilateral ceasefire process, as well as the 
demobilization and disarmament of guerrillas upon 
signature of the final agreement. I can therefore now 
report to the international community that Colombia has 
made substantial progress in its effort to end the armed 


conflict that has affected us to such a great extent, and, 
inevitably, impacted the region and the world.

When the post-conflict phase begins, we will face 
immense challenges in reintegrating those who have 
demobilized, ensuring a State presence in conflict-
affected areas, and guaranteeing civic security. 
The support and contributions of the international 
community are key in that regard, and we call for 
that support. I take this opportunity to express 
our gratitude to the many nations and multilateral 
agencies — especially the United Nations — for their 
commitment to the peace process and their willingness 
to provide all manner of support, not only now but also 
in the future as we implement those agreements in the 
post-conflict stage.

In my inaugural speech upon taking office for a 
second term as President of Colombia on 7 August, 
I stated the following, and repeat it today before the 
world’s nations. While conflicts rage around the world, 
Colombia aspires to bring the good news for humankind 
that the final armed conflict in the western hemisphere 
is coming to an end. If we are successful, as we truly 
expect to be, we will be ready to share our experience 
with other countries. We are sure that our case can 
become a model and a beacon of hope for the world’s 
other conflicts.

In Colombia, we seek peace because the suffering 
of our fellow citizens pains us. We do not want any 
more victims, or women or children involved in war. 
We therefore understand the pain of and express our 
solidarity with the many nations that today are suffering 
from war and unutterable atrocities, due — it must be 
said — to the impotence of the international community 
We are not oblivious to the suffering of those who 
live in such countries such as Syria, Iraq, Libya and 
Ukraine and in regions like the Sahel. We condemn 
the ruthless terrorism of the Islamic State in Iraq and 
the Sham. We are not indifferent to the suffering of the 
many families in Palestine and Israel who are victims 
of armed confrontations, or to the loss of life due to 
epidemics, such as Ebola in Africa.

As we approach the Organization’s seventieth 
anniversary, we find ourselves at a defining moment in 
the consolidation of the international system embodied 
by the United Nations. Full respect for international 
law and the purposes and principles enshrined in the 
Charter is essential to attaining lasting solutions to 
overcome conflict and achieve progress in fulfilling the 
legitimate aspirations of the people. In confrontations, 
we must restore the ethical principles that are 
fundamental to the human condition, and children, 
women and civilians must be spared such tragedies.

Colombia favours negotiated political solutions. 
Today, we must ask questions that are not only rhetorical 
but also true. Why are there people who stand against 
peace? Why do some see war as the only way out? 
Perhaps they do so because without war they would lose 
their power, accustomed as they are to making a living 
and profiting from it, and unable as they are to imagine 
life without it. We have to convince the promoters of 
war that this is not the way, and convert them into 
promoters of peace. We are doing just that in Colombia, 
and we must do the same in every corner of the planet. 
The United Nations was established precisely to prevent 
conflict and to seek peace.

Undoubtedly, the drug trade and drug trafficking 
are fuelling the conflicts in Colombia and elsewhere in 
the world. Colombia has promoted a serious, technical 
and objective discussion of the methods and results 
of the so-called war on drugs. This war has not been 
won, but we have had some success at the hemispheric 
level. Last week, at the Special General Assembly of 
the Organization of American States in Guatemala, we 
achieved hemispheric consensus on several positions 
and adopted a resolution that shows that we can move 
forward together on this issue. Those results will help 
us to be more prepared to be able to achieve progress 
at the United Nations special session on drugs that has 
been called for 2016.

Last month, in the inaugural speech of my second 
mandate, I set out for Colombians the vision that will 
guide our actions. I want to make Colombia a country 
of peace, a country with equality, and the most educated 
country in Latin America by 2025. At the same time, 
this vision also draws us towards the future sustainable 
development goals for the post-2015 period — ambitious 
goals that address humankind’s most pressing social, 
economic and environmental problems.

The good economic climate that Colombia is 
experiencing, progress in the social indicators, 
particularly poverty reduction and job creation, and the 
peace process itself allow us to believe in the possibility 
of achieving this vision. It is this Colombia, the one 
that is overcoming poverty, has regained control of its 
territory, is growing at the world’s highest levels and 


has successful social equality policies in order to find 
more fairness, which is also searching for peace.

I envisage the same things for Latin America and 
the Caribbean as I envisage for my country — that 
we can be a region at peace, with greater equality and 
better education; a region that makes the transition 
from resource-based economies to knowledge-based 
economies; a region in which entrepreneurship and 
innovation are the engines of development; a region with 
socially and environmentally responsible companies 
that transform our future.

As I said in the Assembly in 2010 (see A/65/PV.15), 
this should be the decade of Latin America and the 
Caribbean. And now, before the world’s nations, 
I reiterate the call on my region, Latin America and 
the Caribbean, to remain true to that intention. To the 
international community, I make an impassioned appeal 
for us to put everything we can — everything — into 
ensuring that the sense of humanity overcomes war. We 
are losing our way when we look at the tragedies that 
humankind is suffering without being pained by them, 
without the world waking up and taking decisive action 
to address them. We cannot allow ourselves to lose the 
capacity to be shocked by war. It is time to wake up. It 
is time to act.


===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
I would like to thank our Ambassador Maria Emma Mejía Vélez for giving me the floor. What a source of great pride it is for us that a Colombian woman is presiding over this meeting at this historic moment, when the General Assembly is considering the topic “The United
Nations at 70: the road ahead for peace, security and human rights”, which is the road along which Colombia is travelling, now more successfully than ever before.
I am therefore honoured to come to this Assembly to share some news which is also historic. Today, I proclaim to the entire world that one of the more than 20 armed conflicts taking place across the globe, which are causing so much pain, poverty and suffering, that of my country, Colombia, is finally nearing a genuine solution. We will put an end to the longest and most recent armed conflict in the Western Hemisphere. Achieving peace — in Colombia or in any part of the world — is a responsibility that nobody must shirk.
As Pope Francis said so well a few days ago in the Congress of the United States of America,
“When countries which have been at odds resume the path of dialogue — a dialogue which may have been interrupted for the most legitimate of reasons — new opportunities open up for all. This has required, and requires, courage and daring, which is not the same as irresponsibility.”
In Colombia we have tried to work with the courage, the audacity and also the sense of responsibility of which the Holy Father spoke, and we are beginning to see the fruits of our efforts. We have had more than 50 years of internal warfare in a country destined for progress and happiness, and we are determined to put an end to that conflict. Peace is a difficult goal to attain, but not an impossible one. Peace is something more than the fruit of a political, social or economic process. Peace, more than anything, is a great process of collective cultural transformation that begins with an individual spiritual change, and it requires that all individuals — each within himself or herself— open their minds, hearts and souls to reconciliation.
Why do I say that today I come to this Assembly with greater optimism than ever before? Well, it is because less than a week ago in Havana, after almost three years of negotiations in which we made progress on most of the items on the agreed agenda, we reached an agreement on what was perhaps the major obstacle to peace. We reached an agreement on the most difficult element of any peace process — a system of transitional justice that ensures that there is no impunity for the most serious crimes committed during the conflict. In this agreement, which respects the norms and principles of international law and our own Constitution, we put the greatest emphasis on the right of victims to justice
30/51 15-29431

29/09/2015 A/70/PV.16
and on truth, reparations and the non-resumption of the conflict, placing them at the centre of the solution to an armed conflict. And we are reaching our goal: the maximum degree of justice compatible with the attainment of peace.
It is also the first time in the history of conflicts in the world that a Government and an illegal armed group — in a peace agreement, not as the result of something that was imposed later on — are creating a system of accountability in a domestic court for international crimes and other serious crimes. We are setting a precedent that could serve as a model for other armed conflicts in the world. The progress made is so important and significant that it has enabled us to take two additional steps, which is the best news that I could convey to this great forum of nations. We have agreed to a deadline for signing the final agreement that would put an end to our armed conflict. It will be, at the very latest, 23 March 2016, in less than six months from now. On that date at the very latest, we shall bid a final farewell to the last and longest war not just in Colombia, but in the entire Western Hemisphere. In addition, we have also agreed that the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC) will begin to lay down its weapons no later than 60 days following the signing of the final agreement. That means that next year, when I return to this Assembly, I will do so as President of a Colombia that is at peace and has achieved reconciliation.
Our talks with the FARC guerrilla forces offer a glimmer of hope in a world overshadowed by war, violence and terrorism. This is also an opportunity to thank the international community, on behalf of 48 million Colombians, for its support for our peace efforts and for its willingness to assist us in the post- conflict stage. A peaceful Colombia will be a positive factor for the world in several distinct but interrelated areas, such as combating climate change and illegal drugs, security and eradicating extreme poverty.
Our country is proud to be the most biodiverse country in the world in relation to its size. However, we are also one of the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change. That is why we insist on the environmental dimension of the Sustainable Development Goals. At the end of my term in office in 2018, I hope to have left behind protected areas in Colombia of approximately 20 million hectares, accounting for almost one-fifth of our landmass. We fully support the twenty-first session of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is to be held at the end of this year in Paris, where we will commit to assisting in the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
We are also addressing the problem of illegal drug crops with a comprehensive strategy that we have proposed to the rest of the world. At the Summit of the Americas, held in Cartagena, Colombia, in 2012, I raised the need for an objective assessment of the outcome of the so-called war on drugs declared here more than 40 years ago, which has been so costly in human lives and resources. The study was conducted and submitted by the Organization of American States two years ago. Now, we are preparing for the special session of the General Assembly on this issue to take place seven months from now. We continue to advocate a new global strategy based on scientific evidence that puts greater emphasis on health, education and tackling the social roots of this phenomenon and seeks to minimize the negative effects of drugs through the use of smarter, more effective and more humane strategies.
In Colombia, we have gone even further. Last week, I presented a comprehensive crop-substitution plan based on that multifaceted approach. Not only will we attack the mafias, whom we will pursue relentlessly, but we will also provide social and economic opportunities for farmers, ensure that the State and the justice system are ever-present, prevent drug use and treat it as a public health issue. If we end the conflict, the guerrilla forces that have been a negative factor in drug-trafficking will become, once they lay down their weapons, an ally in combating it. It will be extraordinarily symbolic when those who once protected these illicit crops will help us to eradicate them. In that way, Colombia wins and the entire world wins. We will begin to free ourselves from coca and, at the same time, to preserve and save millions of hectares of tropical forest. As the Pope so eloquently said in this very Hall four days ago, “war is the negation of all rights and a dramatic assault on the environment” (A/70/PV.3, p. 5).
A peaceful Colombia will also be a safer Colombia because the enormous energy and effort that today are dedicated to dealing with this domestic conflict will be focused on improving security and on fighting crime in the cities and villages of my country. Of course, it will be a Colombia with more opportunities for everyone where we will continue to reduce poverty and create jobs, as we have been doing at a rate that has made us the leader in Latin America in terms of social progress,
15-29431 31/51

A/70/PV.16 29/09/2015
in recent years. Achieving peace will enable us to meet the Sustainable Development Goals, which are now enshrined in Colombian law and which we adopted in 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
I now invite all Colombians, without exception, and all citizens of the world to pave the way for peace. The most worthwhile legacy we could leave to our children and to future generations is peace. Nothing could be more important or more urgent because peace is the supreme good of any society. It is the most sacred good and the very reason for the existence of the United Nations. Today, I am delighted to announce the good news that, in fewer than six months, bells will toll in Colombia to announce that the time for peace has come. I hope that clocks around the world will be synchronized with our own to show the same time — a time for peace, a time for humankind.


===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
In 1981, today’s date, 21 September, was proclaimed as the International Day of Peace to promote a negotiated solution to armed conflicts throughout the world. Since 1982, one year later, Colombia has been on a long and difficult road to leave violence behind and attain peace. My predecessors pursued peace for Colombians, each in his own way. This is a task that I undertook on the first day of my Government in August 2010.
I have come to speak to members of the Assembly on seven occasions on the progress and expectations of the peace process between the Government of Colombia and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC) guerrilla group — the largest and oldest such group on the American continent. A year ago, standing here before the Assembly (see A/70/PV.16), I said that I expected to return in 2016 as the President of a Colombia in peace — a reconciled Colombia.
After more than half a century of internal armed conflict, I return to the United Nations today, on the International Day of Peace, to announce, with all the strength of my voice and heart, that the war in Colombia has ended. On 24 August in Havana, the negotiators declared that all provisions were complete and adopted the final text of the General Agreement for the Termination of the Conflict and the Construction of a Stable and Lasting Peace. Five days later, a bilateral and definitive ceasefire and cessation of hostilities took place. As a result, since then there has not been a single death, a single wound or a single bullet fired in the conflict with FARC.
The Agreement will be officially signed in Cartagena de Indias on 26 September. The people of Colombia will approve it through a plebiscite on 2 October. From that moment forward, the former members of the guerrilla group will go to different cantonment areas to begin surrendering their arms to the United Nations within a six-month period, and to begin their reintegration into society.
Their weapons will be melted and will be made into three monuments to peace — one here in New York; one in Cuba, where the peace negotiations took place; and another one in Colombia. These monuments will remind us that the bullets are behind us and that the construction of a new and better country has begun. Joyfully, I reiterate that the last and oldest armed conflict in the western hemisphere has come to an end. The Americas — the two vast American continents with all of their islands, from Patagonia to Alaska — are now a region of peace.
The Agreement that was reached after almost six years of public conversations is the best news for Colombia, Latin America and the world. What does the Agreement mean? Above all, it means that FARC will cease to exist as an armed group and reintegrate into society, and can become a political movement within our democracy. We have agreed on measures to guarantee its political participation, offer more assurances to the opposition and strengthen democracy and the electoral system in Colombia.
We have also outlined programmes to improve the quality of life of rural inhabitants, who have been the most affected by the conflict, and to make land available to those who do not have it or who lost it because of the war. A central aspect of this peace process is that it has focused on the protection and guarantee of the rights of the victims: the rights to truth, justice, reparations and non-repetition. To that end, we have agreed on such mechanisms as a truth commission, reparation and restoration measures, and a comprehensive transitional justice system.
This is the first time in the history of the resolution of armed conflicts anywhere in the world that a Government and an illegal armed group — through an agreement and not through external imposition — have agreed on transitional justice. The perpetrators of international crimes and other serious crimes will be investigated, judged and punished. This has been positively highlighted by the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and many other organizations and experts. We are sure that this model of justice, which is framed within a comprehensive system to guarantee the rights of the victims — as established by the Rome Statute — will be a useful precedent for future peace processes.
I should like to highlight another aspect of the Agreement. We know that drug trafficking has fueled war in Colombia and around the world. Thanks to the Agreement, FARC is committed to severing all ties with this activity and to cooperating, through concrete actions, to combat this phenomenon. This is highly symbolic, as those who once protected illicit coca crops will now work with the State in eradicating them.
A similar process will be take place with regard to the anti-personnel mines that have killed and mutilated so many soldiers, police officers, farmers and children. The State and FARC will work jointly to demine all of the national territory. That will also have significant environmental benefits not only for our country, but also for the planet. To the extent that illegal crops are replaced with legal ones, the deforestation caused by coca cultivation will stop. No longer will millions of barrels of oil spill into our rivers and oceans because of attacks on our oil infrastructure. We will be able to better take care of and preserve the natural lung that is the Amazon.
A new Colombia greets the international community today. It is a Colombia full of hope, a Colombia that, without war, is ready to reach its highest potential and to be a positive factor in the global context. It is a Colombia where the resources that used to finance war will now be better used on education, health and security for its citizens. It is a Colombia that opens its arms to the world and welcomes investment, trade and tourism.
The Sustainable Development Goals have already been adopted into law in our country. We were the first country to do so. The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is now before Congress to be enacted into law. Peace will undoubtedly allow us to achieve these transformative commitments with greater ease and effectiveness.
Today, on behalf of almost 50 million Colombians, I express our deepest gratitude to the international community for its ongoing and tireless support for peace in Colombia. We thank Cuba, the host of the dialogues, and Norway, which were guarantors of the peace negotiations, as well as Chile and Venezuela, which accompanied the entire process. I thank the United States, Germany and the European Union, which appointed special envoys to accompany the dialogues.
We especially thank the United Nations, Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon and the Security Council, which established a political mission to lead the monitoring and verification of the ceasefire and the disarmament of the guerrillas. I had the opportunity to thank the Council personally a few moments ago (see S/PV.7773). We thank the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, all of which supported this process. We are profoundly grateful to so many Governments, countries and organizations that have continuously expressed their solidarity and willingness to support Colombia in the challenging post-conflict phase that lies ahead of us.
I can say today, in this historic Hall, that we have succeeded for Colombians and the world. Colombia is turning the page of war to start writing the chapter of peace. That is what we wish for the rest of the planet.
Therefore, we offer our full solidarity to the nations that have suffered and continue to suffer from the scourge of global terrorism. The example of Colombia should give hope to the world that it is possible to achieve the dream of peace when there is will and commitment. To that end we must first disarm spirits and language, because words can be as harmful as bombs. We have to take in and protect the victims and the most vulnerable, including the thousands of human beings that flee war to seek opportunities beyond their borders. Colombia is more than ready to continue supporting the raison d’être of the United Nations — the search for peace in the world.
As President of Colombians, I am happy and humbly excited to announce to the Assembly the peace in Colombia. A conflict of over half a century — a conflict that left more than 220,000 people dead and claimed more than 8 million victims — has come to an end. The bells of peace are ringing in Colombia and their echo is heard by all the nations represented in this Hall. We do not want more war. We do not want more wars, not in Colombia and not in the rest of the world. Today we have a reason for hope. There is one less war on the planet, and that is the war in Colombia.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
This is the eighth and last time I address the General Assembly in my capacity as President of Colombia. A lot has happened since 24 September 2010, when I made my first speech (see A/65/PV.15). Colombia has been transformed positively, and the world has experienced progress and setbacks, of which we have all been witnesses, victims or protagonists.
Here is a paradox: I did my first televised address to Colombians as their leader from New York in September 2010, one day before addressing the Assembly. What was the reason for that intervention? I announced to Colombia and to the international community that our armed forces had taken down the head of the guerrillas of the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC). Today, seven years later, I feel very happy that the news I bring from Colombia does not have to do with death, but with life. Today I come to tell the Assembly that the peace process with the FARC culminated not only in an agreement, but with something bigger and more important: thousands and thousands of human lives saved.
Therefore, the news today is not about death. It is about life, and we want that to be the news in the whole world. If in Colombia we were able to end an armed conflict that left hundreds of thousands dead and millions as victims and displaced persons, there is hope for the conflicts that still exist in the world. It was not easy. Ending a war, overcoming hatred and vanquishing fears involve a complex process of dialogue and compromise. However, we did it because we had the will and because we were aware of a fundamental premise: peace is a necessary condition for progress and the happiness of any society.
I want to acknowledge and thank the United Nations, because it has fully fulfilled the mission for which it was created, which is none other than to end the scourge of war. On behalf of some 50 million Colombians, I want to thank the Secretary-General, the Security Council and the Assembly.
A special mission set up by the Security Council was in charge of verifying and monitoring the FARC disarmament process and its compliance with the ceasefire and the cessation of hostilities between that group and the Colombian State. Today we can say, with immense satisfaction, that its mission has been fulfilled. The ceasefire and cessation of hostilities were respected, and the FARC delivered to the United Nations more than 9,000 weapons that were stored in containers. Those weapons are being destroyed. The members of that former guerrilla group — without detriment to their responsibilities with regard to justice and to the victims — have now formed a political movement to defend their ideas and proposals in the forums of democracy.
That is what a peace process is all about: replacing violence with reasoning, exchanging bullets for votes. Never again will arms be used as a means of political pressure. Now we are faced with the challenge of
implementing what has been agreed and guaranteeing victims’ rights to truth, justice, reparations and non-repetition.
In that regard, we can once again count on the friendly hand of the United Nations. In a few days, a second mission, authorized last week by the Security Council, will begin operations in our country. It will accompany the reintegration of guerrillas into civilian life and will help us to verify the safety of ex-combatants and the communities that have suffered from the armed conflict. And something very important: the United Nations will also verify compliance with the ceasefire and the temporary cessation of hostilities, which will begin 1 October, by the Ejército de Liberación Nacional, the other guerrilla group with which we are in negotiations to achieve a complete peace.
Building peace is a long process with political, economic and social dimensions. It is a process in which, fortunately, we have already had positive results. With innovative programmes in education, health, housing and infrastructure, we are beginning to close the deep social gaps of our society.
The Economic Commission for Latin America has highlighted Colombia’s progress in reducing poverty and indigence. In seven years, more than 5 million Colombians overcame poverty — that is more than a tenth of our population. We have turned health into a fundamental right, and education has been our highest budgetary priority for the past four years, above security and defence. International organizations also highlight the soundness of our economic and social indicators in the face of fluctuations in the global economy.
This is indeed a special moment for Colombia, and a special moment for the United Nations, which is successfully fulfilling, in our country, its main objective.
But this time of hope in Colombia does not prevent us from viewing with concern the difficult situations for peace and democracy in other parts of the planet. We emphatically deplore and condemn the ballistic- missile launches and the nuclear tests of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Those actions are a threat to international peace and security.
We are very concerned about the precarious situation in our sister and neighbour Republic of Venezuela, with which we share an immense border, a common history and human ties that do not allow us to be indifferent to its fate. Venezuela pains us. We are pained at the gradual destruction of its democracy. We are pained at the persecution of the political opposition and the systematic violation of the rights of Venezuelans. Today I repeat my call on the Secretary-General and the entire international community to support the Venezuelan people in the search for a peaceful solution that will return them to the path of progress, democracy and freedom.
We are also pained at the terrorist attacks carried out by intolerant fanatics, sowing fear and pain, and we condemn them. On that topic I would like to speak in two capacities: as President of the only country where instead of increasing weaponry we melt them to build monuments to harmony, and as the most recent Nobel Peace Prize recipient.
Beyond the differences of race, religion and thought, human beings are actually one. What happens to one happens to us all. We have to understand that beyond divisions, beyond borders, our people is called the world. Our race is called humankind. We must understand this truth if we are to respect one another and respect life.
We must fight terrorism forcefully — with military and police power, with intelligence and international cooperation. But we must also eradicate its roots, which are fear, exclusion and hatred, with the positive forces of love, compassion and respect for differences. In Colombia we are proving that it is possible; war can be overcome. Ancient enemies can speak and work together for a greater cause. If we are succeeding in Colombia, it can be done all over the world.
I cannot conclude without addressing an issue that I have highlighted before at this rostrum: the world drug problem. I have said many times that the war on drugs has not been won and is not being won, that we need new approaches and new strategies.
At the General Assembly’s thirtieth special session, on the world drug problem — which met last year at the initiative of Colombia — there was progress, such as the call for States to protect human rights in their drug policies. But we still have a great deal to do. We must reach consensus on central issues, such as not criminalizing addicts and understanding drug use as a matter of public health and not criminal policy.
The war on drugs has claimed too many lives. We in Colombia have paid a very high price, perhaps the highest of any nation, and what we are seeing is that the remedy is often worse than the disease. Let us undertake a serious and rigorous follow-up of the regulatory experiences that have been implemented in different places and learn from both their successes and their difficulties.
It is time to accept realistically that as long as there is consumption there will be supply, and that consumption will not end. It is not a simplistic matter of pointing out who is solely responsible. We all are, under the principle of the common and shared responsibility that we assumed several decades ago. It is time to talk about responsible regulation by States, to seek ways to weaken the mafias and to confront consumption with more resources for prevention, care and reduction of damage to health and to the social fabric. Colombia will continue to fight this scourge decisively. For us it has been and continues to be a matter of national security.
Peace has allowed us for the first time to initiate the process of voluntary substitution of coca crops. Those processes, along with the forced eradication we are promoting and the seizures, which have increased to unprecedented levels, will allow us to achieve results that are even more conclusive and long-term. But we must advance in this struggle with a more open mind. We have to be smarter and more innovative.
We can say much the same about climate change. Colombia, the most biodiverse country in the world for its size, is also one of the most vulnerable to climate change. That is why we have been proactive on this matter. At the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development we pushed for the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals, which the Assembly approved in 2015. Today we are pleased to see that those Goals are the backbone of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development promoted by the United Nations.
We also enthusiastically support the Paris Climate Agreement, whose goals are a national commitment and should be for all if we want to preserve our common home — the Earth. Humankind cannot close its eyes in the face of the most pressing challenge of our times.
In this, my last statement before the General Assembly, I want to offer the world — with humility and much gratitude — the example and model of peace that we are beginning to build in Colombia. And I want to reiterate our gratitude for the international community’s generous support.
With the strength of love we can overcome fear. With the strength of life we can overcome the tyranny of violence and death. With the strength of unity we can make the world a decent place to live.

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
I have the immense honour of addressing this historical and important General Assembly  for  the  first  time as the President of Colombia. I arrive both proud at having been elected with the highest number of votes in our electoral history and at being a member of a new generation of Colombians who are motivated to unite our country around common objectives.
Colombia is a magical country, where many races, regions, customs and ecosystems coexist. It is a nation where culture, ancestral heritage, nature and the industrious and helpful spirit of our citizens define the resilient vastness of a society that does not bend to any adversity. Our patriotic, industrious and tireless work force has made Colombia a people that has earned the respect of the world and attracted interest in investment, and one that is charting a path towards progress, with democratic institutions.
We have been able to maintain economic growth amid complex regional volatilities. We have seen  cities transform, a boost in production sectors and an expansion of the middle class while we adapted to the challenges of globalization. We have  made progress  in gender equality and in the worlds of work and education. In recognition of that progress, I named the first Cabinet with gender parity in the history of my country. But there is much to be done on that front, and we will continue to move forward. In proudly telling of that history, I commit myself as a Colombian and I am even more so as we move towards 2019, when we will celebrate the bicentennial of our independence.
We must be more motivated today than ever to achieve social justice,  reject  hatred,  polarization and revenge and concentrate on achieving a pact for Colombia — a pact for equity. That is the invitation  we are sending: that we build a development plan and agenda to define State policies in the coming decades, using the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 as a reference, within a framework of legality and entrepreneurship that bring us to the desired and necessary equity. I want that proposed agreement to be based in legality. Peace is an objective of all Colombians and all of us, absolutely everyone, will work decisively for it. However, peace needs to be built with the rule of law, which combines the public goods of security and justice.
Our Government is going to work so that the process of demobilization, disarmament and reintegration
 
put forward in the past few years will go forward successfully. We will offer those who have genuinely opted to rejoin the law and to be subject to the principles of truth, justice, reparation and non-repetition the right opportunities for progress and protection. I appreciate the support of the United Nations for its commitment to contributing to the success of  that  process.  For that reason, we have asked it to continue with those tasks. We will work in the same way to ensure that the resources and investments that give rise to hope reach all regions of the country, primarily those that have been hit by violence. The United Nations Mission in Colombia as well as our supervisory bodies know that our Government has gone through a fragile process on several fronts. The first is budgetary fragility: many commitments were made without allocating sufficient resources. The second is institutional fragility: a dispersed and complex architecture was created that has so far been unable to effectively make progress in the achievement of all the goals.
However, I want to reiterate to the Assembly that Colombia’s goal is to comply with our obligations to those who have genuinely left the path of violence behind. We hope to be able to count on the financial support of the entire international community to give the process the necessary strength. But just as we would comply with our obligations to those who abide by the rules, it is also our duty to apply the law in an exemplary manner when it comes to those who persist on the path of criminality. We will not accept a repeat of the violence. Those who continue in the world of crime and who seek to mock the victims and the generosity of the Colombian people will feel the full force of justice.
If we want peace to reign in Colombia, we must defeat drug trafficking. With regard to illicit  crops, we became aware of an alarming situation a few  weeks ago. The growing trend of the past five years cannot continue, since such seeds have fuelled and become the reason for the emergence of dangerous organized armed groups. That is why we are committed to dismantling those transnational criminal networks through a comprehensive approach.
Drug trafficking is a global threat. It is true that we must do more in terms of prevention and care for addicts from a public health perspective. That is an indisputable truth. However, it is no less true  that drug trafficking in Colombia is a predator of the environment, a destroyer of institutions and, above all, a corrupter of society. It is our moral duty to combat
that phenomenon, while at the same time promoting a society that rejects drugs because of their devastating effects on health and society.
We are already taking steps. We welcome the fact that two days ago we supported the Global Call to Action on the World Drug Problem, acknowledging that it is the task of all and requires that all countries, including those where consumption is increasing as well as those that produce chemical precursors, contribute. Under the leadership of the United States, 130 nations committed themselves to continuing that fight. We will not give up or accept as fate the addiction that is destroying the souls of so many young people.
Legality also means overcoming corruption. Corruption is a threat to democracy,  social  values and institutions and must be tackled with full resolve. From the first day of our Government, we presented measures to Congress, and then, in response to the popular clamour, we launched an ambitious and essential agenda together with all the parties. We showed the world that we are capable of uniting around national goals. I call on the international community to strengthen all sanctions tools and mechanisms to combat transnational corruption. Defeating corruption is a task that involves us all. We must do our utmost to expose those who are corrupt and to expedite their legal and social punishment.
Our commitment to development, our pact for Colombia, also seeks to promote entrepreneurship  and economic recovery. The Sustainable Development Goals support our agenda for a Colombia where science and technology are driven by connectivity, access to capital, the development of the innovative economy and the promotion of research — a Colombia committed to protecting biodiversity, promoting renewable energy, reducing the individual carbon footprint and establishing a citizenship strengthened by steadfast ethics.
The world should know that that is the Colombia that we want to build every day. We will work to achieve that Colombia. That is our challenge and our motivation. For that reason, I must tell the world that those goals face a huge challenge.
That threat or challenge that our country is experiencing today is the thousands of fearful faces of those who are cold to the bone, with hunger in their stomachs and grief for their homeland. It is the challenge of people who, at this very moment, are walking in  the open and into the unknown on Colombia’s roads.
 
They are our  Venezuelan  brothers  who  are  fleeing a dictatorship. Many of them are innocent children, unprotected and exposed to the tragedy of exile. While, over a period of six years, the conflict in Syria has led to an influx of 600,000 migrants a year to Turkey alone, in less than two years Colombia has opened its doors to almost 1 million of our Venezuelan brothers. We have received them with affection, and we will always  do so despite any social or financial obstacles, because brotherhood unites us.
However, we must call a spade a spade. We are experiencing the most egregious migration crisis in the region’s recent history on account of a dictatorship that denied freedoms. Today I would like to make it clear that the self-determination of peoples cannot be manipulated at the free will of the oppressors. The world must act and unite so that that tragic flight comes to an end and a people can see hope flourish.
That is a global challenge. The end of the dictatorship and the return to democracy and full freedom are the only viable way. That is why the international community must immediately demand the release of political prisoners, quickly identify the best solutions to the crisis and prevent such desolation and despair from continuing to increase.
I ask that the United Nations hear our request. We are pleased that it listened to Colombia’s request and that the Secretary-General appointed Eduardo Stein as Joint Special Representative for Venezuelan refugees and migrants, thereby elevatingthis debate. I also thank all the countries that joined us yesterday at the high-level meeting convened by Colombia, where the regional commitment to addressing that humanitarian crisis was clear. Such measures must be accompanied by the establishment of a multilateral  fund  to  care for the migrant population, which is a victim of that dictatorship. That is why we must promote the proposal announced by the Inter-American Development Bank and its President, Mr. Luis Alberto Moreno. However, it is equally important that all international mechanisms be implemented in order to ensure that those who caused that terrible tragedy are reported to, and investigated and punished by, the International Criminal Court.
It is an honour for me to address the Assembly, to set out the vision that we have for Colombia, to call  for global solidarity before the Venezuelan people and to issue them an invitation. Today  more  than ever,  the world needs cooperation and multilateralism. It
is time to come together and not to isolate ourselves. It is time to make trade and cooperation the path of shared opportunities.
We must continue to move forward in a world where partnerships make it possible to mitigate the effects of climate change, strengthen fair trade, tackle corruption and transnational crime, create employment opportunities, put an end to discrimination and promote the idea of producing while conserving and conserving while producing.
The Colombia based on legality, entrepreneurship and equality that we wish to build is already under way. Moreover, we will not allow anything to snatch from us the hope of being a country that thinks big and that dreams of a better tomorrow and of working for the community of nations.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
One year ago, we came to the General Assembly for the first time to lay out the road map that we had chosen to build a Colombia based on legality, entrepreneurship and equity (see A/73/PV.8). My country, which will celebrate its 200 years of independence this year, is today on a path towards a future imbued with fairness, in which the only thing that separates men and women from realizing their dreams is the honesty and sacrifice that they invest in their work.
We are living at a time that demands that none of us lose sight of our most urgent challenges — ending extreme poverty, defending democracy, protecting the environment, fostering entrepreneurship, promoting innovation and upholding the rule of law. Those are the ethical, social and political beacons guiding our commitment to Colombia and contribution to an international order based on multilateralism, solidarity and independence. We sincerely believe in legality, entrepreneurship and equity.
The greatest challenge facing all of us is climate change and, naturally, what it entails for our oceans, high-altitude ecosystems, known as paramos, snow-capped mountains, glaciers and coasts. As I have said repeatedly throughout this week, Colombia produces only 0.4 per cent of all global greenhouse-gas emissions. We possess the sixth cleanest energy grid in the world. Our country accounts for 50 per cent of the planet’s paramos, and 40 per cent of our territory is considered rainforest, much of which is found in our region of Amazonia.
Colombia is also one of the most vulnerable countries to the effects of climate change. All of us must therefore think globally but act locally. A few days ago, we saw the young people of the world demand that we take our own action. The time has therefore come to shift from making speeches to taking action, and I can say that Colombia is indeed taking action.
We have declared our biodiversity as a strategic asset, including its protection within our national security policy. It is clear to us, in our case, that deforestation in Amazonia, and in all our forested areas, is directly related to illegal activities, with armed groups acting outside the law, seeking space for their illicit activities fuelled by drug trafficking. In just one year, we have committed ourselves and reduced deforestation by approximately 17 per cent and remain more committed than ever. Furthermore, our goal is to plant 180 million trees by 2022 so that together we can protect our shared home.
I can proudly inform the Assembly that, earlier this month, together with Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana and Suriname, all of which are Amazon countries, we signed the Leticia Pact, which is an international commitment to protecting the Amazon and which provides us with the means to measure risks and progress related to the actions we take. The Pact strengthens our ability to manage, protect and prevent damages to this important heritage, which is vital to our existence. We will protect the Amazon without compromising our sovereignty, as that is how we must manage shared problems.
In protecting nature, combating drug trafficking, criminality and transnational crimes, defending democracy and liberty, strengthening free trade and managing migration, we must unite in order to develop and strengthen multilateral responses involving governance that allow us to come together, recognize problems and develop road maps to move forward in resolving them. We must work to build a society more aware of the fact that our time on this the planet is fleeting but that the damage we cause can be irreversible.
Our ability to conceive of new development alternatives must be complemented by our creativity to reduce their negative impact. One year ago, when our Government first came to power, barely 0.1 per cent of our energy grid was based on non-conventional renewable-energy sources, such as solar and wind power. We proposed making the leap from less than 60 megawatts that we began with at the beginning of our Government’s mandate to more than 1,500 megawatts by the year 2020. That is a genuine energy revolution, and, at the same time, a major environmental commitment.
We know that the challenge is great. Further action is required of everyone — the international community, entrepreneurs and civil society leaders — but we remain convinced that together we can successfully arrive at the same end. We believe in the combination of the rule of law, the promotion of entrepreneurship and the search for equity. That is how we will succeed in closing social and economic gaps.
Today, I am able to inform the Assembly that we have made steady progress towards the transformation of our model of production. Now, as never before, Colombia is advancing on an economic path paved with inspiration, creativity, technology and value-added services. We therefore proudly support the establishment of micro, small, medium-sized and large businesses, the “orange economy”, new technological innovations and every endeavour responsible for delivering the products resulting from the ingenuity, effort and optimism of the people of Colombia to every corner of the Earth.
In that regard, in keeping with the Sustainable Development Goals and our development plan for the coming years — “Pact for Colombia, Pact for Equity” — and a legislative package for economic revitalization, we succeeded in reducing the tax burden on companies and create incentives so that our country can compete without hindrance in international markets. As a result of these initiatives, in times of turbulence for the regional and perhaps the global economy, our growth has surpassed the average growth of the countries of the region, which has merited the major recognition of the world’s investors.
We are, without a doubt, the resilient Colombia that is enterprising and growing with equity. In facing obstacles today, Colombia therefore persists in building a culture of legality in which we recognize our differences and choose coexistence, and the rule of law is forged as the indissoluble marriage of security and justice.
One year ago, I stated in this Hall that my Government would work to successfully advance the demobilization, disarmament and reintegration process. Today, I come again to this Hall to assert that peace with legality is being built with firm steps, with more than 29 productive collective projects, linking more than 1,400 people, who have taken a gamble for a new life, and, in total, more than 13,000 Colombians remain in the reintegration process.
With the calm that has come from our tireless efforts, I can say that, today, before this Assembly, a single nation speaks, convinced that violence has been eradicated on the basis of legality. I repeat how valuable the support and work of the United Nations Verification Mission in Colombia has been. The support and validation of the international community has been invaluable in this process of stabilization, and we truly hope that it will continue to witness the path that we are building, the path of peace with legality.
Just as we have discharged our duty towards those who chose the path of legality, we also warn those who persist in the path of crime of the consequences of that choice. A few weeks ago, a group of criminals, under ideological guise, tried to frighten Colombia. The reality is that for them there never was reintegration or a laying down of arms because they simply never stopped committing crimes. They lied to Colombia and, moreover, allied themselves with the dictatorship oppressing the people of Venezuela. Their threatening intentions ran afoul of a Government that does not give in to threats and, above all, of a people which will not be intimidated and does not suffer the mafia camouflaged as ideology. On that score, there is no doubt that I, as President of all Colombians, will do everything in my power to guarantee for Colombia peace based on legality. On this conviction, we shall not yield even an inch.
Violence finds support in the illegal economies based mainly on drug trafficking. Our Government has appropriated more than 200,000 hectares of coca plantations and, with great pains, we have managed, for the first time in more than seven years, to stop their exponential growth. To date, my Government has eradicated coca from and replaced more than 90,000 hectares, and we will not stop there. Drug trafficking is a predator for the environment and human society; it is a nest for corruption and fuels terrorism. The more coca there is, the less peace. That is why the fight against drug trafficking and illicit economies is a battle that requires the engagement of all nations against the lure of drug production, distribution and consumption. No country is exempt from this threat. Drug trafficking is a global problem, and we must tackle it as such.
I can say with conviction that some of the worst effects of drug trafficking are that it feeds corruption, weakens institutions and infects the social fabric. The fight against corruption unites us of all in this Hall today and unites us all Colombians, and we are one in the fight against this scourge. There is no political, social or cultural system that does not face the abyss when its institutions are eroded by corruption. All institutions are doomed to fail if they let corruption knock on their doors. In Colombia today, such effective transparency measures as the Statutory Law on Accountability, which binds all public servants, are already a reality. We are not alone in that struggle either. Together with friendly nations, we are promoting a project to create an international anti-corruption court because, like drug trafficking, the scourge of transnational corruption transcends and ignores borders and the international community needs a strong tool to confront it.
Colombia believes in multilateralism not only as a means of integrating economies, ideas and politics, but also, above all, as the stage for solutions — solutions that are built on such inalienable principles as solidarity, fraternity, love for freedom, utmost respect for the decisions of peoples and the unrestricted defence of democracy, on the rejection of all forms of tyranny and on the economic pillars of free enterprise, workers’ rights and free trade.
At least 4.2 million people have left Venezuela since 2015 on account of the brutal dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro. They are fleeing from a nation that was once rich and today is starved, that was once a democracy and today is an authoritarian regime without means or freedoms, where there are no institutions because they have shut down or been completely co-opted by the dictator. Venezuela is a country that once lived in peace and today suffers oppression, that was once an economic power and today has seen the destruction of all private initiative.
Colombia has received approximately 1.4 million Venezuelans migrants who have fled hunger and despair and has done so with open arms, guided by the ethical principles of solidarity and fraternity. It is precisely because we understand the difference between the brotherly people of Venezuela and the regime that oppresses them that we reach out to our brothers who continue to cross the border. We are aware that solidarity and fraternity must translate into tangible actions and policies. We have set up various instruments to help Venezuelans. We have welcomed the 25,000 children born on Colombian soil to Venezuelan parents since 2017 who were at risk of statelessness. All child in the world have the right to a nationality and, in this case, Colombia has given them one with affection and commitment.
The migrant crisis that we warned of a year ago, in this very Hall, is a reality and is made increasingly worse the longer the dictator remains in power. The Venezuelan tragedy has a name and surname, and we all know what they are. Colombia’s position vis-a-vis the dictatorship is not about geopolitical disputes, but about the need of the Venezuelan people to see their democracy completely restored.
Colombia is not alone in clamouring for freedom in Venezuela. The Lima Group and more than 50 nations around the world recognize the legitimate presidency of Juan Guaido and actively participate in denouncing all the crimes committed under the dictator’s leadership. As President of Colombia, I respectfully call for us, together, within the framework of international law and the instruments of multilateralism, to return Venezuela’s democracy and freedom to it.
It is time to call a spade a spade. The Venezuelan dictatorship is one more link in the chain of transnational terrorism. Its corrupt structures serve the drug cartels. Its minions work for the mafia and feed the violence in Colombia. They shelter murderers, child rapists and the completely lawless. Of course, those who claim to be unaware of all these facts end up becoming accomplices of the dictatorship.
My Government has strong and convincing evidence corroborating the dictatorship’s support for criminal groups and narcoterrorists operating in Venezuela to attack Colombia. As President of Colombia, I will proffer to the President of the Assembly and the Secretary-General evidence that supports these allegations. This 128-page file contains the body of evidence demonstrating the complicity of Nicolas Maduro’s regime with the terrorist cartels that attack the Colombian people. Before the international community, we present the list of a gang of less than 20 criminals who betrayed the generosity of the Colombians, and today reside in Venezuela, taking full advantage of the logistical capabilities provided by the dictatorship.
In this report, we also reveal the location of more than 1,400 men in arms belonging to the most dangerous blocks of the National Liberation Army (ELN) and 207 locations controlled by this criminal organization in Venezuelan territory. We also include the testimonies of Venezuelan citizens who complain about the presence of the ELN in their territory, the brazen presence of criminals in training camps, as well as the existence of 20 landing strips at the service of drug trafficking. This unequivocal evidence shows the sponsorship and support of Nicolas Maduro’s dictatorship for the aforementioned criminal structures.
Venezuela has become fertile ground for criminal structures allied with the ELN, which knows no borders. Those ringleaders who today enjoy Maduro’s protection are the same ringleaders who for years claimed responsibility for attacks on oil pipelines, causing irreparable environmental damage and turning them into the greatest ecocides that humankind has ever known. This is an unacceptable conduct, which as Head of State I must denounce before the international community. Let us not kid ourselves: Colombia is not and will never be an aggressor country, nor will it allow itself to be provoked by warmongering insinuations. But it will always — always — raise its voice to denounce tyranny.
Venezuela needs an end to usurpation, the installation of a transitional Government, a Government that allows for economic and social recovery. And it urgently needs to hold truly free elections and to fully recover the rule of law. Nicolas Maduro’s crimes against his people can be compared only to those of Slobodan Milosevic in the former Yugoslavia.
We cannot be idle witnesses of so much pain in our Latin America. That is why, last Monday, 23 September, the Thirtieth Meeting of Consultation of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Organization of American States, acting as the consultative body under the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance, adopted a historic resolution, which states that the participation of authorities and entities linked to Nicolas Maduro’s regime in illegal activities, in particular drug trafficking, asset laundering, terrorism and its financing, corruption and the violation of human rights, is a regional threat. For 16 Latin American countries, it is evident that the dictatorship is violating the obligations established in Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We therefore strongly affirm that all these criminal activities, associated with the humanitarian crisis generated by the deterioration of the political, economic and social situation in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, represent a threat to the maintenance of peace and security on the continent.
I would like to reiterate that this challenge requires constant collective action that develops the principle of global solidarity under the ever-present primacy of multilateralism. We are a strong voice in the region asking the Maduro regime to cease its support for narcoterrorist groups. We ask the international community to adopt all appropriate sanctions to safeguard the rights and freedoms of present and future generations of Colombians and, of course, of our Venezuelan brothers and sisters.
For all of these reasons, here, on this world stage, I courageously express to the international community that Colombia will continue to be committed to the defence of democracy in Venezuela, but, my fellow representatives, without the support of this community, without the true support of the States Members of the United Nations, those who left their homes with the desire to return will not easily find their way back. We will continue to work, with all love and passion, for the construction of a Colombia based on the rule of law, entrepreneurship, the promotion of individual initiative and the closing of all social gaps. All — absolutely all — of our efforts are oriented towards fairness.
Today Colombia is telling the world that now is the time for us to find the determination needed to transform our societies. It is the time for us to firmly confront tyranny. It is the time for us to show our greatness, so that all of us, citizens of the world, can live our lives with dignity.


===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
President of the General Assembly, Volkan Bozkir,
Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres,
Excellencies, Heads of State and Permanent Representatives,
It is once again an honour for me to stand before the General Assembly on behalf of the People of Colombia, especially this year as we commemorate the United Nations seventy-fifth anniversary, which marks a milestone in the decision made by sisterly democratic nations to seek out and create space for common growth.
My country has understood the importance of dialogue to overcome obstacles and the urgent need for frank discussion to find common ground. That is why we exemplify a long tradition of participation in multilateral settings.
For example, we became the thirty-seventh member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and will become pro tempore President of the Forum for the Progress and Development of South America and the Pacific Alliance. That demonstrates our commitment to multilateralism and regional commitment to finding joint solutions that, in accordance with the United Nations call on us, will help us ensure that no one is left behind.
The increase in the loss of biodiversity is currently one of the major global issues. The current situation has shown us the close relationship between human health and that of ecosystems, the declining state of which is putting our survival as a species at risk.
Colombia stands out as the second most biodiverse country in the world with the greatest biodiversity per square kilometre. Colombia enjoys the fact that it accounts for 50 per cent of the world’s paramos within a country that is 30 per cent Amazon rainforest.
Colombia has achieved an overall reduction of 30.9 million tons of carbon dioxide, while we have been waging an unprecedented battle against deforestation in our country’s history. We therefore consider defending the environment as part of our national security.
That is how we have reduced deforestation by 19 per cent in the past two years and continue to do so. Through the Artemis project, we are making our decision to turn diversity into a strategic asset a reality, and, accordingly, we have recovered more than 6,000 hectares of our Parques Nacionales Naturales and prevented 23,000 hectares of forest from deforestation, while, at the same time, we are planting more than 35 million trees to bring us closer to our goal of planting 180 million by 2022.
We have also made progress in the area of capacity-building to produce renewable energy in the fight against climate change. Whereas in 2018 we had 30 megawatts of capacity connected to the national grid, today we have expanded that capacity almost five-fold, reaching an additional 140 megawatts, with the goal of continuing to increasing it 20-fold, in contrast to 2018, so that in 2022, our country will exceed 2,200 megawatts.
We reaffirm our commitment to making the Minamata Convention on Mercury a reality, and we declare our progress as a nation in the adoption of a law banning the use of asbestos and in promoting the use of electric vehicles. Likewise, we are waiting for the Congress of the Republic to adopt the Regional Agreement on Access to Information, Public Participation and Justice in Environmental Matters in Latin America and the Caribbean, known as the Escazu Agreement, which we signed at the end of last year.
The Leticia Pact, which I announced a year ago within the context of the General Assembly, has seen the realization of part of the call made by the Colombian Government, around which we have united seven States to implement a concrete action plan, which currently involves 52 specific actions for the conservation and sustainable development of the Amazon, while recognizing its importance as a strategic ecosystem for the planet.
Colombia has succeeded in getting more than 2,800 families from the Amazon region to participate in livestock restructuring projects and the production of nontimber products. In addition, more than 17,000 indigenous families are benefiting from governance and sustainable economy projects, and 15,000 of them are beneficiaries of payment for environmental services mechanisms involving nearly 219,000 hectares. That demonstrates what we are achieving in imagining the future.
And just as we have led actions to protect the Amazon, the rainforests and the oceans, we call on all the nations of the planet to protect high-mountain ecosystems.
Colombia is home to half of the world’s paramos, and today I call on the members of the General Assembly to join us in creating a global strategy for safeguarding the high-altitude ecosystems to ensure their survival and the sustainability of the communities that inhabit them. The paramos are veritable drinking-water factories and the source of the watersheds that irrigate much of our country.
Therefore, we also call on the nations of the world to contribute resources and understand that the protection of the paramos is a universal duty.
Colombia is a magnificent country inhabited by men and women as diverse as its nature. We have lived through the onslaught of violence and poverty and are therefore committed to building a sustainable future based on equity.
Achieving true peace is the social decision to build prosperity based on truth, solidarity, respect for law and the firm rejection of all forms of violence.
The Government has developed its Peace with Legality policy based on social stabilization and the institutional consolidation of the territories most historically affected by violence and poverty.
The Peace with Legality policy is benefiting more than 6 million fellow citizens in their territories, with an investment of more than $780 million, supporting the more than 13,500 former combatants, as well as changing their lives — with a sense of legal purpose and guarantees of non-repetition for more than 9 million victims.
I would like to take the opportunity of being in this Hall to honour the victims of violence in my country. Likewise, I praise the work of those who every day make the million needed efforts into a reality — the social leaders who are building a more dignified and generous society, and who, despite the difficulties, are ceaseless in their efforts to build a country for all. We recognize their and all Colombians’ vocation to build a future by bridging and healing wounds, while, at the same time, ensuring that brotherhood under a reliable legal system gives us reason for pride.
Today in Colombia there are no conflicts between the friends and the enemies of peace. Today we are one country on the path moving forward regardless of whether the wind is with or against us.
Multilateral tools have been key to the international community’s contribution to that end, especially in terms of reparations for victims, strengthening rural development and formalizing property ownership in the remote corners of our country. I underscore and am grateful for the support of the United Nations Verification Mission in Colombia, which can exceptionally attest to the Government’s outstanding progress in achieving peace with legality, that is, real peace.
Unfortunately, all our efforts face a common threat — drug trafficking and the illicit economies it generates. For my country, the fight against drug trafficking is an ethical imperative, as it produces all forms of corruption, comprises a ubiquitous link in crime and is the source of social decay.
Drug trafficking fuels human trafficking, arms trafficking, illegal mining, deforestation and smuggling. Drug trafficking tears families apart, breaches social values, constantly puts at risk the lives of millions of people around the world and fosters inequality, sowing hatred, violence and death in peaceful areas.
Drug trafficking transcends borders, and my country has suffered as a victim because of this horrible fact. The transnational crime demands the joint action of all States, with a sense shared responsibility. In such shared challenges, we must act together, resolutely, energetically and unhesitatingly as a duty to future generations.
The situation caused by the coronavirus disease has also become a threat owing to the fissures caused by social inequalities.
The global crisis has highlighted both the strengths and weaknesses of multilateral tools. For instance, it showed that the need remains to define better cooperation mechanisms in circumstances of crisis, while those same tools have led to the search for joint solutions to overcome it, for example, in terms of finding a vaccine.
Working together with organizations such as the Pan-American Health Organization and the World Health Organization has been crucial throughout 2020 and will continue to be while we search for possible solutions to the crisis. Mechanisms, such as Vaccine Global Access, in which Colombia is actively participating, are essential to various nations’ collaboration in the search for and distribution of an eventual vaccine. Solidarity and sustained cooperation among nations are essential if we are to successfully weather the storm of the pandemic.
The pandemic is proving to be a turning point in thinking about a sustainable and just future. Now that we are looking to revive our economies and restart leading productive lives, environmental sustainability needs to be the rallying point for building a more sustainable and responsible world.
Within that framework, the protection of regional democracy is a fundamental element. The threats to democracy we see today are putting at risk the freedom of nations, as well as preventing regional integration and cooperation to overcome challenges like those currently facing humankind.
The Maduro regime is sustained by resources from drug trafficking, harbours terrorists and poses a constant threat to the democracies of the region and the world.
The constant violations of human rights by the Maduro dictatorship, which we have condemned in our country and in international forums, including the International Criminal Court, have recently been confirmed by the United Nations.
Why? The goal sought in Venezuela together with crimes against humanity is to perpetuate the tyranny. And the entire international community without exception must reject the situation, and we need to stridently call on all the nations of the world to raise their voices to demand truly free elections — not the staged electoral performance to which the Venezuelan people will be taken to in December only to perpetuate the dictatorship. We must, therefore, reject the process, which is seeking to legitimize Maduro’s dictatorship.
Colombia says to the world today that it looks to the future with optimism, with its head held high, and calls on its leaders to unite more so than ever, since the founding of the Organization, so that together we can overcome the unprecedented difficulties that these times have placed before us.
I am certain that our greatest strength lies in our own humanity. I am convinced that when we look back on these months, we will see resilient peoples, who stood up to the challenges of their time and navigated the storms wisely.
Presidents and Permanent Representatives, the future is in our hands.
Many thanks.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
We meet again in this global forum, which has historically been a vital space for the development of multilateralism, peacebuilding and responses to threats to our shared home, against the backdrop of a cruel pandemic that is battering our health systems, our economies, our gains in equity and progress on fulfilling the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Above and beyond all considerations, we find ourselves once again in this historic hemicycle recalling the fragility of the human being and, at the same time, recognizing the greatness and capacity of a human race that can overcome any challenge.
The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) abruptly burst into our lives, changing our daily lives and interactions and taking away loved ones. This lethal virus has tested our emotions and brought us to understand, now more than ever, the worth of the embrace of a father and a mother, how much it means to us to share as a family and how much an unexpected friendly encounter fills our hearts.
While this fateful virus has threatened our economies and our education and health systems, technology — the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, cloud computing and other applications — has revealed that advances in the virtual world are opportunities for human development. The pandemic has shown our strengths as well as our weaknesses.
We have observed failures of multilateralism to respond equitably and articulately to the most acute challenges. The gaps between nations in terms of vaccination are unprecedented. While some nations procure additional doses amounting to six or seven times the numbers of their populations and further announce the availability of third doses as boosters, other nations have not administered a single dose just to inject hope.
The pandemic has exacerbated other crises whose effects are equally threatening. We are witnessing the increased effects of climate change, greater inequalities caused by economic downturns, and migratory crises triggered by those who are willing to risk their lives, fleeing dictatorships and abusive regimes, for a decent job or a plate of food.
The pandemic has also had a major impact on peacebuilding and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. This reality provides me with the context to share with the General Assembly Colombia’s response to these global challenges and to propose actions that we must take together equitably, without divisiveness, and by thinking without restrictions about the future of humankind.
In our country, we have taken on the pandemic with three approaches: health care, care for the most vulnerable and economic revival. Our progress on the national vaccination plan allowed us to cover at least 70 per cent of Colombians. We joined the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility mechanism, assuming regional leadership and coordinating with the World Health Organization and the Pan American Health Organization. Today I call on the international community to strengthen multilateralism in health and to improve equity in the distribution of vaccines. That is our moral duty.
If we continue to fall behind in the equitable distribution of vaccines to all nations, we expose ourselves as humankind to new variants that may attack us with greater ferocity. Global immunity requires solidarity where there is no hoarding by some in the face of others’ needs.
In caring for the most vulnerable, we have acted with determination and creativity, inspired by the path set forth in the 2030 Agenda. We can proudly say that we are the Government of Colombia that has launched the most ambitious social agenda in this century and, perhaps, in all of Colombia’s recent history. We will keep in place until December 2022 a basic emergency income, the Solidarity Income, which reaches more than 4 million vulnerable households and provides direct economic support to more than 25 per cent of our entire population.
In addition, we have created an employment subsidy that protects more than 4 million official workers and a scheme for refunding the value added tax for more than 2 million vulnerable households, thereby correcting the regressive effect of this tax. This unprecedented social agenda also includes paying a 25 per cent premium for the hiring of young people, which is tantamount to social security. This is today a State policy that reinforces the implementation of a policy that embodies true transformation for social good: public university education provided tuition-free on a permanent basis to the neediest as well as to the emerging middle class of our country.
These advances, which have arisen from effort and fiscal responsibility, allow us to protect our social achievements. We have made the most significant social reform of this century in Colombia by adopting the greatest fiscal reform. Revenue collection has reached 1.8 per cent of gross domestic product, thereby strengthening fiscal control of debt and deficit reduction and establishing a clear path to stabilizing public finances and ensuring a broad social safety net. That collective effort was achieved without populism or demagogy, while guaranteeing competition among businesses.
Our achievements in health, social care and fiscal stability are all part of the Commitment to Colombia, our reactivation agenda. With private, public and public-private investments, we are already seeing economic gains — the second quarter of this year was undoubtedly our best quarter in terms of growth this century. It has also set us firmly on the path towards a growth rate of more than 7 per cent in 2021, which will allow us to achieve our highest levels of growth this century.
The Colombian New Deal is the best way to recover in the wake of the pandemic’s impact on the fulfilment of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In addition, it guides us and brings us closer to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Today I am making a global call. Many emerging countries, faced with the threat of COVID-19, have been forced to increase their debt and fiscal deficits. Many have not begun to go through the necessary fiscal reforms to pay for emergency expenditures and are now being evaluated by credit rating agencies with pre-pandemic standards and criteria.
Given the high levels of debt and existing needs, a global consensus, led by the International Monetary Fund and multilateral development banks, is required to establish new minimum fiscal risk criteria during the post-COVID-19 recovery phase. Otherwise, in the short term, in the face of the demand for debt and a generalized increase in the cost of capital, we might see a debt crisis that could bring about further setbacks and global recessionary effects.
All of the challenges and actions we are addressing today are also taking place amid the greatest threat faced by humankind, namely, the climate crisis. In the face of that challenge, Colombia is acting with determination and a moral commitment. We are a country that represents only 0.6 per cent of global carbon dioxide emissions, yet is one of those most threatened by the effects of climate change.
Our action requires commitment, boldness and exercising leadership by example. That is why we will be attending the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow with a commitment to reduce our greenhouse-gas emissions by 51 per cent by 2030. We are also on course to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
Our journey in that regard has already begun, as underscored by our rapid energy transition, which already has its own legislation. We are exponentially expanding that legislation to include non-conventional and renewable energies in order to multiply by 20 our available capacity in comparison to when our Government first took power. We also hope to achieve zero deforestation by 2030, which will go hand in hand with the development of the circular economy, harnessing an efficient green hydrogen cycle and, above all, unrestricted defence of the Amazon.
Limited fiscal stability as a result of the impact of the pandemic will become an obstacle for many in meeting our shared goals if we do not develop global tools. I therefore propose to the international community that, for a certain period of time and with the support of the International Monetary Fund, a rule be established whereby all structural climate action expenditures and investments can be considered outside the traditional fiscal deficit measurement lines.
Such tools, as well as multilateral debt relief and debt forgiveness in the face of concrete climate action achievements, should be applied as soon as possible and without conditions. When addressing urgent
investments, we cannot be hindered by domestic political debates arising from conflicts over resource allocation. Action needs to be taken now, immediately and without delay. Our region, Latin America and the Caribbean, needs to strengthen green financing, which urgently requires the capitalization of the Inter-American Development Bank and the Development Bank of Latin America. That must be conducted alongside other tools.
Colombia is tackling the pandemic, addressing climate action and, at the same time, dealing with the worst migratory crisis on the planet due to the millions of Venezuelans fleeing the infamous narco-dictatorship. Our work with the United Nations and the Office of Mr. Filippo Grandi, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, has shown great progress, including by granting temporary protection status to 1.8 million Venezuelan migrants living in our country.
We shoulder that challenge without being a rich country and at an enormous fiscal cost. The situation requires the disbursement of the commitments made by the international community through the donor conferences established. I therefore call for mobilization in that regard.
I must pause here to state the following clearly: although the dialogue between the interim Government of Venezuela, which embodies the democratic resistance, and the narco-dictatorship offers some hope, there is no room for naivety. The only effective outcome of the situation would be the convening, as soon as possible, of a free and transparent presidential election with careful international observation. Any solution that perpetuates the shameful dictatorship and allows the regime to gain time will only exacerbate the greatest humanitarian disaster our continent has ever known. The end of the dictatorship is the only viable path to the well-being of the Venezuelan people. That, above all, should be the purpose of international action in that regard.
On the other hand, Colombia is also making progress in building on our “peace with legality” policy. Not even the effects of the cruel COVID-19 pandemic will deter us from our commitment to the demand of our people for an end to narco-terrorist violence. The fragile Final Peace Agreement, which was signed in 2016 with the terrorist group Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC), has seen significant progress made, allowing us to consolidate the reintegration process of those who are now entering legality, as verified by the United Nations Verification Mission in Colombia.
Thanks to our commitment to development plans with a territorial focus and our focus on those areas most affected by violence, the Ombudsman’s Office of Colombia has highlighted that, in the three years that our Administration has been in power, more progress has been made than in the first 20 months of implementation.
In that context, we are moving towards the largest investment in tertiary roads and the largest property certification initiative in our history. We are also making progress in the implementation of a multipurpose land registry, with an agenda to ensure equity in the purchase of rural products without intermediaries. That has led us to enjoy the largest agricultural commodities exports ever recorded in the country.
Nevertheless, we continue to face multiple challenges due to the activities of FARC dissidents, the National Liberation Army and other criminal groups that have never been committed to peace. They persist in their attacks on social leaders, environmental leaders and those in the process of reintegration.
Despite the many challenges, our peace with legality policy shows us that we have excellent reasons to be optimistic. In recent decades, we have recorded the lowest homicide and kidnapping rates in history since statistics were first taken for those heinous crimes, without losing sight of the fact that drug trafficking fuels violence and that we have to take firm measures to combat it. We have succeeded in confiscating the largest amounts of coca and manually eradicating the greatest number of illicit crops in the history of Colombia.
We are moving forward with resolve, but we must make a difference by acting together. In Colombia, greater coca production means lower levels of peace and environmental protection. Every gram of coca consumed in demand-driven nations translates into homicide and ecocide in Colombia. For every hectare of coca that has been planted, two hectares of tropical rain forest are destroyed. Dealing with the worrisome increase in narcotics consumption throughout the world is urgent. It is time for members of the international community to assume their share of responsibility.
The fight against crime and strengthening peace with legality demand that we continue to make progress in zero-tolerance for all behaviour by members of the
public force that runs contrary to the Constitution and the law and that we continue to take substantial steps towards structural reforms of law enforcement, in tandem with unconditionally and constantly defending human rights. Our public force is patriotic and committed, and its mandate is to always act in line with the Constitution, the law and human rights.
The realities that we are facing also demand that we constantly strengthen democracy to counter any threat posed by hatred and social division. All that we can do to ensure a solid democracy is a guarantee for a better future. In Colombia, young people have been hit hard by the pandemic, and today they are leading the major debates on climate action by proposing policies and joint action.
We have signed a pact with the youth to make a genuine change in the policies that will benefit them. In December, the first open and popular elections will take place to form municipal youth councils. Such elections are unprecedented in Latin America and will legitimize young people as the citizens who will effectively pave the way forward so that policymaking prevails over protests. That represents the great determination of Colombia, and we will not fail, as we want those young, empowered citizens to demonstrate our true capacity for democratic change.
This will be the last time that I address the Assembly in my capacity as President of Colombia. In 2018, I outlined our legality, entrepreneurship and equality agenda (see A/73/PV.8). In the year 2021, we have shown that, despite the situation that the pandemic has forced upon us, our agenda continues to march on. It has become State policy and is progressing in step with the circumstances. Colombia is moving forward on large-scale vaccinations. Colombia is moving forward on safely reopening. Colombia is moving forward with the largest budget for social programmes in the country’s history. Colombia is moving forward on energy transition and climate action. Colombia is moving forward on its fraternal approach towards migration. Colombia, which embodies peace with truth, justice, reparations and non-repetition, is also on a clear path ahead.
Colombia has invested in gender equality among the members of the Cabinet. Colombia also wants to contribute to the modernization and reform of this great multilateral organization in order to ensure its longevity and make it more relevant to the citizens whom it serves.
We know that we have many challenges and obstacles to overcome, but Colombia is a great nation that thinks globally in its efforts to become an example and foster progress. This is the Colombia that believes in multilateralism and the Colombia that calls for joint action. This is the Colombia that solves problems involving democracy within democracy, faces adversity with the certainty of turning it into an opportunity, never lets up and will never let up in the face of any storm. Colombia is made up of good, honourable and hard-working people, who are today represented at this global meeting and would like to say through me that it is time for action on climate change and brotherly migration. They demand that, united together, we must not wait any longer.


===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
I come from one of the three most beautiful countries on Earth. There is an explosion of life there — thousands of multicoloured species in the seas, skies and lands. I come from the land of yellow butterflies and magic. Water cascades down the lush green mountains and valleys — but so do torrents of blood. I come from a country of blood-soaked beauty.
My country is both beautiful and violent. How can beauty co-exist with death? How can the biodiversity of life flourish alongside the dance of death and horror? Who is to blame for breaking the spell with terror? Who or what is responsible for burying our daily lives in routine decisions about wealth and interest? Who is leading us to destruction as a nation and a people?
My country is beautiful because it has the Amazon forest, the Choco Forest, the waters, the Andes Mountain range and the oceans. There, in those forests, planetary oxygen is generated and atmospheric carbon dioxide (C02) is absorbed. One of those C02-absorbing plants, among millions of species, is one of the most persecuted on Earth. Its destruction is being sought at any cost — it is an Amazonian plant, the coca plant, the sacred plant of the Incas.
As if at a paradoxical crossroads, the forest we are trying to save is at the same time being destroyed. To destroy the coca plant, they throw vast quantities of poisons and glyphosate into the water, they arrest the growers and imprison them. People who grow the coca plant are arrested and imprisoned. One million Latin Americans have been killed, and 2 million African- Americans are imprisoned in North America for destroying or possessing the coca leaf.
“Destroy the plant that kills”, they shout from the North, but the plant is only one of the millions that perish when they set the jungle on fire. Destroying the forest, the Amazon, has become the watchword of States and businesses. Never mind the scientists’ warning that the rainforest is one of the great pillars of the climate. For the global power networks, the forest and its inhabitants are to blame for the problems that beset them. The global power networks are at the mercy of their addiction to money, remaining in power, oil, cocaine and the hardest drugs available to numb themselves more.
There is nothing is more hypocritical than the debate about saving the forest. The forest is burning, while the members of the General Assembly make war and play with it. The forest — the pillar of our global climate — is disappearing with all its life. The great sponge that absorbs planetary C02 is evaporating. This life-saving forest is seen in my country as an enemy to be defeated, a weed to be eradicated. The space where peasants live and grow coca because they have nothing else to grow is being demonized.
The members of the General Assembly are interested in my country only if they can throw poison into its forests, put its men into prison and exile its women. They have no interest in our children’s education, they want to destroy our forest and extract coal and oil from its bowels. Our poison-absorbing sponge is of no use, they prefer to spread more poison into the atmosphere.
For the members of the General Assembly, we provide an excuse for the emptiness and loneliness of their own societies, which leads them to live in a drug bubble. We hide them from their problems, which they refuse to reform. It is better to declare war on the forests, on its plants, on its people. While they let the forest burn, while hypocrites pursue the plants with poison in order to hide the disasters of their own societies, they ask us for more and more coal, more and more oil in order to satisfy their other addiction — to consumption, to power, to money.
Which is more toxic to humankind — cocaine, coal or oil? The judgement of power has decreed that cocaine is a poison and must be persecuted, even if it only causes minimal deaths by overdose — more deaths are caused by contamination of the drug during its illicit trade. Meanwhile, they have declared that coal and oil must be protected, with the result that their use could lead to humankind’s extinction. That is the
state of world power, of injustice and of irrationality, because world power has become irrational. They see in the forest’s exuberance and vitality a lustfulness and sinfulness — the root cause of the sadness in their societies, which are steeped in the insatiable compulsion to have and to consume.
How can they hide the loneliness in people’s hearts, the emptiness of societies devoid of affection and competitive to the point of trapping people’s souls in loneliness, if not by blaming the plant, the people who grow it and the liberal secrets of the jungle? According to the irrational world Powers, it is not the market that is to blame for shortening humankind’s existence, but the forest and those who live in it.
The bank accounts have become unlimited, the savings of the most powerful people on Earth could not even be spent in centuries. The sadness of existence created by that artificial call for competition is filled with noise and drugs. The addiction to money and possessions has another side to it — addiction to drugs in people who lose the contest, in the artificial race into which they have transformed humankind.
The disease of loneliness will not be cured by spreading glyphosate in the forest. It is not the forest that is to blame. Those to blame are the societies trained to engage in endless consumption and into stupidly mistaking consumption for happiness, while filling the pockets of the powerful with money. The forest is not to blame for drug addiction — it is the irrational behaviour of the world Powers. Give them a dose of light, of reason. Turn the century’s lights back on.
The war on drugs has lasted 40 years. If we do not change course and it continues for another 40 years, the United States will see 2,800,000 young people die of overdose from fentanyl, a drug that Latin America does not produce. It will see millions of African-Americans incarcerated in private prisons. African-American prisoners will become a business venture for prison companies. One million more Latin Americans will be murdered, our waters and green fields will be filled with blood and the dream of democracy will die, both in my America and in Anglo-Saxon America. Democracy will die where it was born, in the great Athens of the European West.
If we hide the truth, we will see the forest and our democracies die. The war on drugs has failed. The fight against the climate crisis has failed.
Deadly drug use has increased, progressing from soft drugs to harder drugs. Genocide has been perpetrated on my continent, and in my country millions of people have been sent to prison — and they have blamed the forest and its plants in order to hide their own social guilt. They have filled their speeches and their policies with nonsense.
On behalf of my wounded Latin America, I call for an end to the irrational war on drugs. Reducing drug consumption does not require wars or weapons. It requires us all to build better societies — more caring, affectionate societies, in which the intensity of life protects us from addictions and new forms of slavery. Do the members of the General Assembly want fewer drugs? Let them think about less money, more love. Let them think about the rational exercise of power.
Let them not taint the beauty of my homeland with their poisons. Let them help us, without hypocrisy, to save the Amazon forest in order to ensure humankind’s existence on the planet. They brought the scientists together, who spoke with reason. Their mathematics and climatological models demonstrated that the end of the human species is near and that we no longer have millenniums — or even centuries — left. Science set the alarm bells ringing, and we stopped listening to them. War has served as an excuse for not taking the necessary measures.
When action was most needed, when speeches were no longer useful, when it was indispensable to deposit money into funds to save humankind, when it was necessary to move away as soon as possible from coal and oil — they invented one war after another. They invaded Ukraine, but also Iraq, Libya and Syria. They invaded in the name of oil and gas. In the twenty-first century, they discovered the worst of their addictions: money and oil. Wars have served for them as an excuse to not take action to combat the climate crisis and shown them how dependent they are on what will finish off the human species.
When the members of the General Assembly see starving and thirsty people migrating north by the millions, to where the water is, they enclose them, build walls, deploy machine guns and shoot at them. They expel them as if they were not human beings, five times worse than the mentality of those whose policies created the gas chambers and concentration camps. They have brought us back on a global scale to 1933 — the day of the great triumph of the assault on reason. Do they not
see that the solution to the great exodus unleashed on their countries is to bring back the flow of nutrients into the water that fills the rivers and fields?
The climate disaster fills us with viruses that spread devastation, but they do business with medicines and turn vaccines into commodities. They say that the market will save us from what the market itself created. Humankind, like Frankenstein, lets the market — and greed — act without planning, abandoning logic and reason. It subordinates human reason to greed. What is the point of war when what we need to do is save the human species? What is the point of NATO and empires when the end of intelligence is near?
The climate disaster will kill hundreds of millions of people, and the members of the General Assembly may be assured that it is not the planet but capital that will be to blame. The cause of the climate disaster is capital. The logic of relationships geared to consuming more and more and producing more and more so that some of us earn more and more is the cause of the climate disaster. They harnessed the logic of the expanded accumulation of capital to the use of coal- and petrol- fired engines, and they unleashed a hurricane: the chemical changes in our atmosphere will be more and more widespread and deadly. Now in a parallel word, the expanded accumulation of capital is the expanded accumulation of death.
From the land of forests and beauty — where they decided to make the Amazon forest the enemy and to extradite and imprison its farmers — I urge the members of the General Assembly to stop the war and put an end to the climate disaster. Here in the Amazon forest, humankind has failed. Behind the conflagrations burning there, behind the poisoning, lies the failure of humankind as a civilization. Behind the addiction to cocaine and drugs, behind the addiction to oil and coal, lies the real addiction of this current phase of human history: the addiction to irrational power, to profit and to money. That is the massive deadly machinery that could wipe out humankind.
As President of one of the most beautiful — and blood-drenched and exploited — countries on Earth, I call for an end to the war on drugs and for our people to be allowed to live in peace. I call on all of Latin America to come together with one voice in order to defeat the irrational behaviour that is making martyrs of our physical bodies. I call on the members of the General Assembly to save the entirety of the Amazon forest using resources that can be allocated worldwide to ensuring life.
For those members that do not have the capacity to finance the funding of the revitalization of the forests or for which it is harder to allocate money to life than to weapons, I call on them to reduce foreign debt in order to release our own budget spaces, through which the work of saving humankind and life on the planet can be undertaken. We can do it if they do not want to. Just exchange debt for life, for nature.
I call on all members of the General Assembly, and in particular I call on all Latin America, to engage in dialogue to end the war. Do not pressure us to take a side in the war. It is time for peace. Let the Slavic peoples talk to each other. Let the peoples of the world talk to each other.
War is only a trap that brings us all closer to the end of time in our great orgy of irrationality. On behalf of Latin America, we call on Ukraine and Russia to make peace.
Only in peace can we save lives on this Earth of ours. There can be no total peace without social, economic and environmental justice. We are also at war with the planet. If there is no peace with the planet, there will be no peace among nations. And without social justice, there is no social peace.

===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
One week ago. I was in Santiago de Chile for the commemoration of the 50 years that had passed since the homicidal and bloody coup against President Salvador Allende. From there I went to my country, a poor neighbourhood of Medellin, where in the past the mafia would lure young people with the possibility of learning computer programming. I then went to Havana, an unjustly blockaded country whose inclusion on the list of terrorist-sponsoring countries for the simple reason of helping to make peace in Colombia was suggested and accomplished by the President of my country. And now I am here to address the General Assembly.
Over the year that has passed since my previous address at the United Nations (see A/77/PV.4). we have seen only a deepening of what the wealthy Davos meeting participants call a polycrisis. War continues. Hunger continues. The recession is increasing. And the climate crisis is showing its teeth, claiming thousands of lives and heating land and sea as never before. This has been a year of loss for humankind, which is hastening on and marching steadily towards the era of extinction. All those crises are in fact just one crisis: the crisis of life. It seems that world leaders have become the enemies of life. The crisis of life is being expressed in one devastating indicator. It began at the furthest corners of the Earth, far from the most remote regions. It is a silent march of people of different cultures who are mingling on their way like an infinitely nuanced painting. The colours are mixing together in an uncontainable stream. A multitude of all the colours is moving along trails and through the seas and jungles. They make a kind of work of art on the canvas of the Earth, a flow of tones, sounds, a mixture of clothes and cultures in an amalgam that remembers its beginnings.
It is an amalgam in a great march from the South to the North. The human exodus has begun.
Today there are tens of millions. Tomorrow — by 2070. according to scientific experts — the figure will have reached 3 billion. That is 3 billion people fleeing their beloved homes because those homes will be uninhabitable. In my homeland. Colombia, the country of beauty, the country of an explosion of life, only deserts will remain by 2070. The people will go to the North, no longer attracted by the glitter of wealth but by something simpler and more vital — water. Since the early stages of humankind, people have gone to where water is. to the North. Billions of people will defy armies and will change the Earth to do that. The exodus of the peoples to the North is an exact reflection of the dimension of the failure of Governments. This past year has been a time of defeat for Governments, a defeat for humankind. The exodus across borders has increased. Dogs and hounds have been set on immigrants. People have been put on horseback to pursue them, with whips in their hands, with restraints and chains. They have built prisons. So much has hatred grown for the foreign, the strange, that prisons have even been built at sea so that men and women of the South do not set foot on the land of white people, who still believe themselves to be a superior race and who. nostalgic for that, recall at their elections a leader who has even said so and who killed millions as a result.
The exodus has increased over this past year, showing how much the crisis of life is advancing. But while the clock ticks away the minutes that define life or death on our planet, instead of sitting down and taking the time to discuss how to defend life and then using our increased knowledge to expand life in our universe, we decide to waste our time killing one another. We are not thinking about how to expand life in the stars, but how to end it on our planet. We have devoted ourselves to war. We have been called to war. Latin America has been called on to deliver machinery and men to go to the battlefields. They forgot that our countries were invaded several times by the same people who today talk about fighting against invasions. They forgot that Iraq. Syria and Libya were invaded for oil. They forgot that the same reasons that are advanced to defend Zelenskyy are the same reasons that should be used to defend Palestine. They forgot that, to meet the Sustainable Development Goals, all wars must be brought to an end. But they helped to start one because it was convenient for world Powers in their game of 
thrones, in their hunger games, and they forgot to end the other war because it was not convenient for them. What is the difference. I ask. between Ukraine and Palestine? Is it not time to end both wars, and others, and to make the most of the short time we have to build pathways to save life on the planet?
As President of Colombia, the country of beauty, whom a group within humankind — comprising millions of workers, women from working-class neighbourhoods. Indigenous and Black people, people from the countryside, young people of all colours — decided to elect and send to speak here before the Assembly. I propose to end the war so that we have time to save ourselves. I propose that the United Nations convene two peace conferences as soon as possible, one on Ukraine and the other on Palestine, not because there are no other wars in the world, as in my country, but because it would show how to build peace in all regions of the planet, because both — and only both — would put an end to hypocrisy as a political practice, because we could be sincere, a virtue without which we cannot be warriors for life. Today’s generation must decide and act as soon as possible to overcome the enormous hurricane that has been unleashed against life, from the dark but powerful sewers of greed, from the hurricane of capital that only looks at profit and that has engulfed the planet and the very basis of existence. I propose that we end the war in order to defend life from the climate crisis, the mother of all crises. The Summit that we have just held was designed to assess the targets of the Sustainable Development Goals, which were set by Governments for 2030. Well, it is easy to make that assessment. Those human development goals are not going to be achieved. We are far from achieving them — in fact, we have regressed. To give the United Nations human development goals a simpler name. I would call them social and environmental justice.
Humankind will not achieve social justice by 2030. because what has been sown on our planet is injustice. What we have seen happening in the past few years is injustice, the injustice of turning a vaccine against a deadly disease into a commodity by hoarding it in rich countries. Latin America — a mere 8 per cent of the world’s population — accounted for 26 per cent of coronavirus disease deaths. Who said that health must be a business and not a right? Millions of elderly people and millions generally died because the vaccine was a commodity and not a good of humankind. Those rich countries have failed to deliver on their own promise to finance climate change adaptation. They do not have $100 billion to give to countries to protect them from floods, storms and hurricanes, but they do have it to spend in a single day to enable Russians and Ukrainians to kill each other. At this point we do not need $100 billion — we need $3 trillion to overcome the climate crisis, and the bill is rising with every second that passes on Earth.
Injustice has been sown, and by arresting peasant farmers who grow cannabis and coca leaf instead of addressing the loneliness faced by the young in the countries with the greatest economic and military power in the history of humankind, those young people have turned to fentanyl, the drug of death. Those countries wanted a war against the drugs of choice of the rebellious youth who opposed the Viet Nam War. the hippies’ marijuana and LSD. They ended up leading their society to the drug of neoliberalism and competition, the drug of choice of Manhattan yuppies — cocaine — and locked up millions of blacks and Latinos in cold, privatized prisons. A million Latin Americans were murdered and democracies destroyed in our America. They never managed to jail the Manhattan yuppies, and now they are faced with the glorious result of drug prohibition, fentanyl, which kills not 4.000 but 100.000 young people a year in the United States.
Injustices were sown, with the worst of them all condemning humankind to war. That is why social justice in the world today is in such a bad state. The problem is that this was not a question of whether we might be socialists or progressives, but rather one of determining where the time left to live on the planet was going. As President of a land of beauty. I propose to the General Assembly that we do two simple things to make up for lost time — end the war and reform the global financial system. From the peace conferences on Ukraine and Palestine, we should go out and build the reform that we already discussed back there, in the Amazon jungle, where the largest river on Earth, which crosses the largest jungle on Earth, meets the sea. We have discussed it in Brasilia, and we have been to Kenya to join our brother peoples of black Africa, from whence we came at a time of another great injustice perpetrated by the powerful — slavery. We have been to Paris to see if crowds are still clamouring for liberty, equality and fraternity, and we have been to Washington to talk to the President and see if the peoples of North and South America might come together again, remembering that 
in days of old. more than two centuries ago. we met in history to talk about liberty, equality, democracy and the Republic. And we have talked in every tone of voice about getting to the root of the problem of and resolving the climate crisis.
If fossil capitalism is not financed, it will die. Its death throes will be harsh, but that is necessary if humankind, nature and life are to continue to exist. Decarbonized capitalism will have to be financed — we already know that green capital will move only where there is profit. That is its law. and that framework for covering the decarbonization of the entire world is a narrow one. Those in Government and power who still believe that the climate crisis, the crisis of life itself, can be overcome with a few affordable credits are mistaken. In their delusion, they propose that countries of the Earth that are already over-indebted by disease and greed can acquire more credits in order to overcome a problem created solely by the smokestacks of the North. But the crisis of life, the mega-crisis, cannot be overcome by acquiring more debt.
The financing of life is the intravenous medicine that must be infused into the veins of the economies and societies of the world to tackle the challenge of leaving coal and oil under the earth, in their places, which are the true veins of the Earth, as Roberto Cobaria, a Colombian Uwa indigenous person, told the world 30 years ago. In his words, extracting oil is drawing blood from the Earth, and doing it will cause life to perish. Most of the investment in decarbonizing the world’s economy will come from public funds, from societal efforts, by bringing States together to bring humankind together — what is now known as multilateralism — to govern the Earth through the lens of democracy rather than the lens of empire. Empires excel not at saving life but at starting wars. The mega-crisis of life can be resolved through a democracy with global reach, a deeper democracy that should not hesitate to define States and societies and formulate a great Marshall Plan for the revitalization of the planet.
The market will help us somewhat, but we cannot ask a mechanism devoid of humanity for solutions to a problem that it created to begin with. Yes. private funds can help, but they will be limited by their own logic. It is public funds that will have to bear the brunt of the effort, and those funds are presently weakened by debt. The great battle of our generation, that of defending life for our children and grandchildren, can be fully financed only by the public sector, by all of us — freeing the public sector to save life. Many may not like it. but we must let the echo of the public, of the State, of humankind, of multilateralism resound once more — that is to say. let the word “change” resound because it will be crucial if we are to save life. Saving life requires an era of change, and it is urgent.
Today change is synonymous with life. Today, in order to live, young people of all colours must bear the standard of change, of transformation, of a new humankind. It is democracy, not authoritarianisms. that increasingly resembles Nazis. It is world democracy, it is planning, it is the power of States, this time facing not war but how to plan life. It entails planning the transition to a decarbonized economy and financing it. The decarbonized economy. I have no doubt, will be a more humane and just economy. That is why the President of the land of beauty proposes that we reform the global financial system, the International Monetary Fund and the multilateral banking system, end economic blockades and channel private equity funds. If the debt of all countries were reduced by paying what is owed to the lenders through the allocation of special drawing rights by the IMF. there would be a decrease in global public debt and a real increase in public budgets and funds. In that way. we would be able to finance a Marshall Plan for the Sustainable Development Goals and for social and environmental justice on the planet, a plan to overcome, mitigate and adapt to the climate crisis, which is the crisis of life.
This would be to restore Keynes from oblivion. That wise old man. and other wise men before him. equally forgotten, had already said as much in the depth of their ideas. What a beautiful horizon amid the darkness and storms of today — a horizon that tastes of hope. The goals of life and justice can be reached on the path that leads to global democracy and the reassessment of the common good, achieved along a pathway that belongs to everyone. I want my baby grandchildren. Luna. Victoria and Luka, and my younger daughter. Antonella. to be able to live far from the apocalypse and the times of extinction. I want them to live in a time in which humans learned how to stop killing each other on the planet and. through the diversity of their cultures, succeeded in understanding each other and fulfilling their mission to spread the virus of life among the stars of the universe.

===== Session 79 - 2024 =====
*"It is the hour of the peoples. If governments have failed—as is evident here—and have chosen instead to play with bombs and senseless wars, to kill boys and girls, then it is time for humanity’s great problems to be solved by the people themselves—by the humble people of humanity."*

> *"I can only say to the peoples of the world, speaking from the faint voice of a country without weapons of mass destruction, without dollars—but beautiful in its natural and cultural diversity—that this is no longer the time of governments, but the time of the peoples."*

---

My daughter, Antonella Petro, has just sent me a paragraph that she wishes me to begin my speech with. With your permission, I will read it. It is the paragraph of a 15- or 16-year-old girl, and it reads as follows:

> *"Today, I am proud to stand before you as the president of the Heart of the Earth. That is how our Indigenous peoples of the Sierra Nevada refer to our beautiful country. From a geographic standpoint, it makes sense that we are the heart of the world.*
>
> *Yet if we are the heart, we must lead by example—an example of unity, of total peace, and of nature’s preservation. If the heart functions well, it is a great step forward; but every other part of the body also matters. If one fails, all fail.*
>
> *That is why, from the Heart of the Earth, we invite all countries to undertake an act of conscience—to set aside the greed that is destroying humanity and Mother Earth, and to take a step towards total peace."*

That was my daughter’s message. I have obeyed her wishes, and now I continue.

**Presidents of the world,**

In this chamber, a president’s ability to communicate depends on how many dollars are in their budget, on how many warplanes they possess, and ultimately, on their nation’s capacity to destroy humanity.

Today, a country’s power is no longer measured by its political or economic system, or by the ideas it radiates, but by its power to extinguish human life.

**We must now speak not to governments, but to the peoples of the world.**

Those of us who lack the power to destroy life—in contrast, those of us who have the power to sustain life on the planet—speak with little attention paid to our words. Often, perhaps, we speak only to our own people.

That is why we go unheard when we vote to halt the genocide in Gaza—even though we are the majority of the world’s presidents, representing the majority of humanity. We are not heard by the minority of presidents who could stop the bombing. We are not heard by the presidents of the countries capable of destroying humanity.

If we ask that debt be exchanged for climate action, the powerful few do not listen. If we call for an end to war so we can focus urgently on transforming the global economy and saving human life, still they do not listen.

In this United Nations chamber, it is the power to destroy life that amplifies one’s voice. That is what draws the attention of most representatives and delegates.

**The bells now toll for the planet.**

The voices of nations are not heard, even when we call for a united human effort for survival. We speak here, but we are not heard.

Yet perhaps we no longer speak in order to be heard by the world’s powerful presidents. Perhaps we now speak so the peoples of the world may listen.

Today, things are worse than a year ago. Eleven million hectares of the Amazon rainforest burned in a single month—due to global warming and the climate crisis. Scientists warned us that if the Amazon burns, we reach the point of no return—where human decisions can no longer prevent collapse.

Well, the Amazon is burning. The bells toll, as Hemingway wrote, not just for you—but for all life. The end has begun.

**The logic of genocide and inequality**

A year ago, I stood here and called for a peace conference on Palestine—before the first bomb was dropped. Today, 20,000 children have been killed by bombs. And the presidents of those countries responsible for human destruction laugh in these halls—backed by global media owned by vast capital, reorganising the world without democracy, without liberty.

The democratic project of humanity is dying, just as life itself is dying—while racists and supremacists, those who foolishly believe the Aryan race superior, prepare to dominate the world through terror written in bombs.

The rule of barbarism is under construction. Its proof is Gaza, and Lebanon. When Gaza dies, all of humanity dies.

**The people of God is all of humanity**

It turns out that the people of God were not Israel. Nor are they the people of the United States. The people of God is all of humanity. The children of Gaza—they were humanity. They were God’s chosen people.

God’s chosen people are being killed—the children of humanity. There is a reason for this contemporary Armageddon.

Behind the madness of governments that applaud genocide, that delay action to decarbonise economies, lies a certain logic. But that logic is not found in politics or at this podium. It lies elsewhere, and it is called **social inequality**.

Oxfam tells us that the richest 1% of humanity owns more wealth than the remaining 95% combined. In this unprecedented inequality lies the true logic behind climate catastrophe and the bombings unleashed by criminals like Israel’s Prime Minister Netanyahu on Gaza.

Netanyahu is a hero to the richest 1%—for proving that people can be annihilated beneath bombs.

**The 1% and the path to extinction**

If wealth were measured in carbon dioxide emissions rather than dollars, the richest 1% would be responsible for the advancing climate crisis. They oppose ending the oil and coal economy—because it is the very source of their wealth.

Presidents of the world’s most powerful nations obey them. They fund political campaigns. They own the media. They suppress scientific truth—like in the film *Don’t Look Up*. They dictate what can be said, thought, or silenced.

And even as they wield the power of censorship, they cry out: *"Long live freedom!"* But it is only **the freedom of the richest 1%**—a freedom that, under the guise of the market, leads us to atmospheric destruction and the death of life.

The free market was never about freedom—it was about maximising death.

This 1%—this powerful global oligarchy—is the reason bombs are dropped on women, the elderly, and children in Gaza, Lebanon, and Sudan. It is why rebellious nations like Cuba and Venezuela are blockaded—because the oligarchy must demonstrate its destructive power to the other 99% of humanity, so it can go on ruling and enriching itself.

**The global oligarchy is leading humanity to extinction**—while politics genuflects, abandoning any notion of liberty, of popular power, of democracy.

The question from this platform must be: **Will the peoples allow this to continue?**

Time is up. Governments are incapable of halting life’s extinction. Today, we must choose: life or greed, humanity or capital.

And so, I say again—from the faint voice of a country without weapons of mass destruction, without dollars, but rich in beauty and butterflies of every colour—that this is no longer the time of governments. It is the time of the peoples.

Time is up. We either raise the flag of life, or our lands will become cemeteries—as the pandemic showed us. This is the people’s hour. We must act locally, and agree globally.

**Stop fossil capital**

Fossil capital must be stopped. The people must stop it. The poison expelled into the atmosphere is fatal. The smokestacks that spew it must be shut down. Every corner of the world can be a battlefield against those chimneys.

A century ago, a red flag was raised by mass workers’ movements calling for a revolution against capital. That world has ended.

The red flag, lost in the enormity of states and the absence of liberty, did not find its place in history.

But today, even more urgently—not to defend a class or ideology, but to defend **collective life**—a new flag must be raised. Perhaps no longer red, but of all colours—a **flag of all humanity**, to defend its existence on this planet.

**Collective intelligence**

Perhaps socialism now carries a new meaning. Brains—the true foundation of labour—are more connected today than ever. Human knowledge is more collective than ever. Mutual aid has always been our species’ magic—the key to surviving a million years on this Earth.

Alone, individuals are weak—falling to fentanyl, the drug of death and human defeat.

But united, we are strong. Help at a planetary scale, mutual aid, the collective construction of knowledge, and humanity as a new political subject—this is the basis of a new socialism.

We are the most advanced expression of life: **intelligent life.** And we must defend it—against a global oligarchy that seeks to destroy it.

We must build a new kind of wealth—not based on oil, but on intensity, on free and creative labour enabled by the extraordinary productivity now achieved, including artificial intelligence—which must be regulated by global public power.

Productivity should mean free, creative time—the neural network of human minds, the greatest force ever achieved. This human neural web can lead us to victory, with the banner of life raised high.

I no longer speak to [President Joe] Biden, or [President Emmanuel] Macron, or [Chancellor Olaf] Scholz, or [President Xi] Jinping, or [President Vladimir] Putin.

From China, I take the idea of dialogue among civilisations; from Europe, its vision of a social pact; from the United States, the founding fathers’ love of democracy; from South America, our wild diversity, our standard-bearer, our Simón Bolívar; from Africa, the drums that call us to commune with nature’s spirits; from Jesus, the idea of universal love—his uniting of light and life.

From these civilisational sources—and others found in all the world’s peoples—we must draw strength for the greatest battle for life in human history.

That battle is, undeniably, a **global revolution**.

**An army for life**

We must build the greatest army of all time—composed of warriors for life.

The army of life will have no nuclear weapons, no arsenal of destruction, no bottomless bank accounts, no means of slaughtering children in genocides. It will not be backed by the global oligarchy.

But it will wield the greatest power of all: **the power of a united humanity**, unwilling to surrender its place on this planet.

There is only one point of life in millions of light years around the universe. It is called Earth. And upon it lives intelligent life—humanity.

We cannot allow this pearl of the universe to be extinguished.

Without life, only inert darkness will remain. And it is that lifeless darkness which fills the hearts and souls of the global oligarchy and its idols of clay.

It is humanity’s duty to fight back.

**The hour of the peoples**

It is the hour of the peoples. If governments have failed—as is clearly shown here—and have chosen to play with senseless wars, to kill children in their games of power, then it is time for the people themselves—the simple people of the Earth—to take the solution to humanity’s greatest problems into their own hands.

Instead of addressing unfeeling rulers, let us speak to each other—to the people. Let us coordinate shared action. Let us demonstrate a different kind of power: **democratic power**.

From within that living, acting human consciousness, new governments will emerge, new leaderships.

And if life triumphs over extinction, the global oligarchy will no longer rule the world. It will be overthrown—to make way for a **global democracy**.

A new history is about to begin.

**Thank you very much.**